June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Your Emperor made a wise statement
to leaders in a poem he wrote in 1966.
He said, "Would that the wise voice of
the man in the street spoke daily to guide
us in the performance of our duties."
I have learned a great deal from the
citizens of my country attending town
meetings such as this one. In the same
way, I would like to learn from your own
wisdom and your own experience. I will
take your questions now, with great
pleasure.
VISIT TO SHIMODA
Q. I am sorry, I don't think I'm a good
questioner. Mr. President, I understand
you went to a yakitori restaurant last
night.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. I watched that on TV, and I felt
you very close to us. We speak of the good
intentions at the yakitori restaurant,
that sort of place I believe you can always
get an impression of the true feelings of
the people. What I would like to ask is
the following: Why did you choose
Shimoda for your town meeting? The
friendship treaty between Japan and the
United States was first concluded here in
Shimoda, and there is the exchange of
the instruments of ratification was con-
ducted. Gyokusen-Ji, the place you will
be visiting today; there you'll find five
tombs of Americans, and I believe I can
get your true thoughts here.
So, I would like to have your views on
why you chose Shimoda for a town
meeting.
security, we went to a private restaurant,
the same restaurant that I visited 4
years ago, and there we found a friend-
ship and warmth and exchange of ideas
so valuable to me as one of the leaders
of a great country in the world.
We wanted to have an opportunity to
hear questions directly and to meet with
other members of the Japanese commu-
nity outside of Tokyo, and the obvious
place to me was Shimoda, where the good
relationship between your country and
ours first began more than 100 years ago.
We felt that in Shimoda there was a
good historical base for interest in the
United States, and that perhaps more
than the average Japanese community,
you've studied about our own Nation and
you would have questions to ask, and you
would not be fearful to ask frank and
freely what questions actually concerned
you.
So, because of the historical relation-
ship many years between us and because
we hope that you'll ask very frank and
free questions was the reason that I
decided to come to Shimoda. The friend-
ship between our two countries is very
important to me, and I look forward to
having questions now from a group who
are very interested in our country and
who, I think, would be representative of
interested Japanese throughout your great
country.
ATHLETICS
Q. What sorts of games did you play
when you were small? And looking at the
games children nowadays play in the
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much United States, how would you compare
for this excellent question.
I was here in Japan 4 years ago, before
I was a famous man and when I had an
opportunity to meet many people in
Japan in a free and friendly way. Last
Last
night, without notice to the Japanese
the games; and what are your thoughts?
THE PRESIDENT. When I was a child,
I played baseball, which Japanese play
extremely well, as demonstrated by your
great Mr. Oh, whom I met day before
yesterday. I also played basketball. I lived
1170
