Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 31
quarter of 1978. In 1974, U.S. suppliers
received 13.6 percent of all Soviet oil and
natural gas machinery orders placed with
Western manufacturers. The 26.9 percent
U.S. share of the 1977 Soviet market for
petroleum equipment increased markedly
to 55.5 percent in the first quarter of 1978
and to 51.1 percent for the third quarter.
It dropped to 8.0 percent for the last
quar-
ter, bringing the figure for all of 1978
down to 44.6 percent. The U.S. shares for
the first three quarters of 1979 were 23.5,
20.0, and 9.7 percent.
Although it is difficult to determine
whether losses are the result of the con-
the Act are not applicable to these
controls.
The Congress is therefore notified that
these controls continue in force.
Nuclear non-proliferation controls fur-
ther significantly the foreign policy of the
United States and its declared interna-
tional obligations.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
trols or of other factors, reports by U.S. Economic Compact Between New
firms include the following:
-loss to foreign competition of con-
tracts for gas lift equipment valued at
about $70 million (plus larger anticipated
follow-on sales) because of delays and un-
certainty in the U.S. licensing process;
-expenditures in the range of hun-
dreds of thousands of dollars attributable
to late delivery penalties and other costs
related to the licensing process;
-use of the U.S. license requirement
by foreign companies as leverage to obtain
sales, since U.S. companies must schedule
delivery to allow time for a license review
and U.S. firms are never certain that the
license will be granted.
VII. Nuclear Non-Proliferation Con-
trols
Section 17 (d) of the Act and section
309 (c) of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-242 of
March 10, 1978), are interpreted as in-
tending that:
a) nuclear non-proliferation controls
do not expire on December 31, 1979,
and a determination to extend them
is thus not required; and
b) the criteria and other factors set
forth in sections 6 (b) and (e) of
York and New Jersey
Statement on Signing H.R. 4943 Into Law.
December 31, 1979
H.R. 4943 grants approval to the inter-
state compact between New York and
New Jersey, providing for increased eco-
nomic and industrial development in the
New York City and northern New Jersey
metropolitan region. While this bill is only
a small part of the Port Authority's bold
program, I take great personal pleasure in
signing it.
Congressman Peter Rodino and the
other Members of Congress from these
two great States deserve considerable
credit for expediting the passage of this
legislation. I also extend my congratula-
tions to Governors Carey and Byrne,
Mayor Koch, and Alan Sagner and Peter
Goldmark of the Port Authority of New
York and New Jersey.
As I have emphasized throughout the
past 3 years, the most effective remedy for
the problems of our older urban centers-
and of the Northeast in general—is to re-
store the private economic base of our
inner cities. The steps taken in this direc-
tion by the Port Authority serve as a fine
2297
