Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
as Deputy Administrator, then Adminis-
trator. He has been president of New
York University since 1975.
sistant Secretary, then as Principal Depu-
ty Assistant Secretary for Program Analy-
sis and Evaluation.
Department of Energy
Nomination of William Walker Lewis To Be an
Assistant Secretary. September 12, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate William Walker
Lewis, of Washington, D.C., to be Assist-
ant Secretary of Energy for Policy and
Evaluation. He would replace Alvin L.
Alm, who is resigning.
Lewis is Principal Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Program Analysis
and Evaluation.
He was born March 29, 1942, in
Roanoke, Va. He received a B.S. in
physics from Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute in 1963 and a Ph. D. in theoretical
physics from Oxford University in 1966.
From 1966 to 1969, Lewis was with the
Office of the Assistant Secretary of De-
fense (Systems Analysis), where he served
as Director of the NATO and General
Purpose Force Analysis Division, and Di-
rector of the Strategic Concepts, Com-
mand and Control Division. From 1969 to
1971, he was associate provost for re-
source planning and a lecturer in public
and international affairs at Princeton
University.
From 1971 to 1973, Lewis was director
of the office of analytical studies at the
University of California at Berkeley. From
1973 to 1977, he was with the World
Bank, serving as senior operations officer
of the Industrial Development and Fi-
nance Division, Eastern Africa Region,
and senior programing officer of the Pro-
graming and Budget Department.
In 1977 Lewis joined the Defense De-
partment and served briefly as Deputy As-
Department of Energy
Nomination of Hazel Reid Rollins To Be
Administrator of the Economic Regulatory
Administration. September 12, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Hazel Reid Rollins, of
Washington, D.C., to be Administrator of
the Economic Regulatory Administration,
Department of Energy. She would replace
David Bardin, who is resigning.
Rollins has been with the Washington
accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand
since last May, as a firm principal for
energy.
Prior to joining Coopers & Lybrand, she
was Deputy Administrator of the Eco-
nomic Regulatory Administration.
Rollins was born May 17, 1937, in
Newport News, Va. She received a B.A.
from Fisk University in 1959 and an LL.B.
from Rutgers University Law School in
1966. After graduation from law school,
she served as deputy attorney general for
the State of New Jersey, as coordinator of
the Community Action Workshop in
Newark, as assistant director of the Essex
County Legal Services Corporation, and
as assistant prosecutor in Essex County.
She also maintained a private law prac-
tice.
Rollins joined the Federal Government
in 1972, serving at the Cost of Living
Council as Director of the Self-Adminis-
tered Industries Division, as deputy to the
counselor to the Director, CLC, and as Di-
rector of the Public Services Division.
From 1974 to 1976, she was Director of
the Office of Consumer Affairs/Special
Impact in the Federal Energy Administra-
1654
