Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 24
I think if we searched the Nation over,
which I did, it would be impossible to find
two men who are more conversant with
the crucial issues that face our country in
the area of transportation and the devel-
opment of better communities-men
who've got experience, men who know
how to work with others, men who have a
respect for the concerns and problems and
doubts and fears, but, at the same time, of
the aspirations and hopes and dreams of
the American people, in communities of
all sizes, both urban and rural, throughout
the country.
There is a need to break down the bar-
riers which exist between government and
people, but also to break down the barriers
that exist among different levels of gov-
ernment. I think we've made a lot of prog-
ress in that respect, and Moon Landrieu
and Neil Goldschmidt have been in the
forefront of that effort.
The problems tend to multiply, and
they interrelate one with another. It's al-
most impossible to solve the problems of
housing and education, of health, of the
spirit of America, as long as we don't have
national policies that provide a framework
for the resolution of problems and the dis-
cussion of issues, as it relates to energy or
transportation.
In the last 22 years, we have ham-
mered out a basis on which these policies
can now be firm and understood. We've
not yet finished on energy. We'll make a
major stride this year; we've been making
excellent progress the last few days. We've
not yet forged a comprehensive policy on
transportation, but we are determined to
do so. I think we've made a major stride
in the evolution of an understandable
urban policy, and we are now approach-
ing the time of announcement of an
equally comprehensive and effective rural
policy.
I need, at my shoulder, leaders who can
carry on this good work. And as you can
well see, standing behind me, I've been
successful in finding leaders of that kind.
Our country changes so rapidly. We are
in a transition period now. I think when
we look back on this from a historical per-
spective, we'll see that the emphasis on the
elements that comprise a happy Amer-
ican's life are changing at this time.
We are facing, for the first time really,
the realization that the resources that God
gave us have limits and that we can't be
wastrels in the future. To me, this is not a
negative development. It's a basis on
which we can be excited and innovative,
preserve our individualism, but still work
in a united fashion to have a better life,
families closer, communities closer, a pride
in taking individual steps to conserve and
to save those precious things, which in it-
self is a patriotic contribution.
Neil Goldschmidt, as a mayor, has been
in the forefront of the evolution of a prac-
tical demonstration of what transporta-
tion can mean to a city. He knows about
crosstown transportation, but he also
knows about crosscountry transportation
of all kinds.
He's been on the job now, as you know,
for several weeks, and he's begun to con-
front, in a successful way, problems that
have been here for a long time, dealing
with Rock Island Railroad, dealing with
Westway, dealing with the allocation of
resources for public transportation, high-
ways, automobile efficiency, air pollution,
airbags. The breadth of his responsibilities
is awe-inspiring, and he's already begun to
deal with those problems in a comprehen-
sive and effective fashion.
I think Neil also knows how to inter-
relate the quality of life and participation
of citizens in hammering out a successful
answer to a complicated question. He's
proven this.
1719
