Aug. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
By the way, there's an opening on that
staff. The Deputy Attorney General slot
is open. I don't suppose you'd be inter-
ested, Judge Bell? [Laughter] We need a
good person in that job, a good right
hand. Do a service to your country.
[Laughter] You don't have to commit to
more than about a year-and-a-half or 2
years or so. [Laughter]
Good to see two outstanding Italian
American citizens on the stage, Chair-
man Rodino and Vice President "Mon-
dali." [Laughter] I always thought that
was spelled with an "e."
And it's particularly pleasing to see
here on the stage Senator Thurmond, the
ranking Republican on the great Senate
Judiciary Committee, before whom I've
had the privilege of appearing three
times. I won't go into the number of
hours that I have devoted to the Judi-
ciary Committee. I'm pleased that I will
ever will be pursued until it be obtained,
or until liberty be lost in the pursuit."
I thank you, Mr. President, for giving
me the opportunity to share with the men
and women of the Department of Justice
in the pursuit of justice. Thank you.
I now have the privilege of introducing
Senator Strom Thurmond, whom I men-
tioned earlier, and whom all of us in the
Department of Justice rely on and trust
and respect.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:07 a.m. in
the Great Hall at the Department of Justice.
The press release does not include a tran-
script of Senator Thurmond's remarks.
General Pulaski's Memorial
Day, 1979
Proclamation 4673. August 16, 1979
not be appearing, at least in a confirma- By the President of the United States
tion proceeding, ever again before them.
I look forward, though, to appearing be-
fore that committee on many matters of
importance to this Department and to
this country. On every occasion, Senator
Thurmond has treated me, as well as all
others who I've witnessed appearing be-
fore that committee, with great dignity
and great respect, as well as with some
vigor.
My view of the Department and my
view of the mission of the Attorney Gen-
eral can, in part, be summed up by this
quote from President Madison in the
Federalist No. 51. "It is of great impor-
tance in a republic not only to guard
the society against the oppression of its
rulers, but to guard one part of the society
against the injustice of the other part.
Justice is the end of government. It is the
end of civil society. It ever has been and
of America
A Proclamation
On the eleventh day of October, the
people of the United States will honor the
200th anniversary of the death of the
Polish patriot, Casimir Pulaski. On the bi-
centennial of his death, caused by wounds
suffered during the Battle of Savannah,
we are reminded of his heroism and his
selflessness as he led his famous cavalry
unit, The Pulaski Legion, in the struggle
for American independence.
As we pay tribute to General Pulaski
and his sacrifices for freedom, both here
and in his native land, we also honor the
contributions made by generations of
Americans of Polish descent to the
greatness of our Nation.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
1444
