Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
This is a serious matter, as you know.
It's not a reason for panic. It's not reason
to abandon the principles or laws or pro-
prieties in our own country. We do not
want to be guilty of the same sort of im-
proper action which we are condemning
in Iran. And it's, to repeat myself, not a
cause for us to abuse any Iranian citizen
who's in our country. If there are those
here who act improperly, the laws are
adequate to care for them. If they are
here illegally, our deportation processes
will be carried out in a completely proper
and predictable way.
I'm grateful that less than 2 weeks ago
the Congress passed and I signed an
energy emergency act which gives us the
ability, working together, to care for the
needs of our country if we have a serious
shortage or threatened shortage of energy.
State conservation measures have been
assessed, and with your help, I think the
law is adequate in that respect. The gas
rationing authority given to me is a step
in the right direction, but still not ade-
quate, and we hope to have it improved
in the future.
We are now preparing a gasoline
rationing plan. As soon as this very com-
plicated procedure is completed, it will
be revealed to the public and to the Con-
gress. And we would welcome, Dick,¹
your committee working with Charlie
Duncan in the preparation of the gasoline
rationing proposal. It cannot be imple-
mented, except with congressional action,
unless we have a 20-percent shortage.
And this, as you know, would wreak
havoc in our national economy, if we had
to wait that long.
So, we do have problems with it, but
we have a fairly adequate means by which
Governors can take the initiative, in each
one of your own States, to implement very
1 Governor Lamm.
strict conservation measures. I don't know
what the future will bring, but whether
it's a slight shortage, a permanent short-
age, a serious shortage, or further disrup-
tion in supplies, there is no doubt in any-
one's mind in this room, I'm sure, that we
versa, a permanent consultative inter-
mation coming from you to us, and vice
versa, a permanent consultative inter-
relationship between Governors and other
officials and the Federal Government, and
the closest possible partnership in dealing
with an unpredictable and potentially
serious situation.
We've been working on this matter for
2½ years. I first made the proposals for
an energy policy for our Nation in April
of 1977. After 18 months of work, the
Congress passed a partial energy package
about a year ago, in November of 1978.
And we are on the verge, I believe, of tak-
ing additional substantive steps.
There is no way that all of you could
approve of every element of the energy
plan. No one does. It's the result of an
enormous effort to compromise and to
work together, because, in effect, I lead
two energy nations. One is the greatest
consuming nation on Earth, by far, and
the other one is one of the greatest energy
producing nations on Earth. And the in-
herent conflicts that exist under those cir-
cumstances certainly has now been very
carefully assessed and, I think, will be suc-
cessfully addressed.
Hard feelings have erupted and, in most
cases, have been assuaged. And I think the
Congress is well on the
Congress is well on the way now toward
completing their work for a comprehen-
sive energy proposal. We are determined
not to violate any laws. We're determined
not to encroach on the prerogatives and
responsibilities of the State and local gov-
ernments. We're determined to enhance
and not to reduce the effectiveness and
the independence of the free enterprise
2134
