Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 15
signal that inflation of the price of food
is increasing at an unacceptably high
rate. When the Food Stamp Act of 1977
was passed, food prices were projected
to increase at an annual rate of between
3 and 4 percent a year, and the ceiling on
program expenditures was based on this
assumption. But in the last 2 years, food
prices have risen nearly 20 percent. This
rate of inflation in so basic a sector of our
economy not only boosts the entire cost of
the food stamp program, but it also adds
to the inflationary spiral that erodes the
purchasing power of all consumers.
Recently, we have learned that while
farm prices have fallen, the food industry
may not be passing those savings on to
consumers. I have met with representa-
tives of the food industry to deal with this
matter and will do everything I can to see
that consumers benefit from lower farm
prices in terms of lower prices in the
supermarket.
Recent increases in the number of
Americans participating in the food stamp
program have raised costs as well. In re-
cent years, the program has undergone
sweeping reforms. Administration pro-
posals enacted by Congress have tightened
and simplified administration, imposed
tough penalties for fraud, and reduced
or terminated benefits for higher income
households. At the same time the admin-
istration's proposal to eliminate the
requirement that households buy their
food stamps has brought several million
new participants into the program who
had previously been eligible for food
stamps, but had simply been unable to
afford them. Many of these people are the
elderly and rural poor, whose participa-
tion rate has historically been very low.
It would be callous and shortsighted
to cut food stamp benefits, which now
average a modest 33¢ per person per
meal, because the program is reaching
larger numbers of the poorest households
and because food prices have risen so
alarmingly. While this administration is
committed to controlling Federal expend-
itures, we will do so within a budget of
compassion that recognizes the funda-
mental importance of food assistance to
our Nation's poorest families.
There can be no question that these
families are poor. More than half of the
households receiving food stamps have
gross annual incomes under $3,600. Be-
cause of the critical importance of con-
tinued food assistance to these house-
holds, I have asked Congress to lift the
spending cap for future fiscal years, and
to provide the funding that will be needed
to avoid cutting benefits in fiscal years
1980 and 1981.
In the interest of tighter program ad-
ministration, I have also asked the Con-
gress to enact a number of measures to
save food stamp funds by reducing error
rates. Some of the most important of these
provisions are still pending before Con-
gress. I ask Congress to enact these pro-
visions along with provisons to authorize
adequate funding for 1980 and 1981.
Recently, teams of doctors sponsored by
the Field Foundation
Foundation revisited
revisited the
poverty-stricken areas where they had
found serious hunger and malnutrition 10
years ago. They reported the presence of
"fewer grossly malnourished people in
this country today than there were 10
years ago." The doctors concluded that
the food stamp program "is making the
most crucial difference in improving the
quality of the lives of many poor people."
I intend to give this valuable program
my full support, and I call upon Congress
to do the same.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4057 is Public Law
96-58, approved August 14.
1433
