Nov. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
country. It will be a test of our strength threat to our national security which re-
and of our determination.
I've directed Secretary Duncan to work
with the Congress and with other Federal,
State, and local officials, and with leaders
of industry to develop additional meas-
ures to conserve oil and to cope with this
new situation. We will strive to ensure
equitable and fair distribution of petro-
leum products and to ensure a minimum
of disruption of our Nation's economy.
These American measures must be part
of an effective international effort, and we
will consult with our allies and with other
oil-consuming nations about further ac-
tions to reduce oil consumption and oil
imports.
America does face a difficult task and
a test. Our response will measure our
character and our courage. I know that
we Americans shall not fail.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:01 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Oil Imports From Iran
Proclamation 4702. November 12, 1979
sults from our reliance on Iran as a source
of crude oil. The Secretaries have recom-
mended that I take steps immediately to
eliminate the dependence of the United
States on Iran as a source of crude oil.
I agree with these recommendations
and that the changes proposed are con-
sistent with the purposes of Proclamation
3279, as amended.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by the Con-
stitution and the laws of the United
States, including Section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, (19
U.S.C. 1862) do hereby proclaim that:
SECTION 1. Section 1 of Proclamation
3279, as amended, is further amended
by the addition of a new paragraph (e) to
read as follows:
Sec. 1(e). Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Proclamation, no crude
oil produced in Iran (except crude oil
loaded aboard maritime vessels prior to
November 13, 1979) or unfinished oil or
finished products refined in possessions or
free trade zones of the United States from
such crude oil, may be entered into the
customs territory of the United States.
SEC. 2. Section 11 of Proclamation No.
Imports of PetroleUM AND PETROLEUM 3279, as amended, is further amended in
PRODUCTS
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Secretary of the Treasury in a
memorandum dated November 12, 1979,
and the Secretary of Energy in consulta-
tion with the Secretaries of State and De-
fense, have informed me that recent devel-
opments in Iran have exacerbated the
threat to the national security posed by
imports of petroleum and petroleum prod-
ucts. Those developments underscore the
paragraph (1) to read as follows:
(1) The term "imports", when applied
to crude oil other than that produced in
Iran, includes both entry for consumption
and withdrawal from warehouse for con-
sumption, but excludes unfinished oil and
finished products processed in the United
States territories and foreign trade zones
from crude oil produced in the United
States.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 12th day of Novem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-nine and of the
Independence of the United States of
2110
