June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in Venice to give you the help and the
hospitality which I think is extremely im-
portant, because if that is lacking, even
the positive results of the conference are
not made known adequately.
Thank you.
PRIME MINISTER OHIRA. Thank you
very much, Prime Minister Andreotti.
PRIME MINISTER THATCHER. Prime
Minister, friends of the press, my col-
leagues have already given you the bare
bones of the communique and some of
the details as well and have set out the
course which this historic summit took. I,
of course, endorse everything they've said,
and I thought therefore it would be best
if I tried just to step back and look at this
summit meeting in slightly wider perspec-
tive.
I think first if we look at this summit
meeting as one of the fourth quarter of
this century, we see how very different
the problems are from those which we
encountered in the third quarter of this
century. Then we were trying to restore
the economy of the free world to try to
harness everything that it can do to give
a higher standard of living to our people
and to try to see that we got as much
growth as it was possible to get. Perhaps
the country where we're meeting is an ex-
cellent example of how successful the
free economy could be and of how much
growth could be obtained and how much
growth the free world had during those
years of the third quarter of this century.
Because of its very success, we now
come into new problems. Part of its very
success gives us a problem over the con-
sumption of oil. It will also give us a
problem over the shortage of some other
commodities. And so, in this quarter of
the century-and this summit is an ex-
ample of it—we really are facing very dif-
ferent problems. No longer can we assume
automatically that growth will go on if
we order our economies properly. All of
a sudden we've been brought face to face
with these shortages and the problems
that they will mean for all of us for the
standard of living for our own peoples
and for the possibility of rising standard
of living for those in countries less fortu-
nate than ourselves. And really this sum-
mit was an example of how to tackle the
problems of the moment, and today the
problem is energy, but it won't only be
today. It'll be the same problem for a
number of years.
And so, we tackled it in two ways.
First, to try to deal with the immediate
problem, very ironic in a way that we
were meeting the very day that OPEC
announced its price increases. So, we had
an immediate problem to tackle, and we
did tackle it in the way that my col-
leagues have announced, by trying to set
specific targets, not only for this year but
for future years, to demonstrate to those
suppliers that we are determined to cut
down demand and limit it as far as we
can and make the best, most economical
use of energy.
But secondly, we're determined not to
be so reliant on that source of energy, be-
cause we know that twice in this very
decade, the free world has shown how
vulnerable it is to the increase in the price
of oil, and we know how damaging that
can be to our countries.
So, my first point is, looking at it in his-
torical perspective, we recognize that the
problems we face now are very different
from those we faced in the third quarter
of the century, and we have demon-
strated our will to meet the problems of
the day and to tackle them in the way my
colleagues have described.
And my second point is this: Among
us, there are three producer oil countries,
and there are four who are consumer
countries. You might think that our in-
1194
