June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
These limitations upon our oil imports,
which have been decided through to 1985,
will, as President Carter has just said,
mean that our economies, indeed, our so-
cieties as a whole, will have to undergo
far-reaching changes, and that means
far-reaching efforts.
It is quite clear to us, and we hope that
it will be quite clear to all our citizens,
that after the Tokyo agreement, we are
then going to have to proceed more
rapidly to achieving our oil targets than
we had imagined even quite recently. We
are compelled to do this by the new un-
justified price increases adopted by
OPEC. The communique that we pub-
lish today clearly indicates the joint gen-
eral approach to energy problems and the
economy generally.
And the Federal Republic of Germany
has, since 1973, been following a clear
energy policy, and today's decisions do not
require us in any way to change that. But
we are going to have to substantially step
up our efforts in the Federal Republic,
and there fine words are going to be of
little use to us. And in my country, we are
going to continue to stick to the basic out-
lines of our energy policy, the one we have
been following for some years. That is a
policy which aims at oil substitution in
various ways, stepping up the domestic
production of coal. Thirdly, a policy
aimed at extending the necessary exten-
sion of the generation of electricity from
nuclear sources. Fourth, a greatly
strengthened research and technological
policy aimed at making energy savings
and at opening up new energy sources.
These goals have been ours for many
years, but now we are going to have to
tackle them with increased energy, and
we are going to have to step up our efforts
at achieving them. But the most im-
portant impetus can't come from the
state; it must come from the citizens, from
industry to save energy, to be economical
in the use of energy, not just because
energy is increasingly expensive but also
because energy is going to be increasingly
rare, there is going to be an increasing
shortage of energy throughout the world.
I would also clearly like to say to Pres-
ident Giscard d'Estaing, nobody must be
misled if we, the industrial countries,
manage to limit our use of energy, our
consumption of energy, into thinking that
the several countries who are aiming at
development, development to which we
contribute, who have increasing energy
requirements, and for which we feel a
certain political and moral responsibility,
that must not be thought that if we save
energy, if we can substitute for oil other
energy sources-we must not be misled
into thinking that we are thinking only
of ourselves and our needs, but also the
very difficult circumstances in which the
developing countries find themselves.
And, indeed, in this connection, I would
like to warn everybody against thinking
that increased energy costs, increased
energy difficulties can be avoided, and
that one can indeed genuinely derive
benefits from these enhanced, increased
energy costs.
I think that we must all jointly tackle
the problems posed. I think that we must
approach the situation in sober fashion,
that it would be unwise to be carried
away. We must, in our industrial life, in
our economic life, in our political life,
and indeed in our private activities, main-
tain a sober, clear attitude, for our na-
tions, for our people, for our economies,
for governments, and for parliaments.
All of this means that we are going to
have to work very much harder, and we
are going to have to make very consider-
able efforts to embody in practice the out-
come of the Tokyo agreement.
As far as my own country, the Federal
1192
