Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
the right direction. And controlling those
energy costs and having cooperation be-
tween labor and business with govern-
ment, I think, is a good policy.
I might say that we've done all we
could at the Federal Government level.
We've restricted spending programs, but
given our people better lives. We've cut
the deficit by 60 percent. Corporate
profits are up 50 percent. We've got
20,000 fewer Federal employees now
than we had when I took office. We've
cut down paperwork by 15 percent. We've
gotten the Government's nose out of
the private sector by deregulating air-
lines. We're now moving on other
sectors.
So, I believe our total package of eco-
nomic policies is the best we can have.
And I think with a little patience, which
everybody must have, and a little reali-
zation that it's a common problem, not
one caused by any particular person or
party, I think with that understanding
and strength of our country, having con-
fidence in it, we'll succeed.
So far, we've got problems; we can
solve them together.
U.S.-CUBAN RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Joe
Penn, from Riverdale. I'm a semi-retired
pharmacist, and it is indeed an honor and
privilege, most sacred as far as I'm con-
cerned, to be able to speak to the Presi-
dent of the United States. I'm actually
awed, and therefore, I have to read my
question.
The gentleman before me stole the
thunder, and you answered it very well.
I was going to ask you about putting an
immediate freeze on wage, prices, et
cetera. So, my alternate question is in
regards to Cuba.
come to recognize Communistic countries
such as Russia, Red China, and others,
why can't we accept the fact that our
neighbor Cuba and its form of govern-
ment is here to stay and end the futile
and useless embargo once again and give
Monroe Doctrine a chance to work?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. I'll be glad to
answer that. I'll be glad to answer that.
We are not at war with Cuba. We have
no intention of being antagonistic toward
the people of Cuba. The fact is that
Cuba's policies, within their own nation
and relating to other countries, make
them a very difficult government to rec-
ognize officially. Also, they are almost
completely subservient to the Soviet Gov-
ernment. They're kind of a surrogate of
the Soviets. The Cubans have over 45,000
troops in countries overseas where, in my
opinion, they have absolutely no business.
It's the most highly militarized country
on Earth per capita.
They are constantly interfering in the
affairs of adjacent countries or other
people, for instance, Puerto Rico. The
Puerto Rican people voluntarily choose
the form of government they want. They
are now a commonwealth of our country.
They may prefer to be a State, the 51st
State; they may prefer to be independent.
Whatever the Puerto Rican people want
suits me fine. Castro is constantly trying
to stir up the people of Puerto Rico to seek
independence from the United States,
which the Puerto Rican people do not
want. He points out the advantages of
independence. But when people leave one
country and go to another, the people
leave Cuba and go to find a better life in
Puerto Rico.
I think we've got to have a firm policy
on Cuba.
The last point is this: There's no way
that Cuba could survive economically,
In view of the fact that we've finally with their Communist experiment 90
1943
