Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 30
Dear Mr. President:
October 29, 1979
I am writing to advise you of my deci-
sion to resign from the Administration.
I do so with reluctance because of my
respect for you personally, because of
what you stand for, and what you have
tried to accomplish. This decision is made
all the more difficult because of my ad-
miration for and friendship with Vice
President Walter Mondale.
My original intention was to remain
neutral in the Presidential Primary con-
test. Careful thought and further reflec-
tion have convinced me that such a posi-
tion is untenable and unwise. I think you
would agree with me that to remain un-
involved in a matter of such importance
to the country is irresponsible. Conse-
quently, I have made my choice. I will be
joining Senator Edward Kennedy's Cam-
paign Committee following my resigna-
tion.
It is with regret that I leave my present
position as Coordinator of Refugee
Affairs. It has been a rewarding job.
Working with Secretary Vance has been a
particular pleasure and a rare opportu-
nity. In January, when the Secretary asked
me to take this position, I was reluctant to
do so, but he urged me to accept even if
only for a few months in order to reorga-
nize scattered jurisdiction and the hodge-
podge of existing programs. That objec-
tive has now been completed:
-A new Office of Refugee Programs
has been established in the Department of
State with a Director at the Assistant
Secretary level. Previous jurisdictions in
the Bureau of International Organization
Affairs, the Bureau of Human Rights and
Humanitarian Affairs, and the Agency for
International Development are
under that single authority.
now
on
-An Interagency Committee
Refugee Affairs has been established and
is working effectively to coordinate all
existing refugee programs in the Govern-
ment, both foreign and domestic.
-The Refugee Act of 1979 has passed
the Senate (85-0) and will be voted on in
the House in the next few days. It is the
first comprehensive refugee legislation in
the nation's history and will end existing
inequities and inconsistencies in our
refugee program.
-With your support, we have in-
creased our refugee resettlement program
to over 200,000 annually, and the appro-
priation for implementation has now
passed both Houses. The authorization
has passed the House and is to be taken
up in the Senate in the next day or two.
-Much has been accomplished in
achieving a greater burden sharing by the
international community in dealing with
Indochinese refugee problems.
In summary, those tasks assigned to me
in January have now been accomplished
with the support of others in the Admin-
istration and in the Congress. An effective
tion to these on-going programs, but I am
Coordinator will be needed to give direc-
confident that such a person can be found.
Therefore, I am resigning effective
November 1, but will, of course, be avail-
able to assist in any way I can.
Again, thank you for your many kind-
nesses. It has been a privilege to work with
you.
Sincerely,
DICK CLARK
Dick Clark
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
Alaska Public Lands Legislation
Statement on Approval by the Senate Energy
and Natural Resources Committee.
October 30, 1979
I am pleased to note that the Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Commit-
2067
