Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
manitarian things, which is part of the
greatness of our country.
I would be glad to answer any questions
that you might have on specific issues.
QUESTIONS
MEETINGS WITH THE PRESS
question, then I give the White House
correspondents who travel with me the
second question, and alternate back and
forth. So, this is an average of press con-
ferences, more than three a month, about
three a month.
In addition, I've had 12 or 14-I've
forgotten the exact figure-townhall
Q. Mr. President, I appreciate it meetings, where I have anywhere from
thank you.
Mr. President, while this type of format
with visiting editors may be somewhat
helpful to you and somewhat heady for
the editors who are here, it does not allow
for the aggressive interrogation that
characterizes your press conferences with
the reporters assigned to Washington.
THE PRESIDENT. Please be aggressive.
[Laughter]
Q. Okay. Nor does it result in the wide-
spread dissemination of your views such
as the press conferences do. For instance,
yesterday's press conference was at least
two front-page stories on many of our na-
tional newspapers. Yet, your press con-
ference yesterday was the first one since
July 25, and there are indications that
you have abandoned your campaign
pledge to hold two per week or two per
month, I mean-sorry.
Do you consider this format to be an
adequate substitution for those press con-
ferences?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I've been in office
now, I think 32 or 33 months. I've had
over 100 [50] 2 press conferences-I think
52 of them with the White House press
corps exclusively; the others on a regional
basis, either in Atlanta or Miami or Des
Moines or Hartford, Connecticut, or
wherever. At those regional press confer-
ences I ordinarily give the White House
correspondents half the questions. If I'm
in Seattle, Washington, I'll ask the Seattle
newspeople, to give them a chance for one
2 Printed in the transcript.
a thousand to 3,000 people and—just in
arbitrary ways, without my having any
knowledge or influence over the ques-
tion-answer questions from the public.
I'll have my second telephone call-in show
this Saturday. And, as I said, this is, I
think, my 51st or 52d meeting with out-of-
town editors.* I would guess that in its
totality, my relationship with the public
has been more than any other previous
President.
My own belief is that this mixture is
better than to exclusively have just a re-
lationship with the White House press
corps, but that's a judgment that I myself
make. And when I decided to cut down
on the twice-per-month relationship with
the White House press corps, that's when
I decided to go out once a week or once
every 2 weeks, either for a regional press
conference or for a townhall meeting.
There's a much wider diversity of ques-
tions. I think they are much more sub-
stantive in nature on the average, and
they also give me an insight into parochial
questions, you know, what is important
to the people of the Northwestern part of
the United States or to the Northeast or
the Deep South. And I don't think there's
any robbing away of interest in even inter-
national affairs. If I go to a press confer-
ence in Iowa, I get about a third of the
questions on international matters.
*The President has met with such editors'
groups in Washington 49 times and in Florida
once. [Printed in the transcript.]
1856
