Dec. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
rural resources that God has given us. And
they challenge us to renew our commit-
ment to address basic, unmet needs, and
to redress longstanding inequities.
There have been calls for a more con-
scious national policy for our rural areas
for more than 50 years. It's become in-
creasingly evident that rural areas are
unique, that they are not well served by
government programs designed for the
majority of the population.
With the leadership of Senator Hum-
phrey, Senator Talmadge, Tom Foley,
other Members of Congress, including
those on this platform this afternoon, this
concern eventually has become translated
into the Rural Development Act of 1972
and its evolutionary changes since that
time. This provided the letter of the law,
but it could not provide the spirit and a
sense of common purpose that must come
from those who execute the laws.
Thus, while programs have grown and
prospered under this basic legislation,
something important had been missing, as
all of you well know. That is the dedi-
cated and the wholehearted commitment
of all of us to a better life in rural
America: a mechanism by which we
could join together, not complaining
about one another and not complaining
about the deprivations of rural life, but
through an easy sense of common purpose
and communication and cooperation,
work together to overcome the problems,
to meet the challenges, and to answer the
difficult questions that face the people
who don't live in the urban parts of our
country.
The goals of our Nation's first compre-
hensive rural policy, which we'll describe
this afternoon, are to create new jobs and
provide a favorable climate for rural busi-
ness and economic development; to pro-
mote the responsible use and the proper
stewardship of rural America's natural
resources; to address the special rural
problems of distance and size; and to
meet the basic human needs of rural
Americans.
To accomplish these goals, the policy
that I'm announcing today does three im-
portant things. First, in recognition of the
need for a strong partnership between the
public and private sectors of American
life, and among all levels of government,
we will recognize the primacy of local
priorities and local decisionmaking. We
will assure that Federal investments sup-
port and reinforce those State and local
development initiatives. We will use Fed-
eral assistance to increase private sector
cooperation and participation. We will
target Federal assistance specifically to-
ward individuals in rural communities
which are most in need. We will make
Federal programs more accessible and
better adapted to rural circumstances.
And we will help to strengthen local man-
agement and development capability.
Second, this policy presents an action
agenda-nearly 100 specific actions that
address pressing rural needs and trans-
late the policy principles into tangible re-
sults. This agenda of things to be done ex-
pands on the White House rural develop-
ment initiatives that have evolved in an
uncoordinated way, perhaps, in the White
House over the last 22 years, and it's
based on months of extensive consulta-
tions, as you know, with all of you here.
Beginning more than a year ago, we
began to put together a program, and
more than 6 months ago, we called you in
to let you look over what we had done
because of your initial recommendations
and ideas. And then we have forged this,
not in an isolated ivory tower here in
Washington, but we've kind of put into
practice, in putting this program together,
2274
