June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the basic decisions are made, modifica-
tions can then be accomplished. We can
accommodate one another. The tensions
tend to alleviate, and I think the har-
mony of our Nation can be restored
again.
I look forward to coming back to Alas-
ka. The first time I came here was exactly
4
years ago in June of 1975. I'm grateful
to have a chance to meet you all person-
ally, and I hope and I pray that when I
go to Tokyo to represent our country,
that I can make you proud of me and
again proud of our country.
Last weekend in Vienna, in our nego-
tiations with the Soviet Union, I negoti-
ated from a position of political strength
and military strength. We are the strong-
est nation on Earth.
This weekend I will be negotiating
with the other leaders from a position of
economic strength and cohesion, brought
about by an allegiance to a nation which
is, again, the greatest and the strongest
on Earth.
I'm very proud to be President of this
country, and I'm very proud to be in a
State that inspires us all with your beauty
and your dynamism, your confidence and
your youth. You're typical of the pioneer
spirit of our Nation, and it's an honor for
me to be here with you.
And now, if you don't mind, Rosalynn
and I would like to meet every one of you
personally, if you would come by and let
us shake your hand.
God bless you all. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:50 p.m. at
the Officers' Club. Following the reception, the
President left for Japan.
On his arrival in Tokyo, the President went
to the residence of the U.S. Ambassador to
Japan, where he stayed during his visit to
Japan.
Tokyo, Japan
Toasts at a Luncheon Hosted by Prime
Minister Masayoshi Ohira.
June 25, 1979
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of
the Treasury, Mr. Secretary of Energy,
Your Excellencies, and distinguished
guests:
It is indeed a very great pleasure for us
all to have with us today President Carter
and the members of the President's party.
On behalf of the Government and people
of Japan, I would like to extend our sin-
cere welcome.
Mr. President, the warm welcome and
courtesies which you have extended to me
and my wife when we visited the United
States last month will forever remain in
our memory. I wish to take this opportu-
nity to express again our heartfelt thanks
to you.
I wish to take this opportunity to ex-
press my deep respect and gratitude to
President Carter, who is discharging his
responsibilities in leading his great coun-
try, the United States of America, in this
difficult age, which is full with problems.
There is a strong bond that ties our two
countries together. In fact, there is no
other example of a relationship between
any two countries in world history which
are so different in culture and tradition
and are so far apart geographically but
are enjoying an interchange of such a
great scope and substance. I believe, as
Ambassador Mansfield aptly described it,
this is precisely because the relationship
is based on the essential similarity of the
way we see the world, of the political
goals we pursue, and of the basic values
they reflect.
The ties between Japan and the United
States serve to enhance the honor of
Japan and the United States respectively,
1162
