Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 8
his opinion, among others, and made
what I believe firmly is a right decision.
Q. Mr. President-
Q. Excuse me, could you answer the
second one, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if I decide to
become a candidate, the decision on these
released prisoners would not affect my
presence in Puerto Rico. I would expect
that among the majority of the people of
Puerto Rico that the decision would be
an attractive one, but I've not run a poll
on it.
GRAIN INDUSTRY
Q. With two railroads in bankruptcy
and one on strike, there's a definite feel-
ing in the Midwest that we are going to
have a real crisis this fall in the moving
of grain. Are you doing anything to per-
haps help head that off, say, move in, for
example, on the Rock Island strike, or
take any action to get them back to work?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I've talked to the
Federal negotiator, Wayne Horvitz, since
I've come back to Washington this week.
I think to reveal my conversation with
him or his plans or the prospects would
not be conducive to helping resolve the
strike.
I am completely aware of the high
yield of crops this year and the need to
move them to market. We're participating
in some States with the Governors, and
with secretaries or commissioners of agri-
culture through Bob Bergland, and
through the Department of Transporta-
tion, to build up a reserve supply of
transportation facilities to get grain both
to elevators, to the barge system, when
it's appropriate, and from the elevators
to the international shipping points, if
required.
I can't guarantee there won't be some
bottlenecks-there always have been-
but I hope that they can be handled both
with country elevator storage and with
the substantially increased quantity of
farm storage that we have put into effect.
Q. You're not considering, say, invok-
ing the Taft-Hartley Act?
THE PRESIDENT. In my judgment, and
in the judgment of the Attorney General
and the Department of Labor, the Taft-
Hartley Act is not appropriate in this case.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
Q. Mr. President, in regard to the im-
portant windfall profits tax measure—my
name is Jim Barbieri from Bluffton, In-
diana, by the way. I'd like to ask, in your
talk since Congress has returned, can you
give any indication of any timetable or
any-what the potential is now on this
legislation, toward getting it enacted in
substance without being watered down
too much by loopholes?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
the House has already passed an accept-
able windfall profits tax. It deviated from
my proposal in one important aspect, in
that it terminates in 1990. I think it ought
to be permanent.
I heard Senator Byrd say today that
Senator Long intends to honor his com-
mitment to me to have on my desk a
windfall profits tax that would be "pleas-
ing" for the President to sign. And I think
that the goal of the Senate Finance
Committee is still the first of October,
although this information is best derived
from Senator Long.
I don't think there's been any delay
on the consideration of the tax bill. Dur-
ing the recess period, Senator Muskie,
who's the chairman of the Budget Com-
mittee, specifically requested that the
Congressional Budget Office and his com-
mittee staff be given time to determine
the impact of the windfall profits tax on
1980 and subsequent years' budgets. So,
1609
