Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
Republic of Germany, is concerned, I
shall, at the beginning of next week, make
a statement before the German parlia-
ment, before the Bundestag, in which I
will explain the conclusions that we must
draw in order to embody in practice what
has been recognized and decided in
Tokyo. This is an aim we set ourselves,
and I am fully convinced that we are
going to be able to overcome the problem.
Thank you very much.
PRIME MINISTER ANDREOTTI. I wish to
associate myself with the words of thanks
which have been spoken to the Japanese
Government and the Imperial Court, and
to the Government.
I was here 15 years ago for the Olympic
Games, and I was able to see that more
problems are produced for the police by
the heads of states rather than so many
thousands of athletes.
President Giscard and the others who
have spoken before me have told you of
the results achieved in these 2 days. I
would confine myself to two comments of
a political nature.
Every year we meet to study our prob-
lems of growth, of the struggle against un-
employment, the fight against inflation,
but every year increasingly I see that all
our discussions develop not within the
limited interests of the seven countries
which come together, but within a frame-
work of a far more general character.
And it is most important that the energy
policy should have been the subject of
concrete agreements between we Euro-
pean countries, between the United States
and Canada, and also with Japan.
We had some doubts as to whether we
should succeed in this, and these doubts
have been dissipated. But as Chancellor
Schmidt has said, we have always borne
in mind all the time throughout these 2
days the need for a consensus policy. And
in embarking in a discussion with the oil-
producing countries-but here this is not
only a question of the countries where oil
is produced but with enormous interna-
tional interests which often regulate the
market, and in the communique, you will
find a clear expression of our intention
better to appreciate and assess this com-
plicated oil market. But our concern is for
those countries who are the poorest and
who feel more than us the consequences
of decisions to raise the price both of oil
and other essential commodities.
This year, too, in the communique, em-
phasis was placed on a policy in favor of
developing countries, expressing a wish
which I think has political value that all
the countries, even those which are differ-
ently governed than ours, should cooper-
ate in this broad design for development
for humanity as a whole.
Our peoples must be accustomed, be-
come accustomed not only to look at those
who are better off than us but those who
are worse off than us, and I know that
this is not something which is easy to do.
It isn't the popular thing to do, but it is
the spirit which I think moves and ani-
mates our annual meetings. And I think
that this should be brought out, and rec-
ognition should be made of those who are
cooperating in this annual opportunity
to study together problems which are old
problems and problems which are arising.
Finally, may I thank all of the heads
of state and the heads of government who
have agreed to accept the invitation to
travel in May 1980 to Venice for the new
meeting of the summit.
Let us express the hope that there will
not be moments of crisis that we shall
have to face and that, on the other hand,
we can resume in a spirit of greater tran-
quility a discussion of the global develop-
ments. And I hope that you journalists,
that to you journalists, we should be able
1193
