Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
If the oil was never mature enough, there
may be none. But those are the best esti-
mates we can give. We estimate the cost
of producing, if you could do it right now,
would be $15 to $20 a barrel. Tests can be
made within 12 to 15 months if rigs are
available, the rigs exist.
It costs twelve to fifteen million dollars
a well. The exploration can be done by
industry in a program comparable to the
COST well program drilling cooperative-
ly by industry. And we're offering the area
for lease almost immediately, or it can be
done by a consortium of universities and
the Government in the way it's been done
in the deep sea. Or, of course, it can be
done in some combination.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Is it going to be
done? You said it can be. Are the plans
made for the exploratory wells to be
drilled?
DR. MENARD. It will take-we cannot
do it with the existing oceanographic
equipment. The oil companies can do it
right now. They have the option of doing
it. But whether they will or not is their
option. If the Government chooses to
pursue it by itself, it could be done either
by leasing the same drilling ships that in-
dustry would use, the entire area could be
tested in a matter of a few years, with the
first holes, 10 holes, something of that
sort, or you could modify the Glomar Ex-
plorer, a ship which the U.S. Govern-
ment already owns. It's lying idle for lack
of a suitable project. At a cost of about
$70 million, the ship could be outfitted,
refitted and outfitted in something in 2
to 4 years. So, it could drill indefinitely
at almost any depth you would want in
the ocean. It could test the Gulf of Mex-
ico as well as this reef.
THE PRESIDENT. Is the technology
available to control ruptures at that
depth?
DR. MENARD. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Spills?
DR. MENARD. There is not technology
to produce below about 5,000 feet yet,
but with the decade-after the initial dis-
coveries, with a decade to extend out
from 5,000 to greater depths, I'm sure
that could be developed.
The President. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT.
DR. PRESS. Mr. President, we are work-
ing with the Department of Energy and
the National Science Foundation, with
OMB, and investigating seriously the pos-
sibility of converting the Glomar Ex-
plorer for this kind of a drilling.
AUTOMOTIVE ADVANCES
Our next speaker will be Dr. Dale
Compton, who's vice president for re-
search of the Ford Motor Company, and
he will tell us about automotive advances.
DR. COMPTON. Mr. President, Secre-
tary Duncan, Dr. Press, and ladies and
gentlemen:
I'd like to cover three main topics in
my discussion with you this morning:
First, a brief review of what has already
been accomplished by the domestic auto-
mobile manufacturers in terms of reduc-
ing the energy of their products; second,
some of the technical developments that
should make further vehicle fuel efficiency
improvements possible; and third, a quick
look at some questions that must be an-
swered if we're going to accomplish that.
Could I have the first slides, please?
During recent years substantial im-
provements have been made in the effi-
ciency of the power trains used in our
motor vehicles. At the same time, the
average weight of domestically produced
cars has been reduced by about 650
pounds.
The combined effect of these two ac-
tions has produced the improvement in
1549
