July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
For the most part, this bill simply codi-
fies current practices. However, FBI au-
thority would be significantly expanded
in two areas:
1. The FBI could issue "investigative
demands" for financial records. This is a
compulsory process enforceable in the
courts comparable to the administrative
subpoenas issued by agencies such as the
Securities and Exchange Commission and
the new Inspectors General in each Fed-
eral agency. This is essential if the FBI
is to be effective in combatting white col-
lar crime, fraud, corruption, and orga-
nized crime.
2. The FBI could investigate patterns
of terrorist acts that involve violations of
state criminal laws even without federal
violations, following the model of current
racketeering statutes.
The bill continues existing restrictions,
procedural controls, and requirements for
accountability on FBI activities. It adds,
however, several new restrictions provid-
ing tighter controls over the use of in-
formants. For example, infiltration of
groups under investigation for terrorist
activities and participation by an in-
formant in criminal activity must now be
approved by a supervisory FBI official.
The Charter requires that the Attorney
General promulgate, and periodically re-
view, operational guidelines for each of
the Bureau's major activities. These
guidelines will be filed with the Congress
and made available to the public unless,
in a specific case, their release would
jeopardize the investigative process. The
FBI is also required to report on important
and sensitive activities to the Attorney
General and the Congress.
This Charter strikes the proper balance
between assuring both that the civil rights
and liberties guaranteed to Americans by
our Constitution are protected and that
the FBI can fully pursue its appropriate
functions.
I urge the Congress to give this bill the
careful and urgent attention it deserves
and to pass the first Charter for the FBI.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 31, 1979.
Federal Home Loan
Bank Board
Nomination of Jay Janis To Be a Member, and
Designation as Chairman. July 31, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Jay Janis, of Coral
Gables, Fla., to be a member of the Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank Board. The Presi-
dent said that on confirmation, Janis
would be designated Chairman of the
Board. He would replace Robert H.
McKinney, who has resigned.
Janis is currently Under Secretary of
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, a post he has held since
1977.
He was born December 22, 1932, in
Los Angeles, Calif., and received a B.A.
degree from Yale University in 1954.
Janis was a builder for the Janis Con-
struction Co. from 1956 to 1964. From
1964 to 1966, he was a special assistant to
the Under Secretary of Commerce.
Janis was executive assistant to the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment from 1966 to 1969. From 1969 to
1975, he was a coprincipal in MGIC-
Janis Properties, Inc., a building and
community development company in
Florida. In 1976 he became a vice presi-
dent at the University of Massachusetts.
Janis was chairman of Florida Gov.
Reubin Askew's Housing Goals Council
from 1973 to 1975. In 1972-73 he was
1336
