Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 9
have diffused the problem or issue of the
Soviet brigade in Cuba and satisfied those
who seek a bigger defense budget enough
now to win SALT ratification this year,
and if so, how?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe SALT will
be ratified this year basically on its own
merits. It's obvious to me that the SALT
treaty is in the best interest of our country.
It enhances the security of the United
States; it contributes to world peace; it
will strengthen our own alliances; it will
preserve our place as a leader of the West-
ern World; it will let it be more easy for
us to control the spread of nuclear ex-
plosives all over the world.
In my opinion, we have answered the
question of the Soviet combat unit in
Cuba adequately. I think we've isolated
any threat from that unit. We'll increase
our surveillance there, and I believe that
this obviously has been an important issue
for us to address. I believe it's been ad-
dressed adequately.
As far as the defense budget is con-
cerned, that still must be resolved. I'm
committed to a 3-percent real growth in
our defense. I've maintained that position
for the last 3 years. It's important to us,
to our allies, to American strength. If I
see a need for increased defense programs,
I would not hesitate to recommend them
to the Congress.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, are you prepared to
persevere in your support of tight money
policies even if it begins to hurt you po-
litically during the primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. It's obvious that
there are three entities in our Government
which have been meticulously isolated
either under the Constitution or the law
and made independent. One is the Fed-
eral Reserve Board, which has a right,
through various means, to determine the
supply of money by changing interest
rates, the reserve moneys that have to be
retained by banks that cannot be lent, and
so forth. The Congress has the ultimate
responsibility on taxation, and the Presi-
dent has the best responsibility on prepar-
ing and submitting the budget to the
Congress.
There's no doubt in my mind—and
this is corroborated by my long discus-
sions the last few weeks with labor, in
reaching a labor accord—that I and labor
and business and all those who are inter-
ested, including the Congress, agree that
the number one threat to our national
economy is inflation. And I intend to
maintain it as a top priority and continue
to work against inflation. So, whatever it
takes to control inflation, that's what I
will do.
I recognize that the inflationary impact
falls much more heavily on those who are
least able to afford the basic necessities of
life. And I also recognize that there are
some elements of inflation over which I
have no control. The price of energy
levied on the world by OPEC in the last
10 months has been an increase of 60 per-
cent. Had it not been for energy price in-
creases, for instance, the inflation rate
during this summer would have been the
same as it was in 1978 and 1977. So, I
can't control energy prices levied on the
world by OPEC.
But we'll continue to fight against in-
flation as a top economic priority.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, what is your reaction
to Dr. Kissinger's statement that the So-
hostile force in this hemisphere since the
viet troops in Cuba are the first organized
Monroe Doctrine that we've accepted?
And also, Mr. President, do you feel that
the Soviet troops in Cuba symbolize the
growing expansionism of the Russians,
the Soviet Union?
1837
