Dec. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
call on them to take the steps necessary to
speed the distribution of humanitarian
aid to starving people throughout all parts
of that country-which they thus far
have not done. We call on them not to
feed the flames of war, but use aircraft
and airfields to ferry food to feed the
people of Kampuchea.
Bill of Rights Day, Human
Rights Day and Week, 1979
Proclamation 4705. December 6, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
On December 15, 1791, the Bill of
Rights became part of the Constitution
of the United States. On December 10,
1948, the United Nations General Assem-
bly adopted the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. In marking these anni-
versaries, we renew our dedication both
to our own liberties and to the promotion
of human rights everywhere on earth.
In our open society, a freely elected
government, an independent judiciary, a
free and vigorous press, and the vigilance
of our citizens combine to protect our
rights and liberties-civil, political, eco-
nomic and social.
We can be proud of what we have
achieved so far. Yet we cannot rest satis-
fied until the Bill of Rights is a living
reality for every person in the United
States. The Equal Rights Amendment
would help do that by explicitly guaran-
teeing the basic rights of American
women. I urge every state that has not yet
done so to ratify this wise and necessary
measure in the coming year.
The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights sets global standards that reflect
the same vision that inspired our own Bill
of Rights. Almost every country has en-
dorsed the Declaration. Yet in too much
of the world its promise is mocked.
Arbitrary arrest and imprisonment,
summary executions and torture, dis-
appearances and acts of genocide still
shatter the lives of millions. Fundamental
human liberties are continually threat-
ened by the silencing of political dis-
senters, by discrimination based on race,
religion, ethnic origin and sex, by viola-
tions of the freedoms of assembly, associa-
tion, expression and movement, and by
the suppression of trade unions. And as
the kidnapping and abuse of American
Embassy employees in Iran have reminded
us, the internationally protected rights of
diplomatic envoys are a basic condition of
civilized relations among nations.
Those who cause others anguish-
whether they are the secret police of dic-
tators, the faceless bureaucrats of totali-
tarian states or the chanting mobs of
revolutionary zealots-must know that
we will not defend them, but their victims.
Bill of Rights Day and Human Rights
Day and Week should be marked by re-
doubled support for international efforts
on behalf of the full range of human
rights.
I renew my request to the Senate to
give its advice and consent to the Geno-
cide Convention, the Convention on the
Elimination of all Forms of Racial Dis-
crimination, the Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, the Covenant on Eco-
nomic, Social and Cultural Rights, and
the American Convention on Human
Rights. I commend the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee for holding hear-
ings on these treaties, and I urge all
Americans to support their ratification.
2198
