Oct. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
children. In Judge Shirley Hufstedler, we
have found that person.
She is deeply committed to the quality
of education and enjoys my full confi-
dence and support. I am certain she will
be an outstanding Secretary.
NOTE: Deputy Press Secretary Rex Granum
read the President's statement at approxi-
mately 11:45 a.m. to reporters assembled in
the Briefing Room at the White House, after
announcing that the President will nominate
Judge Hufstedler to be Secretary of Educa-
tion.
Also included in the press release is a ques-
tion-and-answer session with reporters.
Research Apprenticeships
Program
Announcement of the Program.
October 30, 1979
Participating agencies are the Depart-
ment of Defense, the Department of
Energy, the National Institutes of Health,
the National Science Foundation, the
Department of Agriculture, the National
Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, and the Environmental Protection
Agency.
Individual researchers who wish to
participate in the program will submit a
supplemental request to existing or pend-
ing research grants and contracts. The
request will state the kinds of work ex-
perience which can be offered, the routes
through which interested students will be
sought in local or other high schools, and
the special activities that will be orga-
nized to provide educational enrichment
beyond the work itself.
The student and the researchers will be
expected to submit a brief evaluation of
the experience, to guide assessment and
expansion of the program.
The President today announced a pro-
gram of apprenticeships in research
laboratories for minority high school stu-
dents, beginning in the summer of 1980.
The program was developed by Jim Mc- Department of Energy
Intyre, Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and Frank Press,
Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, together with Special
Assistants to the President Louis Martin
and Esteban Torres.
The objectives of this research ap-
prenticeships program are to stimulate
program are to stimulate
broader interest in minority communities
in careers in science and engineering and
to establish individual working relation-
ships between students and active re-
searchers. The program is designed to
strengthen the Nation's and the Govern-
ment's efforts to recruit and sustain
minority students in science and engineer-
ing fields. The numerical goal for 1980 is
to employ at least 1,000 students in sum-
mer jobs through this program. The goal
for subsequent years is 2,000.
Nomination of George W. Cunningham To
Be an Assistant Secretary. October 30, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate George W. Cunning-
ham, of Newbern, Tenn., to be Assistant
Secretary of Energy for Nuclear Energy.
Cunningham has been Deputy Chief of
the U.S. Mission to the International
Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Aus-
tria, since 1978.
He was born December 3, 1930, in
Union City, Tenn. He received a B.S. in
chemical engineering and an M.S. in
metallurgy from the University of Ten-
nessee and a Ph. D. in metallurgical engi-
neering from Ohio State University.
From 1955 to 1966, Cunningham was
with the Batelle Memorial Institute. From
1966 to 1978, he was with the Atomic
2064
