Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
With these accomplishments behind us,
we can turn our attention to new issues
and to other key issues that are still un-
resolved.
In the decade ahead, we will face diffi-
cult decisions as we confront the necessity
of reducing dangerous dependence on for-
eign oil. The leaders of the major indus-
trial democracies met in Tokyo last month
to chart a course that would help cut the
use of imported oil from uncertain foreign
suppliers. Each nation committed itself to
a specific reduction in imports, to be ac-
complished in a way appropriate to its
particular needs and resources.
For the past two and one-half years,
conservation and energy from the sun have
been major thrusts of my energy program.
Solar energy funding has been tripled dur-
ing that period and the Congress in 1978
enacted the National Energy Act which
will save 2.5 million barrels of imported
oil per day. Much of these savings will be
accomplished with conservation initia-
tives. In addition, another 1.5 million
barrels of imported oil will be saved as a
result of my April energy message and
June solar energy package.
To build on these major savings, I have
proposed an expanded effort to put this
nation on a sound energy footing, with
clear goals for the next decade. That effort
is based on a bold program to increase
domestic energy production and on addi-
tional energy conservation initiatives.
Overall, this program will reduce our de-
pendence on foreign oil by 4.5 million
barrels per day by 1990.
Some of the measures I have proposed
will simultaneously serve the goals of re-
ducing oil imports and enhancing our
environment. I proposed establishing a
major new residential and commercial
conservation program designed to save at
least 500,000 barrels of oil a day by 1990.
I further proposed a total of $16.5 billion
over the coming decade for improvements
in the nation's public transportation sys-
tem and in transportation fuel efficiency.
A major solar energy program will help
us to meet our goal of 20 percent solar
energy by the year 2000.
We must also embark on a major energy
production effort through a new Energy
Security Corporation that will have broad
responsibility for developing 2.5 million
barrels a day of replacement fuels by 1990.
That Corporation will be specifically au-
thorized to develop not only synthetic fuels
but also sources of energy which could
have significant environmental benefits,
such as natural gas and biomass. I do not
pretend that all new replacement sources
of energy will be environmentally innocu-
ous. Some of the new technologies we will
need to develop pose environmental risks,
not all of which are yet fully understood.
I will work to ensure that environmental
protections are built into the process of de-
veloping these technologies, and that when
tradeoffs must be made, they will be made
fairly, equitably, and in the light of in-
formed public scrutiny. We will examine
not only the impact of new energy tech-
nologies on land and water and the effects
of toxic chemicals, but also the longer
term implications of increasing carbon
dioxide concentration in the atmosphere.
I am pledged to be sensitive both to
energy needs and to environmental con-
siderations. There is no excuse for un-
necessary red tape, which has plagued
construction of some needed energy proj-
ects. I have proposed the creation of an
Energy Mobilization Board to accelerate
decision-making on critical energy facili-
ties. This will cut out excessive delay, but
I will not allow it to undermine protec-
tion of our nation's environment. I intend,
for instance, to make the environmental
1355
