Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I am glad to be with you, members of
all political parties, members of all faiths.
I speak to you tonight as President of the
greatest nation on Earth, and I also speak
to you as a friend of your mayor. I also
speak to you as a Democrat.
This enormous attendance is proof in-
deed of the enthusiasm and the dedica-
tion and the unity and the commitment
and the confidence of people who live in
Chicago, and it's also proof of the tre-
mendous leadership of your mayor, Jane
Byrne. You've made a wise choice, and
I'm proud of it.
We are here to honor the mayor, to
provide her with the support and the
help she needs in a very difficult job and
to recognize the fine performance which
she has already exhibited to the rest of
the Nation in the short time she's held
this exalted office.
I want to thank you for this support
for her personally and to encourage you
to keep it up. The lifeblood of politics
and effective government is good and
loyal people ready to work, ready to con-
tribute talent, ability, and care for one
another. Your mayor is depending on
you, and your President is depending on
you, also.
God must have loved Democrats be-
cause he made so many of us. However,
he always leaves us short of money. Our
opponents can almost always outspend
us. Since we don't like to lose elections,
we work harder to raise money, and we
do a better job in office after we are
elected. Your mayor has proven that.
This extraordinary determination and
fighting spirit and better performance all
in our party make sure that our party is
the first choice of Americans. By earning
the loyalty and the support of the Amer-
ican people, we have been the majority
party for the last 50 years, and my deter-
mination is to keep it that way.
Mayor Richard Daley understood the
basis for party strength. He was proud of
the people of Chicago. He dedicated his
life, as you know, to serving you. He
earned the loyalty of the people of this
city, no matter what your party prefer-
ence might be. In doing that, he made
Chicago synonymous with economic prog-
ress and with workable government.
What I admired most of all and what
kept him in office so long was that his
government, your government, was one
with a human side. He understood that
politics is a two-way street that loyalty
comes to an officeholder only if we give
good government to the people who vote,
and bring into the political system work-
ing people-immigrants, minorities, the
old, the needy. Then they'd know they are
better off to be inside the political system
rather than outside as an alienated and
lonely American citizen.
So, when we honor Jane Byrne tonight,
we also honor the tradition of Chicago
and the people who helped to make her
become your mayor-I might add, with
an unbelievable 82 percent of the vote.
And we also honor the people who have
made Chicago one of the great success
stories in the entire world.
From the time Chicago was founded,
people came here in search of better lives.
They came here to work and to build to-
gether. That's what still distinguishes
Chicago today. You are a city of build-
ers-builders of new industries and great
enterprises and the most superb architects
on Earth. There is no better symbol of this
than the Chicago skyline-nothing like it
in the world.
This afternoon I and Rosalynn and
Jane Byrne, George Dunne, and others
flew down the lakeshore and looked at
the skyline from a helicopter. It was a
thrilling sight, and I get a thrill as Presi-
dent and as an American every time I see
1934
