Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 28
The treaties also protect our economic
and security interests. We will continue to
operate the canal until the end of the cen-
tury through the Panama Canal Commis-
sion, an agency of the United States in
which Panama will have a minority voice.
We will maintain military forces in Pan-
ama until that date. After the year 1999,
Panama will assume responsibility for
operating the canal. A regime of perma-
nent neutrality is established under which
both nations have the right to act against
any aggression or threat directed against
the canal. The Panama Canal Act pro-
vides a framework in which the United
States can exercise its rights to operate
and defend the canal in a manner con-
sistent with our responsibilities and obliga-
tions under the treaties.
I particularly want to thank Senators
Stennis and Levin and Congressmen
of the treaty, as provided for in Article
XIII, paragraph 2(b) and 2(c) of the
treaty.
Section 1341 (e) lists certain costs which
must be paid prior to any contingent pay-
ment to Panama under paragraph 4(c) of
Article XIII of the treaty. It is my under-
standing that costs listed in this section are
identical to those which will be included
in the tolls base under Section 1602 of the
act. These costs are related to the opera-
tion and maintenance of the canal and are
thus properly considered as "expendi-
tures" under paragraph 4(c) of Article
XIII, to be paid before any surplus is due
to Panama under that provision.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 111 is Public Law
96-70, approved September 27.
Murphy, Bowen, and Derwinski for their Anti-Inflation Program
outstanding leadership in resolving the
many difficult issues embodied in this act.
In signing this act, I want to assure
Members of Congress and the Govern-
ment of Panama that this legislation
will be interpreted and applied by the
executive branch in strict conformity with
the terms and the intent of the treaties. In
this respect, I believe that certain techni-
calities in several sections of the act re-
quire comment.
Section 1503 requires congressional ap-
proval for transfers of property to Pan-
ama. Section 1504 grants such approval
subject to a 180-day notice requirement
and a prohibition against transfer of the
canal itself before termination of the
treaty. It remains the position of the ad-
ministration that the treaty is self-execut-
ing with respect to the transfer of prop-
erty, and thus no additional legislative
authorization is required. With regard to
the condition contained in Section 1504
(c) concerning transfer of the canal, I
note that this does not preclude other dis-
cretionary transfers during the lifetime
Remarks Announcing a National Accord
Between the Administration and the
American Labor Leadership.
September 28, 1979
In my Sunday night speech to the Na-
tion in July, I said that the people of our
country want to see government and our
great institutions pull together to face the
complex challenges which confront us as
a people. Inflation is the most persistent
challenge to our economy, primarily fed
by escalating energy costs, which are pre-
dominantly controlled by others in foreign
countries. Inflation tends to pit our people
and our institutions against each other
and contributes to a sense of frustration
and doubt and concern, which is so worri-
some to our people. Ultimately, if not
curbed, inflation will sap our confidence
as a nation, will erode our faith in the
future, and will threaten those basic
human values which make our country
great.
I've called for our institutions and our
people to regain a sense of shared purpose
1777
