Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 27
bound with the friendship and the quiet
gentleness which makes visiting here in
your beautiful country such a pleasure
for us.
Tomorrow I will go to Shimoda, where
the interrelationship between our coun-
tries began, and my wife will then visit
Kyoto, the more ancient capital of your
beautiful country. This will give us an
additional opportunity to let the people
of Japan know how dearly we cherish the
friendship which binds us together, pro-
viding a sense of strength as we deal with
bilateral questions, as we improve the
quality of life and the peace and stability
of the Pacific region, as we favorably im-
press upon other nations the influence of
our two countries throughout the world.
On behalf of 220 million Americans, I
want to say to you Members of the great
Diet of Japan, thank you for this partner-
ship, thank you from the bottom of our
heart for your friendship.
To the great people of Japan, to the
friendship that binds us together, to peace
throughout the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:40 p.m. at
the residence of Hirokichi Nadao, Speaker of
the House of Representatives. In his opening
remarks, he also referred to Ken Yasui, Speaker
of the House of Councillors.
Following the reception, the President went
to the National Theater for a Kabuki perform-
ance.
Shimoda, Japan
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session at a Town Meeting. June 27, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Mr. Mayor and distinguished citizens of
Shimoda. My wife and I and my daugh-
ter, Amy, have been touched by the
warmth of your welcome.
I have already had the honor of an
audience with your Emperor, and I have
had very productive meetings with your
Prime Minister Ohira, but I especially
wanted to come to this historic city.
Shimoda is where our friendship first
took root and flowered. A century and a
quarter ago when our relationship began,
Japan was a feudal society on the verge
of social revolution. The United States
was edging toward a war between the
States over the issue of slavery. Neither of
us has devised a perfect political system
since then, but we share a fundamental
belief in freedom and in democracy.
As free people, we share common chal-
lenges as well. None is more important to-
day than the energy crisis. Our planet is
not producing enough oil to meet all our
demands. The industrialized nations like
the United States and Japan must face
this challenge together, rather than com-
peting with one another for every avail-
able barrel of oil regardless of price.
Energy is the principal subject of the
summit meeting your country is hosting
this week for the leaders of the major in-
dustrialized nations. Together we must
restrain and reduce our imports. To-
gether we must reduce waste and conserve
our precious energy supplies. Together we
must find ways to explore and to develop
alternate energy supplies and new tech-
nologies of solar power and synthetic
fuels.
This is a great opportunity as well as a
challenge. Each of us must make painful
adjustments in our society and some sacri-
fices in our daily lives. No one ever prom-
ised us that freedom would be easy or that
democracy can be preserved without
effort or without sacrifice.
All nations can learn from the example
of the Japanese people in grappling with
the complex challenges of development
and of change. You've built your nation
into an economic super power, but you've
preserved the grace and the humanity and
the beauty of Japanese society.
1169
