Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 8
Parliament.
The peoples of the United States and
Europe possess a common heritage in the
fields of culture, literature, and the arts.
We also share a belief in fundamental
rights and freedoms, the dignity of the
individual, and the sanctity of human life.
I was very glad this morning to hear
you, Mr. President, denounce again the
taking of human life for no matter what
purpose by terrorists, abhorring as we all
do the activities of those terrorists and
those who help them to carry out their
vile and horrific deeds.
But apart from having these things in
common, we have at the same time, in
both America and Europe, a fascinating
variety of people and lifestyles. I am sure
you will join with me, Mr. President,
in hoping that the political institutions
which we have will take account of this
diversity.
Finally, I want to take advantage of this
occasion to express to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, my sincere thanks for your generous
statement in August 1977 on the situation
in Northern Ireland, in which you pledged
the complete support of the United
States for the people of Northern Ire-
land in their quest for a peaceful and just
society. In the words of your own Declara-
tion of Independence, written over two
centuries ago, "Governments derive their
powers from the consent of the govern-
ed." And that's of utmost importance.
This principle is one to which we, in
Ireland, are dedicated today and one on
which we consider that progress in North-
ern Ireland must be based.
On behalf of the Government of Ire-
land, Mr. President, I wish to express our
best wishes to you and to the continued
prosperity and happiness of your great
nation. To the people who came to wit-
ness this ceremonial this morning, I say
thanks on behalf of the people of Ireland,
and to all of you Americans, President
downwards, as we say in Ireland, Bail
ó Dhia ort féin agus ar do chuid oibre,
may God bless you and bless your work.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Visit of Prime Minister Lynch
of Ireland
Remarks to Reporters Following a Meeting.
November 8, 1979
THE PRIME MINISTER. Ladies and gentle-
men, the President has invited me to say
a few words on the outcome of our talks
this morning. And I think we can say they
were very, very comprehensive, and there
was a recognition of the problems that we
and the United States have in common as
well as the problems that we, as members
of the EEC, have also with the United
States. There was a high degree of accord.
We recognized the need to move for-
ward towards solving world problems like
inflation and oil supply and felt that
action taken, so far as we can, in consort
would be for the mutual advantage not
only of our two countries, not only of U.S.
and the EEC but of the world generally.
We mentioned, of course, the degree of
investment that is now taking place, and
has been for some years, by American in-
dustrialists in Ireland, the favorable cli-
mate in which they operate there, and
naturally, I expressed that that degree of
investment would continue. And may I
say, the President didn't demur, because
I was able to satisfy him-even though he
didn't need being satisfied-that this was
to the advantage of the United States as
well as to us in Ireland, because by locat-
ing in Ireland, thereby gaining access to
the Common Market communities of 260
million people, access to markets that
otherwise mightn't be available to them.
2095
