Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 11
American Anhydrous
Ammonia Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting
a Report. December 11, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my
determination that import relief for the
U.S. anhydrous ammonia industry is not
in the national economic interest, and ex-
plaining the reasons for my decision.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
ANHYDROUS AMMONIA
As required under section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmit-
ting this report to Congress setting forth
the action I will take with respect to
anhydrous ammonia covered by the
affirmative finding on October 12, 1979
of the U.S. International Trade Commis-
sion (USITC) under section 406 of the
Trade Act. As my action differs from that
recommended by the USITC, I have in-
cluded the reasons for my decision:
After considering all relevant aspects of
the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that provi-
sion of import relief is not in the national
economic interest for the following rea-
sons:
(1) Anticipated conditions in the U.S.
and overseas markets for anhydrous am-
monia do not warrant import relief at this
time. The industry is currently operating
at 86 percent of capacity and should con-
tinue to operate at comparable levels,
prices are sharply higher and expected to
continue rising, and strong market condi-
tions are projected for the current and
next marketing years. Given anticipated
growth in demand for grains and other
crops,
it is critical that farmers have access
to sufficient fertilizer supplies at reason-
able prices.
(2) Relief would not limit the growth
in U.S. imports of anhydrous ammonia
but will merely shift the source of foreign
supplies from the Soviets to other low-
cost producers. Thus, the domestic in-
dustry would realize little benefit from
relief and relief would be unlikely to pro-
mote industry adjustment.
I have directed the U.S. Trade Repre-
sentative to request the U.S. International
Trade Commission to follow closely over-
all market conditions for ammonia until
further notice and to issue annual reports
beginning in November 1980. I would
plan to have these reports discussed with
appropriate Soviet officials through exist-
ing channels.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
American Anhydrous
Ammonia Industry
Memorandum From the President.
December 11, 1979
Memorandum for the Special Repre-
sentative for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Determination under Section
406 and 202 of the Trade Act of 1974;
Anhydrous Ammonia from the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics
2221
