Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 8
THE PRESIDENT. I'm convinced that
SALT II ought to be passed on its own
merits. I'm convinced that SALT II con-
tributes to the security of our country, and
I'm convinced that SALT II enhances
the prospect for world peace. I'm con-
vinced that the rejection of SALT II
would cause each one of the inevitable,
competitive interrelationships between
ourselves and the Soviets in the future to
be magnified in their importance and be-
come a much more critical problem than
would that same incident with SALT II.
There's no way that we can avoid
peaceful competition with the Soviets as
we deal with countries in Africa or Asia
or the Mideast or Eastern or Western Eu-
rope. And without a SALT agreement
limiting strategic nuclear weapons, each
one of those differences, which are going
to be with us for many, many years, is
much more likely to become a major
threat to our Nation's peace.
So, SALT II is so beneficial on its own
merits—I think the Senate has accepted
the basic proposition that it is adequately
verifiable to link it with some action or
inaction of the Soviets, or for them to link
it with some action or inaction of ours,
I think, would not be in the best interest
of the American people.
My own hope is that my own convic-
tions, which are now being translated to
the Senate after detailed hearings, will ul-
timately be accepted by the American
people. But I don't presume to speak for
them, and I certainly can't force the
American people to accept the position.
It's so obvious to me that I don't have
any doubt about it. I hope that obvious
benefit of SALT II will become clear to
the American people.
Q. But there was that same kind of ex-
pectation, I think, with the Panama
Canal and-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q.—I think there are many Ameri-
can people who still react negatively to
that.
do.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand that they
Q. It's accomplished, but not accepted.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. I think
in the long run, though, it will be ac-
cepted.
As you know, it was difficult, almost
impossible, to get two-thirds of the Mem-
bers of the Senate to become convinced,
on its own merits, that the Panama Canal
[Treaty] 2 was in the best interests of our
country, in spite of the fact that the over-
whelming portion of our own constituents
at home did not favor the Panama Canal
Treaty. I think in the SALT case, a sub-
stantial majority of the American people
basically approve the signing of a treaty
between ourselves and the Soviets to limit
nuclear arms.
So, you've got that difference. The
American people are basically for SALT,
they were basically against the Panama
Canal Treaty.
I don't think we'll have as great a
selling job in the Senate on SALT as we
did the Panama treaty. But I don't un-
derestimate the difficulty; I live with it
every day.
FOREIGN POLICY
Q. I'm Bill Pace from Indianapolis.
This is a general question about our over-
all defense posture. In this tug-of-war
with the Soviet Union, it seems that their
posture is one of aggressiveness and, gen-
erally, ours is one of a defensive posture.
In the belief that one of the best de-
fenses is an offense, would it not be wise
for us to try to counter some of their
offensive moves psychologically, to try
to balance the scales?
THE PRESIDENT. When I assess in my
" Printed in the transcript.
1611
