Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
MRS. LINDSTROM. Oh, thank you, and
I feel better about that. And God bless
you, President Carter.
when they've increased energy prices or
oil prices by 60 percent. For instance, if we
didn't have energy, if we could remove
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope your the energy part of the inflation picture,
cold's better soon.
MRS. LINDSTROM. Thank you.
MS. STAMBERG. Thank you, Mrs. Lind-
strom.
The next call is Mr. Adrian Boles, and
he's on the line with us from Madison,
Wisconsin. Go ahead, Mr. Boles.
ENERGY AND THE NATION'S ECONOMY
MR. BOLES. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, Adrian.
MR. BOLES. The reason why I'm call-
ing is, you like to hear what people feel
like. And when I go to a bank, the in-
terest rates have gone up, and when I go
to the food store, that has gone up. And,
you know, inflation has really affected the
country, especially when it comes down
to me personally. And, you know, I've had
loans on my car—and luckily, I got them
years ago, because I'm still paying for the
car. But the problem is that everything
has gone up, Mr. President. And I know
you're trying to do the best you can, but,
you know, when you have-I think it's a
Democratic Congress, I believe, you're
working with?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. Ad-
rian, this is one of the biggest responsi-
bilities that I have and the biggest prob-
lems that I have as President.
I'm the fourth President now who's
tried to deal with excessive inflation. Most
of the inflation is uncontrollable, at least in
the short term, and a great portion of it
has been caused by the, I think, unneces-
sary and excessive increases in energy costs
put on us by the OPEC countries, both in
1973, when they quadrupled the price of
oil, and even in this last 8 or 9 months,
then during this past summer, say, June,
July, August, we would have the same
inflation rate that we had a year ago or
2 years ago. And now about 4 percent
of the inflation rate is caused by these in-
creases in oil prices.
What we're trying to do is to deal with
inflation on a long-term and consistent
and persistent basis. We're not going to
back down on it. Obviously, a major un-
met need is to have an energy policy in our
country that reduces dependence on im-
ported oil.
We not only import about 82 million
barrels of oil from foreign countries every
day, but we import along with it inflation
and unemployment. Next year we'll send
overseas $70 billion in American money
to pay for oil that we are importing.
That's why we've needed so long and the
Congress is now working so hard on get-
ting a national energy policy. This would
depend primarily on conservation, and
we're trying to encourage every American
to cut back on the waste of energy of all
kinds, to save energy.
We're going to shift toward the kinds
of energy in our country that's so plentiful,
for instance, solar power and replenish-
able supplies of energy that come from
wood and growing plants-gasohol is one
evidence of that-geothermal heat under-
neath the surface of the Earth that we've
just begun to tap. We've got a lot of coal
that would last six or seven hundred
years. We're going to increase the use of
it and have it in such a form that it
wouldn't create low-quality air or violate
our environmental standards.
These kinds of things will let us cut
back on the future dependence of im-
ported oil, I would say at least two-thirds
1891
