Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 22
the series of locks and dams on the Mis-
sissippi River, some of which might be
available for the production of electricity
to be used at a very low additional cost.
We now have pilot projects all over the
Nation where a small community for-
merly had its own private source of elec-
tric generation, from a nearby stream that
had been dammed up with a low-height
dam, and we're going to put those back
into operation. There'll be several thou-
sand of those around the country.
So, we're expanding in every possible
way the encouragement of the saving of
heat in homes, transportation, and the
cheap production of energy. But all of
that program that's not already in effect
would have to depend on the passage of
the windfall profits tax.
you
At the end of this year, I believe that
we'll have an adequate base for a long
period of time in the future to meet the
needs that described. But there's al-
ready a tax credit available of about $300
for homes like you described, and I'll have
to find out for you, if you don't mind,
whether it applies to putting the home
partially underground.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Dan,
very much. If one of my staff would get
Dan's address, we'll send you the answer.
Okay?
EMPLOYMENT
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. My
name is Bonnie Wilson. I'm from Bur-
lington, Iowa, and I'm a secretary. I'm
wondering what you plan to do or what
you have done to assist the middle-aged
woman either entering or reentering the
job market.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
Bonnie, it's hard to single out that par-
ticular
age group and the fact that they
would be women. What I faced when I
was running for President, when I first be-
came President, was an unemployment
rate above 8 percent. We've had a net in-
crease in our country now of 8 million
jobs, a net increase, just in the last 22
years those jobs being made available to
aged men and women. So, I'm sure that
young people and older people, middle-
the middle-aged woman has benefited.
Also, in the Federal Government, for
instance, we've tried to set an example for
other employers in encouraging the em-
ployment of women. Although we've had
a 2,000 reduction in total Federal employ-
ment, we've had a 26,000 increase in the
number of women who are employed.
Obviously, this is an area that can be ex-
panded in the future.
I think Iowa now has an unemploy-
ment rate of like 4 percent. And I would
guess that
able-bodied
any
person, man
or woman, that really wants a job in Iowa
can get one now. But we've made good
progress on the unemployment field with
the help of many people.
The best place, obviously, to acquire
jobs is not in the Government or even
with government programs, but in the
private sector. And I think a strong and
dynamic economy is the best source for
jobs in the future.
But I think we've made good progress
in the employment field. We haven't
reached our goal of no unemployment,
but we are getting closer than we were.
Thank you, Bonnie, very much.
I don't think I've got time for another
question. Everybody is motioning at me.
But let me say this in closing. The ques-
tions that have been asked I think will
help the whole country. They're the kind
of questions that make me think more
about what we are doing in Washington
1507
