Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 15
approval of the windfall profits tax on the
unearned profits of the oil companies,
which will help to finance this and other
programs to help the low-income families.
We've worked on all of these projects in
partnership and shoulder to shoulder with
you.
We're making final plans now, after a
very careful and, I think, well-placed
preparation, for a White House Confer-
ence on the Families. This conference
will involve the public in long overdue
assessment of how actions by the govern-
ment, and major private institutions as
well, sometimes help or hurt or neglect
American families.
The White House conference will not
limit itself to what Washington officials
think is important, but we will learn what
American families believe is important to
them. We'll look at the real and important
changes that have taken place in Amer-
ican family life and discuss what we as a
nation can do to support and to
strengthen families.
Instead of a single Washington event,
which has always in the past been the case,
we will have three separate White House
conferences on families next summer—
one in Baltimore, one in Minneapolis, and
one in Los Angeles. These conferences will
bring together families, or those who
speak for them, in the widest possible geo-
graphic diversity and will encourage the
broadest participation in setting an
agenda for action on behalf of America's
families.
Just as previous White House confer-
ences have really helped to generate ideas
and to prepare an agenda on behalf of the
young, the old, the handicapped, and
others, this set of conferences the first of
its kind can help bring concern for fam-
ilies to the center of national policymak-
ing, where it deserves.
lems of American families cover almost
the entire gamut of responsibilities of
public and private service. Some of the
issues are extremely sensitive and contro-
versial, as you well know, but I believe
that they should no longer be ignored.
And only if we are all willing to come to-
gether to discuss in a frank fashion the
acknowledged problems of the family, to
let those who are affected speak up and be
heard throughout the country, and then in
a common way seek solutions to those
problems, can we ever hope to arrest the
downward slide of the strength of families
in our country. And as you know, the
strength of families is equivalent exactly
to the strength of the moral character of
our Nation.
And I urge you and the people whom
you serve to get involved in this important
initiative, in the hearings that are now
going on in the State conferences and the
three White House conferences next sum-
mer. I hope that you will be there.
You and Catholic charities have already
a great voice in the direction of the con-
ference on the families. Your past presi-
dent, the man who greeted me so warmly
when I spoke to you in 1976, Rashey
Moten, is on the Conference Advisory
Committee. And if you don't like the way
the conference is doing, see Rashey
Moten. After getting to know him at your
conference 3 years ago and since then, at
my request he is engaged, along with
others, in one of the most important and
challenging tasks ever undertaken by a
group of Americans.
I can assure you that this conference
on the family will not simply produce an-
other one of those government reports
which all too often go on the shelf and
then becomes forgotten. Because the needs
of families is so deeply ingrained in my
own consciousness and within the lives
I might emphasize here that the prob- and hearts of people like you and others
1929
