Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 10
will allow continuation of the Interna-
tional Pacific Halibut Commission, and
of the joint management of the halibut
resource in the Pacific. The agreement
contains provisions for an interim en-
forcement regime, to apply, pending final
delimitation, to maritime boundary areas
in which both Canada and the United
States claim fisheries jurisdiction. It al-
lows the uninterrupted continuation of
the work of the International Pacific
Halibut Commission, and provides for the
continuation of recreational fishing by
both countries in maritime areas in which
each exercises exclusive fisheries jurisdic-
tion. In general, it makes an important
contribution to good fisheries relations
between our two countries.
I believe that approval of this Protocol
is in the best interests of the United States.
I recommend that the Senate give early
consideration to this Protocol and its ad-
vice and consent to its ratification.
The White House,
August 10, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
National Aeronautics and Space
Programs
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. August 10, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit this report on the Nation's
progress in space and aeronautics during
1978. This report is provided in accord-
ance with Section 206 of the National Aer-
onautics and Space Act of 1958 as
amended (42 U.S.C. 2476).
Included in this report are statements
of policy designed to maintain American
space leadership. This report concentrates
on the most significant Federal space and
aeronautical activities. These emphases
have enabled us to reduce the amount of
detail and number of separate agency
program descriptions.
The White House,
August 10, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Aeronautics
and Space Report of the President-1978 Ac-
tivities" (Government Printing Office, 103
pages).
Death of Jacob Potofsky
Statement by the President. August 10, 1979
America lost one of the giants of the
labor movement when Jacob Potofsky,
the former president of the Amalgamated
Clothing Workers of America, died on
Sunday. His long and distinguished ca-
reer spanned much of modern American
labor history. As a teenager, just a few
years after coming to America from the
Ukraine, he worked with Sidney Hillman
to establish the Amalgamated Clothing
Workers. In 1946 he succeeded Hillman
as union president, and for 26 years he
worked tirelessly to create a modern, self-
sufficient, democratic, and vibrant union.
While never losing sight of the needs of
his members, Jacob Potofsky also recog-
nized the need for conciliation and co-
operation in labor relations.
I share with his family, the Amalga-
mated Clothing Workers, and the thou-
sands of Americans who were touched by
his life and his example, a sense of pro-
found sadness at his death.
NOTE: Special Assistant to the President for
Consumer Affairs Esther Peterson delivered the
statement to the Amalgamated Clothing Work-
ers of America at funeral services for Mr.
Potofsky.
1421
