Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
are not the kind that would appeal to the
American people. I don't think the Amer-
ican people would seriously consider that
as a viable approach to the Mideast prob-
lem.
MR. FOELL. Tom.
GASOLINE SHORTAGES
MR. ELLIS. Mr. President, you made
a statement a few moments ago that 6
months ago, it was hard to get Americans
convinced that there was an energy short-
age.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. ELLIS. The CIA told us this past
week that by 1981 or '82, after the re-
cession, we would have another gasoline
shortage.
My question is, if we know this far in
advance that there's going to be a gasoline
shortage, why does there have to be one?
And why can't the administration take
steps right now to head it off?
THE PRESIDENT. We are taking steps.
In the first place, the gasoline shortages
that did exist in California first, and then
on the east coast, that was the factor that
convinced American people that we had
to move on energy and also was a great
factor in convincing the Congress to
move.
We have been trying to get authority to
develop a standby rationing plan for gas-
oline ever since I've been in office. The
Congress has not yet acted.
This week, this past week, for the first
time, the Senate voted a rationing plan
through. And we hope that this coming
week, if things go well, that the House
will also vote to give me authority to de-
velop a standby rationing plan so that if
we do have a serious shortage, we can put
it into effect and go for rationing. I hope
we won't need it.
If the American people will continue
to conserve gasoline with their driving
habits and other ways, then we won't have
the gasoline shortage that the CIA pre-
dicted. I think we can get by without a
gasoline shortage. I can't maintain here
or guarantee people that we will never
have a localized shortage of gasoline, but
we are moving toward that.
The programs that we are putting into
existence now through congressional ac-
tion that will be permanent have as their
number one emphasis saving, conservation
of energy. The second emphasis is on de-
veloping energy supplies in our own coun-
try which are permanent, from growing
plants and directly from the Sun, for in-
stance. The third emphasis is on utilizing
plentiful supplies of other kinds of energy
in our country, from shale oil, from coal.
And the last part is, of course, to develop
more rapidly and more thoroughly and to
use more efficiently those common sup-
plies of energy, like oil and natural gas,
which we've already known.
We've made good progress in all those
ways, and I believe that we will not have
any serious gasoline shortages if American
people do conserve, if we have a standby
rationing plan, and if we do move away
from imported oil toward a heavier de-
pendence on our own energy sources.
MR. FOELL. Jim, we have just a few
minutes left.
REVEREND JESSE JACKSON
MR. SCOTT. Mr. President, you men-
tioned the bringing together of the Egyp-
tians and the Israelis after a 30-year con-
flict.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. SCOTT. And now we are seeing
Reverend Jesse Jackson going to both
areas and talking to these leaders, most
especially the PLO leaders. Could this be
an embarrassing situation for you? Is it
embarrassing for you?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say that it's
embarrassing. The most embarrassing
thing that I can think of is for me as a
1997
