Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
son killed or a life lost. And this is not to
say that we should not be extremely cau-
tious about nuclear power in the future.
In coal-burning plants, even hydroelectric
plants and other kinds, there have been
numerous deaths.
But we've done a good job so far in
setting standards for operation and design
and installation to enhance to a maximum
degree, so far, safety standards. I think
we can do a better job in the future, and
I'm looking forward with a great deal of
anticipation and a sober expectation to
the Kemeny report. I think that we can
make corrections in past mistakes and
make even more effort in the future to
make sure that nuclear power is safe.
I'll add one other point. I think that
the economic considerations and others
that I've already described, that I need
not repeat, will permit our country to
minimize the use of nuclear power in the
future, compared to some other countries.
DR. DAVENS. I hope so. This is no place
to argue the issue, but I'm not completely
satisfied with your answer.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't think you
were.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you very much,
Doctor.
President Carter, I'd like to ask you
something about what you've just said,
that argument about no lives lost. It's
pretty much the standard argument of
the nuclear industry. Is that really the
point? You're not going to see an instant
death. You may see some problems from
cancer 10, 20, 30 years down the line.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the answer is
accurate, including radioactivity. There
have been some people injured, even
killed, in experimental nuclear power-
plants in very rare occasions. But in the
standard designed and operated nuclear
powerplants to produce electricity in our
country, there has never been an incident
that led, so far as we know, to a human
death. At the same time, there have been
numerous deaths involved in boiler ex-
plosions with plants that burn oil or coal
and so forth.
That's not to say that I'm not con-
cerned about safety. I am deeply con-
cerned, and I am determined to act ac-
cordingly. And I believe that the incident,
which could have been very serious, at the
Three Mile Island plant in Pennsylvania
gives us a cautionary signal to stop, to
think, to study, to analyze, and then to
make decisions based on what our country
should do in the future.
I have no idea what the Kemeny Com-
mission is going to recommend. But I will
read and very carefully analyze that re-
port myself, and if they make recommen-
dations on the design of powerplants us-
ing atomic energy, the installation, the
operation, the training of personnel, prep-
arations for a possible accident that are
feasible for us to carry out, then I will
make sure they are carried out. And if
they point out some inherent defect in
nuclear powerplants that can't be cor-
rected, obviously that would be cause for
termination of such approvals in the
future.
I think the best thing, though, that can
happen is for American people to know
the facts, not to be excessively afraid and
also not to be excessively at ease. And it's
part of my responsibility as President not
only to act but to educate in cases of this
kind. And it was my decision to appoint
the Kemeny Commission itself to make
sure that they, on a completely unbiased
and free basis, made an analysis.
No Federal official has tried to influ-
ence the outcome of the Kemeny report.
We've given them every assistance. They
have been given authorization by Congress
to deliberate in private without any sort of
interference from outside, and I believe
that their report will be a full one and also
1907
