June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ensure that the approaches that are
adopted do take account of their partic-
ular difficulties.
I would like to emphasize the impor-
tance we attach to the statement adopted,
the declaration we have adopted on ref-
ugees from Indochina, and certainly
France will maintain its efforts to support
and welcome in the refugees of Indo-
china.
And then, Mr. Chairman, we would
like to thank you for your hospitality in
Tokyo, worthy of the reputation of the
Japanese for hospitality, and we would
like to thank you for the important con-
tribution you made to the success of our
conference.
I would also like to ask you to express
our thanks to his Majesty the Emperor of
Japan for the welcome he extended to us
yesterday evening.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
PRESIDENT CARTER. First of all, I would
like to add my word of thanks to Prime
Minister Ohira, to the officials of Japan,
to His Majesty the Emperor, to the
people of Japan who have made this con-
ference possible, and who have also wel-
comed us for an official state visit.
In my own opinion, this economic
summit conference might be proven in
history to have a historic meaning for
most of the people on Earth. We are in
trouble as we approach increasing short-
ages of energy and rapidly increasing
prices for energy. But we have decided
individually and collectively not to de-
spair, but to take action which will be
meaningful and which might very well
encourage others to emulate the decisions
that we ourselves have made.
We recognize the seriousness of the
energy question. And we have decided to
act as individual nations and also as a
group of nations to try to resolve this
difficulty with minimum adverse effect
on the people whom we represent.
One of the most difficult decisions for
us, which we finally did make, was to
adopt individual national goals for limit-
ing imports of oil for 1979, 1980, and all
the way through until 1985. These goals
are not expressed in generalities. They
will be expressed in specific terms. They
are quite substantive commitments, tan-
gible and restrictive.
In addition, we committed ourselves
individually and collectively to the rapid
development of alternate supplies of
energy, to increase our own production of
oil and gas when we have it available, to
increase the production and use of coal,
taking care to protect the quality of the
environment, to emphasize synthetic fuel
development, oil to be derived from shale,
tar sands, solar power, nuclear power
with a special emphasis on safety-these
types of commitments have been thor-
oughly discussed and will be binding upon
us in the future.
We also address a difficult problem of
marketing procedures, so that after the
price of oil is established at the source,
there will be a minimum unnecessary in-
crease in the price of oil during the mar-
keting and delivery process.
I think for the first time publicly a
group of responsible leaders representing
industrial countries have spoken out
forcefully and expressed our concern
about the recent action of the OPEC na-
tions. Just quoting a few words from the
communique which I think are signifi-
cant "We deplore the decisions taken
by the recent OPEC Conference"-we
refer to the unwarranted rises in oil prices
and point out the serious economic and
social consequences of these decisions.
We emphasize that this will result in a
worldwide inflation, less growth, more
unemployment, will endanger the sta-
1190
