Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 5, 1979
Visit of President José López
Portillo of Mexico
Remarks Following a Meeting.
September 29, 1979
PRESIDENT CARTER. I would like to say
to the press that President López Portillo
and I have had very friendly and con-
structive and profitable discussions this
last 2 days. We have prepared a joint
communique to outline the results of our
discussions.
But I believe that this visit has been
not only a delightful one for us but has
served to convince the people of our two
countries that we live in a state of har-
mony, of mutual purpose, and of friend-
ship and of cooperation. And I'm deeply
grateful to President López Portillo for
his contribution to the outcome of this
meeting.
Thank you.
PRESIDENT LÓPEZ PORTILLO. Thank
you very much, Mr. Carter.
Yes, actually, I do want to say that our
meetings have been very good ones. I'm
very grateful to President Carter.
The meetings have taken place within
the framework within which they have
taken place during our other two previ-
ous times. There's a framework of friend-
ship and deep understanding. They have
served to prove that the lines of commu-
nication are alive and working. And this
is the only way that it can be and the
way that it should be. This is the only
way in which we can guarantee our con-
stant contact, communication, for har-
monious coexistence and the only man-
ner in which all the countries of the world
can live within a system of dignity and
peace.
Thank you.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 11:27 a.m.
on the South Lawn of the White House. Presi-
dent López Portillo spoke in Spanish, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
Visit of President López Portillo
of Mexico
Joint Press Statement. September 29, 1979
President Carter and President López
Portillo met at the White House Septem-
ber 28-29 for the third in a series of re-
views on the status of bilateral relations
and consideration of regional and global
issues of mutual interest.
1789
