Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We spoke, of course, at some length on
the problems in Northern Ireland, and we
discussed, even though we haven't knowl-
edge of the contents, the proposed initia-
tive and the document to be published by
the British in relation to finding a modus
vivendi between the two communities in
the north of Ireland and naturally ex-
pressed our interest in it and hoped that
it would lead to a greater degree of co-
operation and harmony and, ultimately,
peace between those two communities in
the north and to North Ireland as a whole.
We emphasized-reemphasized, shall I
say, in the case of the President, on his
part-that he endorsed again what he said
in 1977-I referred to it publicly on the
lawn earlier this morning—and empha-
sized also the need that terrorism should
be put down no matter where it raises its
head, especially in the north of Ireland,
and those who support terrorists must
certainly be deterred from doing so.
Perhaps I may jump the gun to some
extent by saying that at the end of our
talks, I suggested to the President that
sometime he might find it possible to visit
Ireland, and the President said he cer-
tainly would be interested. So, we're look-
ing forward to that day, and I hope that
we can give the President of the United
States the kind of a warm welcome that
I have received from the people of the
United States and from the Chief Execu-
tive of the United States.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Prime
Minister has covered very well the atti-
tude and the tone of our remarks and
also the substantive nature of them. There
are no bilateral differences between our-
selves and Ireland. The discussions were
exclusively devoted to the common pur-
poses that we espouse and the harmony
with which we work to resolve differences
that exist between our two countries to-
gether, compared to the rest of the world.
I might say, especially, that we appreci-
ate the extremely close working relation-
ship with Prime Minister Jack Lynch in
his role as President of the European
Council, the community of nations in Eu-
rope. It's important to point out that we
have no role to play in their delibera-
tions. But our consultation with him on
issues of mutual interest-the implemen-
tation of the Multilateral Trade Negotia-
tions, the implementation of the agree-
ment on energy conservation that was
concluded in Tokyo, and other matters
that are of common interest to all the peo-
ple of Europe and our Nation-have been
very productive.
It's important also to point out that a
President of the United States represents
more Irish people than the Prime Minis-
ter of Ireland, and I'm constantly aware
of
my
duties to Ireland, Mr. Prime Minis-
ter. It would be almost impossible for a
President to ignore those duties to your
country and to the people who love your
country.
We are very delighted, again, to have
you here, and we will be discussing in
great depth the problems in the Middle
East, the need for a worldwide peace, for
the control of nuclear weapons, for the
control of terrorism, for the bringing of
peace to Africa, and the honoring of hu-
man rights throughout the world.
And I would like to say again what I
said this morning, that we will do every-
thing we possibly can to prevent American
citizens' assistance to the terrorists in Ire-
land, who do so much to obstruct the
realization of the hopes and dreams of
all the Irish people, no matter what their
religious background or convictions might
be, for a prosperous and a peaceful Ire-
land for all.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The Prime Minister spoke at 12:20 p.m.
on the South Grounds of the White House.
2096
