Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
danger unless your voices are heard that
this may happen.
I've talked about the gap between the
Government in Washington and the peo-
ple in our country, about the gap between
Washington and the rest of the Nation.
Now, here's a perfect and an unfortunate
example: The American people over-
whelmingly support a tough and a fair
tax on the oil companies to give us the
financial basis for energy security, new
jobs, new production of synthetic fuels,
new conservation, a better life for us all.
Yet, despite this support, this tax on the
unearned profits—and with it, our hopes
for energy security-is in danger of being
killed or crippled.
I'm very proud that Congressman
Mazzoli has already helped us and that
Senator Wendell Ford, who's the chair-
man of the Senate Coal Caucus, and Sen-
ator Dee Huddleston, who's one of the
leaders in the Senate, are both with me
in this fight. I hope you'll stick with them
while they stick with me to give us this
tax money, to give us energy security.
Will you help do that? [Applause] Right
on!
When the Senate passes this bill, we
will have the ability to meet our respon-
sibility as a nation and to have the finan-
cial weapons to win this energy battle.
But this will not happen unless the voices
of working Americans like you are
heard loud and clear in Washington. You
can rest assured that the oil lobbyists'
voices are going to be heard loud and clear
in Washington. And we need for your
voice also to be heard.
With the revenues from a good, tough
windfall profits tax and the oil compa-
nies, America will be uniquely equipped
to win this energy war. We have unsur-
passed technology. We have the enor-
mous strength of a free economy. We've
got a free enterprise system that's the best
on Earth. We've got a democratic Gov-
ernment that the people can run, and
we've got dedicated men and women who
are not afraid to work if they know what
they're working for and they have confi-
dence in the Government and confidence
in our own Nation.
The skills of the American people and
the dedication and courage of the Amer-
ican people is our single greatest re-
source. We need all of this to see our
battle through. We need to unite with
one another. We need to have confidence
in our Government, confidence in our-
selves, confidence in one another, confi-
dence in the future. We need to set aside
our narrow, regional interests and work
together to join in a common purpose to
strengthen and to serve the country that
we love, the United States of America,
the greatest nation on Earth.
You do your part, I'll do my part, and
we'll win.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:50 p.m. out-
side the Cane Run facility. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Robert L. Royer, pres-
ident of Louisville Gas & Electric Company.
Following his remarks, the President met
at the facility with a group of coal industry
executives.
The White House later issued the following
information on the meeting.
At his meeting with coal industry lead-
ers, the President responded to concerns about
Government regulations by announcing that
he has directed the Regulatory Council to
begin an effort to eliminate overlapping and
inconsistent Federal and State regulations
affecting coal production and coal use.
The Regulatory Council, chaired by Doug
Costle of the Environmental Protection Agency
and comprised of the Federal Government's
major regulatory agencies, was established by
the President to improve and simplify the
regulatory process. Following the President's
directive, the Council will establish a Coal
Regulation Project and will immediately be-
gin a comprehensive assessment of regulatory
problems affecting the coal industry. The
Project will seek information from the indus-
1339
