June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
growth of the economy of the United
States.
Our country is able to be self-sufficient.
We have the technological ability, we
have the finances, we have the natural
resources. It's imperative that we act ex-
peditiously. It's imperative that we co-
operate with one another. It's necessary
for us to be determined, bold, aggressive,
and also that we are creative and that the
Americans harness the tremendous re-
sources of our country in the most effec-
tive and efficient and cooperative fashion.
There is no other threat to our life in
America so important as these economic
threats that not only weaken our Nation's
structure but also endanger our own se-
curity in the future. My belief is that now
the American people are aroused and the
Congress is aroused enough to act with-
out delay. This will be my major purpose
when I return to the United States in just
a few days.
Thank you very much.
Q. Mr. President, is there any eco-
nomic or other type of retaliatory action
we and our partners could take directly
against OPEC?
THE PRESIDENT. The most important
single thing that can be done on a multi-
national basis is what has been under
consideration here in Tokyo for the last 2
days. My prediction is that the major
Western allies, those who are assembled
here for the economic summit, will act
aggressively and without precedent to cut
down on our imports and our dependence
on OPEC oil. This will have a major sta-
bilizing effect. So, with multilateral ap-
proach here in eliminating waste, cutting
down on imports, investing jointly to pro-
duce new supplies of energy based on new
technologies that will be a major step
on a multinational basis. But I think the
major responsibility is on us to act within
the United States.
Q. Mr. President, have you been in
touch with other leaders since the price
increase has been announced to see what
their reaction is?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I discussed this
announcement with the other leaders last
night. We had a good indication of what
it would be, and I think that I can say
that they all share my deep concern about
the economic consequences of it. But
there are two phases that must be ad-
dressed: One is the multinational phase,
where we work together on technology
and to cut down demand for OPEC oil;
and the second and obviously the most
direct responsibility is for the United
States to act on its own. We must do
both.
Q. Mr. President, do you think there
will be any effect on the dollar-imme-
diate effect on the dollar or any kind of
shifting away by the oil companies to
other countries?
THE PRESIDENT. My belief is that the
prospective OPEC price increase has al-
ready been assimilated by the interna-
tional monetary markets. If we act boldly
and aggressively here in Tokyo, which I
believe we will do today, that should help
to stabilize the dollar.
Q. What will the consequences be of
continued congressional inaction on
energy?
THE PRESIDENT. The same
The same conse-
quences that we've already suffered. The
Congress has not acted for the last 2 years
on any legislation that affects oil. I've just
gotten a report from the Vice President a
few minutes ago that the House finally
passed the windfall profits tax. It must
now go to the Senate. But for the last 2
years, the Congress has passed no legisla-
tion concerning oil. The windfall profits
tax, when passed, the establishment of
the energy security fund will give us a
substantial reservoir of financing for the
creation of synthetic fuels, the movement
on solar energy, the liquefaction and gasi-
1182
