Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 25
we will work together to stop the unneces-
sary and unacceptable competitive bid-
ding against one another over the oil prices
that we pay. And we will marshal the vast
resources, engineering, technological, sci-
entific resources of our industrialized na-
tions to produce more domestic energy,
such as coal, solar energy, and synthetic
fuels.
To meet these goals, of course, here
at home, the Congress must act now to
pass the windfall profits tax and to estab-
lish the national energy security fund to
help us have the means to develop alter-
natives to foreign oil.
While I work with our allies on these
energy problems on a global basis, Vice
President Mondale will monitor the situa-
tion here at home, will keep me informed
about what is happening, and will act,
as necessary, to minimize adverse effects
of shortages in the United States.
Whatever our successes might be in
Japan, there should be no illusions, no
false expectations, by the people of our
dence in the greatness of the United
States. Now, as in the past, after this time
of testing and trial, we can emerge an even
stronger, an even more prosperous nation
for having met this test together. That is
the spirit which I will take to Tokyo.
Thank you very much for coming out
to see me off.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:47 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
On the same day, the White House made
available a list of the principal members of the
official parties accompanying the President.
Mrs. Carter and Amy, Secretary of State and
Mrs. Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of the Treas-
ury W. Michael Blumenthal, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs Zbig-
niew Brzezinski, and Senator and Mrs. Spark
M. Matsunaga accompanied the President to
Japan and the Republic of Korea. Additional
members of the party to Japan were Ambas-
sador and Mrs. Mike Mansfield and Secretary
of Energy James R. Schlesinger. Ambassador
and Mrs. William Gleysteen and Secretary of
Defense and Mrs. Harold Brown accompaned
the President to the Republic of Korea.
country or other nations. Gas lines and Treaty on the Limitation of
fuel shortages will not disappear any time
soon.
This is a difficult time for our Nation.
All of us must make some painful adjust-
ments in our daily lives. What we cannot
afford is to give in to a mood of panic
or desperation or, worse, to the idea that
each of us is somehow pitted against our
neighbor in a desperate scramble for
scarce energy supplies.
Three times in this century we've over-
come challenges far more serious than this
one, with two long World Wars and with
a massive depression that actually rocked
the world's economy.
Now, as in the past, we can overcome
the challenge of the energy crisis if we
in this country are united as a people, if
each of us will do our part as a citizen
and as a neighbor, and with full confi-
Strategic Offensive Arms
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty and Related Documents.
June 22, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, the
Treaty on the Limitation of Strategic
Offensive Arms, known as SALT II, in-
cluding the Protocol thereto, both signed
in Vienna, Austria, on June 18, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the Report of the Secretary
of State with respect to the Treaty, to-
gether with the following related docu-
ments:
1. a series of Agreed Statements and
Common Understandings concerning the
1155
