Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 1
night is my wife's birthday. [In English]
What I said, Mr. President, was today is
my wife's birthday, and thank you very
much for the very special party. I don't
know what I'll do next year.
I want to say it's been a singular honor
for me to serve with the brave, fine
Korean and American soldiers that serve
to defend this country. It's been a great
experience.
See, they don't trust my Korean.
[Laughter] I could have said that myself.
Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9 p.m. in the
Dining Hall of the Blue House, the official
residence of the Korean President. President
Park spoke in Korean, and his remarks were
translated by an interpreter.
Earlier in the day, the President was greeted
by President Park at the welcoming ceremony
at Yoido Plaza. The two Presidents then
motorcaded to the Blue House for bilateral dis-
cussions with their advisers in the Summit
Room.
In the afternoon, President Carter went to
stallations of both the United States and
Korean armed forces.
2. The two Presidents met at the Blue
House on June 30 and July 1, 1979 to re-
view United States-Korea relations and
a variety of subjects of vital mutual inter-
est in an atmosphere of cordial respect and
confidence. Among those present at these
meetings were Prime Minister Choi Kyu
Hah, Minister of Foreign Affairs Park
Tong Jin, Minister of National Defense
Ro Jay Hyun, Presidential Secretary-
General Kim Kae Won, and Ambassa-
dor Kim Yong Shik from the Korean side,
and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance,
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Na-
tional Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezin-
ski, Assistant Secretary of State Richard
Holbrooke and Ambassador William H.
Gleysteen from the United States side.
3. President Carter outlined the poli-
cies of his Government to seek peace and
the reduction of tensions around the
world, including his efforts to promote a
the National Cemetery, where he placed lasting peace in the Middle East and to
wreaths at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
and at the gravesite of Madame Park, the late
wife of President Park. He then toured the
gardens of the Chang Duk Palace.
Following the dinner, the President went
to the residence of the U.S. Ambassador to
Korea, where he stayed overnight.
Seoul, Republic of Korea
Joint Communique Issued at the Conclusion of
Meetings With President Park. July 1, 1979
1. At the invitation of President Park
Chung Hee, President of the United
States of America and Mrs. Jimmy Car-
ter made a state visit to the Republic of
Korea from June 29 to July 1, 1979. In
addition to consultations with President
Park and other senior officials, and meet-
ings with other prominent Korean leaders
in Seoul, President Carter visited field in-
reach agreement with the Soviet Union
on limitation of strategic weapons. Presi-
dent Park endorsed these peace efforts
and emphasized his view that the United
States should continue to demonstrate
its firm leadership wherever challenges to
peace occurred.
4. The two Presidents reviewed the
events which have significantly altered
the recent political face of Asia. Among
these were the normalization of Sino-
American relations and the signing of the
Peace and Friendship Treaty between
Tokyo and Beijing. They noted that
armed conflicts in Southeast Asia and the
Indochina refugee problem are creating
major difficulties affecting the entire re-
gion, and agreed that there is a need to
prevent the extension of these conflicts to
other countries. President Carter re-
affirmed that the United States as a
1207
