Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 28
plore publicly all of the options open to
our country. As I said earlier, I'm deter-
mined to do the best I can through diplo-
matic means and through peaceful means
to ensure the safety of our hostages and
their release. Other actions which I might
decide to take would come in the future,
after those peaceful means have been
exhausted.
But I believe that the growing condem-
nation of the world community on Iran
will have a beneficial effect.
SHAH OF IRAN
Q. Mr. President, why did you reverse
your policy and permit the Shah to come
into this country when, one, medical treat-
ment was available elsewhere; two, you
had been warned by our chargé that the
Americans might be endangered in Teh-
ran; and three, the Bazargan government
was so shaky that it was questionable
whether he could deliver on the promise
to protect our Embassy? And last of all,
in view of the consequences, do you re-
gret the decision?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The decision that
I made, personally and without pressure
from anyone, to carry out the principles
of our country, to provide for the means
of giving the Shah necessary medical as-
sistance to save his life, was proper. At
the same time, we notified the Govern-
ment of Iran. We were assured by the
Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister
that our Embassy would be protected, and
it was protected for several days, in spite
of threats from outside.
Then peremptorily, after Khomeini
made an aggravating speech to the crowds
in the street and withdrew protection
from the Embassy, it was attacked success-
fully. The Embassy was protected by our
people for the length of time possible
without help from the host government.
No embassy on Earth is a fortress that can
withstand constant attacks by a mob, un-
less a host government comes to the rescue
of the people within the embassy.
But I took the right decision. I have no
regrets about it nor apologies to make,
because it did help to save a man's life,
and it was compatible with the principles
of our country.
EFFECT ON U.S. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
Q. Mr. President, we appear to be in a
rather dangerous period of international
tension and volatility, especially in the
Islamic world, and it comes at a time
when we're about to embark on our quad-
rennial election campaign, with all that
that will bring. Have you given any
thought to whether, following examples
of other national emergencies, it may be
wise to try to mute the political fallout
of this by trying to bring opponents in
and outside of your party into some kind
of emergency coalition for this purpose?
THE PRESIDENT. We have attempted
to keep the political leaders in our Na-
tion informed, both publicly and through
other channels. We have given frequent
briefings, for instance, on the Hill, both
to the Members of the Senate and to the
House. We have encouraged all of those
who have become announced candidates
for President to restrain their comments,
which might be misconstrued overseas,
and to have a maximum degree of har-
mony among those who might be spokes-
men for our country.
I myself, in order to stay close to the
scene here, where constantly changing
events could be handled by me as Presi-
dent, have eliminated the major portion
of political-oriented activities.
I don't think the identity of the Islamic
world is a factor. We have the deepest
respect and reverence for Islam and for
2169
