Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 28
This report is the result of a painstak-
ing and earnest review of the many legal
provisions affecting our citizens residing
abroad. The test for discrimination used
was to compare the effect of those pro-
visions on U.S. citizens residing abroad
with U.S. citizens living in the United
States.
I believe the report responds in a re-
sponsible manner to the concern about
the situation of Americans residing
abroad. I am aware that section 407 of
H.R. 3363 just recently enacted, broad-
ens the scope of the report to include the
"competitive disadvantage" of Americans
abroad compared to nationals of other
major trading partners and extends the
report's transmittal date until January 20,
1980. Because this report was completed
and awaiting my transmittal at the time
section 407 was enacted, I believe it best
to transmit it now to the Congress for its
consideration. I have, moreover,
quested the Secretary of the Treasury to
prepare an additional report on the taxa-
tion of American citizens living abroad
compared to the treatment by our major
trading partners of their citizens living
abroad and to identify any competitive
disadvantages that may ensue.
The Administration will continue to
work to resolve discriminatory provisions
in regulations and in agency procedures
affecting Americans living abroad; I am
hopeful that inequities which are subject
to legislative remedy will likewise be
resolved.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Frank
Church, chairman of the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee.
The 27-page report is entitled "Equitable
Treatment of United States Citizens Living
Abroad."
Employment and Training
Report of the President
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Report. August 27, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting to you the 17th an-
nual report pertaining to employment
and occupational requirements, resources,
uses, and training, as required by section
127(a) of the Comprehensive Employ-
ment and Training Act (CETA) Amend-
ments of 1978.
This Employment and Training Report
of the President also includes a report on
how social services, vocational education,
and other programs administered by the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare are being integrated into State and
local CETA activities, as required by sec-
tion 127(b) of the 1978 CETA Amend-
ments; a number of special reports that
respond to additional reporting require-
ments in the amended CETA; a report
on services for veterans, as required by
the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment
Assistance Act; and a response to the re-
quirements of section 4(f) (2) (B) of the
Full Employment and Balanced Growth
Act of 1978.
The White House,
August 27, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Employment
and Training Report of the President" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 398 pages).
United States Ambassador to
the Kingdom of Tonga and
Tuvalu
Nomination of John P. Condon.
August 28, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate John P. Condon, currently
1523
