Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 7
escalating costs will force us to choose be-
tween adequate heat or sufficient food?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very pleased that
in the last few months the wholesale price
of food has been going down, including
that of red meat. So far, the so-called mid-
dlemen and the retailers of meat have
been profiting excessively in spite of the
fact that the price of beef and pork and
poultry to the farmer has been going
down. I believe that the sum total of all
this, however, is a leveling off and a start-
ing down of the price of food, which
should continue the rest of this
year.
electric power companies to all homeown-
ers, a very low interest loan, so that you
can insulate your homes and not have to
pay back the cost of that insulation until
the home is sold.
With this program alone, we hope to
save more than a half million barrels of
oil every day. So, we are moving now to
compensate with your help in saving ac-
tual money on energy. Even though the
price of oil itself goes up by having more
efficient automobiles, using mass transit,
insulating homes, setting thermostats at a
There is no way that I or anyone else higher degree level in the summer,
can promise you cheaper energy in the
future. In the last 4 months alone in our
country, because of OPEC price increases,
which are exorbitant and excessive, the
price of energy in our country has gone
up about 60 percent at the retail level.
This is not going to turn around. I think
it won't be nearly that steep in the future.
I've just come from a poor neighbor-
hood in Baltimore. Mayor Schaefer has a
program here depending upon CETA
workers to go into low-income homes with
formerly unemployed young people and to
weatherize those homes, to add insulation
to windows, to doors, insulation around
hot water heaters, and so forth. The total
average cost of that for any home is only
about $275. That much can be saved in
less than 2 years, and from then on, you
have a saving of $150 or so in a small
home every year as long as the home lasts.
In 1977 we got through the Congress
and don't many people know this—a pro-
gram to give tax credits up to $300 for the
insulation of a home, up to $2,200 to
install solar heating. This next proposal
that we've just put into the Congress, de-
pending upon the windfall profits tax, will
provide loans from the power companies,
the natural gas supplying companies, the
lower
in the winter, these things you must do
to help yourselves.
So, food prices are turning downward;
energy prices are going to go up. But your
total cost of heat can go down if you take
care of yourself by cooperating in these
programs.
Thank you very much for that excellent
question.
MEXICAN ENERGY SUPPLIES
Q. Peter Tubiolo from Covina, Cali-
fornia, in southern California. What is
your administration doing with reference
to resolving the relationship between
Mexico and the United States relative to
the fuel import disagreements?
THE PRESIDENT. We're negotiating now
on the price of natural gas. The original
projection of the quantity of natural gas
that Mexico planned to sell has been
dropping substantially, because President
López Portillo has decided to use a greater
and greater quantity of Mexican natural
gas in his own country. So, the amount to
be sold to us is much less than we had
anticipated. We are still negotiating on
a price for that gas.
1413
