Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Public members
JOHN T. DUNLOP Chairman. Mr. Dunlop is
currently Lamont University professor at
Harvard Business School and was Secretary
of Labor from March 1975 to February
1976;
PHYLLIS WALLACE, professor of industrial re-
lations at the Sloan School of Management
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy;
ROBBEN W. FLEMING, president of the Corpo-
ration for Public Broadcasting and former
president of the University of Michigan; he
has accepted subject to approval of his
board;
ARVIN ANDERSON, chairman, Office of Col-
lective Bargaining, City of New York;
LLOYD ULMAN, professor of economics, Insti-
tute of Industrial Relations, University of
California, Berkeley;
ROBERT NATHAN, consulting economist and
chief executive officer of Robert R. Nathan
Associates, an economic consulting firm.
Labor members
LANE KIRKLAND, secretary-treasurer of the
AFL-CIO;
WILLIAM WYNN, president, United Food and
Commercial Workers;
JOHN LYONS, president, International Asso-
ciation of Bridge and Structural Iron Work-
ers;
LLOYD MCBRIDE, president, United Steelwork-
ers of America;
FRANK FITZSIMMONS, president, International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs,
Warehousemen and Helpers of America;
DOUGLAS FRASER, president, United Automo-
bile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement
Workers Union.
Business members
R. HEATH LARRY, president of the National
Association of Manufacturers;
JESSE HILL, president and chief executive offi-
cer of Atlanta Life Insurance Co.;
CHARLES R. MCDONALD, chairman, Council of
Smaller Enterprises, and president, McDon-
ald Equipment Co. of Cleveland, Ohio;
JOHN T. CONNER, chairman of the board,
Allied Chemical Corp.;
NORMA PACE, senior vice president, American
Paper Institute;
PHILIP M. HAWLEY, president and chief execu-
tive officer of Carter Hawley Hale Stores.
Alternates will be named later for busi-
ness and labor representatives.
Carter Family Peanut Warehouse
White House Statement on the Findings of a
Special Investigation. October 16, 1979
We are, of course, carefully studying
the report and will have further comment
on it later.
We said from the beginning of the in-
vestigation that no moneys were diverted
from the Carter warehouse into the
Jimmy Carter Presidential campaign or
from the campaign into the warehouse,
and the report shows our statements were
absolutely correct. We also said from the
beginning that we would cooperate fully
with the investigation, and the report
shows we did exactly that.
We are very pleased by the special
counsel's findings.
NOTE: On March 20, 1979, Paul J. Curran was
appointed by the Department of Justice as a
special counsel to investigate the financial trans-
actions of the Carter family peanut warehouse.
International Convention on Load
Lines, 1966
Message to the Senate Transmitting an
Amendment to the Convention.
October 17, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to acceptance, an
amendment to the International Conven-
tion on Load Lines, 1966. The report of
the Department of State is enclosed for
the information of the Senate in connec-
1954
