Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
dent, in wartime or peacetime. Tens of
thousands of people, literally, from all
over the country wrote similar letters.
"You're right," they said. "Tell us how
we can help." Sometimes it's hard for that
person, who probably wrote their first
letter to a President, to find an avenue to
the core of American Government. That
avenue is through you and through other
members of the Democratic Party.
I say to you tonight what I've said to
them: The answer to the crisis of confi-
dence is action, and the answer to frag-
mentation and doubt is unity. It's this
belief that holds us together here to-
night that we believe in working to-
gether as a great party, that we can shape
the destiny of a great nation—the faith
that as a free people we can join together
to improve our own lives and the lives of
others not nearly so fortunate as any
single person in this room, that as a strong
nation we can build a community of na-
tions at peace. These are not just dreams.
They are the long-term agenda that gives
purpose to our Democratic Party.
We believe with William Faulkner
that mankind will not merely endure, but
will surely prevail. So, let us think and
consider and rededicate ourselves tonight
to the simple truth of that conviction. We
shall prevail, we shall overcome, together.
Thank
you very much.
favorably reporting, 23 to 19, with bi-
partisan support, the administration's bill
to contain hospital costs. Since the Ways
and Means Committee has already re-
ported similar legislation, the full House
will at last have an opportunity to act
on one of the Nation's most serious prob-
lems-soaring hospital costs.
Although it promises to be a close vote,
it is inconceivable that a majority of the
House would refuse to join in this effort
to attack directly one of the primary
causes of inflation and to save billions of
Federal and State taxpayers' dollars. This
is undoubtedly the single most important
anti-inflation and budget-saving bill the
Congress will face this session. Every
Member's seriousness in dealing with ex-
cessive inflation and wasteful Federal
spending will be judged-correctly—in
large part by his or her vote on this issue.
I am confident the full House will follow
the lead of the Senate during the last
Congress and act favorably at long last to
restrain soaring hospital costs.
I am grateful for the leadership of
Commerce Committee Chairman Harley
Staggers and Health Subcommittee
Chairman Henry Waxman in seeing the
bill successfully through the committee.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 p.m. in Budget Deferrals
the International Ballroom at the Washing-
ton Hilton Hotel.
Hospital Cost Containment
Legislation
Statement on Action by the House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee.
September 26, 1979
I am very pleased by the action of the
House Commerce Committee today in
Message to the Congress. September 27, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
four new deferrals of budget authority to-
talling $61.9 million and a revision to one
previously transmitted deferral increasing
the amount deferred by $3.8 million.
These items involve the Departments of
Agriculture and Commerce and the Rail-
road Retirement Board.
1772
