Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 25
Tokyo, Japan
White House Statement on the Consultative
Group on US-Japan Economic Relations.
June 25, 1979
President Carter and Prime Minister
Ohira agreed today to create a Consulta-
tive Group on US-Japan Economic Rela-
tions, announcing selection of Robert S.
Ingersoll and Nobuhiko Ushiba as Co-
Chairmen.
The decision follows agreement at the
May 2 summit in Washington to estab-
lish a small group of distinguished persons
drawn from private life who will submit
recommendations to the President and the
entered the Foreign Service in 1932. He
has served in various capacities abroad
and in Tokyo, including Ambassador to
Canada (1961-64), Vice Minister of
Foreign Affairs (1967-70), and Ambassa-
dor to the United States (1970-73). Mr.
Ushiba was named State Minister for Ex-
ternal Economic Relations in November
1977. He has served as Ambassador for
the Multilateral Trade Negotiations since
December 1978.
NOTE: The statement was released in Tokyo,
Japan.
Toast at the State Dinner. June 25, 1979
Prime Minister concerning actions that Tokyo, Japan
will help maintain a healthy bilateral
economic relationship between the United
States and Japan.
Mr. Ingersoll and Mr. Ushiba will
recommend to the President and the
Prime Minister the names of other people
to serve in the Group.
Mr. Ingersoll, a 1937 graduate of Yale
University, was formerly Ambassador to
Japan (1972-73), Assistant Secretary of
State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs
(1974), and Deputy Secretary of State
(1974-76). At the time of his Ambassa-
dorial appointment he was chairman of
the board and chief executive officer of
the Borg-Warner Corp. in Chicago, where
he had spent the previous 33 of his total
of 35 years in industry. Chairman of the
Japan Society since September 1978, Mr.
Ingersoll has been a member of many
international business committees and
councils, including the Advisory Council
on US-Japan Economic Relations and the
Emergency Committee for American
Trade. He is also deputy chairman of the
board of trustees of the University of
Chicago.
Mr. Ushiba, a graduate of the Faculty
of Law of Tokyo Imperial University,
Your Majesty, you do my country and
the American people great honor by re-
ceiving me, my wife, and my party to this
beautiful room. There is a strong sense of
history here: the history of your ancestors
as Emperors of Japan stretching back to
the
very beginning of the nation; the his-
tory of Japan's development as a nation
with great world influence, that began
with the reign of your grandfather; and,
the history of relations between Japan
and the United States, reaching back to
the visit of Commodore Perry in 1853.
We are proud to be part of this great
flow of history, to build on the exchange
of visits begun in 1974 by President Ford
and continued during Your Majesty's
memorable trip to the United States in
1975.
The American people still remember
fondly the warmth and the friendship of
your visit with us. The past century and a
quarter has seen the relationship between
our two countries and between the
peoples grow to be as busy and as close as
between any two nations on Earth. To-
gether we have developed a combination
1165
