Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
country by phone, and we're doing it for
the reason that citizens from many parts
of the Nation want to have a chance to
speak with the President. We want to give
them that chance.
To explain, again, this curious proce-
dure, you cannot call us; we have to do
the calling out to you. For several weeks
now, in newspaper ads and on the radio
and television, citizens have been invited
to send us their names, their addresses,
phone numbers, to put it all on a postcard
if they wanted to ask a question. Those
names are being chosen at random now,
and we are placing the calls-all this for
technical reasons.
There will be another hour of questions
and answers with President Carter, which
will be followed by a half-hour analysis
of the President's statements by National
Public Radio reporters.
military spending. One out of every two
of our income tax dollars goes for defense.
In 1976 when you campaigned, you said
you'd try to cut the defense budget by
five to seven billion dollars, and yet right
now it's about $40 billion per year more
than when you first took office. And now
you're asking for an MX missile, which
is going to cost anywhere from $30 billion
to $90 billion. Experts say we don't need
it. My question is, why don't you try to
stop inflation by stopping the unnecessary
military spending and put that money to
work in our economy?
THE PRESIDENT. Al, let me say that we
have cut more than six or seven billion
dollars out of the Defense Department by
increased efficiency.
But I need to make a point very clear
to you and to other Americans. The num-
ber one responsibility on my shoulders,
Mr. President, you ready for the next above everything else, is to guarantee the
call?
THE PRESIDENT. All set.
Ms. STAMBERG. It's from Al Sheahen,
and he's in Van Nuys, California. Go
ahead, Mr. Sheahen.
DEFENSE SPENDING AND NATIONAL
SECURITY
MR. SHEAHEN. President Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Al.
MR. SHEAHEN. We admire your cour-
age and enthusiasm for running for the
10-kilometer races, and I hope you'll keep
it up.
THE PRESIDENT. I will.
MR. SHEAHEN. The reason I'm calling,
the question I had-we all know that in-
flation is caused by deficit spending, and
we've got a $30 billion deficit this year,
I think you said.
THE PRESIDENT. This coming year, yes.
MR. SHEAHEN. The largest expenditure
by the Government is defense spending,
security of our country. And I don't make
any apology for it.
We spend now a very small portion of
our gross national product on defense,
about 5 percent. Other countries like the
Soviet Union spend often much more.
The Soviet Union spends maybe 13 to 15
percent of their GNP on defense. For the
last 15 or 20 years, they have increased
their defense expenditures by about 3 or
4
percent per year in real terms, like com-
pound interest. We spend now less than
we did 15 or 20 years ago, in real dollars,
on defense. We've tried to make up that
difference and to retain our strength by
more efficient expenditure of funds and
to tap the basic strengths of our country
in politics and economics and otherwise.
We have at this time the strongest na-
tion militarily on Earth. And we've tried
to enhance our strength by making sure
that our NATO Alliance, our alliances
with other countries around the world
stay sound and that there is a mutual
1904
