Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 31
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, I would like to know
what your response is to the statement
from the Senators today about Russians
agreeing to certain reservations of the
SALT treaty? Do you think that the Rus-
sians actually have done this?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. If you
studied the reservations which Senator
Biden and others described, they consist
primarily of the inclusion in the SALT
treaty itself of agreements that have al-
ready been negotiated very carefully and
accepted by both sides, plus an agreement
that the Senate is certainly likely to re-
quest, that the protocol which is designed
to last a limited period of time will not
have any presumption of extension. Do
you follow me? So, those are the kinds of
things that have already been negotiated
very carefully with the Soviet Union.
Some of them are not in the text of the
treaty, and if the Senate should-I am not
advocating this, but if the Senate should
say in the ratification agreement, "We ap-
prove SALT II provided it is understood
that the protocol will not be extended and
that the production rate of Backfire
bombers will not exceed 2½ per month,"
which is 30 per year and so forth, then I
think that the Soviets might accept it. But
I can't speak for them. They were not
willing during the negotiating phase to in-
clude those things in the document, in the
treaty document itself. But they have
agreed to those understandings, equally
binding them.
Q. Your negotiators didn't get every-
thing they could get?
THE PRESIDENT. We have the agree-
ment from them, and if I discovered, for
instance, through various means-aerial
surveillance and other means—that the
Soviets were producing four Backfire
bombers per month, I would consider that
an adequate cause for abrogation of the
treaty itself, because it would be a viola-
tion of the solemn commitment of the na-
tions and its leaders.
I consider those ancillary agreements to
be just as binding as the agreements
within the text of the treaty. And
Brezhnev does, too. You cannot imagine-
I bet you we spent more time on the
verbal agreement concerning the Backfire
bomber than we did at any other single
issue that is included within the SALT
treaty. And it was at the last minute in
Vienna when Brezhnev finally acknowl-
edged that the limit was 30 Backfire
bombers per year. They had not been
willing to do that
willing to do that up until then, because
Brezhnev himself had taken the position
at Vladivostok, negotiating with Presi-
dent Ford, that the Backfire bombers
were not a legitimate subject for negotia-
tions, since it was not a strategic arms. It
was a very sensitive thing to them. And
we really had to go to the wall to get them
to agree that they were producing at a
rate of 30 and they would not exceed it.
AIRLINE MERGER
Q. Mr. President, would you permit a
local question, please? On the merger of
National Airlines, are you inclined now to
permit such a merger? Do you have the
final say in that, with either Pan Am or
Eastern?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't respond to that
until it comes to me. I have to let the CAB
and the State Department and others
assess the consequences of it. They make
a recommendation to me, and then I
make the final decision.
Q. There is only one recommendation
made, I believe, by the CAB, recommend-
ing Pan Am. Eastern has not been heard
yet. The question is in concept.
1587
