Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
visions of law. The reason for the energy
production board is to expedite a decision,
one way or the other.
Instead of waiting 4 or 5 years to de-
cide whether a refinery should be built or
whether a gas pipeline should be built, or
whether an electric power company gen-
erating plant should be built, that decision
ought to be made expeditiously. And I
don't want the law changed so that it can
be built when it violates the law. So, I'm
very insistent on the fact that environ-
mental laws will be followed.
Now, I know that you are concerned
about the quality of life here in Florida.
So am I. And I can assure you that I will
not do anything to lower the environmen-
tal standards in order to permit the burn-
ing of dirty fuel. I've been to a plant that
burns soft coal just recently in Bardstown
[Louisville],ยน Kentucky. And they've got
scrubbers there that work. And we've au-
thorized in the burning of low-sulfur
coal the use of dry scrubbers. But with the
use of scrubbers, which clean up the ex-
haust, I think that we can shift to coal
duction board being able to change the
law.
I am in favor of giving the production
board adequate authority to expedite a
decision and to shorten the procedure
through which either a "go" or "no-go"
questions. I think I have one.
DEFENSE BUDGET
you here, and I know you like tough
Q. Mr. President, we're glad to have
questions. I think I have one.
THE PRESIDENT. Right on.
Q. In the spirit of your 1976 campaign
statements and, I think, almost pledge
to transfer some of the billions from de-
fense to meeting human needs, I wonder
if it wouldn't be a good idea to urge Con-
gress now to take, say, 10 percent of the
defense budget and transfer it to govern-
ment research in solar energy so that we
might develop a true public utility that
would uncover and make available at
minimal cost to the public, solar energy
resources, so that we'd be less dependent
on foreign oil or nuclear power, which
without violating legal standards, EPA might lead to cataclysmic holocaust of war
standards, or your standards on what the
quality of the air should be.
You mentioned the Tellico Dam. I
would not favor the passage of a law on
the energy production board that would
let them authorize a dam, through their
action, that the law specifically prohibited.
Q. Right. Yes, sir. Also, sir, would you
approve the Northern Tier pipeline pro-
posed from Washington to the Midwest if
that was exempted from environmental
regulations?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
that pipeline is now prohibited from being
constructed because of an amendment
that won't let oil be unloaded in Puget
Sound. And I am not in favor of the pro-
1 Printed in the transcript.
or nuclear accident?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me be really frank
with you about this question. The windfall
profits tax, if passed-and I believe it will
be passed-will give us over the next 10
years an average of $14 billion that we can
spend for solar power, the insulation of
homes, the caring for poor families, better
mass transit, synthetic fuels, and so forth.
Combined with what we already have
committed to solar power and other
sources, my belief is that that will be
adequate.
Our target is to have 20 percent of all
the energy that we consume in this Nation
come directly from the Sun by the year
2000. And with the windfall profits tax
passed, there will not be financial limits on
how fast we move to solar power.
1570
