Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The Group will hold its first meeting in
mid-December, with the objective of sub-
mitting timely recommendations to the
President and the Prime Minister.
Mr. Ingersoll was formerly Ambassador
to Japan (1972-73), Assistant Secretary
of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs
(1974), and Deputy Secretary of State
(1974-1976). Chairman of the Japan So-
ciety since September 1978, Mr. Ingersoll
has been a member of many international
business committees and councils, includ-
ing the Advisory Council on U.S.-Japan
Relations and the Emergency Committee
for American Trade. He is also Deputy
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the
University of Chicago.
Mr. Ushiba, a graduate of the Faculty
of Law of Tokyo Imperial University,
entered the Japanese Foreign Service in
1932. He has served in various capacities
abroad and in Tokyo, including Ambas-
sador to Canada (1961-64), Vice Minis-
ter of Foreign Affairs (1967-70), and
Ambassador to the United States (1970-
73). Mr. Ushiba was named State Min-
ister for External Economic Relations in
November 1977 and served as Ambassador
for the Multilateral Trade Negotiations
from December 1978 until recently.
Mr. Spencer is chairman and chief
executive officer of Honeywell, Inc. He
was a Rhodes Scholar 1948-50 and has
been with the Honeywell firm since 1954.
From 1959-65 he was their Far East re-
gional manager in Tokyo. He is a director
of Northwest Bancorporation and Inter-
national Harvester.
Professor Patrick is a professor of Eco-
nomics at Yale University. He holds the
Ph. D. degree in economics from the Uni-
versity of Michigan and has several times
in his career been granted fellowships for
study in Japan. On the faculty of Yale
since 1960 and a member of the interuni-
versity Japan Economic Seminar, he is the
author of numerous scholarly publications
and co-editor of "Asia's New Giant," a
definitive study of the Japanese economy
published in 1976.
Mr. Clausen is president and chief
executive officer of BankAmerica Corpo-
ration and its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Bank of America N.T. & S.A. He has been
associated with Bank of America since
1949 before his election to his present posi-
tion in 1969. A graduate of Carthage Col-
lege, he received his LL.B. from the Uni-
versity of Minnesota and is a graduate of
the Harvard Advanced Management Pro-
gram. He is a member of the Policy Com-
mittee of The Business Roundtable, a
member of the Business Council, director
of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Eco-
nomic Council and of the National Coun-
cil for United States-China Trade and
co-chairman of the Japan-California
Association, as well as a member of the
Japan-U.S. Advisory Council.
Mr. Muramoto is president of Dai-
Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. He graduated
from the economic department of Tokyo
University and entered Dai-Ichi Bank
where he has served as Senior Managing
Director and Deputy President. From
1971-76 he has been Deputy President of
Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd.
Mr. Morita is chairman and chief
executive officer of Sony Corporation.
After graduating from the science depart-
ment of Osaka University, he established
Tokyo Tsush in Kogyo Ltd. (to become
Sony Co. in 1958) and became its execu-
tive manager. He has been Deputy Pres-
ident, and President and Chief Operating
Officer of Sony Corporation.
Mr. Saeki has been president of
Nomura Research Institute from 1965 to
the present. A graduate of Tokyo Univer-
sity, he has served as staff member of the
Economic Stabilization Board, director of
a division of the Agency for Economic Re-
search and Planning, and president of the
National Defense College, Defense
Agency.
2128
