Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
any chance that Federal revenue sharing
would be in danger for local governments.
That answers part of your question.
Secondly, when you start balancing how
much Federal money comes back into a
community, compared to how much goes
from that community to the Federal
Government, you get into some very com-
plicated economics.
The best way I know to make sure you
get more money back than you pay in is
not make so much money yourself, to start
with, because the rich communities, where
the people have high income and pay more
income tax, don't ever get back as much
as you paid in, whereas a poorer com-
munity, with income very low or perhaps
very serious problems on housing and a
high unemployment rate, they're the ones
that do get Federal money back to let their
lives be better. So, I think you live in one
of those very fortunate communities, ap-
parently, where you have a fairly good
life and a fairly high income, fairly high
employment, not any serious housing
problems, and so forth.
We have always believed that the Fed-
eral Government should provide aid and
have a minimum control over the lives of
people. One of the best things that we can
do to control inflation, by the way, that I
have not mentioned so far, is to get the
Federal Government's nose out of the
affairs of private citizens or out of the
affairs of the free enterprise system. We've
tried to do this, and we've been success-
ful in some areas. I'll give you one quick
example.
We made a move to deregulate the air-
line industry. It was opposed by almost
every airline company in the Nation, but
Marty Russo and others helped, and we
got that legislation passed. It's been a
great benefit. Airline fares have dropped
remarkably low. The airplanes now, in-
stead of their being a quarter full, are
almost filled to capacity, passengers have
gone up in number tremendously, and the
profits of the airlines have also gone up.
We're trying to do the same thing now
with other elements of the American free
enterprise system.
In some cases, too many cases, the Fed-
eral regulatory agencies that are sup-
posed to regulate an industry have be-
come protectors for that industry at the
expense of the American people. And I
think the more we can get the Federal
regulatory agencies' nose out of the busi-
ness of the free enterprise system and let
competition work, the better off our coun-
try will be.
So, there are many ways that you can
make sure that the Federal Government
does have a more effective relationship to
the people in your own community.
One other thing that I've tried to do
is to cut the Federal deficit. We've slashed
the Federal deficit by more than 60 per-
cent, $36 billion, and at the same time,
we've cut down on the percentage of our
total Nation's income that's collected from
people and spent by the Federal Govern-
ment. When I became President, it was
about 232 percent. We've cut that down
now to 212 percent, and we've got it
going in the right direction.
So, we're trying to cut the Federal defi-
cit, balance the budget, reduce the
amount of your money that the Federal
Government collects and sends back to
somebody, and also, we're trying to get
the Federal Government's nose out of
your business. All those things, in the long
run, will pay off.
TRAFFIC STOP SIGNS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Larry
Kast, and I'm a mechanical engineer. I
live in Dolton, and I work for the Metro-
politan Sanitary District of Greater Chi-
1951
