Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 15
ment from you and Secretary Vance. Your
commitment to negotiated actions in this
multi-lateral forum has made it possible to
advance the cause of peace, human
rights and economic development far
beyond my expectations. I will always be
grateful for my service with your admin-
istration.
I am afraid, however, that my conduct
has created serious difficulties for the ad-
ministration on several occasions. It has
made me question my value as a con-
tinued part of your team.
I have always acted in behalf of what I
felt was the best interest of our nation,
though often it has been interpreted to the
contrary.
I want you to fulfill the tremendous
promise of your administration, and that
depends to a great extent on a settlement
of the situation in the Middle East.
It is therefore extremely embarrassing
that my actions, however well-inten-
tioned, may have hampered the peace
process. In order to avoid any further
complications, I would like to offer my
resignation as the United States Perm-
anent Representative to the United
Nations.
I will be glad to continue during the
month of August as President of the
Security Council and also to fulfill a com-
mitment to lead a trade mission to Africa
in early September.
There is a good staff here at USUN
and they are fully capable of carrying on
through the General Assembly.
I will return to Atlanta and after a brief
period of respite, I will begin to campaign
diligently for your re-election.
It has been an honor and privilege to
serve with your administration.
Sincerely,
ANDY
Andrew Young
Firefighters' Memorial
Sunday, 1979
Proclamation 4671. August 15, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Courageous firefighters have protected
the lives of their neighbors from the rav-
ages of fire since the beginning of civil-
ization.
Volunteer and professional firefighters
are members of America's most hazardous
profession. More than half of the injuries
in fires each year are sustained by fire-
fighters, over 55,000 each year.
Numerous churches and many denomi-
nations have indicated a desire to par-
ticipate in a designated Memorial Sunday
honoring these consecrated firefighters for
their ultimate sacrifices for their fellow-
men.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Sunday, October 7,
1979, as Firefighters' Memorial Sunday.
Because of my grave concern for the
firefighters of this country, I have urged
the Federal government to undertake nu-
merous programs aimed at reducing the
dangers faced by this country's firefighters.
We must do more to reverse the trend
toward more injuries and deaths of fire-
fighters.
This year the 50-year dream of a Na-
tional Fire Academy became a reality. At
that site, firefighters from across the Na-
tion can receive advanced training and
education in health and safety. I invite
the firefighters of the country to take full
advantage of this long-awaited facility.
I also call upon the members of the
Joint Council of National Fire Service
1437
