July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
As the recent positive decision made
by Saudi Arabia to increase production
has shown, forceful action by this country
proving that we are going to save energy
can encourage moderation on the part
of some of the OPEC nations and make
us better able to deal with all the others.
The important thing I want to get across
today is that each action every one of us
takes will not only improve our own lives
but affect the future of the world.
The heartbreaks and the triumphs of
each county, each city, each neighbor-
hood, the successes or the failures are also
the successes and failures, the triumphs
and the heartbreaks of our Nation. The
tragedy of an elderly family who are not
able to pay for heat in the winter is a
national tragedy, just as the success of a
local weatherization program or carpool
program is a triumph of or success for
the whole Nation.
I ask you to work with me throughout
the counties of America to plan conserva-
tion efforts that go beyond attempts to
convince people that an energy crisis is
real. Together we must challenge people
to make specific actions possible, as work-
ers, employers, commuters, customers,
homeowners, renters, all put together,
can really comprise a genuine, workable
national effort.
It's easy for us to try to leave the job
for others, to the Federal Government, to
the oil companies, to OPEC. We must
not do that. We will not do that. That's
what I want you to do for our country.
I want you to make it possible for every
citizen who lives in your county to join
in setting local conservation standards
and targets.
I'm not asking now that the leaders of
every county in the country work to
create another government agency. I
want you to have a group of your best
private citizens to look at the needs and
resources that you have in your own com-
munities, to evaluate your strengths and
your weaknesses, and agree with your
own tactics in your own way to meet local
conservation targets.
As you work with local citizens and
community leaders in taking up this call
to action, you can count on the support
and you can count on the help of Federal
officials, including myself, to live and to
work with you to make this dream, this
challenge a reality. I will put all Federal
employees-agriculture, forestry, HUD,
HEW, welfare, whatever—on notice that
they must cooperate with county officials
to cut out the waste of energy in your
county.
In your county you are vital local lead-
ers. I know you can get the job done, and
you certainly deserve the help of the
officials from the President on down in
our Federal Government. You can en-
force the law on speed limits. You can en-
force the new regulations on building
thermostat settings. There is a $10,000
fine for setting the thermostat on a public
building lower than 78 degrees in the sum-
mer and higher than 65 degrees in the
winter. I intend to enforce it, and I in-
tend to have your help in making sure
that it is enforced.
You can make sure that gasoline con-
sumption is reduced by improving public
transit, by dealing with county vehicles.
You can help business and industry and
government employers develop ride-shar-
ing carpools, to stagger working hours,
and to reduce employee workday travel.
Some communities have done so. My
wife was recently in Davis, California, for
instance, which has done a tremendous
job and slashed total energy use more than
35 percent below what it used to be. In
so doing we're better able to understand
ourselves, and we are better able to un-
derstand other tough choices that America
must meet in facing the challenges of the
future.
1246
