July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Armed Forces, compared to the number
of enlisted men and noncommissioned
officers. But I've got your-no, the only
thing I've got is Panorama City, Cali-
fornia. If I could get your exact address,
I'll get you the numbers and I'll mail them
to you personally.
Now with the rate of inflation-by the
way, we would have been justified asking
for, with those profits, 20 percent, 20 per-
cent, and 20 percent over a 3-year period
of time. But we didn't. We stuck by the
guidelines. We sold the contract.
Now with the rate of inflation coming
Q. The exact address is 8155 Van Nuys up at the end of the year at 10 percent,
Boulevard.
THE PRESIDENT. 81-what?
Q. 55 Van Nuys Boulevard, Panorama
City.
THE PRESIDENT. How do you spell the
boulevard. [Laughter]
Q. B-l-v-d. Boulevard.
we had 7 percent, of which we had to use
2 percent for pensions and another per-
cent for a 10-year progression. So, that
meant 5 percent across the board. At the
end of the year, it looks like a 10-percent
inflation. We're now 5 percent down the
tubes.
How is the working man going to re-
THE PRESIDENT. Van Nuys Van Nuys cuperate these moneys? We took a 2-year
Boulevard. I got you.
Q. Suite 902.
THE PRESIDENT. All right. A-r-m-
a-c-h-e-r?
Q. That's correct, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. You'll
hear from me within a week.
WAGE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gerry
Hefferan. I am the president of Local
1172, CWA. I represent the employees of
ITT World Communications.
The last 25-year dinner I attended at
ITT World Communications, the presi-
dent of that company, Mr. George Knapp,
announced the profits of the company at
some $220 million. Now, we were the first
company out of the box after your speech
on October 24. That morning, the nego-
tiating team for the company came in
and told us that they sent you a telegram
that morning saying that they were going
to stand behind your guidelines and, thus,
make it mandatory on the union to accept
them. We did because we felt what you
had put down was effective or hoped to be
effective.
contract, because that's all we could buy
to satisfy our members. Now we have
another 5 percent coming up November
of this year.
Is there something that can be done in
respect to catching up the way we did
when President Nixon made restrictions
and we got put under that one? Is there
something that can be done? That's my
question.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know enough
about the contract to know whether or
not it can be renegotiated. Most of the
settlements recently have had a cost-of-
living clause in them that substantially
compensated the workers when the infla-
tion rate was increased more than we an-
ticipated because of OPEC's action.
One of the things that we will be con-
sidering when we come out with new
wage and price guidelines which, as you
know, are voluntary-but it depends a
lot on the patriotism of people, which
you've already demonstrated. But we'll
try to accommodate in those guidelines
the kind of situation that you describe.
I think the way to get around it easiest
is to have the cost-of-living clause in-
cluded. But I don't know enough about
1254
