Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the last 2 or 3 weeks, and the size of the
defense budget is being negotiated with
the Senators. This is just a range of sub-
jects that we have in legislation.
In addition, as you know, it's important
for me to have as good a working relation-
ship as I possibly can with other interest
groups around the country, particularly
mayors, Governors, and others in positions
of authority. And of course, we have a
broad range of foreign policy issues that
come before me literally every day.
I think the best thing that I can do at
this moment is to answer your questions
about any matter that might be of interest,
and I'll try to answer them.
QUESTIONS
DULUTH-SUPERIOR GRAIN MILLERS STRIKE
Q. I want to ask you about the Duluth-
Superior grain millers strike. I know be-
fore you started your trip down the
Mississippi, you met with Governor Link
and Governor Quie about the strike. A
lot of people back in the Dakotas and
Minnesota and northwestern Wisconsin
are wondering, since you stepped into the
Rock Island situation-and that was ob-
viously a major part of grain transporta-
tion in the Midwest-wondering why
similar action hasn't been taken in the
Duluth-Superior strike.
Today the port director of Duluth is
saying that if the strike is not settled here,
maybe over the weekend or early next
week, no more grain would move out of
Duluth. And that's about 5 percent of the
exports, and it's the third agricultural
port in the country.
If you could, sir, could you characterize
the differences in the situation between
your intervention in the Rock Island situ-
ation and the stand you've taken as far as
the grain millers in Duluth is concerned?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are some
common features, one of the most notable
of which is that I hope the both of them
are rapidly settled. There are obviously
some additional features, in that employ-
ers and employee negotiations are on-
going.
There are differences in law. The Fed-
eral laws relating to railways give the
President special responsibility and au-
thority to deal with the transportation
interruption. And this is an act under
which I have recently proposed a resolu-
tion of the issue to get the railroads mov-
ing again.
The Rock Island Railroad is on the
verge of bankruptcy. And it's obvious to
me that if a settlement even is reached be-
tween the owners and the employees,
that the settlement is unlikely to be im-
plemented because of an absence of
funds, if I don't act.
In the Duluth elevator question, we
have provided, under the law, maximum
Federal assistance and participation. The
Federal negotiator has been directly in-
volved with an increasing degree of em-
phasis since I visited the St. Paul area,
and we have seen spasmodic indications
of progress. Some days we have very
good reports that progress is being made,
even tentative settlements having been
reached; other days not.
It's inappropriate, according to the
legal rulings that I have from the Attor-
ney General and Labor Secretary and
others, that the Taft-Hartley Act is legally
applicable to the Duluth grain elevator
strike. The security of our Nation has to
be in danger. And it would be difficult to
prove in court—and the burden of proof
would be on us—that this one strike is,
indeed, threatening the crippling of our
Nation and its security state or is a danger
to the health of the Nation.
1708
