Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 22
What I've asked the Congress to do-
and here, again, I need your help-is to
pass a windfall profits tax on the oil com-
panies, to give us the financial resources
to conserve energy, to have more efficient
vehicles, to help people weatherize their
homes, to expand our production of oil,
gas, coal, geothermal supplies, solar
energy-which is really a great need for
our country and, of course, in Illinois,
and in Iowa we want to produce gasohol
as well.
We need a better transportation sys-
tem. We need to help the low- and mid-
dle-income families to pay for the in-
creasing cost of energy put on us by the
OPEC oil nations in the Mideast. None
of this will be possible unless we have
the windfall profits tax passed by the
Congress this year.
I hope you'll help me with this issue
before Congress.
The other thing that we can do, of
course, in addition to producing more
energy in our own country, is to save en-
ergy, to eliminate waste, to conserve every
way we can. This cannot be done by the
government, by the Federal, State, or
local, governments. It can only be done
when millions of Americans individually
need and every human advantage. We do
have rich land. We do have freedom.
We have a good free enterprise system.
We've got a democracy. We can be in-
dividuals. We can argue and debate. We
can make our own voices heard. We can
be different if we choose. But when a
threat comes, Americans have always
united.
Lately, we have not been united. We've
not had as much confidence as we ought
to in the strength of our country. We've
got the strongest nation on Earth eco-
nomically, politically, and militarily. And
I want to be sure that if you will coop-
erate with me in solving these problems of
peace and energy, then we will make the
greatest nation on Earth, the United
States of America, even greater in the
future.
Will you help me with that? [Applause]
Thank you very much.
And now we'll come down and shake
hands as long as we can. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. from
the deck of the Delta Queen.
Remarks on Arrival at the City.
August 22, 1979
resolve that you will help to save energy. Burlington, Iowa
There are many dozens of ways that
you can do it-in your transportation, on
your jobs, in your homes, in your living
habits. Figure out every way that you use
energy of any kind and see if you can't
save energy in the future.
So, saving energy and producing more
energy in our own Nation will help to
eliminate this threat to our own Nation's
security, because we are too dependent on
foreign oil.
The last thing I want to say is don't
ever forget, any of you, that we do live
in a country where we've been blessed
by God with almost every possible human
Good morning. I didn't know you had
this many people in Burlington. I'll see
most of you in a few minutes at the town-
hall meeting. I will see a lot of you later
on at the townhall meeting, and I hope
if
you can't be there, that you'll listen to
what is asked me and what I say.
This morning we will be discussing
some matters that are very important to
you and to me, indeed to all people in
our country and around the world. We'll
1493
