Dec. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
will follow me at this podium; Congress-
man Wes Watkins, the chairman of the
Congressional Rural Caucus; Governor
Jim Hunt, my good friend and chairman
of the Governors' subcommittee on small
cities and rural development; Lynn Cut-
ler, county commissioner from Iowa;
David Humes, mayor of Hayti Heights, in
Missouri; Charles Bannerman, the presi-
dent of the Delta Foundation and cochair-
man of the Rural Coalition; the Rural
Caucus; the National Governors' Associa-
tion; the Rural Coalition; and many other
individuals and groups that have given us
so much encouragement.
Together, I'm convinced that you and
I together and all those who work with us
can bring a new and a better life to rural
America. I'm dedicated to it. With your
help we will not fail.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, Senator Leahy and Governor
Hunt spoke. The President then resumed speak-
ing as follows.]
We have an overflow crowd. Part of the
group is in the Treaty Room down the
hall. So, I'll be listening very carefully to
Congressman Watkins, who's done such a
good job on this program, from the other
room, and this will give him a double
audience. It's in honor of him that I'm
going to stop in the other group and listen
to his speech. Wes, good luck to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
2:30 p.m. to a group of community and civic
leaders assembled in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building.
Commissioner of Education
Nomination of William Lee Smith.
December 20, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate William Lee Smith, of
Maryland, to be Commissioner of Educa-
tion. He would replace Ernest Boyer, re-
signed. This position will be abolished
when the Department of Education is ac-
tivated in 1980.
Smith has been Director of the Teacher
Corps at the Department of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare since 1973.
He was born January 3, 1929, in Bos-
ton, Mass. He received a B.A. from Wiley
College in 1949, an M. Ed. from Massa-
chusetts State Teachers College in 1955,
and a Ph. D. from Case Western Reserve
University in 1970.
Smith was a social groupworker from
1954 to 1956. He was with the Cleveland,
Ohio, public schools from 1956 to 1968,
as a high school teacher, guidance coun-
selor, and principal. From 1968 to 1969,
he was executive director of the Pace As-
sociation (Program of Action by Citizens
in Education) in Cleveland.
Smith joined the U.S. Office of Educa-
tion at HEW in 1969 as Chief of the Ca-
reer Opportunity Program. He served
subsequently as Director of the Division
of School Programs, Acting Director of
the Teacher Corps, Associate Commis-
sioner for Educational Personnel Develop-
ment and Director of the National Center
for Improvement of Educational Systems,
The transcript also includes the remarks of Acting Deputy Commissioner for Devel-
Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President
for Intergovernmental Affairs, Hal Wilson, co-
chairman of the Rural Coalition and director of
the Housing Assistance Corporation, as well as
those of Senator Leahy, Governor Hunt, Repre-
sentative Watkins, Mayor Humes, and Super-
visor Cutler.
opment, and Associate Commissioner for
Career Education.
Smith has served as Chairman of the
U.S. Delegation to the International
Management Training on Educational
Change Training Program of the Orga-
2276
