Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
bility of the economic system of the
world, and particularly emphasized, as
the President of France has already said,
the adverse impact on the developing na-
tions of the world, who don't share the
wealth that some of us have.
The refugee question was discussed
with attention and concern and compas-
sion for those who are suffering. We have
collectively called on Vietnam and others
who create the source of the refugee prob-
lem to try to help in dealing with it in a
humane and effective way. And we have
all discussed what we might do as indi-
vidual nations to alleviate this problem.
Our country has accepted 220,000 ref-
ugees from Southeast Asia. We are tak-
ing in now about 7,000 per month. I have
committed my Nation yesterday to double
this rate and to accept 14,000 refugees
per month.
We have also, I think in almost every
debate quite different from my own pre-
vious experience in conferences-moved
toward the boldest position, the most con-
structive position, the most specific posi-
tion, and the most tangible position.
We've not yielded to compromise by
going into generalities.
I think when you read the communi-
que, you'll discover that what I have said
is accurate. In my opinion, because of
these reasons and others, I consider this
summit conference to have been very suc-
cessful.
PRIME MINISTER OHIRA. Thank you,
President Carter.
CHANCELLOR SCHMIDT. Mr. Chair-
man, I would first of all like to thank you
for your hospitality, the hospitality that
has been extended to us, and for your
chairmanship of this fifth economic sum-
mit. I would like to say that our chair-
man, Prime Minister Ohira, has contrib-
uted significantly to the success of our
conference.
I would also, like the speakers before
me, like to express my warm thanks for
the hospitality of the Japanese people as
a whole and particularly for the hospital-
ity of His Majesty the Emperor. And to
that, I might add that I would like to
thank you for the effective and very
courteous work of the security forces.
As far as the substance of our work is
concerned, we have arrived at compro-
mises among ourselves. We have found
common denominators, and the basis of
the energy policy of our countries for the
years ahead has been laid down jointly.
However, I would also like to say that it
is very pleasing, very satisfying to me to
find in our communique a number of the
positions that the Government of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany has been ad-
vancing both within Germany and abroad
for some years.
The readiness to compromise is essen-
tial to a successful economic summit, and
this is demonstrated by the fact that we
Europeans--this is true also for my coun-
try, the Federal Republic of Germany-
that we have successfully sought to ar-
rive at common positions. This has not
always been easy for the four member
countries of the European Community
represented here. President Giscard
d'Estaing has already made this point for
the Federal Republic of Germany, for
France, for Italy, and for the United
Kingdom. We have to follow up the deci-
sions that were taken by the European
Council a week ago in Strasbourg.
And we have jointly agreed to limit our
oil imports through to 1985. Here we have
ensured that we have not prejudiced the
interest of those partners of the European
Community who were not with us yester-
day and today. But we have based our-
selves on the decisions taken at the Stras-
bourg meeting.
1191
