Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
resolved at the national level. In addition,
there is plenty of Federal funds for
weatherization materials, but very few
funds for labor and support costs. The
people in the State of Minnesota and the
community action agencies need more
funds to support the energy conservation
programs.
Thank you, Mr. President.
MAYOR LATIMER. Thank you very
much, Mike.
INNER-CITY PROGRAMS
Mr. President, the city of St. Paul is a
very strong neighborhood-oriented city.
The next speaker comes from one of our
great old, nearby, downtown neighbor-
hoods, the West Seventh Street area. Her
name is Becky Yust, and she also teaches at
the University of Minnesota as a home
economist.
Becky?
Ms. YUST. Good evening, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Tonight I'm representing the West
Seventh Federation, an organization in an
inner St. Paul neighborhood.
It is my belief that we can have simple
but long-lasting solutions to affect energy
consumption. Two very basic concerns
that affect families the most are simply
getting to work and keeping warm in
their homes.
The need for efficient transportation is
great. Over 40 percent of the households
in our community do not even own a car.
For 2 years we have investigated and pro-
posed a light rail system or modern trolley
for our community. As in most city neigh-
borhoods, we have one main business
street that serves as a corridor from down-
town to the airport and suburbs. Three
different bus lines intersect it, and it is a
natural collecting point for residents.
Light rail is a preferred transit system,
because it is nonpolluting, it operates in
our severe climate, and it is not capital-
intensive; plus the efficiency and technol-
ogy has been proven here and in Europe.
The second problem involves heating
our homes. We have very few newly con-
structed housing units in the inner city.
The vast majority of the housing struc-
tures are existing and too expensive to
replace, and because of their age, they do
not have insulation. We need funds
through the HUD 312 program to pro-
vide moneys to help people insulate,
weatherstrip, replace rotted windows, and
ventilate.
Targeting moneys to pay heating fuel
bills alone will not effect the conservation
of energy. We do not want to maintain
the present situation. We need to change
consumption so that families can have
lower heating costs.
In summary, the problems of the inner
city are not new. We are still trying to
deal with jobs, housing, and schools.
Energy just provides a different perspec-
tive on these same issues. It is my hope
that as renewed attention and pressure
is placed on the inner city because of
energy conservation, that you will listen
to the residents living there now for the
solutions.
been victims of crises in the past. Policies
The inner-city neighborhoods have
need to be responsive to the communities
they directly affect so that the quality of
life does not deteriorate.
It would seem that it is easier for the
Government to effect physical changes
than attitudes and habits of individuals.
Therefore, in neighborhoods such as ours,
improvements in transportation systems
like implementing light rail transit and
improvements in our existing housing
stock could substantially help inner-city
neighborhoods and complement ongoing
rehabilitation and revitalization efforts.
Thank you.
1462
