July 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lion annually receive the high-level man-
agement attention and broad public
scrutiny they deserve.
I would like to thank Speaker O'Neill
and others in the House leadership,
Chairman Brooks, and Congressmen Fas-
cell and Horton for their efforts on behalf
of this historic legislation. I look forward
to early action by the House-Senate con-
ference committee.
United States International
Development Cooperation
Agency
White House Statement on Congressional
Approval of Reorganization Proposals.
July 11, 1979
President Carter today expressed his
appreciation for the approval given by the
Congress of his proposals for reorganizing
and strengthening the management of
U.S. foreign economic development ac-
tivities.
Noting that these proposals largely
adopted suggestions of the late Senator
Hubert Humphrey, the President said he
wished to especially thank Chairmen Za-
blocki and Brooks of the responsible
House committees and Chairmen Church
and Ribicoff of the Senate committees for
their leadership in achieving congres-
sional support for the reorganization.
The President said the administration
can now move ahead to establish the In-
ternational Development Cooperation
Agency (IDCA), the centerpiece of his
plan to improve the programs and poli-
cies affecting the developing nations.
The principal components of the
IDCA will be the Agency for Interna-
tional Development, the Overseas Private
Investment Corporation, and the pro-
posed Institute for Scientific and Techno-
logical Cooperation. The President hopes
the Congress soon will complete action to
establish this Institute, which will help de-
veloping countries create and adapt tech-
nologies capable of reducing their enor-
mous problems in such fields as health,
food, and energy.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Abel Tendekai Muzorewa of
Rhodesia
White House Statement. July 11, 1979
President Carter met with Bishop
Muzorewa this afternoon because of the
President's deep personal commitment to
help find a solution for the peaceful trans-
fer of responsible political authority from
the white minority to the black majority
in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia.
In a frank exchange of views, the Presi-
dent emphasized his sincere desire to see
an end to the bitterness and bloodshed
in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. He believes this
can be accomplished by the establishment
of a broadly based consensus on constitu-
tional procedures and administrative
processes which are responsive to the
legitimate political aspirations of all the
peoples of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia.
The President restated his intention to
work closely with the Government of the
United Kingdom, which has the primary
legal and historic responsibility to bring
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia to independence
based on full political participation and
human rights guarantees for all its citi-
zens. He expressed the hope that the
Muzorewa administration would work
closely with the United Kingdom in seek-
ing nonmilitary, political means to further
this goal.
1230
