Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Visit of Pope John Paul II
White House Statement. October 6, 1979
President Carter welcomed His Holi-
ness Pope John Paul II to the White
House October 6, 1979. The Pope's visit
to Washington concluded an historic
week-long papal journey to six American
cities.
In their private talks, the President and
the Pope discussed, in particular, situa-
tions of concern to world peace and jus-
tice. They also reviewed ways of best
serving the cause of peace, freedom, and
justice in the world.
Sharing the belief that respect for hu-
man rights and the dignity of the individ-
ual must be the cornerstone of the domes-
tic and international policies of nations,
the Pope and the President underlined
their support for international covenants
on human rights and for international or-
ganizations and entities which serve the
cause of human rights. They agreed that
the international community must mobil-
ize its concern and resources to deal with
the problems of refugees, to protect hu-
man rights, and to prevent hunger and
famine.
The President and the Pope urged all
states to support humanitarian efforts to
deal with the plight of starving people
and refugees.
The Pope and the President agreed that
the cause of peace in the world is served
by international efforts to halt the prolif-
eration of armaments and to eliminate the
weapons of war.
The President discussed the importance
of the Camp David accords and his efforts
to end the bitter conflict in the Middle
East. He emphasized the determination of
the United States to seek a comprehen-
sive peace, including resolution of the
Palestinian and Jerusalem questions, the
establishment of peace and stability in
Lebanon, and genuine security for all
countries in the Middle East. The Pope
reiterated the special interest which the
Holy See attaches to the Middle East
peace process and to the need for an in-
ternationally acceptable solution to these
grave problems.
The Pope and the President discussed
the tragic situation in Northern Ireland.
They
They jointly condemned resort to vio-
lence, by any party for any reason, and
recalled the appeals which both have re-
cently made for a peaceful solution.
The Pope reviewed his trips to Poland
and to Mexico and stressed the universal
longing for human dignity and freedom,
which he had encountered during his
pilgrimage.
The President and the Pope also dis-
cussed recent developments in southern
Africa, Asia, and Latin America. The
President noted that the United States
seeks conditions of stability, prosperity,
and peace in all these areas in the belief
that these will promote human rights. The
President emphasized that the interna-
tional community, and especially the in-
dustrial nations, must undertake a greater
effort to assist less developed countries to
achieve a better way of life for their peo-
ples. The Pope and the President agreed
that efforts to advance human rights con-
stitute the compelling idea of our times.
During the Pope's private talks with the
President, Vice President Walter Mon-
dale chaired a meeting of principal papal
and U.S. advisers. On the Vatican side
there were present: His Eminence Agos-
tino Cardinal Casaroli, the Papal Secre-
tary of State, His Excellency Archbishop
Eduardo Martinez Somalo, the substitute
Secretary of State, His Excellency Arch-
bishop Jean Jadot, Apostolic Delegate in
1834
