Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 14
reached out its arms to help those starv-
ing children and those refugees adrift.
We've seen divisions among people be-
cause of religious beliefs. The recent
events in Iran are an unfortunate exam-
ple of that misguided application of belief
in God. But I know that all Americans
feel very deeply that the relationships be-
tween ourselves and the Moslem believers
in the world of Islam is one of respect
and care and brotherhood and good will
and love.
So, we do have disappointments; we do
have suffering; we do have divisions; we
often have war. But in the midst of pain,
we can still remember what Christmas
is a time of joy, a time of light, a time
of warmth, a time of families, and a time
of peace.
In our great country we have an awful
lot for which we can be thankful: the
birth of our Savior, the initiation of re-
ligious holidays tomorrow night for the
Jews of America, and a realization that
in our Nation we do have freedom to
worship or not worship as we please. So,
let's remember our blessings, yes, but let's
also remember the needs for us to be
more fervent in our belief in God and
especially in the sharing of our blessings
with others.
Thank you very much. Merry Christ-
mas to you all.
And now we'll go over-Amy and I and
Rosalynn—and we'll light the lights that
signify Christmas. Thank you very much.
Is everybody ready?
I'm going to ask Amy to throw the
switch.
[At this point, Amy Carter threw the switch
that lit the star on top of the National Com-
munity Christmas Tree and the lights on the
50 smaller trees, which traditionally represent
the 50 States.]
I want to tell you what just happened.
Around the periphery of this crowd, there
are 50 small Christmas trees, one for each
American hostage, and on the top of the
great Christmas tree is a star of hope. We
will turn on the other lights on the tree
when the American hostages come home.
Merry Christmas, everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:50 p.m. on
the Ellipse.
Cahaba River in Alabama
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Study. December 14, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (Public Law 90-542, as amended),
I am transmitting the attached study of
the feasibility of adding the Cahaba River
in Alabama to the national Wild and
Scenic Rivers system. Although the study
finds that the river does not possess the
qualities to be eligible to be added to the
national system, the State of Alabama
has initiated efforts to manage the river
to protect its attributes, including its rec-
reational qualities.
The White House,
December 14, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 196-page report, prepared by the
Department of Agriculture's Forest Service and
the Alabama Forestry Commission, is entitled
"Cahaba River, Alabama-Wild and Scenic
River Study."
Christmas 1979
Statement by the President.
December 14, 1979
Rosalynn and I send our warmest
Christmas greetings to those of our fel-
2245
