Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
life, at least at that moment. Sometimes
there's just a friendly exchange, you know,
people saying, “Glad to talk to you, Mr.
President, wish you well." But ordinarily
the questions asked are extremely impor-
tant to that person.
MS. STAMBERG. Well, let's get to some
of those questions.
Before we take the first call, I have a
few cautionary notes to make to our call-
ers. Please, folks, keep your questions
short, no speeches, no filibustering, or I'm
going to have to cut you off. And the rea-
son for this is not that I'm rude, it's that
we want to get a chance to have as many
of you on the line as possible. Also, when
you are speaking with the President, stay
on the phone as he is giving you his an-
swer. In case you have any followup ques-
tions that you want to ask, you'll have that
opportunity.
All right, Mr. President, the first call
is from David A. MacIver, in Springfield,
Massachusetts. Go ahead, Mr. MacIver.
INCOME TAX REFORM
MR. MACIVER. Good afternoon, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, David.
MR. MACIVER. I'd like to ask about pos-
sible income tax reform and the guides to
the inequities between filing as a married
person versus a single person. Being mar-
ried and with two incomes, presently we
pay more than two comparable single
persons would. Also, I'd like to know why
a certain amount of interest couldn't be
earned before taxing it, as an incentive
to the small saver.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, David.
We've attempted, as you know, since
I've been in office, to have some income
tax reform measures passed and have
been partially successful. One of the ma-
jor issues that has been addressed, on
which I've talked with the chairman of
the Finance Committee in the Senate and
the Ways and Means Committee in the
House, is to remove that inequity be-
tween a married couple and two individ-
uals who are single. Now there is a
penalty against marriage, in effect, and I
think it would be a good step to remove
that inequity.
We at this time are concentrating on
controlling inflation, which is our biggest
single economic threat, and we are not
working on any income tax reductions for
the time being.
In the future, if we do go to an income
tax reduction proposal, one of the con-
siderations would be to encourage saving,
as you've described, and also to encourage
investment to make sure we have addi-
tional jobs available in the future. An-
other one is to provide more equity or
fairness among people who have to pay
income taxes, and of course, another one
would be to reduce inflation itself. There
are some types of income tax reductions
which could contribute to reduced
inflation.
We've been successful in reducing in-
come taxes since I've been in office. I
think next year, for instance, the income
tax reductions that we've already initi-
ated will amount to about $40 billion, and
at the same time, we've cut the Federal
deficit down by $36 billion. So, we are
making some progress, still have a long
way to go.
The suggestions that you made are very
interesting and, I think, good ones.
MS. STAMBERG. Mr. MacIver, any-
you
thing else that wanted to ask?
MR. MACIVER. No. Thank you very
much.
MS. STAMBERG. Good. Thank you so
much.
The next caller, Mr. President, is Mrs.
Mary Tingle, in Louisville, Kentucky.
1886
