Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 11
of operating refrigerated trucks. Arrange-
ments have been made to have both truck
rate and cost information available by
phone to truckers at 48 USDA Market
News Service offices and posted at almost
1,000 truck stops.
-Legislation giving the President au-
thority to mandate uniform size and
weight standards for trucks on the Inter-
state System during periods of fuel short-
age has been introduced in both Houses
of Congress. The administration supports
early congressional action. Secretary
Goldschmidt, during his confirmation
hearings on September 5, 1979, empha-
sized to the Senate Commerce Committee
the need for this legislation. The admin-
istration will continue to push hard for
its passage.
-The Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety
is developing a way to respond to truck-
ers' complaints about safety enforcement
activities. The ICC has expanded its
truckers' complaint hotline (800-424-
9312), adding several more toll-free lines,
and has satisfied hundreds of owner-oper-
ator complaints.
-The Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety
has already begun considering changes in
logbooks and hours-of-service regulations.
The Bureau has promised to work with
truckers to make certain that any com-
plaints, suggestions, or opinions they have
are formally considered during the rule-
making process.
-USDA is developing legislation to
standardize hauling contract provisions.
Such provisions would end much of the
uncertainty truckers now face and help
safeguard their rights in the market. The
provisions could also ease the problem
of unfair unloading practices ("lump-
ing") and increase truckers' available
driving time by placing loading and un-
loading responsibilities on the shipper and
receiver.
-A joint ICC-DOT-Small Business
Administration (SBA) task force, in liai-
son with USDA, is developing literature
and seminars to aid owner-operators in
sharpening management skills, reducing
maintenance costs, and increasing operat-
ing efficiency.
-The ICC is considering penalties for
shippers who intentionally overload
trucks.
-The ICC is considering permitting
owner-operators to trip-lease in their own
names, in order to gain greater revenues.
The Commission also is studying the re-
lationship between owner-operator costs
and carrier rates, and has initiated a rule-
making process to permit carriers haul-
ing exempt agricultural commodities to
backhaul regulated goods.
International Wheat
Agreement, 1971
Message to the Senate Transmitting Protocols
for the Fifth Extensions of the Wheat Trade
Convention and the Food Aid Convention.
September 11, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Protocols
for the Fifth Extension of the Wheat
Trade Convention (WTC) and Food Aid
Convention (FAC) constituting the
International Wheat Agreement, 1971.
The Protocols were adopted by a confer-
ence which met in London on March 21-
22, 1979 and were open for signature in
Washington from April 25 through
May 16, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Secretary of
State with respect to the Protocols.
1625
