Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
treaty. I need your help and I need your
support.
God knows that politics is secondary to
me when it comes to the defense and the
strengthening and the peace and the se-
curity of Israel. But I think that our Gov-
ernment, which has already done so
much—working with Sadat and Begin
and others to make this major move to-
ward peace-really needs the unity and
the support and the understanding of
making further progress. Condemnations
and criticisms during these transient
times, I don't believe help Israel. I don't
want you to approve everything I do, but
I need your support and your prayers that
future efforts, along with those of the
my
Israelis and Egyptians, will be as success-
ful as they have been in the last 12
months.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANT SAFETY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Barbara
Glick. I live in Forest Hills, and I just
graduated from York College as of June
and, at the moment, am an aspiring,
unemployed journalist. And my question
centers around a concern that a lot of
New Yorkers feel is quite relevant to them.
It has been reported that if a nuclear
accident were to occur at Indian Point,
depending on the direction of the wind,
radiation could spread over a 30-mile
radius, causing thousands of deaths, tens
of thousands of eventual deaths result-
ing from cancer, with hundreds of thou-
sands becoming ill.
My questions are these: What require-
ments are you going to enact, as Presi-
dent, to see that the Three Mile Island
syndrome doesn't occur at populous
plants such as Indian Point? And B, can
you force these plants to come up with
adequate emergency plans concerning
proper evacuation procedures, which are
lacking at the present time?
THE PRESIDENT. Are you referring to
the plant in Virginia, where we had the
little incident today?
Q. No. I was referring to Indian Point.
THE PRESIDENT. Indian Point, okay.
We have-by the way, there was an inci-
dent today in Virginia, and I've gotten a
report from it just a few minutes ago. I
don't know the name of the plant. But it
is under control, and they are shutting it
down. And I understand there are no-
there's no danger to it.
Now, we will have a report from the
Kemeny Commission on the Three Mile
Island accident, I think, within the next
month. Until that time, the Nuclear Reg-
ulatory Commission is acting with ex-
treme caution, waiting for Kemeny and
his committee and the NRC and others to
decide what was the cause of that acci-
dent, whether it was a design failure or
an installation failure or an absence of
training or improper operating tech-
niques.
When that report is made, I will ex-
amine it very thoroughly to see what can
be done to ensure in the future that nu-
clear powerplants are safe. If they aren't,
then I would certainly not approve them.
There is no guarantee, obviously, of what
the Kemeny report will advocate.
We now have in this country about 13
percent of all our energy coming from
nuclear powerplants-in Connecticut, I
think, 60 percent; in Chicago, maybe 50
percent. And to require those plants to
shut down would be ill-advised, and I am
not going to do it. But we will do what we
can in the future to enhance the security
of the plants that might be operating in
years to come.
Q. What about as far as evacuation
procedures
procedures regarding Indian
Indian Point?
There are none.
1753
