Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 16
event. In the past our country has made
some serious mistakes in war, in morality,
in the functioning of government. In the
few years before I became President this
was especially true. And in almost every
instance, if those circumstances are
analyzed, the errors or mistakes were made
because the public was excluded from the
process of making decisions of our own
government.
An enlightened public, openly debat-
ing a controversial issue, sometimes
creates confusion. It's much easier to ne-
gotiate in utmost secrecy than to let the
Congress and the public know the terms
of the negotiation and the progress being
made. But when the controversial issues
can be examined from a broad range of
points of view, a nation or a government
or a President is much more likely, ulti-
mately, to avoid mistakes and to make the
right decision that can preserve our own
Nation's security, our well-being, and also
peace throughout the world.
I'd like to add just one more comment.
We've made good progress in the last
number of years in promoting the science
of libraries, of information, of communi-
cation. Each generation is inclined to
think we've gone as far as we can with
television, instantaneous transmission of
messages and photographs, satellite relay
stations, but I would guess that the prog-
ress we make in the future, in the next 10
years, the next hundred years, will be
just as rapid and just as startling as that
we've made in the past.
There must be a flexibility built into a
government's structure and also in the
minds and hearts of American people
outside the government, where most of
the responsibility must lie. I'm convinced
that the new Department of Education
will have a greatly expanded and much
more effective role in emphasizing the im-
portance of books, of learning, and par-
ticularly of libraries. I'm determined that
this will be the case.
But I believe that this White House
Conference and those who attend it and
those who will listen to your voice or
whom you can influence when you get
home will have a much more broad-
reaching effect than anything a President
can do or a Cabinet Secretary can do or
the Federal Government can do.
In a local Lions Club, a local church, a
local Rotary Club, a League of Women
Voters, Jaycees, in any organization, in a
local radio station, television station,
newspaper, there are avenues for you to
reach a broad range of Americans who
don't presently know the advantages of
libraries. Many people, because of igno-
rance or because they've forgotten the joy
of learning, don't have access to the
opportunities that you can offer.
And I hope if you don't do anything
else at this conference, that you will learn
from one another how best to present the
opportunities of library use and then take
that message home and distribute it with
the greatest degree of enthusiasm and
commitment. When people are reminded,
they'll respond. And the joys of books and
the joys of visual presentations, the joys of
movies, slides, paintings, lectures, debates,
instruction, music, drama are all parts of
a library program. And I hope that you
will broaden your own concept of what
libraries can do as a result of this con-
ference.
I'm very grateful that you would come
to Washington, in sometimes a sacrificial
way, to participate in learning more
about how your own career and your own
interests can be made more effective. As
we spread the word about libraries and
learning and democracy and understand-
ing and communication and progress and
harmony and peace through your own
work, through your work you can remem-
2131
