Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 9
the SS-20, not on a one-for-one basis, but
the SS-20 has three warheads, the old
missiles only had one warhead. The SS-20
has a much greater range. It can reach
our Western Allies' countries as a target
even if it's located in the central part of
Russia. It's three to six times as accurate
as the old missiles which it replaced. And
in addition to that, it's mobile; that is, it
can't be located specifically and destroyed
with a preemptive strike if that should be-
come a desire on the part of allies. They
also have replaced older airplanes with
the Backfire bomber.
So, it's not quite as constructive a pro-
posal as at first blush it seems to be. I think
it's an effort designed to disarm the will-
ingness or eagerness of our allies ade-
quately to defend themselves.
In
my judgment, the decision ought to
be made to modernize the Western Allies'
military strength and then negotiate with
full commitment and determination
mutually to lower armaments on both
sides the Warsaw Pact and the NATO
countries so that we can retain equiv-
alency of military strength, equity of mili-
tary strength, and have a lower overall
level of armaments. This is what we hope
to achieve.
I might point out that Chancellor
Schmidt said, I believe yesterday or day
before, that a prerequisite to a decision
by our NATO Allies to take these steps,
which he considers to be vital for the se-
curity of NATO, is the passage of SALT
II.
So, if we can be successful in control-
ling existing strategic Soviet and United
States atomic weapons through SALT II,
then we'll move in the next step to reduc-
ing the nuclear weapons which don't have
intercontinental range. And along with
that, we'll continue with our mutual and
balanced force reduction effort to reduce
conventional arms.
It's an interesting proposal; it's one that
might show promise. We're assessing it
carefully, but it's not as great a step as
would ordinarily be judged at first.
HAMILTON JORDAN
Q. Mr. President, do you have any in-
tention at all of asking Hamilton Jordan
to step down as Chief of Staff if a special
prosecutor is named? And secondly, is
there any thought in your mind, sir, that
his departure might at all benefit your
Presidency and your chances for reelec-
tion, or would they hurt them?
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to remind
you, first of all, that the President is the
chief law enforcement officer of the land.
And I don't think it would be appropri-
ate for me to comment on guilt or in-
nocence of anyone. Secondly, I'd like to
point out that the appointment of a spe-
cial prosecutor has no insinuation in it
at all that the person investigated is
guilty.
I believe it would be better for me not
to go further than that, because I would
ordinarily wait until the Attorney Gen-
eral made a report to me and then seek
his advice on what the proprieties would
be about my own public statements. I
think, though, I've described my position
adequately to answer your question.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, a question on the
Middle East. Do you agree with those
such as former Ambassador Andrew
Young and George Ball and others who
say that it is now time to do away with
the restrictions put on our foreign policy
by Henry Kissinger and open up a dialog
with the Palestinians and the PLO?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I do not. We will
not negotiate with the PLO. We will not
recognize the PLO until after the PLO
1845
