Aug. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
strengthening the prospects for peace and
for increasing the vitally important under-
standing between the nuclear super-
powers. Doctor Hammer and others have
worked arduously for many years to foster
that understanding.
You have my warmest good wishes for
a successful conference. I know your de-
liberations will do much to advance both
human rights and international peace, and
I salute you for your devotion to these
noble causes.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The conference was held at the Inter-
national Peace Park on Campobello Island,
New Brunswick, Canada. On August 25, Dr.
Lincoln Bloomfield of the National Security
Council staff read the President's message to
conference participants and accepted the medal
on the President's behalf.
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. August 27, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
three new deferrals of budget authority
totalling $30.1 million. These items in-
volve human development services in the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, emergency refugee and migra-
tion assistance in the Department of
State, and the National Commission on
Social Security.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
August 27, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Au-
gust 30, 1979.
Death of Lord Louis
Mountbatten
Statement by the President. August 27, 1979
I am profoundly shocked and saddened
by the tragic and violent death of Earl
Mountbatten. In peace and in war, he was
a leader of monumental ability.
Here in the United States, his memory
is enshrined for the paramount role he
played in achieving victory for the Allied
Forces during World War II. We mourn
his passing and that of the two youngsters
who died with him this morning.
I have expressed my sincere condolences
and those of the American people to Her
Majesty the Queen, to Prince Philip, and
to Prime Minister Thatcher in this time of
great loss.
NOTE: Earl Mountbatten of Burma, military
strategist, statesman, and member of the British
Royal Family, was killed when his fishing boat
was blown up off the coast of northwest Ireland
by members of the Provisional IRA. His grand-
son and another youth were also killed in the
explosion.
United States Citizens
Living Abroad
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. August 27, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chair-
man:)
The enclosed report, prepared in com-
pliance with Section 611 of Public Law
95-426 identifies six Federal statutory and
regulatory provisions which discriminate
against United States citizens living
abroad. The Executive branch has eval-
uated those provisions and has con-
cluded that changes are warranted in or-
der to resolve certain inequities involving
citizenship and veterans and social secu-
rity benefits. The report also reviews
twenty-eight other issues raised by some
Americans living abroad concerning their
rights and obligations as U.S. citizens.
1522
