Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 24
As a Regional Administrator of EPA,
Beck has served as Chairman of the Fed-
eral Regional Council. He also serves as
a commissioner of the Tri-State Regional
Planning Commission and is involved in
international environmental activities as
working group chairman of the Water
Management Committee and as U.S.
delegate to the Environment Committee,
Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.
National Advisory Council on the
Education of Disadvantaged
Children
Appointment of Nine Members
and Designation of Chairman.
September 24, 1979
ap-
The President today announced the
pointment of nine persons as members of
the National Advisory Council on the Ed-
ucation of Disadvantaged Children. They
are:
FRED L. BANKS, JR., of Jackson, Miss., an at-
torney and member of the Mississippi House
of Representatives who serves as associate
counsel for the Mississippi NAACP Legal De-
fense and Educational Fund and as a con-
sulting attorney to the Mississippi Associa-
tion of Educators;
DON DAVIES, chairman of the Department of
Systems Development and Adaptation and
director of the Institute for Responsive Ed-
ucation at Boston University's School of
Education;
CONSTANCE E. GOMES, a public education
specialist and legislative advocate with
Rhode Island Legal Services, where she acts
as a liaison with low-income community
groups concerned with public education;
JOHNNY L. JONES, superintendent of schools
for Dade County (Florida) public schools;
ROBERT H. KOFF, professor of education and
psychology and dean of the College of Ed-
ucation at Roosevelt University in Chicago;
JOSEPH P. MCELLIGOTT, director of the Divi-
sion of Education of the California Catholic
Conference, chairman of the California Ex-
ecutive Council for Nonpublic Schools, and
a commissioner of the California Equal Ed-
ucation Opportunities Commission;
M. HAYES MIZELL, associate director of the
Southeastern Public Education Program of
the American Friends Service Committee
(designated Chairman of this Council);
RACHEL B. TOMPKINS, director of Citizens'
Council for Ohio Schools, an organization
concerned with desegregation, finance, ex-
clusion, and citizen participation in schools;
ELUID HECTOR ZAMORANO, a counselor and
foreign student adviser at Richland College,
Dallas County (Texas) Community College
District, an expert on bilingual education,
and a consultant to the U.S. Office of Edu-
cation's Migrant Division.
President's Export Council
Appointment of Robert B. Washington, Jr., as
a Member. September 24, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Robert B. Washington,
Jr., of Washington, D.C., as a member of
the President's Export Council.
Washington, 36, is a partner in the
Washington law firm of Danzansky,
Dickey, Tydings, Quint & Gordon. He
serves on the board of directors of the
Metropolitan Washington Board of Trade
and is chairman for legislative affairs of
the Legislative/Fiscal Bureau of the Board
of Trade.
National Advisory Council on
Economic Opportunity
Appointment of Ruby Duncan as a Member.
September 24, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Ruby Duncan, of North
1727
