Oct. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
She's always been extremely interested in
the problems of older Americans, and this
has been a historic interest for her. And I
think since this last year, perhaps, she's
especially been encouraging people within
communities to act on their own initiative
to work together to correct local problems,
not to wait for the Federal Government
or the State or local government to do
everything for them. And those things are
not incompatible.
In addition, she is a very effective po-
litical campaigner. In 1976 and also in
1970, 1966, 1962, when I've had my other
campaigns, Rosalynn has always played
a substantial role. And I would imagine
that she would continue that as long as
she and I share a partnership and I'm in
politics.
But I don't think her profile is too high.
She's
very knowledgeable; she is sensitive
about American people's beliefs and feel-
ings. She would never abuse her role as
a wife or even the wife of a President. I
have confidence that she will do the right
thing.
KAMPUCHEA
Q. Mr. President, by all accounts, it ap-
pears that in the coming months, a million
or more people could die in Cambodia of
starvation. I know that you talked about
this with the Pope the other day. What, if
anything, can this Government do in
combination with other groups?
THE PRESIDENT. We've been encourag-
ing the humanitarian granting of aid, par-
ticularly food aid, to the people of Cam-
bodia, hundreds of thousands of whom,
maybe millions of whom are starving. We
are trying to work out with the uncertain
leaders of that country-uncertain be-
cause it's contested through war-a
mechanism by which the United Nations
primarily, the Red Cross, and UNICEF
could get food into those people who are
within Cambodia.
There's also a legal problem in refugee
funds, because it hasn't yet been deter-
mined legally if a person who hasn't left
the country is still identifiable as a refugee.
The fact that the country's divided by war
creates a complication.
But we are ready and eager to join in
with other countries to provide humani-
tarian aid to all the people of Cambodia
who are starving, and we will move on
that without any further delay as soon as
it's possible to join other countries in this
effort.
VICE PRESIDENT MONDALE
Q. Mr. President, have you had any
second thoughts as to who your running
mate would be? Will it definitely be
Walter Mondale?
THE PRESIDENT. Fritz Mondale and I
have a very good partnership, and I have
no plans whatsoever to change it.
ARMS LEVELS IN EUROPE
Q. Mr. President, going back to your
comments about competition with the
Soviet Union with regard to arms, would
you support NATO deployment of the
Pershing missile to counter the SS-20?
And if I could add another question there,
do you have any reaction to President
Brezhnev's conditional offer, too, on arms
reduction in Central Europe?
THE PRESIDENT. Our allies and we are
carefully assessing the significance of
President Brezhnev's statement. However,
I'd like to point out that what he's offer-
ing in effect is to continue their own rate
of modernization as it has been, provided
we don't modernize at all.
They have had an actual reduction in
launchers the last few years. They've been
replacing the old SS-4's and SS-5's with
1844
