Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
how many fine things we could do in
America with that much money.
So, in the last few days we have been
reminded once again of our essential need
of energy security so that we can con-
tinue to protect the basic principles of our
country, and together that's what we must
achieve, both for ourselves and, even more
importantly, for our children and grand-
children. America must always be mili-
tarily strong and economically strong, and
that America will always be.
One final comment I'd like to make:
America must also maintain its moral and
its ethical strength. We are not a selfish
people. History has recorded many times
America's great generosity, as it does today
in Thailand and Kampuchea, formerly
known as Cambodia. Even as we face
problems of great economic concern here
in our own country, we are sparing no
effort to help those who are suffering and
starving in every way we can.
Compassion
enhances American
strength. It's one of our deepest values,
one to which we will always cling and
remain true. Concern for human life and
justice is as vital as military power to our
special place in the family of nations.
Human rights is a compelling idea of our
lifetime. Our hearts and our aid will con-
tinue to go to those who are suffering,
who are starving, or who are deprived of
freedom. In this time of tension and tur-
moil I'm proud that our commitment to
American strength and to American prin-
ciples is unshakable.
And now, in closing, I want to turn
aside from our national and international
preoccupations for just a moment.
A few weeks ago, with the White House
sparkling in the sunlight behind him, Pope
John Paul II asked God to bless Amer-
ica's quest for freedom, social justice, and
peace. When his moving speech was done,
he turned with a great insight to a man
seated in front of him, on the front row.
While millions around the world watched,
the Holy Father clasped the hands of
a great American, and he said, and I
quote, because I was right there listening,
"I know about you, and I know that you
have done much good in your life for the
working people of the United States and
the people of other nations." That man
was George Meany.
It was a moving moment, and as Presi-
dent I was especially proud to be an
American. No American has fought
harder for economic justice for union
members and also for millions who've
never carried a union card than your
leader has, George Meany. No American
has believed more deeply in human dig-
nity, not only for workers but for all the
helpless and the dispossessed people, the
poor and sometimes forgotten people still
beyond the reach of the benefits of our
great national bounty. And no
American has loved his country more, not
only for the democracy at home but for
the beacon of freedom and basic human
rights which we will continue to keep shin-
ing throughout the world.
Mr. Meany, on behalf of the American
people, thank you. May God bless all of
you.
MR. MEANY. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. in the
Sheraton Washington Hotel ballroom.
Later in the day, the President attended a
reception for international guests of the AFL-
CIO constitutional convention, which was held
on the State Floor at the White House.
Department of Transportation
Nomination of William B. Johnston To Be
an Assistant Secretary. November 15, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate William B. Johnston, of
Clifton, Va., to be an Assistant Secretary
of Transportation. He would replace
Chester Davenport, who has resigned.
2126
