June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
There has been a time in our country
when there was a great official and un-
official discrimination
discrimination against black
people and others, other people of color.
Even 25 years ago, this was prevalent in
the southern part of the United States,
where I lived. This was something in-
herited from the early years of our Nation,
when slavery was part of our societal
structure and was approved by the laws
of our Nation.
It was very difficult for us to make this
change. But it was one of the most won-
derful changes that has taken place in
our own Nation, and I hope that what we
have accomplished in the United States
in the last 25 years will be an inspiration
to others where racial discrimination is
still practiced. I can't say that this attitude
has been completely removed from the
hearts of our people, but we have made
great progress.
As far as intermarriages are concerned,
I've never been in love with any other
woman except my wife. But I would hope
that in the true spirit of equality and in
an absence of racial prejudice, that I
would not let the color of a woman's skin
interfere with my love for her if I felt
that way—and marriage, of course, would
be part of that relationship if the circum-
stances should permit.
I hope my wife will forgive my answer-
ing the question this way. It is a hypothet-
ical question, Rosalynn, and I have no
intention to leave you for another woman.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. Presi-
dent. I like the U.S. more because of your
answer.
THE PRESIDENT. I might add that we
still have our problems, and we don't
claim to be a perfect society. You have a
very homogeneous society in Japan with
very little differences among races. Our
country is a nation of people who come
from every country on Earth. Ours is a
nation of immigrants. Ours is a nation of
refugees. We have hundreds and hun-
dreds of different languages spoken in our
country, but we are bound together with
a common purpose under a democratic
structure of government based on human
freedom. And it makes it difficult for us
in some ways, but I think it gives strength
to our Nation, because this diversity of
background and heritage and language
and interest and history can be melded
together in such a good way as it presently
is in our Nation.
We are not perfect. But we are making
progress.
U.S. AGRICULTURE
Q. I am 78 years old. Mr. President, it
is indeed a great honor beyond any ex-
pectation to have this opportunity of
meeting you and exchange views with
you. I will carry that to my posterity, and
I certainly welcome Mrs. Carter, as well
as your daughter. It is a great honor for
citizens of Shimoda to receive you. This
will clearly tell us the great benefit of the
free and democratic society.
I would like to ask, Mr. President, as
one-I'm talking about you-who was
brought up in the farms, what do you
produce in your farm at the present time?
THE PRESIDENT. My State produces
more peanuts than any other two States
in the Nation, and on my own farm, this
is the number one crop. We also produce
on our farms, cotton, corn, swine, cattle.
In the past, we've produced poultry-
chickens and we produce all kinds of
feed grains, some oats, wheat, barley, and
rye.
We have pine forests. We produce
timber on our land. It's fairly typical of a
farm for my own State of Georgia. We
have about 60 inches of rain each year,
1176
