Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
low-income households faced with health-
threatening energy emergencies; and a
special allowance program which will
provide $1.2 billion this winter and $2.0
billion next year and thereafter, in cash
assistance to all poor households. When
fully implemented the special allowance
program would be available to all house-
holds with incomes below 125 percent of
the Federal poverty threshold. That
threshold is currently $7,160 for a family
of four.
While revenues from the proposed
windfall profits tax will be necessary to
fund this program, I am asking the Con-
gress to move immediately to make gen-
eral revenues available for the $400 mil-
lion emergency program this winter.
When the windfall tax is passed, its rev-
enues will be used to reimburse the $400
million spent from general revenues.
With prompt congressional action on the
windfall tax and on my low-income as-
sistance program, and close cooperation
between the Federal and State Govern-
ments, we can provide help to over 7 mil-
lion needy households this winter-and
avoid tragedies which might otherwise
occur.
Steubenville, Ohio
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Townhall Meeting. September 12, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. It's great to be here at
Big Red.
Senator John Glenn, Congressman
Glenn, Congressman
Doug Applegate, distinguished leaders of
Ohio government, local officials, and my
friends from Steubenville and the sur-
rounding communities:
I've come as President today to say a
few words to you at the beginning and
then to spend what time we have to-
gether with your commenting to me and
asking me questions about our Nation and
our Government, our present and our
great future.
I'm convinced that we live in the great-
est nation on Earth.
And I'm convinced that the steel in-
dustry, being so crucial to our Nation, is
strong now and will be increasingly
strong and beneficial to our people in the
future.
And I'm convinced that with good lead-
ership in government and in the private
sector of American life, that that partner-
ship-free people, democratic govern-
ment, free enterprise can be successful
in overcoming even the most difficult ob-
stacles, answering the most difficult ques-
tions, resolving the most difficult prob-
lems.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
When I became President a little more
than 2 years ago, the steel industry was
in serious trouble. Profits were nonexist-
ent. Losses on a nationwide basis were
very high. Plants were closing down. Peo-
ple were being laid off. Excessive, unfair
imports were taking away our markets.
Only 78 percent of the capacity of our
steel plants in this country was being
utilized.
I established a task force. I was part
of it, Bob Strauss was part of it, John
Glenn was part of it, Doug Applegate was
part of it. We had officials from your area
and throughout the country, from the
Congress, in all States that produce steel.
And we tried to devise some comprehen-
sive approach dealing with all the many
problems of the steel industry.
It was a voluntary program. No steel
executive, no steelworker was required to
participate. But we approached each other
in a spirit of mutual trust, without look-
1640
