Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
house, and that sort of thing, I believe,
will help us get through the winter.
And, of course, we need to keep the
lowest possible kinds of energy used. The
EPA and the Jay Rockefeller Coal Com-
mission report have identified 100 electric
powerplants in our country that ought to
shift and can shift from the burning of
fuel oil over to coal. And that will be con-
tinued in the future as rapidly as we can.
Those three things, very briefly, are
part of the steps that you can take and
we can take to get us through a difficult
winter.
In the second microphone.
FUEL SUPPLIES
Q. Scott Campbell from Steubenville.
With the energy crisis so severe, why do
we supply other products to other foreign
countries so cheaply, when they are only
holding the fuel while we are holding
their food products and other type of
products? Also, with the energy crisis so
severe, why can't the EPA loosen some
of their regulations so that we can move
more coal through this area and get the
steel production going a little bit more
burning Ohio coal and not to raise the
unemployment here? We'd get a few
more people employed in this area.
THE PRESIDENT. Those are good, I
think, three questions, and I'll try to an-
swer them briefly.
First of all, I think it's to our advan-
tage whenever we can sell American coal
overseas to do it, and I hope to increase
exports of American coal in the future.
In the past we've had good markets in
Japan. Three or four years ago those mar-
kets were lost. Now we're trying to get
them back and to get other markets for
our coal. We've got enough to use and
also to export. If there ever comes a time
when we don't have enough for both
purposes, obviously we would meet our
own needs first.
There's been some—you may be refer-
ring to the sale of a million barrels of
home heating oil to Iran. Let me explain
that to you.
Iran had an interruption of the produc-
tion of their home heating oil because of
sabotage or because one of their plants
broke down. They asked us to let them
have a million barrels, because, as was
the case when I was a child growing up
on the farm and didn't have electricity,
they use kerosene or home heating oil for
almost everything, for lamps and for heat,
for cooking. So, we let them have a mil-
lion barrels of home heating oil. They sell
to us every day 750,000 barrels of crude
oil. And I thought it was a good idea for
humanitarian purposes and to make sure
we keep that market for us open.
Last spring, when we had serious short-
ages of fuel oil, heating oil, gasoline, dis-
tillate for trucks, it was because they had
a revolution in Iran and that supply was
interrupted. Now they produce about 4
million barrels each day. We get about 20
percent of that.
The EPA standards-I think it's best
for me to be frank with you there are
laws that bind the entire Nation on air
pollution standards and water pollution
standards. I don't think you would want
to see those laws stricken down. Forty-
nine of the States have submitted and
have had approved an environmental
program. One State in the Nation has not
had an environmental program approved.
That State happens to be Ohio.
It's much better for the enforcement of
environmental laws, or any other law,
when you can have the cooperation of the
State government and let basic manage-
ment of a program be done by local and
State officials instead of by the Federal
officials. But the law requires that until
1643
