Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Late in the spring,
early in the summer-I've forgotten the
exact date-I made two promises to the
people of New England, in fact, the en-
tire country.
At that time we had a very short supply
of home heating oil. There was a great
danger that we would have severe short-
ages this winter. I promised that we would
have 240 million barrels of oil on hand
during October. Last year the total that
we used was about 233 million barrels;
240 is an adequate supply. We've reached
that goal already.
The other thing that I promised was
that we would do everything we could in
the Government to help the poor families
pay the increased cost of home heating oil.
And we've asked the Congress this year
for $1.6 billion to help those low-income
families pay that extra cost and also to
pledge the Congress, through legislation
that would be permanent, that for the
next 10 years we would have $2.4 billion
per year to go to the families to help them
pay the increased cost of home heating oil.
I believe that I can also predict to you
that within the next few weeks, we will
have the Congress finally pass the legisla-
tion that I put to them to provide this
financial assistance for the low-income
families.
POSSIBILITY OF RECESSION
MR. LEONE. Mr. President, turning to
the economy again, I think one of the
most frustrating things for your supporters
is explaining to people that we might need
a recession in order to deal with the infla-
tion problem. It frightens people in terms
of the budgets of a Newark or a New
York City, and the normal Democratic
constituency doesn't understand how we
can get to a point where that becomes the
only policy available to us. How do you
answer that kind of criticism of where we
are?
THE PRESIDENT. We're doing every-
thing we can to avoid a recession, and so
far we've been successful. I can't say that
we won't have temporary recessionary
figures coming in. But the last month, for
instance, showed a 2.4-percent increase in
our total Nation's productivity, our gross
national product, and that's far from a
recession. A recession is defined arbitrarily
that you have zero growth for two suc-
ceeding 3-month periods.
In addition to that, we've had extraor-
dinary good luck in keeping business
profits up. Since I've been in office, they've
gone up about 50 percent. We've added a
net total increase of 82 million jobs.
We've cut the unemployment rate down
by 25 percent nationwide, and in some
industries, like the construction industry,
we've cut the unemployment rate by 40
percent. These figures are accurate. We've
got equivalent success in revitalizing the
agricultural industry, the steel industry.
What we suffer from is a distortion in
our economy, brought about by the fact
that we import half our oil from overseas.
And last month, for instance, the annual
rate of increase of prices of energy was
about 100 percent per year, and when you
have to absorb that, because we have be-
come too dependent on foreign oil, it's just
going to take a while to get the economy
straightened out again. But we're making
good progress, and in the meantime we're
holding up employment, growth, and the
strength of our free enterprise system.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
MR. LEONE. I guess a number of people
are beginning to talk about wage and
price controls who didn't do so in the
past, who basically agreed with you
that they were a bad idea. I know that the
2030
