Oct. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to join my Cabinet. Immediately after the
election, almost 3 years ago, Governor
Askew was one of the first people I called,
to ask if he would join my Cabinet in al-
most any capacity. He said he had an ob-
ligation to the people of Florida, and he
would finish out his term of office. But
I've called on him many times in the
meantime to help me with difficult as-
signments, and he's always responded en-
thusiastically and well.
There are great men and women who
have served as Governors and who still
serve in those capacities, but I think it's
generally accepted among those who have
known Reubin Askew that he is one of the
leaders among those leaders. He was the
chairman of the National Governors' Con-
ference, as it was known then, and set a
standard of achievement and leadership
and inspiration which was an example to
us all, a degree of quietness, modesty, per-
sonal integrity that provided a basis for
others to trust him and to give him a de-
served degree of high admiration. He
comes to take on a very important respon-
sibility.
When I became President and first met
with the leaders of the other Western
nations, they immediately told me that the
Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade
Negotiations was dead and it was beyond
resurrection. I thought for a while, and
then I finally thought of Bob Strauss, be-
cause I knew that he could bring some-
thing back to life. And he undertook that
responsibility and resurrected this tremen-
dous effort successfully and concluded it.
And then the Congress passed this year
the Trade Agreements Act, which is the
most far-reaching and comprehensive
trade act ever passed in this country. I
thank both Bob Strauss and Al McDonald
and Alan Wolff ยน and others who worked
with him to bring that about. I thank the
Members of Congress, represented by Al
Ullman, chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee, who were responsible,
in face of great difficulty, in getting this
bill passed almost unanimously. It was a
tremendous demonstration of harmony
and cooperation and a searching for a
noble goal, in spite of the most extreme
difficulties.
Now, to administer this act will require
somebody with a knowledge of statesman-
ship and experience and superb leadership
qualities, and that's why I've asked Reu-
bin Askew to take on this job. I think he
has the background for it.
As a Governor, in addition to the
achievements which I've already outlined
so briefly, he made trade missions to
Europe, to the Far East, and to South
America to bring into his own State the
benefits to be derived from international
trade. He did this successfully.
He's a man who has headed up the
selection committee to help me choose
every Ambassador whom I've appointed
since I've been President. In doing this,
he had not only to study the character
and the qualifications of all those who
sought to be or were willing to be Am-
bassadors, but he also had to learn the
needs of individual countries. He became
an avid student of even the most remote
part of the world. So, he's learned through
that process, long months of unpublicized
hard work, about the world and what it is
ยน Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the
President and former Deputy Special Repre-
sentative for Trade Negotiations, and Alan W.
Wolff, Deputy Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations.
1808
