Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 28
ALLEN JOSEPH HERBERT, a Ruston, La., phy-
sician in family practice and clinical assistant
professor of family medicine and pediatrics
at Louisiana State University School of
Medicine;
MARVIN J. MOORE, of Fort Worth, Tex., com-
munity relations director for Trinity Emer-
gency Medical Services, a system serving
eight counties. He is a freelance broadcaster
and producer and is active in community
affairs.
President's Advisory Committee
for Women
Appointment of Freddie Lang Groomes as a
Member. November 27, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Freddie Lang Groomes
as a member of the President's Advisory
Committee for Women.
Groomes is assistant to the president,
director of university human affairs, and
assistant professor of counseling and
human systems at Florida State Univer-
sity. She was a member of the Florida
Governor's Commission on the Status of
Women from 1973 to 1978 and chaired
the commission from 1977 to 1978. She is
national president of the American Asso-
ciation for Affirmative Action.
Personal Representative of
the President
Nomination of Sol M. Linowitz for the Rank
of Ambassador While Serving in the Position.
November 27, 1979
The President today nominated Sol M.
Linowitz for the rank of Ambassador
tive of the President, effective Novem-
ber 29, 1979.
Miami Conference on the
Caribbean
Remarks by Videotape to the Conference in
Miami, Florida. November 26, 1979
Good evening.
Even though I cannot be with you in
person this evening, I want to use this
conference to reaffirm my commitment
and that of the United States to economic
development and democracy in the Carib-
bean. We ourselves are part of the Carib-
bean community, and we know that de-
velopment and democracy are key to
realizing the strength of the region and
meeting its challenges.
The Caribbean today is passing through
a time of rapid change, and our mutual
challenge is to steer a course economically,
socially, and politically that will lead to a
better life for all our people.
Twenty years ago only three island na-
tions in the Caribbean were independent.
Today there are 13 such sovereign na-
tions, and that number is likely to increase
by as many as 5 in the next few years.
Behind these numbers is a stirring history.
Its beginning was an unpleasant story,
marked by lonely struggles against slavery,
colonialism, and, too often, indifference
by the outside world. But the drive of the
Caribbean peoples toward freedom and
modern development is primarily a proud
story, one of courage, imagination, and de-
termination in the face of hardship.
Today, however, with independence
largely won, the Caribbean still faces
while he serves as Personal Representa- many problems. Perhaps the most serious
tive of the President.
Linowitz replaces Robert S. Strauss,
who has resigned as Personal Representa-
problems are economic. Spiraling oil
prices, unstable commodity markets, un-
even growth, inflation, and unemploy-
2159
