Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 28
efforts by UN Secretary General Wald-
heim and his staff to bring the two par-
ties back to the conference table. I regret
to report that in the intervening 60 days
these efforts have still not borne fruit.
The United States shares the view that
only sustained intercommunal talks can
lead to a just and lasting settlement of
the Cyprus problem. We believe that the
continuing good-offices efforts of the Sec-
retary General are the most promising
way to achieve a serious negotiation. I am
pleased that our November 1978 propos-
als provided impetus for the current UN
initiative. We have strongly supported
that initiative since it began, and we shall
continue to do so. In part due to our sup-
port, the Secretary General and his staff
are making progress toward finding a
formula on the basis of which the talks
might resume.
The current session of the UN General
Assembly is creating opportunities to ex-
plore avenues of progress on the Cyprus
question. Secretary Vance had meetings
with President Kyprianou in New York
on September 26 and October 4. Other
U.S. officials are in contact with princi-
pals in the Cyprus dispute, and with in-
terested third parties, to prepare for the
General Assembly debate on Cyprus. We
hope that after the General Assembly com-
pletes its discussion of Cyprus, both sides
will find it possible to resume the inter-
communal negotiations. It is essential that
they not allow the quest for short-term
advantage to erode their mutual objec-
tive of finding a settlement which meets
the basic needs of all people on the island.
The long and tortuous history of the
Cyprus problem demonstrates that peace-
ful progress has never been easy. The ob-
stacles, while formidable, are not insur-
mountable. We continue to believe that
progress is achievable, and we are vigor-
ously seeking it. Toward that end, we
remain in close touch with all parties to
the Cyprus dispute, the United Nations,
our European allies, and other states
which have a legitimate role to play and
which desire to contribute to the achieve-
ment of our common goal.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Frank
Church, chairman of the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee.
Milk Price Support Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 4167 Into Law.
November 28, 1979
I have today signed H.R. 4167, which
will support milk prices at between 80
and 90 percent of parity for the next 2
years. This is the latest in a series of im-
portant steps my administration has taken
to ensure that dairy farmers have the eco-
nomic incentive they need to produce
ample supplies of milk and thereby re-
duce inflationary pressure.
For most of the last 2 years, supplies of
dairy products have been tight and prices
high, at least partly as a result of deci-
sions made before this administration
came into office that held returns to
dairy farmers to very low levels. The re-
sult was a cutback in dairy herds, which
made it impossible for the industry to
respond to strengthened economic incen-
tives in 1977 and 1978. The industry has
now overcome the effects of these low re-
turns, and we can expect good produc-
tion this year and next.
There is currently some concern that
milk production could exceed demand
sometime during the next 2 years. It may
become necessary to give the Secretary of
2163
