Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it does.
MR. LEONE. And I think about the
fact, from everything one knows of you,
you are a very disciplined man. I believe
if you weren't President, you would drive
55 miles an hour and turn the lights off
and try very hard.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would.
MR. LEONE. Do you have any sense of
frustration that you don't get that kind
of response from the man in the street,
that he just wants to know that there's
gasoline down at the corner pump?
THE PRESIDENT. I did much more
22 years or 2 years ago or 1 year ago or
6 months ago than I do now. I think
there's a growing awareness, very rapidly
coming on us, among the American peo-
ple that we do indeed have an energy
problem and that every American needs
to do something about it.
The thing that impresses me most
strongly is that the conservation of energy,
the saving of energy, the stopping of the
waste of energy need not be an unpleas-
ant thing; it need not be a sacrifice; it
need not be something that disrupts
America. It can be an exciting, positive,
pleasant thing.
It's not necessary for us to drive around
in automobiles that weigh 5,000 pounds,
one person in an automobile, going 75
miles an hour. It's not necessary to have
a house in the wintertime that's up to 80
degrees temperature or one chilled down
to 55 or 60 degrees in the summer, where
you have to wear a sweater.
You know, these kinds of things can
give us a better life. And I think that I
can say accurately that as we move to-
ward more conservation, increased use
of solar power, and the development of
American energy resources, we will not
have a lower quality of life. We can have
an even better quality of life, safer and
more enjoyable, and with the sense that
we've done something not only for our-
selves and our family but also for our Na-
tion. It will be a patriotic thing.
PRESIDENT'S POPULARITY
MR. LEONE. Let me ask a more politi-
cal question. You said about a year ago,
I think, in an interview with Bill Moyers,
that today the President is sort of a per-
sonification of problems. And I have a
sense that you believe that's one of the
difficulties with, one of the explanations
behind your standing in the polls or the
fact that people here in Jersey and else-
where say Senator Kennedy's ahead right
now, whatever it means at this stage. Do
you think that's something you can over-
come, yourself, in the coming months?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think so.
When I made a speech in April of 1977
about energy, for instance, one of the
lines that I put in the text to the American
people was that just addressing this po-
litically sensitive issue of a better energy
policy would cost me 15 percentage points
in the polls. The only mistake I made was
that I underestimated how much popular-
ity I would lose. There's no way to win
when you address a difficult issue like
SALT, Panama Canal treaties, energy,
inflation, and so forth. There's no way to
win. And I think that the best assurance
that I have is the sound judgment and
the fairness of the American people.
One of the great things about a politi-
cal campaign is that it provides a forum
for incumbents like me as it did for
Brendan Byrne when he ran for Gover-
nor this last time—to actually and accu-
rately explain to the people who are going
to vote what we have been doing, why
we have taken these steps, why we have
taken unpopular stands.
You know, it's easy for someone to get
in office and not do anything because.
2032
