Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
State having a value of products of $750
million with a very large employment
possibility.
This we consider a big new industry,
one that has a $30 million annual activ-
ity. So, the economic possibilities on a
local scale are tremendous.
Next slide.
Currently about 1/2 to 2 quads of bio-
mass are being utilized by industry. Quite
a bit more is being used in residential
energy development, but there's not really
a good data base for that. It's probably
around a half a quad. So, on the total
there would be something like 2 to 22
quads currently in use.
Almost all of the industrial use is in
forest-based industries, where they use
much of their own waste material on
where they have large acreages of forest
materials.
Next slide.
This is just an illustration of what can
be done. This is a textile mill in Alexander
City, Alabama. It converted from fuel oil
to wood, wood chips. And even though,
because of unknowns in the technology,
they essentially converted coal equipment
to wood use and they way overdid the air
pollution control system, so that the actual
effluent is below 10 percent of allowable
standards-in spite of some of these diffi-
culties, the full capital cost was recovered
in about 4 years. And there are literally
hundreds of thousands of opportunities
like this that could be repeated across the
country.
Next slide.
This shows you the delivery of wood
chips. This mill uses about 400 tons a day.
They come in in a truck like this, which
is tilted into their supply bin.
Next slide.
In the near term, in 5 or 10 years, the
THE PRESIDENT. Would that include potential from wood—and that's the high-
wood-burning stoves?
DR. STELSON. This does not include
wood-burning stoves or any residential
utilization; only industrial. The residen-
tial is probably somewhere around
another half quad.
Biomass can be converted probably
most easily into space-processed heat or
for direct combustion for power or any
other purpose or in the gasification of it.
Now, generally when you gasify biomass
you cannot ship it long distances in pipe-
lines, because it has in it heavy constitu-
ents that would condense and gum up the
pipeline. So, typically we're talking about
gasification at the point of use. Also, of
course, biomass can be and is a very good
source of liquid fuels for transportation
use; that is, ethanol and methanol. And
gasohol is now a very popular develop-
ment.
Next slide.
est potential area-is from about 3½ to
5 quads. And from grains, which is more
limited and which provides also competi-
tion with food sources, the potential is
about 2 to 12 quads, and that is more
uncertain, because it depends upon the
price of grain which fluctuates more.
Next slide.
The long-term-and by that I mean
approximately 20 years—the wood poten-
tial is these are what I would call rea-
sonable, conservative estimates—is about
5 to 7 quads, grain about 1 to 2 quads, and
others. By others, I mean aquatic biomass,
special plant material, energy plantations,
and things of that type. And that's perhaps
2 to 4 quads.
So, you can see the potential in 20 years
is about 8 to 13 quads. And if the na-
tional use were 100 quads, this would be
8 to 13 percent, which is quite a signifi-
cant development in the energy picture.
Thank you.
1543
