Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
reductions while maintaining utility. It
appears unlikely, however, that the
graphite fiber reinforced materials can
achieve significant usage before the year
1990.
THE PRESIDENT. Because of cost or
what?
DR. COMPTON. Because of cost and
availability.
Now, there are many substantial tech-
nical and economic questions that must
be answered as we proceed to improve
fuel economies. First and foremost is
cost. Ford estimates that the cost of the
average vehicle will have to increase by
$600 to $800 just to incorporate those
technologies that we think can be in pro-
duction by 1985, and that's in '79 dollars.
Investments totaling many billions of dol-
lars will be needed.
Equally important is functional utility.
We must not destroy the vehicle charac-
teristics that make the cars and trucks
useful to people. We must not reduce the
size to such an extent that the utility suf-
fers. Then there is the continuing concern
over the health effects of engine emissions,
especially those from diesel engines. Will
certain engines be precluded from use or
will controls be needed whose cost and
fuel economy penalties make those en-
gines unattractive? Ways must be found
to ensure vehicle safety without increasing
vehicle weight, for as I've said repeatedly,
increased weight reduces fuel economy.
Concern also exists about the maintenance
and serviceability of the power train, the
increased complexity could further raise
the cost of maintenance.
And finally, there's the question of tim-
ing. It has been Ford's experience that 5
to 7 years is the minimum time needed to
put a new engine or transmission of rea-
sonably conventional design into produc-
tion. Further, if each of the automobile
manufacturers in the country were to de-
cide today to replace all of its engine and
transmission facilities, it would take about
10 years to accomplish this task because
of the very real capacity limits of our
machine tool suppliers.
The availability of alternative fuels
deserves special mention. In reducing na-
tional dependence upon imported petro-
leum, fuel economy improvements must
be coupled with a vigorous program to in-
crease the availability of liquid fuels from
alternative sources. While other speakers
have addressed this issue in some detail
this morning, I want to emphasize that a
specific synthetic fuel may be best suited
to a particular engine, and the sooner that
we know what fuels will be available and
in what timeframe, the better each vehi-
cle manufacturer will be able to do its job
of having the proper engine available for
the use of that fuel.
It is also important to come to grips
with the issue of how to measure energy
efficiency of cars and trucks. Since various
fuels have energy contents per gallon that
are greatly different from gasoline, the
simple measure of miles per gallon will
not continue to be an adequate measure
of efficiency. For example, we may need
to use something like Btu's per mile.
Lights, please.
What is the fuel economy future? Cus-
tomer demand for good fuel economy
stimulated by rising and realistic energy
prices and availability concerns will keep
fuel economy at the top of our product
priorities. And over the longer term, con-
tinued efforts in basic research related to
automotive technology, hopefully, will in-
crease the opportunity for major improve-
ments in vehicle efficiency.
This of course is the basis on which we
and others in the industry and Dr. Press'
office are working together in an effort to
formulate an industry-government auto-
motive research program that will con-
1553
