Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
carrying out of its responsibilities for the
protection of foreign diplomats in the
United States.
Ambassador McHenry has expressed
the official regrets of the U.S. Govern-
ment to the Soviet Permanent Represent-
ative to the U.N., and the Department of
State has made a parallel statement of re-
gret to the Soviet Chargé d'Affaires. We
shall do all in our power to see that such
outrages are not repeated.
Department of the Navy
Nomination of Joseph A. Doyle To Be an
Assistant Secretary. December 12, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Joseph A. Doyle, of
New York City, to be Assistant Secretary
of the Navy. He would replace Edward
Hidalgo, who has been appointed Secre-
tary of the Navy, and his responsibility
would be manpower, reserve affairs, and
logistics.
Doyle has been a partner in the New
York law firm of Shearman and Sterling
since 1956.
He was born June 13, 1920, in New
York City. He received a B.S. from
Georgetown University in 1941 and an
LL.B. from Columbia University School
of Law in 1947.
Doyle served in the U.S. Navy from
1941 to 1945. He was a naval aviator and
served on board the U.S.S. Enterprise in
the Pacific from 1943 to 1945. He was
awarded the Navy Cross, the Distin-
guished Flying Cross, and the Air Medal.
Doyle joined the law firm of Shearman
and Sterling in 1947 as an associate and
became a partner in 1956.
United States Defense Policy
Remarks to Members of the Business Council.
December 12, 1979
Chairman Reg Jones, members of the
Business Council:
It's indeed a pleasure for me to be with
you again. This afternoon I would like to
make a very important statement to you,
following which the chairman and I will
walk down the hall, and I'd like to greet
each one of you individually, as has been
my custom in the past when we've been
together. And then we'll have a chance
for a few questions that you might want
to put to me concerning energy or infla-
tion or legislation before the Congress or
Iran or other matters of interest to you.
But my first concern, and the first con-
cern of every President who has ever lived
in this house, is and must be the security
of our Nation. This security rests on many
kinds of strength, on arms and also on
arms control, on military power and on
economic vitality and the quality of life
of our own people, on modern weapons,
and also on reliable energy supplies. The
well-being of our friends and our allies is
also of great importance to us. Our secu-
rity is tied to human rights and to social
justice which prevails among the people
who live on Earth and to the institutions
of international force and peace and
order which we ourselves have helped to
build.
We all hope and work and pray that we
will see a world in which the weapons of
war are no longer necessary, but now we
must deal with the hard facts, with the
world as it is. In the dangerous and uncer-
tain world of today, the keystone of our
national security is still military strength,
strength that is clearly recognized by
2232
