Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter. 1979
In addition, I believe, if I'm not wrong,
that very well respected environmental
leaders of Massachusetts have also ap-
proved what decision we have made, I be-
lieve, including the Members of the Con-
gress, including Senator Tsongas and also
Senator Kennedy.
So, I believe that we can have very
carefully controlled exploration for oil
and at the same time protect the ex-
tremely valuable, much more valuable
fisheries industry.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
MR. FOELL. We've talked about de-
fense, but we haven't talked about foreign
policy on a broader scale, Mr. President.
Both you and your foreign policy advisers
have denied that there's going to be any
impeding of your ability to conduct for-
eign policy because of the early start of
the campaign.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. FOELL. What incentive does a
leader of another country-let's take a
PLO leader, for instance-have not to
wait until he sees how John Connally
might do in the primaries? What incen-
tive does an Israeli leader have not to
wait and see how Senator Kennedy, does
in the primaries? What's to keep them
from holding back?
THE PRESIDENT. It would be a mistake
to think that our country is the only one
that faces election or changes in leader-
ship. This takes place all over the demo-
cratic world and sometimes in the totali-
tarian world as well, and it's a part of the
political structure of foreign policy with
which we have to live every day.
We have, I think, been successful this
first 22, going on 3 years, in dealing with
some problems that were longstanding,
and we will not slow down our efforts to
spread the beneficent influence of this
country and other countries because of a
campaign.
Panama, the most difficult political
challenge I have ever faced in my life—
it was more difficult for me to get the
Panama treaty passed and implementa-
tion legislation than to be elected Presi-
dent. That had been dragging 14 years.
The SALT II treaty, which we signed,
that had been dragging 7 years under
three Presidents. Mideast peace had been
dragging for 30 years, and we finally
brought the two major protagonists to-
gether in a spirit of harmony and genuine,
growing friendship. Opening up Africa to
the good influence of our country and on
a reciprocal basis, this had been never
done before. We've done this in the short
time I've been in office.
All those efforts and others will be con-
tinued. The strengthening of NATO, the
handling of the energy shortages on a
worldwide basis, the alleviation of world
hunger, the dealing with the difficulties
of refugees from Southeast Asia, the
maintenance of peace-those kinds of
things will continue through any election
interval in an undisturbed way. And I
might say that the prospective opponents
that I might have next year are not the
kind of people that would make foreign
policy a major issue.
I might say that in 1968, when an in-
cumbent President was challenged, it was
because there was a deep philosophical
difference between the challengers and
the incumbent over whether we should or
should not stay in the Vietnam war. And
because of that, President Johnson de-
cided not to run for reelection.
We don't have that kind of difference
now. There are no major, deep, philo-
sophical differences that divide me from
any potential challenger. So, I don't be-
lieve that our Nation's movement toward
a better influence for our country to be
strong and at peace with other countries
will be a factor in the upcoming election.
I think that John Connally's statements
1996
