Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in a plant that makes kerosene. When I
grew up on a farm during the Depression,
about everything we had was kerosene.
We cooked with kerosene or wood, and
we used kerosene lamps. A lot of the Iran-
ian families do this. And the Iranian Gov-
ernment asked if we would sell them back
a million barrels of kerosene, because they
had run out of refined korosene. You take
crude oil to make kerosene out of it. I
agreed to do it. That's as much oil as they
sell to us, like every day and a half. It was
a one-shot proposition.
I don't know whether Iran needs that
oil or not. It was done through a com-
pany, an American oil company, a re-
finery. And they told me, the company
sent me word that if we had a shortage of
kerosene or home heating oil in the winter,
that that company would buy extra kero-
sene or heating oil in other markets
around the world and replace it for Amer-
icans.
So, there's no chance that we'll come
up short. The oil was sold to Iran, I
understand, at the market price, and if
Iran should not need it, then it would
probably be sold right at the market price.
I have not known about that statement
until it happened today. But I will be sure
that Americans don't come up short on
kerosene or home heating oil, and the
company that sold the oil to Iran has
pledged to help me with that.
We sold it to Iran because they said
they had a hardship case. And I think it
was a good investment, because had we
not cooperated with them-I can't claim
that Iran would have cut off all oil sales
to us, but they sell us a lot of oil every day.
This is a one-shot proposition amount-
ing to about a day and a half of the oil we
get from Iran.
WAYS TO CONSERVE ENERGY
Q. Welcome to Tampa, Mr. President.
I'd like you to know that I've heard a
lot of people say that they don't plan to
cut back on energy consumption because
they don't want to be the first ones to
make the initial sacrifice. Until they see
everyone else doing his part to conserve
energy or until they're somehow forced
to, they won't take action. How do you
as leader and President plan to impress
upon each and every individual of our
country the importance and the real need
to rally behind you and your energy
guidelines? Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, first of
all, that it's absolutely imperative that
we do two things. One is for all Amer-
icans to save; there's no way that the
Government can save for you. That's got
to be something that 220 million Amer-
icans join in doing.
The second thing is that energy saving
is not a sacrifice. For a family to drive
the speed limit not only saves energy, but
it saves lives and it's in accordance with
the law. For a family to take a little
money, either through a government
loan or, if they can afford it, out of their
own money, and insulate their homes so
it doesn't take as much to cool it in the
summer or heat it in the winter is an
excellent investment, because you get back
what you invested in less than 2 years
and your home still maintains the same
temperature; you just don't waste as much
heat.
For a family to use a bicycle, if that's
convenient, or maybe to walk sometimes.
I jog every day for exercise. You know,
I think it's a very good and pleasant thing
to do.
A business has a tremendous cost-
effectiveness; in other words, it's a profit-
able thing to save energy. I had a seminar
this morning at Georgia Tech-and the
chemical industry has already cut about
1568
