Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
city, too, and these problems come to me
all the time. We must do something for
our senior citizens. And they say that our
rights, our human rights and all are being
taken away from us due to this EPA mon-
ster, and I agree.
Ms. STAMBERG. Mrs. Roundy, thank
you so much for joining us and participat-
ing in this program today.
Our next caller, Mr. President, is in
Springville, Alabama. It's Lew Windham.
Mr. Windham, go ahead, please.
ENERGY PRICES
MR. WINDHAM. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Lew.
MR. WINDHAM. We're in the petroleum
business here, in an area of the country
that I'm sure you're familiar with. We
own two LP gas companies that supply
these rural people with propane for heat-
ing; at the same time we're in the oil-
jobbing business.
We find it extremely hard to explain to
our customers why every time they buy a
petroleum product that it is higher. Now,
we cannot see any evidence that the De-
partment of Energy is doing anything.
Now, I feel that the majority of the people
in this country need a very good explana-
tion as to what the Department of Energy
is doing to put the lid on these producing
companies.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's not an
easy question to answer, Lew, because
there's very little that the Department of
Energy or a President can do to prevent
foreign countries from raising their price
of oil. And the basic thrust that we are
pursuing is to cut down on that imported
oil.
As you know, this past month the rate
of increase of energy was more than a
hundred percent per year on an annual
basis, and as I said earlier, about 4 per-
cent of our inflation rate is derived directly
from energy costs. This is a very serious
matter, and I think you've noticed, if
you've listened to this call-in show, how
many people have raised this same ques-
tion.
MR. WINDHAM. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. We are concerned
about home heating oil in the Northeast,
but I think many people forget that in
the area where you live and where I live,
that the isolated farm families and families
in small towns also have to heat their
homes, and most of them do use propane.
And the cost of propane is derived from
natural gas prices and goes up also, along
with oil and coal and everything else.
I can't give you any easy answer.
There's no reason for me to sit here in
the Oval Office and try to mislead the
American people. There are only three
ways that we can deal with this question:
one is to use as little energy as possible
through conservation, savings; second, to
use more of the energy that we produce in
our own country than we have been doing
in the past; and third, provide Federal
and other assistance for the low-income
families to make sure that they do have
enough fuel to heat their homes and to
cook with, and so forth, and also so that
they can have enough money to pay those
bills.
But there's no way that I can mislead
you. The prices are high now; they're
going to get higher in the future than
they are already. And unless our Nation
unites itself and deals with this very seri-
ous threat, we're going to be worse off in
the future than we have in the past.
I inherited this problem. I'm not com-
plaining about it, but it has been an ex-
tremely difficult thing to get the Congress
to pass any legislation on this issue, be-
cause it's so controversial. We have still
not passed a single line of legislation in
the Congress dealing with oil. This year
we have a very good prospect of finally
getting those laws on the book, which will
1901
