Sept. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and to bring that conscience about human
rights to bear on the world's leaders. We
have created an atmosphere that I be-
lieve has made significant progress on
human rights throughout our hemisphere.
Many prison doors have swung open, re-
pression of the poor and the weak and the
helpless has been eased in many coun-
tries. Democratic government or civilian
government has been rescued and has re-
placed military governments and auto-
cratic governments, where people had
little voice.
The struggle for human rights is basic
and so is the struggle for the economic
and the social justice which permits hu-
man beings to enjoy those rights once they
have been obtained with dignity. That
struggle cannot be won unless the Govern-
ment of this country, which we love, is
peopled with men and women of courage,
ability, sensitivity, and the knowledge of
the special problems which many of you
in this room know so well.
I will have two superb new leaders to
help me in the near future. One of them is
Abelardo Valdez, who is now adminis-
tering our AID program and who will
soon be the United States Chief of Proto-
col. The other is a fine man, one of the
most competent men I know in govern-
ment, who happened to have been born
in Mexico City, has practiced law there
for 19 years, who served our Nation well,
and who will now be the Secretary of the
Navy of the United States of America,
Edward Hidalgo. I think Abelardo and
Edward are here. Are they here? Stand
up if you will, new Secretary of Navy. He
was not only my first choice, he was first
choice of the former Secretary of Navy,
now the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
And I am very proud of you, Edward,
and what you've already done for our
country.
As you know, in order to advise me on
personnel and other important affairs,
Esteban Torres, who came here with me
tonight, has joined my White House
staff. Ambassador Torres has distin-
guished himself both in government and
also as a labor leader.
As United States Ambassador to
UNESCO, his ability to make friends was
demonstrated by his election to the
UNESCO Executive Board. Our country
is not always unanimously popular in the
United Nations. But when Esteban ran
for the Executive Board of UNESCO, out
of 130 countries voting, he got 127 votes.
He's going to be giving me advice on
many things, one of which is how to get
votes. [Laughter]
Ambassador Torres is working closely
with me, also, on the upcoming visit of
President López Portillo of Mexico. And
he will make sure that your voice is heard
every day when policy is made within the
White House. Assisting him will be Gil-
bert Colon.
All of those that I've named, and many
others, are working very closely with our
new Attorney General to root out any
element of racism or discrimination in our
system of criminal justice. And a special
advisory committee is being set up, with
Esteban's help and the help of the Attor-
ney General, of Hispanic Americans to
make sure that this goal, which has not
been accomplished in the past, will be ac-
complished in the future.
We also know that accurate informa-
tion about our country is a fundamental
weapon in the struggle for social justice.
In this connection, the 1980 census is a
major opportunity and a personal chal-
lenge to me and to everyone in this room.
If Hispanic Americans are to be full part-
ners in all aspects of American life and
to share in its full benefits, we must have
an accurate count of how many Hispanic
1664
