Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
your economic program isn't working real
well. We still have runaway inflation, and
the only prices that seem to be coming
down are gas-guzzling automobiles and
pork. [Laughter]
Do you think that it might be time for
a change in your policies, such as strict
wage and price controls?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the policies
that we have established are the best, and
I believe that they're going to pay off.
What we've had in the past 11 years is
excessive inflation. I'm the fourth Pres-
ident who's tried to deal with inflation.
So far we've not been successful. Man-
datory wage and price controls were at-
tempted by President Nixon. They were
very quickly abandoned. And we still suf-
fer with high meat prices because of those
mandatory price controls on farm prod-
ucts.
We also went through a time of deep
recession, almost a depression, approach-
ing the problems of the 1930's. That also
did not cure inflation.
What I've tried to do is to deal at the
roots of it. For instance, we've just formed
a national accord, an agreement between
the government, business, and labor, to
work together now to hold down both
wages and prices. We've been remarkably
successful already with our wage and
price guidelines. For instance, the wage
increases in 1979 have been no higher at
all than the wage increases in 1978. And
the prices over which we do have some
authority in our voluntary price controls
have been going up in price only one-half
as much as those over which we do not
have control, like energy. We've never
had this before, a voluntary cooperative
effort.
Energy is the main threat and the main
cause of high inflation. The oil prices
raised by OPEC have caused 4 percent of
our inflation rate. If it weren't for energy,
you
if could just set aside energy and
count everything else put together-food
and everything else this past summer of
1979, the inflation rate would be no high-
er at all than it was in 1978 and 1977. But
OPEC oil prices have increased more
than 60 percent since last December. The
approach to that is to have an energy
policy that cuts down on oil imports. We
now import half the oil we use. We also
import, along with that, inflation and
unemployment.
The Congress is finally addressing, af-
ter long years of delay, this energy prob-
lem. We're trying to reduce imports, in-
crease oil production in our own country,
gas production, coal production, use of
solar power, synthetic fuels, and also have
a major emphasis on conservation.
If we can cut down on the amount of
oil we import, that'll be a major step
toward controlling inflation. And I pre-
dict to you that before this year is over,
you will see the inflation rate begin to go
down because of the action we've already
taken.
The last point to a very complicated
answer is that we have tried in this proc-
ess not to have jobs fall off. In the first 30
months of my term-I've only been in
office now less than 3 years we have had
a net increase-not decrease, but a net
increase of 82 million jobs in this
country: a million construction jobs,
700,000 jobs for black people; a quarter
of a million of those increased jobs are in
Chicago alone. So, at the time we've had
high inflation and high interest rates,
we've also had the highest employment
level in the history of our Nation.
We've tried to protect people from high
job losses that have always come along
in the past with high inflation. And if we
turn the inflation rate down-and I'm
predicting that we will-and hold those
jobs up, I think it'll be a good step in
1942
