Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of the In-
terior, the Secretary of Defense, the Chair-
man of the Board of the Tennessee Valley
Authority
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized that the 1968
National Trails System Act is designed to
promote the development of recreational,
scenic, and historic trails for persons of
diverse interests and abilities-including
the young, the handicapped, and the
aged and that National Trails System is
in its fledgling stage. I stressed the im-
portance of expanding the National Trails
System to provide increased recreation op-
portunities for the millions of Americans
who enjoy hiking, backpacking, and simi-
lar activities.
you
Therefore, I am directing each of
to announce by January 1980 a goal for
the number of National Recreation Trails
each agency will establish during 1980 on
the public lands administered by your
agencies. By the end of 1980, I am direct-
ing that, at a minimum, 75 new National
Recreation Trails shall be designated on
these lands.
Please report your progress in meeting
your goal to the Chairman of the Council
on Environmental Quality and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget on June 30, 1980 and on Decem-
ber 31, 1980.
JIMMY CARTER
Soil Conservation Incentives
Memorandum From the President.
August 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of Agri-
culture
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I underscored my serious
concern that since 1935 wind and water
erosion have reduced by half the top soil
on nearly one-third of the Nation's poten-
tially usable croplands. Although more
than $20 billion in federal funds has been
invested in soil and water conservation
programs of the Department of Agricul-
ture, erosion continues to occur at very
high rates. There are 28 existing soil con-
servation and water quality-related De-
partment of Agriculture programs which
are designed to help remedy this problem.
The Resources Conservation Act (RCA)
and Resources Planning Act (RPA)
processes will review these and other pro-
grams and provide me in January 1980
with recommended improvements in pro-
gram design and administration.
Due to the importance of the soil ero-
sion problem I direct you, in consultation
with the Chairman of the Council on En-
vironmental Quality, to undertake a com-
prehensive study of possible conservation
incentives, building on the analysis of the
RCA process, and to provide me with a
report in January 1981.
A major goal of your effort should be to
interrelating existing agricultural assist-
analyze the implications of modifying or
ance programs to bring about a greater
reduction in soil erosion and related non-
point pollution. The study shall also
identify conflicts between farm income
programs and soil conservation programs
and develop recommendations for elimi-
nating these conflicts where possible. The
report shall set forth specific administra-
tive and legislative recommendations to
reduce soil erosion and to improve soil
stewardship in order to maintain the Na-
tion's long-term agricultural productivity,
building on policy recommendations con-
tained in the RCA 1980 Program report.
Please give this assignment your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
1382
