Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Memorandum for the Chairman of the
Council on Environmental Quality
In my Environmental Message of
August 2, 1979, I expressed concern
about the rapid disappearance of the
earth's forests, especially in the tropics
and subtropics. I believe there is much
that the United States can do in coop-
eration with other nations to contribute
to environmentally sound care and man-
agement of the earth's forests and to the
well-being of people affected by them.
I am therefore asking you to work with
the Departments of State and Agricul-
ture and other relevant federal agencies,
and with other nations and international
organizations, to give full support and
assistance to the international program of
activities for conservation and wise uti-
lization of tropical forests to be developed
under the sponsorship of the United Na-
tions Environment Programme.
In addition, I am asking you and the
Secretary of State to report to me within
six months on the best ways to designate
"ecological and natural resources of
global importance" under Executive
Order 12114, so that proposals for major
federal actions significantly affecting
these resources will be reviewed before a
decision is made.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Director of the Na-
tional Science Foundation
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I expressed concern about
the rapid disappearance of the earth's
forests, especially in the tropics and sub-
tropics. I believe there is much that the
United States can do in cooperation with
other nations to contribute to environmen-
tally sound care and management of the
earth's forests and to the well-being of
people affected by them.
I am therefore requesting that you give
high priority in your budget and program
planning and research support programs
to forests and to the following areas of
basic and applied research:
• research on the ecology of tropical
forests;
improved monitoring of world forest
trends, particularly tropical forests,
including use of satellite observations;
• research on necessary preservation of
natural forest ecosystems and their
rich complex of plant and animal
life;
• research on multiple uses of highly
diverse tropical forests, including
management of natural stands, de-
velopment of ecologically sound for-
est plantations, and combined agri-
culture and forestry;
⚫ studies on increasing yields in family-
scale tropical agriculture, to relieve
pressures on forest lands that are not
suitable for cultivation;
• identification of research methods to
define the ecological disturbance in
tropical forests from human activi-
ties, and to predict recovery of
stressed forest systems.
Please give this assignment your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Administrator of
the Agency for International Develop-
ment, the Director of ACTION
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I expressed concern about
the rapid disappearance of the earth's
forests, especially in the tropics and sub-
tropics. I believe there is much that the
United States can do in our development
assistance to other nations to contribute to
1388
