Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 1
We are enhancing our intelligence
capability in order to monitor Soviet and
Cuban military activities both in Cuba
and throughout the world. We will in-
crease our efforts to guard against dam-
age to our crucial intelligence sources and
our methods of collection, without im-
pairing civil and constitutional rights.
These steps reflect my determination to
preserve peace, to strengthen our alli-
ances, and to defend the interests of the
United States. In developing them, I've
consulted not only with my own advisers
but with congressional leaders and with a
bipartisan group of distinguished Ameri-
can citizens as well. The decisions are my
own, and I take full responsibility for
them as President and as Commander in
Chief.
I have concluded that the brigade issue
is certainly no reason for a return to the
cold war. A confrontation might be
emotionally satisfying for a few days or
weeks for some people, but it would be
destructive to the national interest and
to the security of the United States.
We must continue the basic policy that
the United States has followed for 20
years, under six administrations of both
parties, a policy that recognizes that we
are in competition with the Soviet Union
in some fields and that we seek coopera-
tion in others—notably maintaining the
peace and controlling nuclear arms.
My fellow Americans, the greatest
danger to American security tonight is
certainly not the two or three thousand
Soviet troops in Cuba. The greatest dan-
ger to all the nations of the world-in-
cluding the United States and the Soviet
Union-is the breakdown of a common
effort to preserve the peace and the ulti-
mate threat of a nuclear war.
I renew my call to the Senate of the
United States to ratify the SALT II
treaty.
SALT II is a solid treaty. Ensuring
compliance with its terms will not be a
matter of trust. We have highly sophis-
ticated, national technical means care-
fully focused on the Soviet Union to en-
sure that the treaty is verifiable.
This treaty is the most important step
ever taken to control strategic nuclear
arms. It permits us to strengthen our de-
fense and to preserve the strategic bal-
ance at lower risk and lower cost. During
the past few years, we have made real in-
creases in our defense expenditures to
fulfill the goals of our 5-year defense plan.
With SALT II, we can concentrate these
increases in areas where our interests are
most threatened and where direct mili-
tary challenge is most likely.
The rejection of SALT would seriously
compromise our Nation's peace and
security.
Of course we have disagreements with
the Soviets. Of course we have conflicts
with them. If we did not have these dis-
agreements and conflicts, we would not
need a treaty to reduce the possibility of
nuclear war between us.
If SALT II is rejected, these disagree-
ments and conflicts could take on a new
and ominous dimension. Against the back-
ground of an uncontrolled nuclear arms
race, every confrontation or dispute would
carry the seeds of a nuclear confrontation.
In addition, SALT II is crucial to
American leadership and to the further
strengthening of the Western Alliance.
Obviously, a secure Europe is vital to our
own security. The leaders of our Euro-
pean Allies support SALT II—unani-
mously. We've talked to a number of
those leaders in the last few days. I must
1805
