June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
KOREA
Q. Mr. President, let me ask two ques-
tions about our neighboring country
Korea. First of all, the CIA has just com-
pleted the reevaluation of North Korean
military forces, and, based on the result of
the reevaluation, I wonder what you are
going to do with the South Korean troop
withdrawal plan? The second question is,
while you are in Korea, are you going to
see some opposition party leaders in
Korea, including Kim Dae-jung?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been con-
cerned about the new estimates of North
Korean military strength, which are
higher than we had previously supposed.
I will be discussing this matter with Presi-
dent Park and also with our own military
commanders in South Korea. Whatever
decision I make about the level of Ameri-
can forces, I will keep the commitment
that I originally made, that is, not to do
anything to disturb the military balance
or to create instability on the Korean
peninsula.
My custom has been on all my foreign
visits to meet with opposition leaders. And
while I am in South Korea, my intention
is to meet with the opposition leaders
there, both those that are actually in-
volved directly in politics and those that
might be outside the political realm, both
religious leaders and others. So, I do plan
to continue this process while I am in
South Korea.
My own hope is there might be fruitful
meetings directly between the leaders of
South Korea and North Korea in the
near future, either with or without an
American presence during those meetings.
I think this is the ultimate solution to
the present divisions of the people of
Korea. But in any case, we will do our
part to maintain stability there, the se-
curity of our allies, and to let the world
know we resolutely will maintain our re-
sponsibilities.
SOVIET MILITARY BUILDUP IN THE FAR
EAST
Q. Mr. President, as my colleague men-
tioned earlier, there is growing concern
in Japan about the Soviet major buildup
in the Far East, the possible deployment
of the Soviet military carrier Minsk, and
Soviet military activity in Vietnam. How
do you assess this Soviet military buildup
in this region, and how do you react to
this situation?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no fear of
Soviet military presence there. We are
concerned about a buildup whenever we
consider it to be excessive beyond what is
required for Soviet security. I discussed
the South Vietnamese question with Pres-
ident Brezhnev this week, and particularly
the Soviet presence there, both ships and
airplanes. He assured me personally that
there would be no establishment of So-
viet bases in South Vietnam and that the
present ship and plane use of the ports
and airports is of a routine nature.
We will maintain American military
presence in the Western Pacific, adequate
to protect American interests and to pro-
tect the interest of our allies. I think in our
alliances with South Korea, with Japan,
with New Zealand, with Australia, new
leases on Philippine bases, our growing
friendship with the ASEAN group, the
honoring of their independence, the nor-
malization of relations with the People's
Republic of China, plus the new SALT
agreement with the Soviet Union and the
prospect for better relations between our-
selves and the Soviet Union brought about
by the summit conference this past week-
end-all of those factors combined lead
1148
