Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 24
new coordinated effort to identify and
develop hydroelectric potential at existing
dams around the country. Under that
program, for each of the next several
years DOE will administer a program
through which communities could con-
duct feasibility and engineering studies of
potential sites. Following an onsite review
process, including DOE, the Corps of
Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation,
and the FERC, the most promising sites
would be encouraged to submit applica-
tions for construction grants, loans, and
loan guarantees from EDA, FMFA, REA,
CSA, and HUD. Over $300 million in re-
sources have been reserved for this pur-
pose through 1981.
The target goal of beginning construc-
tion on 100 rural hydro projects by the
end of 1981 through the interagency
effort will develop approximately 300
megawatts of additional capacity. Since I
announced this program, several hundred
local communities have expressed interest
in participating. Federal field teams will
be conducting onsite inspections at about
250 of the most promising prospects dur-
ing August and September.
—At my direction the Bureau of Recla-
mation recently testified in Congress,
seeking the authority for the Secretary of
Interior to plan, design, and install hydro-
electric facilities on 13 existing reclama-
tion dams. This procedure will permit a
much faster review for a project which is
economically justified and which will not
have significant adverse environmental or
stream-flow effects.
The Corps National Hydropower
Study included a review of thousands of
Federal and non-Federal dams. Many of
the more promising non-Federal dams are
being subjected to onsite inspections as
part of the program to reconstruct rural
hydro sites, as announced in Des Moines.
Of the Federal dams included in the
Corps review, many appear to be candi-
dates for new or additional hydroelectric
facilities. While the energy-generating
potential of these sites varies dramatically,
the total potential for increased low-cost,
clean, available power through this re-
source at Federal sites is great. For
example, the locks and dams on the Mis-
sissippi River between St. Paul and St.
Louis have an installed capacity of only
165.6 megawatts, while a preliminary
Corps of Engineers study suggests a po-
tential capacity of about 2,400 megawatts.
I intend to see that this great national
resource is utilized.
NOTE: The statement was released at Hanni-
bal, Mo.
St. Louis, Missouri
Remarks on Arrival at the City.
August 24, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body. Good morning. How many of you
agree with me that we live in the greatest
nation on Earth? [Applause]
For the last week, Rosalynn and Amy
and I, along with the other passen-
gers on board the Delta Queen, have
had one of the most remarkable and en-
joyable weeks of our lives. We've not
only seen the beauty of the Midwest-the
lovely land, the hills, the mountains-
we've also seen one of the mightiest rivers
on Earth that brings prosperity to this
part of the country and gives us a re-
minder of what our history has been. But
the most important thing to us has been
to see the thousands and thousands of
people who've come down to the banks of
the Mississippi to make us feel welcome,
1511
