Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 13
And I would like to caution you about
that: This is a judgment and a decision
that we can't make in this room.
And one of the vivid reports that
Rosalynn brought back to me was that
quite often a United States initiative is
counterproductive in the eventual carry-
ing out of a recommendation. If the initia-
tive comes from one of the less developed
nations of the world or comes directly
from the United Nations or, perhaps,
comes from other countries than we, it's
much more effective.
So, I would like to urge you to restrain
your own inclinations to give public con-
demnation or public advice on what the
Vietnamese ought to do, what the war-
ring parties in Kampuchea ought to do,
what the United Nations ought to do. Let
that be handled through diplomatic chan-
nels. I can assure you that I will not per-
mit these efforts to be abandoned or
ignored. But I think that the public call-
ing for action might be the very thing
that would prevent that action being car-
ried out. That's my only caution to you.
And I have a second one-I forgot. I
think the more all of us forgo credit for
action to be taken, the more effective the
effort will be. There is a great yearning, I
know, within the United States Govern-
ment, within the Red Cross, within
UNICEF, within Catholic charities, with-
in the Protestant churches, within benevo-
lent groups, to want to give aid and then
have that assistance be publicly ac- -
knowledged and recognized. That is a
human trait, but the more we can subju-
gate those natural, human desires for quiet
giving and close cooperation with others,
with a minimum of jealousy and a mini-
mum of grasping for recognition, the
more effective we'll all be.
I'm sure that's a cautionary word that
you don't need, because there's an over-
whelming unselfishness and benevolent
attitude among this group. And you've
taken the initiative, and there's been no
evidence of a grasping for recognition. But
in the future, this is going to be a long,
slow, tedious process, and that needs to be
recognized and avoided.
The last point I'd like to make is this:
The Thai people and the Thai Govern-
ment both deserve every possible recogni-
tion, expression of gratitude, and thanks.
They are a poor country. Many of the
Thai people suffer terribly from poverty,
disease, and hunger. It's not a popular
political thing to bring in enormous num-
bers of refugees from an alien and an-
tagonistic country, who's been historical
enemies on occasion, and still not arouse
the condemnation of the Thais, who
themselves suffer. And this has been a very
great demonstration of both kindness and
also courage, political courage.
I know that this is something that you'll
want to help with. The Thais are not able
to accept literally hundreds of thousands
of refugees into their country and feed
those refugees on their own. And we've
got to be especially generous to the Thais
in our thanks and in our direct help and
the recognition of what they are con-
tributing.
I look forward with great eagerness to
the summary of your recommendations. I
will be getting it through the National
Security Council and through my wife,
who always has easy access to me. And I
think that her involvement is one that can
be of help to you as well. She'll be working
with the wives of Senators and other
Members of Congress, and female Mem-
bers of Congress. She will also be working
with any of you who want her to help in
providing an avenue to the public and also
an avenue directly to me.
But I'm very grateful to all of you for
being willing to come. I think this will
be one of the most important meetings
ever taking place in the White House. And
I'm grateful that I am President of peo-
ple like you.
2113
