Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
important that you ask a question like this,
and I think we are treating the trade
unions fairly.
I don't think we can completely freeze
out, though, the purchase of any goods
that might be produced by nonunion
workers, even though you might prefer it.
Q. The nonunion-it's their total dis-
regard for the law.
THE PRESIDENT. I know. As you know,
our administration-I personally have
strongly favored labor law reform. And
with your help, if we can keep this line
of enthusiasm up in CWA, UAW, and
others, I believe that next year we can
go back to Congress and get labor law
reform passed. That's what we need to do.
ENERGY CORPORATION BONDS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Larry Vande-
venter from Corpus Christi, Texas, Local
12137. I support your proposals to win
our energy fight, and I would like to know
when you think we will be able to buy the
energy bonds that you spoke of.
THE PRESIDENT. By the way, we keep
the thermostat set on 78 degrees in the
Oval Office. Some of the news people
send me word here that it's 80 degrees
where they are and it's 86 degrees where
I am. [Laughter]
First of all, the Congress will have to
pass a law authorizing the establishment
of this private corporation. It will be given
special authority and a special status. I'm
sure that all of you are familiar with the
COMSAT arrangement, where the spe-
cial Communications Satellite Corpo-
ration was set up and stock was sold in
that corporation to get the original com-
munications satellites in space. A similar
arrangement will be followed in getting
established the special corporation to pro-
duce energy from shale, coal, and other
means in our country.
As soon as the Congress passes the law
authorizing this special corporation, it will
be set up. It will not be a Govern-
ment agency. It will be an independent,
private corporation. And at that time,
hopefully sometime this year, you'll be
able to buy energy bonds and own a part
of our Nation's energy security future. I
don't know the exact date, but if you'll
help me, we'll cut out the delays that have
held up Congress too long.
That's a good question.
ARMED FORCES OFFICERS
Q. Mr. President, Bob Armacher, vice
president, Local 11503, Panorama City,
California, representing the great San
Fernando Valley. This is in a little lighter
vein.
The last time we had the pleasure of
your presence at one of our conventions,
you were a candidate for the nomination
as President of the United States for the
Democratic Party. Obviously, you im-
pressed many others as favorably as you
impressed me, particularly on your talk
about waste in government. I remember
two items you brought up. One of them
was the fact that we had more admirals
sitting in Washington than we have ships
in the ocean; we have more colonels in
the Air Force than we have airplanes.
My question is, what is the status of
this situation at the
the present time?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I'll have to check on
it and let you know. [Laughter]
I remember very well the convention in
San Diego and the fact that I pointed out
we did have more admirals than we do
ships, more colonels than we do airplanes
in the Air Force. I'll have to find out the
exact number now and let you know.
We have been cutting down, by the
way, on the number of flag officers in the
1253
