June 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lief in freedom, a common belief in de-
mocracy, respect for the individuality of
human beings, a reverence for freedom
of speech, open debate, for truth, for the
exercise of exploration of ideas without
constraint, for freedom of the press, and
for an open political process. We both
believe that the greatest source of energy
and creativity is the initiative in individ-
uality derived from this personal freedom.
We both believe in world peace. We both
believe in the control of nuclear and other
weapons.
Our relationship today is more than
just one between two governments. It's a
relationship almost like members of one
extended family. More than 1 million
American and Japanese citizens visit back
and forth each year between countries.
We meet in corporate boardrooms, in
government councils, in factories, in con-
cert halls, in scientific laboratories, in uni-
versities, on farmlands, on the sports
fields, and many other ways. More Mem-
bers of your Diet and our Congress visit
each other to learn and to share ideas
than between any other two congressional
bodies on Earth.
We have much to learn from you. We
admire your vigor, your thirst for knowl-
edge, your sense of self-discipline, your
commitment to hard work. We respect
the stability of your family bonds, the
worth of your community unity, the Jap-
anese grace and delicacy, the sense of har-
mony and beauty that you've preserved
down through the ages, and your own
special achievement in balancing this
reverence for the past with the utilization
in an effective way of the opportunities
of the present and the future.
These personal characteristics have
permitted you to build Japan, your na-
tion, into a great world power. Our rela-
tionship permits both our people to derive
great benefits, one from another. Annual
trade between our countries is more than
$40 billion, more than the gross national
product of 134 other nations in the world.
In closing, let me point out that we
cannot rest on our achievements. Your
great Admiral Togo, in 1904, said, “After
victory, tighten the straps of your hel-
met."
With success comes differences. We
both want equal advantages from this
great mutual trade. It's a great tribute to
Japan that you will be the host of what
might very well be the most important
economic summit conference ever held.
In addition, as a regional leader, you
recognize, along with us, that Asia is the
fastest growing economic region in the
world, a region of rapid change, and we
are certainly moving into a new era in the
life of our shared Pacific community.
The United States is a Pacific nation
in history, geography, and interest, and
the partnership between the United
States and Japan is the cornerstone of our
own foreign policy in this region of the
world. Together I am sure that you and
we can be a force for hope, stability, pros-
perity, and peace in which all the world's
people can share.
I would like to propose a toast to the
health of Prime Minister Ohira and Mrs.
Ohira, to the deep friendship and mutual
respect and affection which exists be-
tween the people of Japan and the
United States, and to the bright future
which we share together.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:55 p.m. at
the Prime Minister's residence.
Prior to the luncheon, the President and
Prime Minister Ohira and members of their
delegations met at the residence.
Earlier in the day, the President was offi-
cially welcomed to Japan by Emperor Hirohito
at Akasaka Palace. Following the ceremonies,
the President and the Emperor went to the
Imperial Palace to meet with members of the
imperial family.
The Prime Minister spoke in Japanese, and
his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
1164
