Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
around the country, this report cannot be
forgotten.
The conference will serve as a catalyst
for continuing and expanding action on
family issues in the Federal Government.
To ensure this development, I've today
directed all Federal departments and
agencies to support and to cooperate with
the conference's activities.
And I'm also announcing today that
Health, Education, and Welfare Secretary
Patricia Harris is creating for the first
time an office for families within HEW.
I know you agree with me that this is
long overdue.
But I want to make sure that this office
is not only involved in the preparation for
the conference and helping to make the
conference a success, but after the con-
ference work is completed, this office, a
permanent entity within HEW, will be
there as a focal point to carry out the
recommendations of the conference itself.
It will be deeply involved in implementing
those recommendations and also generat-
ing new thoughts and new ideas on a con-
tinuing basis after the conference ad-
journs, because Americans' social life and
the problems of the families changes from
one year to another.
I'd like to add that Rosalynn shares my
interest in the success of the administra-
tion's program for the American family,
and my whole family will be involved in
making sure that this entire effort is suc-
cessful. Once my mother and Rosalynn
and Amy get involved in something all
together, you can be sure that we will not
permit this effort to fail. [Laughter]
As I said at the beginning of my re-
marks, family values are not the only rea-
son for national concern. In my July
speech to the Nation, I spoke about the
crisis of the spirit that I saw brewing in
America. I listened carefully to the prayer
a few minutes ago, and this message to
God, this request for help by God, mir-
rored the same concern.
I warned in July, and I have been say-
ing ever since, that we are threatened
with the loss of that fundamental trait
which has characterized Americans since
the foundation of our country-opti-
mism, confidence in one another, and
confidence in the future.
The response to that speech was over-
whelming. Those who have worked in
the White House for 25 or 30 years say
the response was unprecedented. We re-
ceived tens of thousands of letters and
hundreds of telephone calls, all sounding
similar themes. "You're right," they said,
"now tell us what we can do to help."
My answer to those thousands of
Americans is the same as my message
to you. The answer to the crisis of confi-
dence is action. The answer to alienation
from one another or from government is
participation. The way we solve our
problems is through unity and partner-
ship.
You in this room typify, personify the
best in America. Your network of social
services, the largest in our country, is
composed of tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans united by faith, dedicated to the
ideal of serving others, and determined
to translate that ideal into action for the
benefit of others. You've chosen to light
a candle and not to curse the darkness,
and the flame of compassion lights the
road for all of us to follow.
Let us carry on our own the tasks out-
lined so eloquently by Pope John Paul.
Let us preserve and enhance the partner-
ship between government and the private
sector, which serves our people well, and
let us make every effort to strengthen our
families.
Finally, let us share the prayer of the
American poet Stephen Vincent Benet:
"Grant us brotherhood," he said, "not
1930
