Oct. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
MAYOR TOM BRADLEY, Los Angeles, Calif.
(Chair);
T. F. BRADSHAW, president, Atlantic Richfield
Co., Los Angeles;
THOMAS W. BRADSHAW, JR., secretary of the
North Carolina Department of Transporta-
tion;
ROY COUGHLIN, staff specialist, Southern New
England Telephone Co., Hartford, Conn.;
JACK DERBY, statewide ridesharing coordinator,
California Department of Transportation;
RICHARD H. ERICKSON, manager of safety,
health, and security, Hallmark Cards, Kan-
sas City, Mo.;
Gov. ELLA GRASSO, Connecticut;
RAY HERZOG, chairman of the board, 3M Com-
pany, St. Paul, Minn.;
DALE W. LUEHRING, general manager, Golden
Gate Bridge and Transit District, San Ra-
fael, Calif.;
JOHN A. MAHONY, manager, office services,
Smith Kline Corp., Philadelphia, Pa.;
LOUIS R. NICKINELLO, State senator, Boston,
Mass.;
CLARENCE SHALLBETTER, project director,
Public Service Options, Inc., Minneapolis,
Minn.;
DAVID J. SHERWOOD, president, Prudential
Insurance Company, Newark, N.J.;
RICHARD SOMERVILLE, transportation program
coordinator, Texas Medical Center, Houston,
Tex.;
STAN STOKEY, Tennessee Valley Authority;
JEANNETTE WILLIAMS, city council member,
Seattle, Wash.
Hungarian Americans
Statement by the President.
October 25, 1979
I want to take the opportunity of this
visit to New Brunswick to salute our many
citizens of Hungarian heritage. While re-
taining strong attachments to their 1,000-
year-old homeland, Hungarian Americans
have made outstanding contributions to
the welfare and the cultural richness of
our Nation.
Early this year we commemorated the
bicentennial of the death of Col. Michael
Kovats de Fabricy, a hero of our Revo-
lutionary War who died while defending
Charleston, South Carolina, from occupa-
tion by British forces. Colonel de Fabricy's
heroism symbolized the centuries-old de-
votion of Hungarians to freedom and lib-
erty. Many of us recall vividly the tragic
events of 1956 and the spirit that inspired
them 23 years ago this week.
Although we continue to have dis-
agreements with the present Hungarian
Government over many questions of polit-
ical freedom and basic human and social
values, our relations have improved sub-
stantially. One important move in this im-
provement was the return of the Crown
of Saint Stephen to the Hungarian people
in January 1978. As a result, the thou-
sand-year-old crown is back in its ances-
tral homeland, on dignified public display
where it can be seen by Hungarians and
persons of Hungarian descent from
around the world.
East Rutherford, New Jersey
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner for
Democratic State Legislative Candidates.
October 25, 1979
Governor Byrne, Chairman Coffee, dis-
tinguished leaders of the State legislature,
distinguished Members of your fine con-
gressional delegation, Democrats, and my
friends:
It's always a pleasure for me to come
back to New Jersey. I like a State like
yours: two Democratic Senators, a strong
Democratic congressional delegation, a
Democratic House, a Democratic Senate,
a Democratic Governor, a Democratic
President and you know the proper role
for the Republicans to play-that is a mi-
nority role. [Laughter] You've got to keep
them that way.
2024
