Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 15
a nation that is at peace tonight every-
where in the world, with unmatched eco-
nomic power and military might.
The threat is nearly invisible in ordi-
nary ways. It is a crisis of confidence. It
is a crisis that strikes at the very heart and
soul and spirit of our national will. We can
see this crisis in the growing doubt about
the meaning of our own lives and in the
loss of a unity of purpose for our Nation.
The erosion of our confidence in the
future is threatening to destroy the social
and the political fabric of America.
The confidence that we have always
had as a people is not simply some roman-
tic dream or a proverb in a dusty book
that we read just on the Fourth of July. It
is the idea which founded our Nation and
has guided our development as a people.
Confidence in the future has supported
everything else-public institutions and
private enterprise, our own families, and
the very Constitution of the United States.
Confidence has defined our course and has
served as a link between generations.
We've always believed in something called
progress. We've always had a faith that the
days of our children would be better than
our own.
Our people are losing that faith, not
only in government itself but in the ability
as citizens to serve as the ultimate rulers
and shapers of our democracy. As a peo-
ple we know our past and we are proud of
it. Our progress has been part of the liv-
ing history of America, even the world.
We always believed that we were part of
a great movement of humanity itself called
democracy, involved in the search for
freedom, and that belief has always
strengthened us in our purpose. But just
as we are losing our confidence in the fu-
ture, we are also beginning to close the
door on our past.
In a nation that was proud of hard
work, strong families, close-knit communi-
ties, and our faith in God, too many of us
now tend to worship self-indulgence and
consumption. Human identity is no longer
defined by what one does, but by what one
owns. But we've discovered that owning
things and consuming things does not
satisfy our longing for meaning. We've
learned that piling up material goods can-
not fill the emptiness of lives which have
no confidence or purpose.
The symptoms of this crisis of the Amer-
ican spirit are all around us. For the first
time in the history of our country a ma-
jority of our people believe that the next
5 years will be worse than the past 5 years.
Two-thirds of our people do not even vote.
The productivity of American workers is
actually dropping, and the willingness of
Americans to save for the future has fallen
below that of all other people in the West-
ern world.
As you know, there is a growing disre-
spect for government and for churches
and for schools, the news media, and other
institutions. This is not a message of hap-
piness or reassurance, but it is the truth
and it is a warning.
These changes did not happen over-
night. They've come upon us gradually
over the last generation, years that were
filled with shocks and tragedy.
We were sure that ours was a nation
of the ballot, not the bullet, until the
murders of John Kennedy and Robert
Kennedy and Martin Luther King, Jr.
We were taught that our armies were al-
ways invincible and our causes were al-
ways just, only to suffer the agony of Viet-
nam. We respected the Presidency as a
place of honor until the shock of Water-
gate.
We remember when the phrase "sound
as a dollar" was an expression of absolute
dependability, until 10 years of inflation
began to shrink our dollar and our sav-
ings. We believed that our Nation's re-
1237
