Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Our nations are linked by both border
and by destiny, by blood kinship and by a
love of freedom. Both of us have thrown
off colonial rule. Our ancestors know
what it means to go from oppression to
liberty. The relationships between our two
countries have not always been happy,
nor always peaceful. Some differences in
the past, unfortunately, have even been
settled by bloodshed. Some differences
even in our own lifetime have been too
long ignored or hidden. Now I believe
that these troubled and uncertain times
between our two countries are gone for-
ever. If we lead well, we can write a new
and a long history of peace, friendship,
cooperation, and understanding between
our people.
We are determined that our dialog will
always be creative, that our negotiations
will be frank and fair and mature and
productive, that we will solve problems so
that our people will have a better quality
of life, and that together, through leader-
ship, we can benefit the people of other
nations.
When I had the honor to speak to the
members of the Mexican Congress, I
quoted the words of your great leader,
Benito Juarez, that are inscribed on the
walls of the Chamber of Deputies. The
people of your country-through televi-
sion, thanks to you-heard these words,
but I would like the citizens of my coun-
try to hear them tonight here in the White
House. Entre los individuos, como entre
las naciónes, el respeto al derecho hu-
mano es la paz.
INTERPRETER. Between individuals, as
between nations, respect for the rights of
others is peace.
President Carter. Very good. [Laugh-
ter] I might say that that is a perfect trans-
lation. [Laughter]
And in that spirit, ladies and gentle-
men, that between nations and between
individuals there can be a perfect peace,
I would like to offer a toast—without
wine, but with water, and we'll drink wine
later on to the President of Mexico, to
the family which he has brought here,
both official and personal, to peace be-
tween our two countries, to better under-
standing throughout the world, and to
the people of Mexico.
[At this point, there was a brief pause as wine
was served.]
If I could have your attention again,
just to make sure that the toast is authen-
ticated [laughter]—I would like to again
offer a toast to the President of a great
country and to the people of Mexico.
Welcome to our Nation.
PRESIDENT LÓPEZ PORTILLO. Mr. Pres-
ident of the United States and Mrs.
Carter:
For me, for my family and the mem-
bers of my party, it is a great honor to
meet again for the third time.
Our two peoples feel great security in
the fact that since we are neighbors, the
two Presidents of the two countries can
meet as frequently as we do. To commu-
nicate is actually to open up the possi-
bility of a peaceful coexistence, to live
together. Communication is a guarantee
of human coexistence.
For me, it is a great satisfaction to
communicate with the President of the
United States for the third time, to be
able to once again witness the enormous
values that he holds in himself as a hu-
man being his generosity and his brave-
ness. For me, President Carter, it is a
great pleasure to see you again and a
great honor to take up, once again, the
very serious matters in the very open way
in which we have dealt with them.
Today we could see that we were not
mistaken when we decided upon a cer-
tain way of work between the two coun-
1782
