Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 4
the struggle for human rights throughout for a secure nation, for a just society, and
the world.
for a peaceful world—and I intend to
carry on this struggle as President of the
United States.
Our superb system of government and
our great natural and human resources
give us the strength and the flexibility to
meet rapidly changing times. The world
of the 1980's will be as different from
the world of 1960 as 1960 was from the
world of the 1930's. As we enter the next
decade, the work that we've begun to-
gether will let us meet even the most seri-
ous challenges. What we do now will bring
us safely and at an even better time of
peace and security, if we have the deter-
mination to see it through and if we have
the courage to continue making the hard
decisions.
In these difficult times, our greatest
single ally is the truth. As President and
as a candidate, I will continue to ask
you
to join me in looking squarely at the truth.
I will continue to talk sense to the Amer-
ican people. Only by facing up to the
world as it is can we lift ourselves toward
a better future. There is no such thing
as cheap energy, and never will be; that
is the truth. We cannot wish our way out
of inflation; that is the truth. We cannot
spend our way out of every problem; that
is the truth. We cannot toss aside a gen-
eration's work, patient work in the con-
trol of nuclear power, nuclear explosives,
nuclear bombs; and that is the truth. We
cannot have peace without a strong de-
fense; that is also the truth.
If we act together in the unifying spirit
of our deep and unchanging values, we
can triumph together, and that is the most
important truth of all.
With the support of the American
people, I propose to carry on the struggle
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:32 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House to members of
the President's family, the Cabinet, the White
House and Carter/Mondale Presidential Com-
mittee staffs, and campaign volunteers.
1980 Democratic Presidential
Nomination
Remarks Concerning Candidacy and
Campaign Plans. December 2, 1979
Good evening.
Today I announced my candidacy for
reelection, and so I speak to you tonight
as President of the United States of
America and also as a candidate. This is
a paid political statement, but it is not
a campaign speech.
Our American political system-one of
the great miracles in the history of civil-
ized human activity-runs on a schedule.
My announcement could not be post-
poned. In just a few days, those who
would enter early State primary contests
must file as candidates, and then those of
us who run for President must stand be-
fore the people for election.
During the campaign, we will take our
record to you-what we have done in the
past and what we propose for our Na-
tion's future. We will be talking about
a nation strong and at peace, about our
demonstrated willingness to face tough
problems with courage, about jobs pro-
vided for our people, and about restoring
2193
