Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
of a governmentwide review initiated by
my 1977 Environmental Message, I am
now directing the appropriate federal
agencies to modify as soon as possible their
existing pest management research, con-
trol, education, and assistance programs
and to support and adopt IPM strategies
wherever practicable. I am also directing
federal agencies to report on actions taken
or underway to implement IPM programs,
and to coordinate their efforts through an
interagency group.
III. URBAN QUALITY
Our cities give us diversity and enjoy-
ment, occupations and avocations, shop-
ping and services, recreation and culture.
By strengthening the health of our urban
environment, we broaden the range of
opportunities open to all of our citizens,
as I emphasized in my National Urban
Policy Message last year. The invest-
ments we make in maintaining and im-
proving urban quality particularly those
involving federal taxpayer dollars can
be designed to meet environmental objec-
tives, such as safe, convenient, well-plan-
ned public transportation, quieter com-
munities, and assistance in mediating
potential conflicts between healthy urban
economies and environments. The initia-
tives I am proposing today will help to
achieve these goals.
Transportation Policy
Our transportation systems can greatly
affect the Nation's environment, for bet-
ter or worse, especially in our cities. For
many years, our energy and other re-
sources were so plentiful that the Federal
government encouraged the rapid expan-
sion of a transportation system based on
the private automobile without fully con-
sidering the profound effects on our re-
sources, our urban environments, and our
way of life. Although we have developed
an extraordinary transportation system,
we have missed opportunities in the past
to improve transportation and at the same
time to achieve these other national
objectives.
The United States has built the most
extensive and complex transportation sys-
tem in the world. Federal transportation
expenditures exceed $17 billion annually,
including $12 billion in grants to state and
local agencies. Transportation consumes
approximately 53 percent of all petroleum
used in the U.S. The energy and cost ad-
vantages of using this system more effi-
ciently-for example, by greater use of
carpools, vanpools and mass transit-are
now obvious. Better design and use of
transportation systems will also help to
save and strengthen our cities and their
amenities and to reduce air and noise pol-
lution. Thus transportation decisions can
help to conserve limited resources, and to
further our energy, fiscal, and urban
environmental goals.
Federal transportation decisions cannot
escape difficult choices among competing
objectives, but they must be guided by
new transportation policies which I am
establishing for my Administration. Ur-
ban transportation programs and projects
should be reoriented to meet environmen-
tal, energy and urban revitalization goals.
I am therefore directing the Department
to take immediate actions to assure that:
• federal transportation funds are used
to promote energy conservation, for
example through special lanes for
carpools, vanpools and transit
vehicles;
encouragement is given to using fed-
eral funds for public transportation
projects;
1369
