Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 24
those 8 years—a time of bloodshed and
failure, a time of embarrassment for our
country, a time of division and discourage-
ment, a time of despair and alienation.
I think that the tradition which we
cherish is now perhaps more alive in the
hearts and minds of all Americans than
any time in history, at least about which
I know. I'd like to look at just a few
minutes at that tradition.
I believe in hard work; Democrats
believe in hard work. I and other Demo-
crats believe that Americans have a right
to a job, to support oneself in dignity and
with self-respect. Working together during
this last 33 months, we have realized that
expectation; we've lived up to that tradi-
tion; we've helped Americans realize those
hopes.
Despite the economic problems and dis-
couragements that we inherited, we live
in a country today with the highest level
of employment and the highest percent-
age of its work force employed than any
time in history. And that's a record of
which Franklin Delano Roosevelt and
Harry S. Truman and John Fitzgerald
Kennedy and Lyndon Baines Johnson
would all have been proud. It is a record
that every one of us here can share, be-
cause we did it together.
And I particularly want to recognize
the Democratic Congress. I'm waiting for
the end of this term and the beginning of
the campaign year, when the American
people and the news media, for a change,
will accurately assess what we have pro-
posed, what we've fought for, and what
we have achieved. And I believe that there
has never been a list of more controversial
and difficult proposals made to the Con-
gress than have been made this last 3
years. And I believe that the record will
show at the end of this term that even
during those halcyon days when Lyndon
Johnson, after a time of tragedy, became
President, that there will not have been a
better record of White House and Capitol
Hill cooperation and achievement for the
American people than we have seen dur-
ing this first 3 years of my term.
There's something else we've been
working on. It's been mentioned twice to-
night already, but I want to make it clear,
because I happen to be the President and
I want the words to come from me. For
the first time in 40 years, I'm a President
that has seen our Nation completely at
peace, not a single loss of life, and I thank
God for that. And I hope I can leave this
office, which you've given to me, with that
record still intact.
It is not an accident. I don't take credit
for it myself. The American people are
deeply committed to peace. But along
with that, there has to be peace not just
for Americans. We've used our strength
and our influence, our national will, our
political courage not only to avoid war for
ourselves but to pursue fundamental hu-
man principles for ourselves, yes, and also
for others.
Today, after long years of bloody and
bitter warfare, Israel and Egypt are at
peace. They are working together because
of the United States. Who would have
believed this possible 3 years ago? You
cannot imagine-or perhaps you can-
what a thrill goes through my soul when
I see on television Anwar Sadat steaming
into the harbor at Haifa in an Egyptian
ship, escorted by Israeli ships and planes,
American warships standing at a proper
distance offshore, and tens of thousands
of men, women, and children on the
streets to welcome their former enemy
with open arms and open hearts and a
pledge of friendship, which is so valuable
now to them both.
And I believe this period in the search
for a permanent peace in the Middle
East-it's good not to intrude ourselves
2017
