Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 10
Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare
Nomination of Nathan J. Stark To Be
Under Secretary. October 10, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Nathan J. Stark, of
Pittsburgh, Pa., to be Under Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare. He
would replace Hale Champion, resigned.
Stark is vice chancellor for health pro-
fessions at the University of Pittsburgh
and president of the University Health
Center of Pittsburgh.
He was born November 9, 1920, in
Minneapolis, Minn. He received a B.S.
from the U.S. Merchant Marine Acad-
emy in 1943 and a J.D. from Chicago
Kent College of Law in 1947. He served
in the U.S. Merchant Marine from 1942
to 1945.
From 1953 to 1954, Stark practiced
law, and from 1954 to 1959, he was vice
president of the Rival Manufacturing
Co. From 1959 to 1974, he was senior
vice president of Hallmark Cards, Inc.
From 1971 to 1974, he was chairman of
the board and chief executive of Crown
Center Redevelopment Corp. He has
been at the University of Pittsburgh since
1974.
Stark was treasurer of the Kansas City
Area Hospital Association from 1950 to
1967 and chairman of the Kansas City
Metropolitan Hospital Planning Council
from 1957 to 1967.
Stark has served on a number of na-
tional panels concerned with health serv-
ices, including the Secretary of HEW's
Task Force on Medicaid and Related
Programs. He has been a consultant to
several university medical schools and
other organizations.
Kirtland Air Force Base,
New Mexico
Remarks on Arrival. October 10, 1979
New Mexico is indeed one of the most
beautiful places on Earth, and I am very
glad to be back here with you.
New Mexico is not only beautiful, but
you have superb leaders in Bruce King,
Mayor David Rusk, and others who have
served and are serving with them, among
people who are also so friendly that I'll
never forget the first time I came here.
Bruce was talking about the 3 inches of
snow that I just left in Washington. The
first time I came to Albuquerque, I was
going with Alice King to the State Fair,
and it rained 3 inches on us and she and
I had to swim out of the State Fair-
grounds' gates. That was all the rain you
got that year in 1974. It came on me in
one afternoon.
This is an airport full of New Mexico
hospitality. And I'm here to meet with
the Governors of the Western States, with
Bruce King as the host, to talk about
some issues that are very important to
everyone here. We're going to talk about
a way to preserve the quality of life of the
people who live in this beautiful State,
not only now but throughout eternity.
I believe in the preservation of the
beauty of your State, and I believe in the
purity of air and the quality of water.
And I'm convinced that this Nation,
working with you here, can have pros-
perity, stable but steady economic growth,
a cooperation between local and State
and Federal employees and leaders and
people and, at the same time, tap the
tremendous offerings that you have for
yourselves and for the rest of the country.
This is the land of opportunity. You've
1851
