Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
I've been President, they've moved thou-
sands of troops into Ethiopia. They have
troops in many other countries in Africa.
So, because of the combination of Soviet
support and Cuba acting as a Soviet pup-
pet, this does create a great concern for us.
There is, however, no threat to our Na-
tion's security.
We are now trying, through diplomacy,
to get the Soviets to eliminate the combat
nature of this unit, and I don't know yet
whether we will succeed. If we do not
succeed, we will take appropriate action
to change the status quo.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT'S REELECTION CAMPAIGN
Q. My name is Anthony Cerami. I'm a
senior in St. John's University in New
York.
The President. What was your name?
Q. Anthony Cerami. I was a 1976
Carter supporter. Off the record of your
administration, I totally expect to support
you again in 1980 if you decide to run. I
think you've made some tough, sometimes
unpopular decisions for the good and the
great and long-range good for the Amer-
ican people.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Anthony.
Q. My question is-
THE PRESIDENT. I was hoping you
wouldn't ask a question. [Laughter]
Q. —if you run again, do you intend
to emulate your 1976 strategy of running
in every Presidential primary? Because
there has been talk that if you lose-in
some of the newspapers-that if you lose
some of the early Northeastern primaries,
you will drop out. Will you run in every
primary? Because there's a lot of people
out here who want to support you.
THE PRESIDENT. I have never backed
down in the face of adversity. I won some
primaries and lost some primaries in 1976.
And if I become a candidate later on this
year, I would intend to run in every
primary.
Q. Thank you very much. Good luck.
The President. Thank you.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN THE CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRY
Q. Good evening, Mr. President. Wel-
come to the Borough of Queens. My name
is Noel Casey. I am a resident of Wood-
side, Queens. I'm an active member of the
Carpenters Union, Local 608.
I would like to know what your admin-
istration is going to do about the high un-
employment in the construction industry
in New York City, in projects such as the
South Bronx, Westway, Battery Park, and
the convention center. Now that we're
going to have the 1980 Democratic con-
vention in New York, we don't even have
a convention center. That's my question,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I see. Well, Mr. Casey,
it's hard to answer your question specifi-
cally, but in the construction industry, we
have seen employment increase about 25
percent in the last 22 years. I don't claim
credit for all of that, but I think we have
had a massive program for public works,
for local public works, and as you know,
we've had an average of more than 1.8
million homes built each year since I've
been in office.
What we would do in the future is hard
now to ascertain. We have a broad range
of things that can be done. If we see the
unemployment rate begin to go up dra-
matically in the construction industry or
others, I'm not predicting that we'll do
any of these things, but we could obviously
repeat the great success we had in 1977
with local public works programs.
1755
