Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 24
United States Jaycees
Remarks at a Meeting With Members of the
Executive Committee and State Presidents.
September 24, 1979
That's the same kind of reception I get
from the Washington press corps at my
press conferences. [Laughter]
President Bechtol and distinguished
leaders of the U.S. Jaycees:
It's an honor and a pleasure for me to
welcome you here. I owe you a lot. Not
only have you helped me in extremely dif-
ficult times, such as the passing of the
Panama Canal treaty legislation last year,
but you've been in the forefront of many
other challenging issues, because you've
got a lot of courage, you're well-orga-
nized, you're dynamic and aggressive,
you're strong and patriotic, and as Jaycees
you're united in serving your country.
And I'm grateful to you for it.
Also, I would not be living in this house
had I not, as a young, budding student
of Georgia politics, gone to the State Jay-
cee conventions to see how the elections
were conducted. [Laughter] Last election,
in '76, when the going got tough, I re-
membered those days, and the memories
came flooding back to me. And I was able,
in those final, elbowing phases of the cam-
paign for President, to win, because I re-
membered what I'd learned from you.
Tomorrow you'll get a briefing on the
SALT treaties from Dr. Brzezinski and
perhaps others, but today I want to talk
to you about a challenge that's as serious
any that has faced our country. We've
got a strong nation and a great nation, as
you so well know and as you so well rep-
resent. And as you also know, down
through history our country, when it's
been challenged, has responded success-
fully. We have never failed to meet a diffi-
cult challenge or to overcome an obstacle
or to answer a question or to solve a prob-
lem, provided we could detect and under-
stand the challenge to our country.
As I said many times on my trip down
the river to small and large groups that
assembled along the shoreline, in World
War I, World War II, even the Great De-
pression, Americans could see the chal-
lenge to our country. And in understand-
ing the challenge, we responded. We put
aside differences. We developed a respect
for our own governments. Families united,
communities united, and in spite of adver-
sity, America became a nation which
could work together. Now we've got a
challenge that's not so easy to see. It's just
as important.
My prime responsibility as President,
above all others, is to guarantee the secu-
rity of my country, your country. And our
security is threatened now, because we
are overly dependent on imported oil. We
import about one-half the total oil we use.
We export about $70 billion this year-
American money-to pay for that oil, and
along with the oil, we import inflation
and unemployment and dependence on
an uncertain supply at an uncontrollable
price. The last 3 or 4 months, for instance,
the inflation rate would have been almost
exactly constant. It would not have
changed a quarter of 1 percent had it not
been for energy. But oil, because of OPEC
decisions, is going up, this last 3 months,
at an annual rate of inflation of 100 per-
cent.
Our country has never had an energy
policy. Decisions have always been made
in the Congress primarily as the oil com-
panies chose and I don't criticize them
because of it-because there never was a
reason until recently for others, con-
sumers, to rally and say something has
got to be done to give our Nation a clear
concept of where we go in the future on
energy.
1723
