Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dolton, Illinois
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Townhall Meeting. October 16, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
thank my good friend, Marty Russo, for
that wonderful introduction.
In 1974, a little bit earlier in the year
than this, I was Governor of Georgia, and
this district had an incumbent Congress-
man. I won't say which party he repre-
sented. But I heard way down in Georgia
about a fine young man who was running
for Congress for the first time. And I left
Georgia and came up here and went to
the VFW club just a couple blocks from
here. They told me they may not have but
50 or 75 people there it was a fairly
small building—but there were six or
seven hundred local citizens packed in
that place, not to see me, because I was
an unknown Governor, but to see Marty
Russo. You've been good to him, and he's
been good to this district and good to the
country.
The most important thing I know of as
President is, in times of trouble and chal-
lenge, in times when our Nation might
even be in danger, in times when people's
lives are changing very rapidly and people
are concerned about their own families,
to tap the tremendous strength of this
country, the strength that comes from a
knowledge of one another, a confidence in
our neighbors, and a confidence in the
future. And it's very important—[inter-
ruption from the audience]. Free country.
I think you can hear me okay. It's very im-
portant for us in this country when we do
have trials to rally together.
I was in Chicago last night standing
on the decks of Delta Queen No. 2 with a
great mayor, and we had one of the most
remarkable political events that I have
ever known about-12,000 people came
to show their confidence in local govern-
ment, their confidence in a superb new
mayor, and an appreciation of what Chi-
cago has been in the past, is now, and
will be in the future.
I've come to listen to your questions
and to give you the best answers I can.
It's a pleasure to be here. You've honored
me by letting us meet together. And now,
I'd like to turn to the first questioner, and
if you'll give me your name and the ques-
tion, I'll be glad to try to answer.
QUESTIONS
POPE JOHN PAUL II
Q. My name is Father Al Pizza. I'm
from St. George, in Tenley Park. First of
all, I just feel fortunate to be able to tell
you I think you're doing a fantastic job.
I think you have an impossible job, and
I would wish sometimes that the news
media would give you an even break.
My question has to do with-it's an
easy question for you, I think.
THE PRESIDENT. You can stop right
there to be safe. [Laughter]
Q. It has to do with the Pope's visit.
He drew millions of people around our
country, and I was wondering what your
personal thoughts would be about the ef-
fects he's going to have in the long range
around the world with, especially, maybe
in Communist countries. Do you think
he is going to be able to change people or
change the attitudes, maybe lift the
apathy and the cynicism and things like
that, along those lines? If we could just
maybe hear your thoughts on that.
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, as Presi-
dent, I was extremely interested in hav-
ing the Pope come here to begin with.
I extended him a personal invitation last
1940
