Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
ion, are a very hopeful prospect for the
future.
I'd like to again express my thanks to
the distinguished panelists who have been
so kind as to acquaint us with some few
facets of energy technology potentials for
the future and also to express my thanks
to all those who participated with this.
I will personally follow up with Dr.
Press, my science and technology adviser,
with Charles Duncan, the new Secretary
of Energy, the other members of my ad-
ministration, in the ideas that have been
presented here, and others that come
to me.
And I'm very grateful for the chance
to live in a country that's been so gener-
ously endowed with natural resources
and with the free enterprise system, and a
system of society that lets the innovation
of individuals contribute collectively to
reaching an exalted and very important
goal.
The rest of the world is watching us. I
think many of the less developed nations
and even the advanced Western nations
will naturally defer to us in some of these
areas, and when I meet with other leaders,
in economic summit conferences and on a
bilateral basis, I always explore the possi-
bility for cooperation. There's no restraint
on the exchange of basic research data
even when it applies to automotive design,
for instance, which is a highly competi-
tive field. And I found them to be very
excited about it.
The solvent refining processes for coal
that might be explored in the near future
in West Virginia and Kentucky, for in-
stance—at least in West Virginia—will be
jointly financed by Japan and Germany.
This shows that there can be an exchange
of both financing and scientific and tech-
nical data across international boundary
lines. So, the possibilities are broad, and I
think we can legitimately keep our hopes
up that we will triumph in this very chal-
lenging test of our Nation's will and
capability.
Thank you all for letting me be part of
it. I've learned a lot. I know everyone here
has, too.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The portion of the energy seminar which
the President attended began at 10 a.m. in the
Fred B. Wenn Student Center ballroom at the
Georgia Institute of Technology.
Following the seminar, the President met
with the executive committee of the National
Conference of Democratic Mayors at the stu-
dent center.
Atlanta, Georgia
Remarks at Emory University.
August 30, 1979
As I'm sure all of you have surmised,
coming back to Georgia and to this setting
returns to me overwhelming memories of
my past. As I sat here on this delightful
day, I was reminded of the cottonfields in
Sumter County during August when I was
a boy, but Emory has added a new dimen-
sion I particularly appreciate this de-
lightful, insulated robe that they've pro-
vided for me to give this speech. [Laugh-
ter]
President Laney, I'm delighted to be
here on your campus and the campus of
the faculty and students and the alumni
of a great university. It's always good to
go to a college campus and know that the
president is popular. I was overwhelmed
with the degree of popularity when, at the
luncheon which I attended-not quite
long enough to eat-President Laney got
almost as much applause when they men-
tioned his name as when they mentioned
the name of Coca-Cola. [Laughter] That
is my tribute, indeed.
1561
