Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 29
Providence, Rhode Island
Remarks at the Northeast Summit on Energy.
October 29, 1979
Governor Brendan Byrne, Governor
Grasso, other members of this group, who
are distinguished leaders throughout the
northeastern part of our country:
I can't think of any more appropriate
subject for a summit conference anywhere
in our Nation and particularly in this part
of our country than you have chosen.
Summits are ordinarily called when there
is a matter of grave significance to a na-
tion or to a group of nations.
I had a summit meeting with President
Brezhnev in Vienna not long ago to talk
about the peace of our generation
throughout the world and the control of
nuclear weapons. There was an economic
summit earlier this year in Tokyo, when
the leaders of seven industrialized and
democratic nations met to talk about the
future of the Western World.
And today we are addressing a subject
that is equally as important, because there
are two things involved: One is the well-
being of the people of our country, and
the other is the security of our Nation.
I don't make a statement like that lightly.
When a President, the Commander in
Chief of our Armed Forces, says that the
security of our Nation is at stake, the
words should be chosen carefully, and I
choose them very carefully.
Our Nation has become overly depend-
ent on foreign oil. This is a subject of
grave importance to us.
In January of 1973, oil was selling free-
ly around the world about $2 a barrel;
that's about 6 or 7 years ago. Now oil
prices are more than 10 times as great; on
the spot market, 20 times as great, about
$40 per barrel.
We rely on an uncertain source. We im-
port half the oil we use. Along with oil,
we import inflation and unemployment.
Next year we will send from our country
to foreign oil suppliers $70 billion. Think
of the jobs and investment and a better
life for the American people that could be
bought with that kind of money.
Inflation is an all-pervasive burden on
the American people. The driving force
behind inflation is our overdependence on
oil and the high prices paid for it. Four
percentage points of our present inflation
rate are directly attributable to one item-
energy. If it weren't for the rapid increase
in energy costs in the last 6 or 8 months,
the inflation rate now would be the same
as it was in 1978 or the same as it was in
1977.
The people of our country are losing
confidence in the future, because they see
that we rely on an undependable source
which provides oil for a thirsty nation at
uncontrollable prices. This is a very seri-
ous subject, and the fact that all of you
would assemble here is proof that you
agree with me about my expression of
concern.
In April of 1977, about 90 days after
I had been sworn in as President, I pre-
sented to the people and to the Congress
an analysis of the energy question and pre-
sented also to the Congress a proposal for
a comprehensive national policy on en-
ergy. Mine was a lonely voice. I referred
to the energy problem as the moral equiv-
alent of war. This statement was ridiculed
by the press, discounted by many people
in our country.
And after a year and a half the Con-
gress, after one of the most divisive and
bitter and difficult debates in the history
of our Nation, finally passed last year
about 65 percent of the energy package
that I had presented to them—not one
word, however, about oil; not one word.
2055
