Oct. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
his own Presidency. His death impover-
ished not only statecraft but literature
as well. But in this building behind me,
the work of reflection and evaluation of
what he did can now be done very well
by others.
President Kennedy understood the past
and respected its shaping of the future.
Yet he was very much a man of his own
time. The first President born in this cen-
tury, he embodied the ideals of a genera-
tion as few public figures have ever done
in the history of the Earth. He summoned
our Nation out of complacency, and he
set it on a path of excitement and hope.
The accomplishments of this thousand
days, as you well know, are notable,
though his Presidency was too short for
him to finish all the tasks that he set for
himself. We honor him not just for the
things he completed but for the things he
set in motion, the energies that he releas-
ed, and the ideas and the ideals which he
espoused.
President Kennedy took office under-
standing that the texture of social and
economic life of our Nation and our peo-
ple was changing, and that our Nation
and our people would have to change
with it. "Change is the law of life," he
once said. "And those who look only to the
past or the present are certain to miss the
future." He had a vision of how America
could meet and master the forces of
change that he saw around him.
President Kennedy entered the White
House convinced that racial and religious
discrimination was morally indefensible.
Later, that conviction became a passion
for him, a passion that his brother Robert
shared and, as his son has so well said,
carried forward.
As a southerner, as a Georgian, I saw at
first hand how the moral leadership of the
Kennedy administration helped to undo
the wrongs that grew out of our Nation's
history. Today the problem of human
rights in the United States is shifting from
inequality of legal rights to inequality of
opportunity. But the question of legal
rights is not yet settled.
We are all Americans, we are all chil-
dren of the same God. Racial violence
and racial hatred can have no place
among us in the South or in the North.
The moral imperative of the Kennedy ad-
ministration, indeed, still remains with us.
President Kennedy sought to move our
foreign policy beyond the sterility of the
cold war. He never failed to uphold
liberty, and he never failed to condemn
tyranny; yet he saw very clearly that the
threat of nuclear destruction had created
the need for mutual accommodation with
our potential adversaries. He warned
against the nation and a world turned into
"a prison in which man awaits his execu-
tioner."
When the nuclear test ban treaty was
signed in 1963, he voiced the hope-
though he dared not yet voice the anticipa-
tion or expectation that there would
someday be controls on the numbers and
the types of nuclear weapons. Now the
SALT II treaty can redeem that hope. Its
ratification will be a further fulfillment of
the needs of all humanity.
President Kennedy knew that the fu-
ture of freedom would be increasingly
bound up with social, political, and eco-
nomic justice in what has since become
known as the Third World. His one bold
expression of this vision was the Peace
Corps, which, with its combination of
activism,
activism, idealism, and adventure,
summed up so many of John Kennedy's
virtues.
I'm proud that this kind of commit-
ment has now been vigorously renewed
and that America once again holds out her
hand to the poor, the silenced, and op-
pressed of every country in the world.
1980
