Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Commerce will also expand its tradi-
tional trade policy focus on industrial is-
sues to deal with the international trade
and investment problems of our grow-
ing services sector. Under the proposal,
there will be comprehensive service in-
dustry representation in our industry ad-
visory process, as well as a continuing
effort to bring services under interna-
tional discipline. I expect the Commerce
Department to play a major role in de-
veloping new service sector initiatives for
consideration within the Government.
After an investigation lasting over a
year, I have found that this reorganiza-
tion is necessary to carry out the policy
set forth in section 901 (a) of title 5 of
the United States Code. As described
above, this reorganization will increase
significantly our ability to implement the
MTN agreements efficiently and effec-
tively and will improve greatly the serv-
ices of the government with regard to
export development. These improvements
will be achieved with no increase in per-
sonnel or expenditures, except for an an-
nual expense of about $300,000 for the
salaries and clerical support of the three
additional senior Commerce Department
officials and a non-recurring expense of
approximately $600,000 in connection
with the transfers of functions provided
in the plan. I find that the reorganization
made by this plan makes necessary the
provisions for the appointment and pay
of a Deputy Secretary, an Under Secre-
tary for International Trade, and two
additional Assistant Secretaries of the De-
partment of Commerce, and additional
members of the Boards of Directors of the
Export-Import Bank and the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation.
It is indeed appropriate that this pro-
posal follows so soon after the overwhelm-
ing approval by the Congress of the Trade
Agreements Act of 1979, for it will
sharpen and unify trade policy direction,
improve the efficiency of trade law en-
forcement, and enable us to negotiate
abroad from a position of strength. The
extensive discussions between Adminis-
tration officials and the Congress on this
plan have been a model of the kind of
cooperation that can exist between the
two branches. I look forward to our fur-
ther cooperation in successfully imple-
menting both this reorganization proposal
and the MTN agreements.
The White House,
September 25, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 3 OF 1979
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representatives
in Congress assembled, September 25, 1979,
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 9 of
title 5 of the United States Code.
REORGANIZATION OF FUNCTIONS RELATING
TO INTERNATIONAL TRADE
SECTION 1. Office of the United States
Trade Representative
(a) The Office of the Special Repre-
sentative for Trade Negotiations is redes-
ignated the Office of the United States
Trade Representative.
(b) (1) The Special Representative for
Trade Negotiations is redesignated the
United States Trade Representative
(hereinafter referred to as the "Trade
Representative"). The Trade Repre-
sentative shall have primary responsibility,
with the advice of the interagency organi-
zation established under section 242 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C.
1872) (hereinafter referred to as the
"Committee"), for developing, and for
coordinating the implementation of,
United States international trade policy,
1734
