Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 27
President, I'll have this chance, but we
want to keep a strong family in any
circumstances.
SOUTHEAST ASIAN REFUGEES
Q. Let me ask you a rather serious
question. With the slogan of rectifying the
united society after Vietnam war and the
Watergate, you came to the White House
as the first President from the South after
the Civil War. What I was most interested
was that you have advocated human
rights on the diplomatic front and also
zero [base] budget for domestic budget.
You've also sent letters to Sakharov in the
Soviet Union, and you have also seriously
worked for the Agreement of Helsinki.
At the same time, you have with unfail-
ing belief of democracy been working vis-
a-vis Nicaragua and Zimbabwe-Rhodesia,
and I would like to express my full respect
to you.
Now, today we are faced with energy
and other important problems. As the
leader of the democratic world on ques-
tions of assistance to less developed coun-
tries, on questions of Vietnamese refugees,
I hope you will play an even greater role.
And I wonder if I could have some of your
views on these questions.
THE PRESIDENT. The people of Japan
and the people of the United States enjoy
great privileges of freedom and democ-
racy which others do not enjoy. My own
belief is that we should take a bold stand
in encouraging the basic human rights of
freedom and liberty and proper attention
to the worth of each individual human be-
ing no matter how powerful or weak, no
matter how rich or poor, no matter how
influential or well recognized they might
be. I have tried to let the United States
be one of the leading lights of the en-
hancement of human rights throughout
the world.
I have already met twice with Prime
Minister Ohira and other leaders of
Japan to explore ways to alleviate the
present intense problem of the tens of
thousands of refugees who are coming out
of Vietnam because of oppressive policies
of the Vietnam Government.
Of all the refugees who now leave Asia,
the United States receives about 70 per-
cent of them, and we also provide very
heavily financial resources for the United
Nations and for others who attempt to
deal with this increasing problem. Japan
has been very generous in financial con-
tributions, but because of the homogene-
ous nature of your own society, Japan has
not yet decided to receive very many of
the Vietnam refugees.
With the other Western democratic
leaders, this will be the number two item
on the agenda, along with energy the
most important thing we will discuss. I
hope that the United Nations will very
quickly arouse interest among all 150 na-
tions on Earth to receive a large number
or a small number of the refugees and that
all of us might focus our criticism or in-
fluence on Vietnam to relieve this grow-
ing problem at its source.
I think the humane treatment of these
refugees is a major responsibility for me
as President. We have been taking about
7,000 per month. We have already re-
ceived 220,000 of the refugees from Viet-
nam and Southeast Asia. We are prepared
to take even more, and I will be joining
in with Prime Minister Ohira and others
to make this a worldwide effort to allevi-
ate this very serious human problem.
Thank you for your very good question.
PRESIDENT'S EDUCATION
Q. My name is Matsaki Imati. I'm a
ninth grader. When you were in junior
high school, I wonder if you've ever been
scolded by your teacher, and what sort of
1173
