Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
T
In addition, I recognized that the 1968
National Trails System Act is designed
to promote the development of recrea-
tional, scenic, and historic trails for per-
sons of diverse interests and abilities-in-
cluding the young, the handicapped, and
the aged-and that the National Trails
System is in its fledgling stage. The Act
provides for designating trails on state,
local and private lands, but only 130 trails
have been established since enactment of
the Act. In my Environmental Message
I stressed the importance of expanding
the National Trails System.
Therefore, I am directing that each of
you take the following actions:
• Each federal agency shall encourage
states, localities and private land holders
to designate trails on their lands and to
participate with federal agencies and trail
users in designing and creating an overall
National Trails System which will pro-
vide more fully for the trail needs of
America.
• Each federal agency shall, as part of
its normal planning and environmental
review processes, take care to avoid or
mitigate adverse effects on rivers identi-
fied in the Nationwide Inventory, pre-
pared by the Heritage Conservation and
Recreation Service in the Department of
the Interior. Agencies shall, as part of
their normal environmental review proc-
ess, consult with the Heritage Conserva-
tion and Recreation Service prior to tak-
ing actions which could effectively fore-
close wild, scenic, or recreational river
status on rivers in the Inventory.
• Each Federal agency with responsi-
bility for administering public lands shall,
as part of its ongoing land use planning
and management activities and environ-
mental review processes, make an assess-
ment of whether the rivers identified in
the Nationwide Inventory and which are
on their lands are suitable for inclusion in
the Wild and Scenic Rivers System. If an
agency determines that a river would be
suitable for inclusion in the System, the
agency shall, to the extent of the agency's
authority, promptly take such steps as are
needed to protect and manage the river
and the surrounding area in a fashion
comparable to rivers already included in
the Wild and Scenic Rivers System. In
addition, the agency is encouraged, pur-
suant to the revised Guidelines, to work
with the Agriculture and Interior Depart-
ments to prepare legislation to designate
the river as part of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers System if appropriate.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Secretary of Agri-
culture
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized the important
natural, historic, and recreational values
of our Nation's river corridors. Unfortu-
nately, development along the banks of
our rivers continues to outpace our ability
to identify and study those rivers which
might qualify for protection under the Na-
tional Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
Thus, we need to improve our techniques
for identifying, and designating wild and
scenic rivers.
In addition, I recognized in my En-
vironmental Message that the 1968 Na-
tional Trails System Act is designed to
promote the development of recreational,
scenic, and historic trails for persons of
diverse interests and abilities including
the young, the handicapped and the
aged and that the National Trails Sys-
tem is in its fledgling stage. I stressed the
importance of expanding the National
Trails System to provide increased recrea-
tion opportunities for the millions of
1380
