Oct. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
purchase, transportation, distribution or
use of imported products; and
(E) Administrative formalities for the
issuance of import and export licenses.
2. In the event either Contracting
Party applies quantitative restrictions to
certain products originating in or export-
ed to any third country or region, it shall
afford to all like products originating in
or exported to the other country treat-
ment which is equitable to that afforded
to such third country or region.
3. The Contracting Parties note, and
shall take into consideration in the han-
dling of their bilateral trade relations,
that, at its current state of economic de-
velopment, China is a developing country.
4. The principles of Paragraph 1 of this
Article will be applied by the Contracting
Parties in the same way as they are ap-
plied under similar circumstances under
any multilateral trade agreement to which
either Contracting Party is a party on the
date of entry into force of this Agreement.
5. The Contracting Parties agree to re-
ciprocate satisfactorily concessions with
regard to trade and services, particularly
tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade, dur-
ing the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
For the purpose of promoting economic
and trade relations between their two
countries, the Contracting Parties agree
to:
A. Accord firms, companies and cor-
porations, and trading organizations of
the other Party treatment no less favor-
C. Permit and facilitate, subject to their
respective laws and regulations and in ac-
cordance with physical possibilities, the
stationing of representatives, or the estab-
lishment of business offices, by firms, com-
panies and corporations, and trading or-
ganizations of the other Party in its own
territory; and
D. Subject to their respective laws and
regulations and physical possibilities, fur-
ther support trade promotions and im-
prove all conveniences, facilities and re-
lated services for the favorable conduct of
business activities by firms, companies and
corporations, and trading organizations of
the two countries, including various facili-
ties in respect of office space and resi-
dential housing, telecommunications, visa
issuance, internal business travel, customs
formalities for entry and re-export of per-
sonal effects, office articles and commer-
cial samples, and observance of contracts.
ARTICLE IV
The Contracting Parties affirm that
government trade offices contribute im-
portantly to the development of their
trade and economic relations. They agree
to encourage and support the trade pro-
motion activities of these offices. Each
Party undertakes to provide facilities as
favorable as possible for the operation of
these offices in accordance with their re-
spective physical possibilities.
ARTICLE V
1. Payments for transactions between
the United States of America and the
able than is afforded to any third country People's Republic of China shall either be
or region;
B. Promote visits by personnel, groups
and delegations from economic, trade and
industrial circles; encourage commercial
exchanges and contacts; and support the
holding of fairs, exhibitions and technical
seminars in each other's country;
effected in freely convertible currencies
mutually accepted by firms, companies
and corporations, and trading organiza-
tions of the two countries, or made other-
wise in accordance with agreements
signed by and between the two parties to
2002
