Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 26
peace if we are strong, that the best single
way to get our Nation back into war, with
massive loss of life of our own young
people, is if any potential adversary ever
thinks our country is weak. I believe in a
strong defense.
I'm not criticizing Senator Kennedy,
but I think those are going to be two of
the issues. There are some others, too. In
general, there's no basic, deep, philo-
sophical difference between me and him.
His voting record on issues that we've put
forward and where I've taken a public
stand is very good.
And you talk about the outcome of the
election. We had our first skirmish in
Florida. We were predicted to suffer a
massive and very embarrassing defeat. We
got about a 2-to-1 victory there, and I
think that's a fairly good indication of the
kind of response we'll get. I'm not pre-
dicting that we'll win everywhere, but I've
never backed down. And when and if I
get in the race, I'll be there to stay, and as
I said before, I feel very confident.
NATIONAL MORALE
MR. LEONE. Let me ask you one final
question. In August you made a stirring
speech about energy and talked about the
American people suffering from a malaise
and being unresponsive. I wonder what
your own assessment is of the response
over the last couple of months.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the response
has been good. Among the people who've
in our Nation, respect for our government.
What can I do to help?"
I think one thing that has caused
people to take some positive action to help
has been, for instance, the gasoline lines.
It kind of shocked people to say, "You
know, we do have a problem. What are
we going to do about it?" And now there
is a growing interest in it. The Congress
positive action this year, which I pre-
dicted, I think will have a reassuring
effect. And of course, the election, with the
open debates, getting the American people
deeply involved and much better educated
on what has been going on in our country
and what's got to be done in the future, all
are good factors to bring about a restora-
tion of confidence in our country.
We've got the greatest nation on Earth.
I just want to make sure we keep it that
way.
MR. LEONE. Well, Mr. President, it's
nice having you here in New Jersey and
talking to you about these problems that
are of great concern to us. I want to thank
you.
And on behalf of Date Line, New Jer-
sey, this is Dick Leone. Good evening.
NOTE: The interview began at approximately
5 p.m. at the Meadowlands Racetrack. It was
videotaped for broadcast at 8:30 p.m. on Octo-
ber 26 on New Jersey public television.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 26.
worked in the White House for 25 or 30 Eradication of Smallpox
years, the professionals who stay there as
Presidents change, that speech, which I
think was July 15, got the most response
of anything that a President has ever
done, and the response was overwhelm-
ingly positive. People said, "You're right.
We do have a long way to go in this coun-
try to have basic confidence in each other,
White House Statement. October 26, 1979
President Carter today welcomed the
official eradication of smallpox through-
out the world, announced by the World
Health Organization (WHO) in Nairobi
today.
2035
