Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 28
faced defeat by the strongest military
power on Earth, our forefathers also saw
fit to give thanks for their blessings. In the
midst of a devastating Civil War, Presi-
dent Lincoln proclaimed a day to express
gratitude for our "singular deliverances
and blessings."
The ensuing years have multiplied our
nation's blessings. We have been de-
livered from repeated perils, and we have
been blessed with abundance beyond the
imaginings of those who offered thanks in
the chill of approaching winter more than
three-and-one-half centuries ago.
Succeeding generations have broad-
ened the freedom they cherished and
the opportunity they sought, and built a
mighty nation on the strong foundations
they laid. In this two hundred and fourth
year of our independence, we have good
reasons for gratitude: for liberty in a
world where repression is common, for
peace in a world of threats and terror and
war, for a bounteous harvest in a world
where hunger and despair still stalk much
of mankind.
Like those who came before us, we
come to give thanks for our singular de-
liverances and blessings, in a time of both
danger and great promise. May we be
thankful in proportion to that which we
have received, trusting not in our wealth
and comforts, but in the strength of our
purpose, that all nations might be simi-
larly blessed with liberty and abundance
and live in peace.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do proclaim Thursday, the 22nd of
November, 1979 as Thanksgiving Day. I
ask all Americans to give thanks on that
day for the blessings Almighty God has
bestowed upon us, and seek to be good
stewards of what we have received.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of September, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:32 a.m., October 1, 1979]
Visit of President López
Portillo of Mexico
Toasts at the State Dinner.
September 28, 1979
PRESIDENT CARTER. President López Por-
tillo, we welcome you and your lovely
wife, Carmen, and your personal family
and your official family back to the White
House. Tonight we're determined to
make the result of our toasts better than
they were when I was in Mexico City.
[Laughter]
You represent a great democratic
nation, growing in world influence. And,
Mr. President, your depth of insight and
your
breadth of vision match the past and
the future achievements of your great
country.
Your speech yesterday at the United
Nations on the future of the world as it
relates to energy was indeed one of the
most profound and the most beautiful
speeches I have ever read. This can lay
the groundwork for discussions among all
nations on Earth—as you said, democratic
nations and socialist nations, developed
nations and undeveloped nations-which
can lead to the resolution of one of the
most difficult challenges of our time. This
is typical of your personal leadership, Mr.
President, and the leadership of your
great country.
It's an honor and a privilege and an ex-
citing experience for us to have you again
in our country for serious discussions that
will affect your people and mine.
1781
