Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 15
Johnston has been Associate Director
of the White House Domestic Policy Staff
since 1977.
He was born August 25, 1945, in Wash-
ington, D.C. He received a B.A. from Yale
University in 1967.
From 1973 to 1975, Johnston was a
consultant to the Ford Foundation, and
from 1975 to 1976, he was a consultant to
the Labor Department.
From 1972 to 1976, Johnston was a re-
search associate at the Center for Social
Policy Studies. In 1976 he was on the
national issues staff of the Carter Presi-
dential campaign and worked on the
Carter transition team.
Federal Emergency
Management Agency
Nomination of William H. Wilcox To Be an
Associate Director. November 15, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate William H. Wilcox, of
Harrisburg, Pa., to be an Associate Direc-
tor of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, a new position. His area of
responsibility would be response and re-
covery.
Wilcox has been Administrator of the
Federal Disaster Assistance Administra-
tion since 1978.
He was born June 9, 1919, in Philadel-
phia, Pa. He received a B.A. from the
University of Connecticut and an M.P.A.
from Wayne University. He served in the
Armed Forces from 1942 to 1945.
From 1954 to 1971, Wilcox was execu-
tive director of the Greater Philadelphia
Movement. He also served as chairman of
the Philadelphia Committee on City
Policy and as a member of the Executive
Board of Gaudenzia House.
From 1971 to 1978, Wilcox was secre-
tary of community affairs of the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania. While in State
government, he coordinated various
State disaster recovery activities, including
activities related to the Johnstown Flood
of 1977. He also served as the State fuel
allocation officer and directed a statewide
home weatherization program for the
elderly and low-income families.
United States-Japan Economic
Relations Group
Joint Announcement. November 15, 1979
President Carter and Prime Minister
Ohira announced today that the follow-
ing persons had agreed to serve on the
U.S.-Japan Economic Relations Group:
Ambassador Robert S. Ingersoll (U.S.
chairman), A. W. Clausen, Hugh T.
Patrick, Edson W. Spencer, Ambassador
Nobuhiko Ushiba (Japanese chairman),
Akio Morita, Shuzo Muramoto and
Kiichi Saeki.
This Group was established by Presi-
dent Carter and Prime Minister Ohira at
their bilateral May 2 meeting in Washing-
ton, when they agreed that a small group
of distinguished persons drawn from pri-
vate life would submit recommendations
to the President and the Prime Minister
concerning actions to maintain a healthy
bilateral economic relationship between
the United States and Japan.
On June 25, during President Carter's
bilateral Summit meetings with Prime
Minister Ohira in Tokyo, it was agreed
that the co-chairmen of the Group would
be former Ambassadors Robert Ingersoll
and Nobuhiko Ushiba. Since their selec-
tion in late June, the co-chairmen have
been considering potential nominees for
the Group. The selections by the Presi-
dent and the Prime Minister reflect the
recommendations of their respective co-
chairmen.
2127
