Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
severe problems with gasoline this sum-
mer. But throughout that difficult period
of shortage, which bothered motorists,
when tempers ran even higher than the
gas tanks ran low, my top concern was
to prepare for this winter.
The morning after my Sunday night
address about the crisis of confidence in
our country, I flew out to Kansas City,
where I set forth the specifics of our
energy plan for the Nation. And I said
then, and I quote, "We must have ade-
quate heating fuel to prevent suffering
next winter." Today, I am pleased to tell
you that we will have necessary fuel to
see us through this winter. You need not
doubt that any longer.
Our heating oil stocks will reach 240
million barrels in October. At this mo-
ment, we are 2 million barrels ahead of
where we were last year at this time, and
we are now producing 330,000 barrels
every day more than we were producing
this time a year ago.
Another of the actions that I pledged
to you was better management of the
supplies that we have. It won't be enough
to have 240 million barrels of oil in stor-
age somewhere if there is an emergency
shortage where you live. Therefore, I've
created a special heating oil management
group to assure steady and predictable de-
liveries throughout this winter. The group
will involve the Departments of Energy
and Agriculture, Transportation—and
even the Coast Guard and the Army
Corps of Engineers, in case we have se-
vere transportation problems because of
excessive icing or excessive snow. And
they'll work closely with the industry and
with State and local governments. Special
emphasis will be placed on coordination
with Governors. The headquarters of
this group will be in Boston, and the team
will go into action on September 15.
With OPEC jacking up its prices by
more than 60 percent just since last De-
cember, we know all too well that the
price of heating oil has gone up all too
much. As a nation, we simply must face
up to the true cost of energy. And I cannot
mislead you; there is no prospect of any
reduction in energy prices anytime in the
foreseeable future.
You can understand when it's time for
this country to face hard realities, be-
cause you yourselves, in the past, led us to
face hard realities and to overcome them.
Given this hard reality of high prices,
we're going to reduce the burden of these
increased costs on those Americans, many
of them the elderly, who are least able to
bear them. We will reduce those burdens
from the shoulders of those for whom
you have deep concern.
Last week, one of the major oil com-
panies, Texaco, announced that it would
hold the line on home heating oil prices,
that they would provide emergency sup-
plies of heating oil to needy households,
and that they would improve credit terms
for wholesalers and for retail customers.
I'm asking the other 27 major oil com-
panies to act in a similarly responsible
manner, to freeze prices and to give ade-
quate credit to help us through this
winter with heating oil.
I've launched a continuing major in-
vestigation to make sure that no oil com-
panies profiteer from our energy problem.
If one inescapable truth has emerged
from the whole energy crisis, it is that all
of us-oil executives, gas station owners,
farmers, renters, homeowners, truckers,
retirees, Members of the Congress, Gov-
ernors, and Presidents-all of us share
this problem together, and we must all
pull together to beat this problem so it
will not beat us all.
There is so much more that we can do
if we are ever again to have an adequate
energy security for our Nation, on which
our own well-being depends. All of us
1631
