Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
plugs per cylinder. The process is con-
trolled in such a way that the combustion
is initiated in the cup, and then spreads
out into the total chamber.
A higher compression ratio and a very
lean air-fuel ratio provides a 15- to 20-per-
cent improvement in fuel economy over
the current conventional engine. This is
indicated by the upper curve. This engine
type also has the capability of meeting the
1981 Federal statutory emission levels for
hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and ox-
ides of nitrogen, and it has a particulate
emission level below the proposed 1983
standard. The earliest practical introduc-
tion date by Ford is '84, assuming a suc-
cessful pilot production run in 1980.
The second piston engine technology is
the diesel engine. This slide shows the
combustion chamber of the Oldsmobile
5.8-liter diesel engine that is just now
going into production. In this case, the
fuel is injected into a prechamber down
into the combustion chamber, which will
ride below here. The model will show that
a bit clearer.
This is a high-compression engine, of
course. In terms of its fuel economy, the
middle line on this chart indicates the fuel
economy that present diesel engines
achieve, assuming that the vehicle has the
same performance as a gasoline-powered
vehicle at the same inertia weight.
The line is essentially the same as the
line shown on the previous slide for
PROCO fuel economy improvements in
the range of 15 to 20 percent. But many of
the diesel-powered vehicles available to-
day do not achieve the same performance
as their gasoline-powered counterparts.
And the top line represents the fuel econ-
omy achievable by some currently avail-
able diesel-powered vehicles whose per-
formance, as measured by acceleration, is
50
percent worse than a comparable gaso-
line-powered vehicle.
You see the improvement in fuel econ-
omy that's achieved by the reduction in
the performance. It should be noted that
diesel engine manufacturers have testified
that current diesel engines cannot simul-
taneously achieve the '81 Federal statu-
tory emission levels for hydrocarbons, car-
bon monoxides, and oxides of nitrogen,
and also meet the proposed levels for
particulates in all weight classes.
Unless new control technology can be
developed which does not have a major
effect upon fuel economy, diesel usage
may be restricted to vehicles of very low
inertia weight, in this region and to the
left. It can be expected, however, that the
excellent fuel economy of both PROCO
and diesel can in time be further improved
through many of the same actions men-
tioned in conjunction with the improved
conventional engine that we discussed
earlier.
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Compton?
DR. COMPTON. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Is the reduction in
performance so onerous or unpopular that
the motorists would not buy it at this
time? That's one part of the question. Is
that how the so-called Moody Mobile gets
its increased performance, or is it a dif-
ferent change?
DR. COMPTON. Well, there are two parts
to that question, Mr. President. These
four points represent the vehicles that are
being sold in the United States today.
And so there is a market for them, and
people are buying them. Whether that is
a performance level that the average con-
sumer will accept, I think, is unclear.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, is that just low
acceleration?
DR. COMPTON. Low acceleration, yes,
sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I see.
DR. COMPTON. In the case of the
Moody Mobile, there is an additional
1551
