Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 3
an accused through offenses; (5) serving
judicial documents, writs, summonses,
records of judicial verdicts and court judg-
ments or decisions; (6) effecting the ap-
pearance of a witness or expert before a
court of the Requesting Party; (7) locat-
ing persons; and (8) providing judicial
records, evidence and information.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the treaty
and give its advice and consent
ratification.
The White House,
August 2, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Turkey Treaty on
Penal Judgments
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. August 2, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice
and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Treaty between
the United States of America and the
Republic of Turkey on the Enforcement
of Penal Judgments which was signed in
Ankara on June 7, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the Report of the Depart-
ment of State with respect to the treaty.
The treaty would permit citizens of
either nation who have been convicted in
the courts of the other country to serve
their sentences in their home country; in
each case the consent of the offender
would be required.
This treaty is significant because it rep-
resents an attempt to resolve a situation.
which has inflicted substantial hardships
on a number of citizens of each country
and has caused concern to both govern-
ments. It also represents a significant ele-
ment in the modernization of our rela-
tions with Turkey in the field of interna-
tional judicial cooperation.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to this treaty.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 2, 1979.
Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare
Remarks at the Swearing In of Patricia
Roberts Harris as Secretary. August 3, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. This is a happy day for
our country. It's a great honor for me to
be here as President and to have the
chance as the leader of our Nation to
select and to appoint a person who is so
superbly qualified to head the agency that
she will be leading.
It's a time of thanksgiving, I think,
among those who look to the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare for a
new or sustained chance in life. I've
known Pat Harris for a long time. When
I formed my Cabinet almost 3 years ago,
there was one major department in Gov-
ernment that had not adequately per-
formed its function. It had been far short
of its potential after 8 years of Republican
administration. The Department of
Housing and Urban Development was
one that was formed with a clear recog-
nition of a great need-poor were home-
less, cities were destitute. They reached
toward Washington with disappointment
and frustration. The Department was
poorly organized, and its effectiveness was
severely in doubt.
Pat Harris came as Secretary of HUD,
and with her superb management capa-
1391
