Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Now, I know that official visits to Wash-
ington recur almost with the regularity of
the passing seasons, but as far as I'm con-
cerned, this really has been an excep-
tional event in the year for me. Alas, I'll
not be staying long, but it makes a great
difference to me to have this chance of
direct discussion and to sense at first hand
what it is that quickens the pulse of the
American people, their yearnings and
preoccupations.
I'm very much aware, Mr. President, of
the ordeal that the United States is going
through at the moment. It's a double or-
deal, for the fate of the 50 hostages in
Tehran, from whom our thoughts are
never far, and for the temper of the
United States as a whole. You'll not want
me to speak at length about this now,
but I'd be giving you a false impression
if I allowed the evening to proceed any
further without letting you know how
much we, in Britain, support you in your
ordeal at this time.
The United States is our friend, our
ally, and our time-honored partner in
peace and war. The history and the des-
tiny of our countries have been and always
will be inextricably intertwined. Our
friendship goes back a very long way. We
are, after all, among the very few countries
in the world whose constitutions and na-
tional identities have remained intact over
two centuries. I hope you won't mind, Mr.
President, my recalling that George Wash-
ington was a British subject until well af-
ter his 40th birthday. [Laughter] I've been
told, to my surprise, that he does not have
a place in the British Dictionary of Na-
tional Biography. I suppose the editors.
must have regarded him as a late de-
veloper. [Laughter]
I confess to you that in some ways my
visit got off to rather a shaky start, be-
cause I was told on arrival at Andrews
Field that I had interrupted your Secre-
tary of State, Mr. Vance, in one of his few
moments of relaxation. He was watching
the Redskins playing the Cowboys.
[Laughter] He had to take his eye off the
game to greet me. I'm very grateful, but
I don't think the Redskins can have been
very grateful to me, because it was no
doubt as a result of this diversion of Mr.
Vance's attention that the Redskins lost
the game. I do apologize for having inter-
vened in your internal affairs. [Laughter]
Mr. Vance's opposite number, Lord
Carrington, who's with us this evening,
has, as you know-and as you very kindly
said, Mr. President—had something of a
triumph in the Rhodesia negotiations at
Lancaster House in London. If you think
he looks a little pale, it's because he's been
shut up in Lancaster House for many
months, indeed has become known as the
prisoner of Lancaster House. And he's so
pleased to be free at last.
Lord Carrington would, I know, want
me to repeat this evening how grateful the
British Government are to the United
States authorities for the stalwart support
they've given us unfailingly over Rho-
desia. And you, Mr. President, and you,
Mr. Vance, we would like to give our
warmest and most heartfelt thanks, be-
cause without your support the whole
process would have been incomparably
more difficult, and we may never have
reached success.
May I say one more thing, Mr. Presi-
dent. The government which I lead has
been in power now for just over half a
year. We face great difficulties, some of
them deep-seated and longstanding and
some stemming from beyond our shores-
and I don't pretend that anything is go-
ing to be remedied immediately. But we
are determined upon a change. We're de-
termined to return to the first principles
which have traditionally governed our
political and economic life, namely, the
2266
