Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 17
nomic feasibility of providing a metro-
politan community such as ours with cen-
tral heating through the medium of hot
water produced through cogeneration in
conjunction with an investor-owned elec-
tric power station. This power station,
incidentally, uses only coal as its fuel.
While innovative, the concept is not revo-
lutionary. Central hot water heating sys-
tems have been used in Europe for many
years. The point is that it's never been
tried in the United States.
The advantage offered by this system is
the almost doubling of thermal efficiency,
because energy otherwise wasted in elec-
tric generation is recaptured and becomes
the hot water used in the heating system.
Also the oil and natural gas which is not
used to heat homes and industries is saved,
and it amounts, by our engineers' calcula-
tions, to be sufficient to heat some 200,000
homes. This is about twice the number of
homes that we have in St. Paul.
Our efforts have been helped very
greatly by the significant contributions of
the Minnesota Energy Administration
and the Department of Energy. Particu-
larly, we owe a debt of gratitude to the
facility at Oak Ridge. We are also most
appreciative of the interest that DOE,
Under Secretary John Deutch, has shown
and also for the substantial financial as-
sistance which you have tendered to us.
We are presently in the final stages of
planning which will lead to the construc-
tion, we hope in early 1981, of a demon-
stration project, which will include the
downtown central business district and
also the capital building complex.
We are very pleased with our progress
to date. And we recognize that it is due to
the unselfish and complete cooperation of
business, labor, and every level of
govern-
ment. Given the opportunity to compete
in a truly free market, we sincerely believe
that district heating is the mode of the
future, and we in St. Paul are pleased to
provide an example to the rest of the
country.
MAYOR LATIMER. Thank you very
much, Cliff.
TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS
The second speaker is Malcolm Mc-
Donald, who manages the Space Center
Buildings in St. Paul, Minnesota, and
works with Operation 85, which he'll tell
the people and the President about.
Malcolm?
MR. MCDONALD. Mr. President, Oper-
ation 85, trades and labor, business and
civic leaders who are planning the St.
Paul of tomorrow. Acting in the convic-
tion that most practical local solutions to
our energy problems will be found through
a productive partnership, we as citizens
have tried to construct a here-and-now
energy conservation program to reduce
our daily energy consumption, increase
our downtown air quality, and save money
for all of us.
In cooperation with the city and in par-
ticular the office of the mayor, the Metro
Transit Commission, and private industry,
Operation 85's Committee on Commuter
Alternatives has designed four energy-
saving programs for cars and people. In
October we will announce the first phase.
These programs for carpools, vanpools,
greater bus riding, and parking at the edge
of the city have as their common goals
reducing the number of cars by 15 percent,
reducing gasoline consumption through
shorter trips, and reducing downtown traf-
fic congestion, increasing the use of exist-
ing public transportation systems for
greater efficiency, increasing revenue for
our bus system to reduce its deficit, in-
creasing our air quality, and saving money
for all of us.
1459
