Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 22
that we can put into ethanol to make a
synthetic fuel. Are they really into it great
now? We've been working at it out here
for several years. Are they into it great?
And the last part of my question was,
of
course, are you going to put the farmers
on a number one priority this fall to har-
vest our crops?
Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to your
last question is yes. Bob Bergland is nod-
ding his head even before I had a chance
to answer. And obviously from one season
to another, we have varying needs for
distillate fuels, which are in relatively
short supply.
During the planting season, we were
putting in as many as 5 million acres per
day, were we not, Bob?-one of the high-
est rates of planting that our Nation has
ever seen. We were able, with the cooper-
ation of farmers and the ASCS Offices,
Governors, and everyone else, to get
enough fuel to the farmers during the
planting season so there were no long
delays.
We'll do the same thing in the harvest
season in the fall and also in the planting
season in the future, because the produc-
tion of food in our country is a top pri-
ority, along with fire protection, police
protection, and emergency vehicles, both
the production of food on land and also
the fisheries off the shores.
As far as the production of gasohol is
concerned, we are now exploring every
possibility for putting into operation both
the very small gasohol plants that can be
put on a large farm or those that are
much more costly and much more exten-
sive. We now have two major pilot proj-
ects already underway. We are preserving
the exemption of the 4 cents per gallon on
gasohol to encourage its production. That
amounts in total to about $60 per barrel
that we are helping with gasohol use.
Third, we've done all we can so far-
but we will do more in the future-to
make sure that there's an extra investment
tax credit of 10 percent for people who
invest in a gasohol-producing plant.
Yesterday at the John Deere interna-
tional headquarters in Moline, I saw a
new machine that's still in the experi-
mental stage, where they burn corncobs-
where they take corncobs and burn them
and they make a gas which has about 15
percent of the energy as natural gas. And
then they burn that gas and make elec-
tricity, either to pump water or to provide
electricity for a farm. So, the use of farm
just as important, peanut hulls, different
products, cornstalks, corncobs, perhaps
things [laughter]—can be used now to
make gas.
On gasohol, the Congress, particularly
including the Congress Members from
Iowa, have proposed that we make avail-
able low-interest, direct loans to farmers
who will put in the very small gasohol-
producing plants. I have not announced
this before publicly, but I would like to
announce it to you-Mr. Talbot, right?—
that my administration will support this
move. And I believe that Congress this
year, before it goes home, will have low-
interest, direct loans for people who will
put in small gasohol-producing plants on
farms in Iowa.¹
¹On the same day, the White House Press
Office released the following information at
Burlington.
The President today announced support for
new legislative authority to assist in the con-
struction of small- and intermediate-scale plants
for the production of alcohol fuel. He indicated
that alcohol made from agricultural and for-
estry residues and commodities can play an
increasingly important role in our fight for
energy security.
An alcohol-gasoline mixture is already being
marketed through more than 800 retail outlets
in 28 States. President Carter noted that alco-
hol fuels would be especially important over
the coming decade, a period of intensive re-
search and exploration for alternative energy
(Continued)
1501
