Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
not at the present time extrapolations
from the semiconductor technology which
has been the base of this thing up to the
present time.
Another important and interesting
point about this is that in the United
States we have, or we are dominant in
both the industry and the technology, and
of the market of solar arrays being pro-
duced and sold in the world, the United
States exports 50 percent of all those uses
of photovoltaics around the world. Let me
rephrase that.
Of the total number of sales of photo-
voltaics which are primarily made in the
United States, 50 percent of them are out-
side the United States, which then gives
us some additional incentives in terms of
this technology relative to our balance of
payments.
I'd like to very simply try to utilize the
basic information that's on this graph,
but plot it in a different way in accord-
ance with a time base.
Now, we see here a plot of the reduc-
tion of solar power or solar photovoltaic
power to the present time. And we are go-
ing to use that same extrapolation down
to a continuum. That curve, which I have
indicated, is the learning curve that has
been developed so far in photovoltaics, is
very analogous to the learning curve that
has been used in the electronics industry.
There's a good likelihood that that kind
of a learning curve can be sustained. And
if we do continue along that kind of a
path and we plot against that the utility
price for energy which would be derived
from a utility system for a distributive-like
power system, like for a particular home,
and put it in the context of what a photo-
voltaic array might have to be in order for
it to be competitive with that utility
power, we find that our most optimistic
curve intersects that line around 1986.
So, when might photovoltaics become a
significant contributor? When might it
reach a point where it might compete with
utility power? We believe the optimistic
curve, the fast-growth curve for that. We
may begin to be able to see it around this
1986 time period. Certainly not everyone
agrees with that kind of a number. I think
that there is very good agreement that
the likelihood for continued reduction of
photovoltaic prices is very good. When it
will reach this particular point in com-
petition with utility power, it certainly
could be sometime longer than that, and
it will depend upon the innovation and
the invention of American industry, I
believe.
my
Now to try to understand very quickly
why I believe that the technology can be
improved, I will in a very short manner
try to acquaint you with the way that
photovoltaics are made at the present
time. Those wafers that I had indicated
in earlier remarks are made in a very
tedious kind of way. One takes very highly
pure silicon and melts it at 1,600 degrees
Fahrenheit. Then one drops a seed of
silicon into that molten silicon and
begins to withdraw it with a meniscus of
that silicon attached, and then very
slowly, at the rate of around 2 inches
per hour, one withdraws the seed and
rotates it in one direction while you rotate
then the pot of molten silicon in the op-
posite direction.
So, after several days of growth perhaps,
one has several feet of ingot of silicon
that one then takes and very carefully
cuts wafers from it.
Now, that particular technology can be
significantly improved, we believe. There
are ways of pulling faster. There are ways
of growing the ingots larger. There are
ways of cutting much more efficiently; in
fact, even with this technology, it may
be
1557
