Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
MEDICARE
Q. Mr. President, I'm Marcella
Spigelmire, president of the Maryland
Retired Teachers Association. I'm from
Baltimore, Maryland. Having filed many
Medicare forms for myself and my rela-
tives, and always wishing afterward that I
had the foresight to select a doctor who
would accept the assignment and whose
fees met the requirements of being not
greater than reasonable and proper, I
wonder if you have anything in your plan
to alleviate the redtape and rigidity of the
present requirements.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The whole plan
is designed to minimize the redtape and
rigidity, because now there are so many
different, nonrelated facets of health care.
Each person, almost, in our country, each
small group of people in our country are
in a separate category, and much of that
paperwork is designed to identify or to
define a person's right for coverage.
The reason that we put forward this
comprehensive plan to the Congress is so
that as it's phased in, each broad class of
people would be completely covered.
There would be a minimum amount of
paperwork—I would hope no more than
you experience with your social security,
routine payments. And this is what we
hope for, and I believe that we can
achieve that.
you.
Q. Thank Mr. President.
you,
THE PRESIDENT. Thank The com-
prehensive nature will help to decrease
the paperwork.
INFLATION RATE
Q. President Carter, my name is
Thomas Canzillo from Monroe, Connect-
icut. The rate of inflation has been in-
creasing in the last month or so. From all
our economic indicators, do you expect
the rate of inflation to go up or go
down?
THE PRESIDENT. I expect the rate of
inflation to go down the rest of this year.
As I pointed out earlier, the 60-percent
increase in fuel costs imposed on the rest
of the world by OPEC is a prime cause of
the rapid growth in the inflation rate this
year.
Yesterday, I had my economic advisers
give me a summary of what the inflation
rate would be without energy. And as I
said earlier, throughout this whole year
the inflation rate would only have changed
about one-fourth of 1 percent without
energy. With energy included, the infla-
tion rate has changed 4 or 5 percent,
because energy has gone up at an annual
rate of about 100 percent.
is
We do not anticipate-although I can-
not control this-we do not anticipate
any further increases by OPEC this year.
So, the rate of increase, even in energy,
likely to level off. And that's why we're
working so closely with Texaco and, hope-
fully, with other oil companies, to get
them now to level off their price increases
so that we can have a decrease in the in-
flation rate by the end of this year. I pre-
dict that that will happen.
NATIONAL HEALTH PLAN
Q. Mr. President, Bernard Hartspak,
Campbell Hall, New York. We have come
here from all over this great Nation to
listen and also to be listened to. I was told
to make my presentation short for lack of
time. All one needs to do is look at the
seniors in this room to see there is not
much time. [Laughter] If you'll bear with
me, I would like to make part of this
presentation, and I'll leave the full text
with you.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree with
that last statement you made. It looks to
me like they have a lot of time.
1636
