Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
I expect the Coast Guard to report to
me promptly on the results of its study
of devices to improve tanker maneuver-
ability and stopping. In addition, the
Coast Guard is undertaking a study of
past accidents to evaluate further the use-
fulness of double bottoms and side pro-
tection in reducing oil spills. The Depart-
ment of Transportation will continue to
evaluate promising ideas to preserve the
oceans and its resources from pollution
by oil.
REGULATORY REFORM
Improving government regulations is
important to my effort to make govern-
ment more efficient and private-sector
responses more cost-effective. Environ-
mental protection can and should bene-
fit. I intend to improve the regulatory
process in a way that does not weaken
our commitment to environmental
quality.
If there are better methods to achieve
our environmental goals, we should use
them. Agencies should seek and adopt in-
novative alternatives to government regu-
lations which reduce burdens on private
citizens or businesses. The Environmental
Protection Agency has become a leader
among federal agencies in examining new
approaches and has made several moves
to streamline its regulatory process. In
addition to the permit consolidation, bub-
ble concept, and offset policy mentioned
above, EPA is doing an effective job of
implementing my Executive order on
regulatory reform and published the first
agenda of regulations issued by any fed-
eral agency. A regulatory calendar is now
prepared and published on a government-
wide basis by the Regulatory Council I
recently established.
Since 1977 the Occupational Health
and Safety Administration has gotten rid
of hundreds of unnecessary standards, and
has reorganized its program to devote 95
percent of its resources to the most serious
workplace hazards. In addition, regula-
tory agencies have begun to work together
to coordinate their activities and use
their resources more efficiently. I expect
such progress to continue and I intend
that it reinforce-not diminish-our
environmental improvement efforts.
PENDING LEGISLATION AND
REAUTHORIZATIONS
I have proposed and will continue to
support reauthorization of important
environmental statutes, including the
Endangered Species Act, the Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act, the Safe Drinking
Water Act, and the Resource Conserva-
tion and Recovery Act. I also continue
to support a nongame wildlife program,
and a wide range of wilderness proposals.
The Environmental Program I am out-
lining today expands upon the efforts we
have already begun with a series of new
initiatives in land and resource manage-
ment, agricultural conservation, urban
quality, and improving the global environ-
ment.
NEW INITIATIVES
I. LAND AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
America's land and natural resources
have nourished our civilization. Because
our original heritage was so abundant, we
sometimes take these resources for granted.
We can no longer do so. Our land and
natural resources do have limits, and our
demands upon them are growing at in-
creasing rates. Renewable resources-
farmlands, fisheries, and forests can be
depleted through overuse and misuse. We
must build into our decisions the under-
standing that unwise actions affecting our
lands and resources are difficult and
costly, if not impossible, to correct.
1361
