Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 27
energy bills $250 million. This bill will
provide an additional $1,350 million, a
total of $1.6 billion this winter. We will
expedite the distribution of these funds,
and I want to congratulate the Congress
on taking this action in a rapid and effec-
tive way.
I've asked the Congress, from the wind-
fall profits tax, to provide, on a permanent
basis for the next 10 years, $2.4 billion
each year to help the poor and the elderly
to meet their rising energy bills.
The last 3 weeks have been a trying time
in the history of our country. It has been
made vividly obvious to everyone in the
United States that our Nation is overly
dependent on the import of foreign oil.
In 1980 it's estimated that we will pur-
chase from foreign countries 3 billion bar-
rels of oil. In order to pay for this, we'll
send overseas $70 billion of American
money. Along with oil that we import, we
also import inflation and unemployment.
In July, after the Iranian revolution
had interrupted for a few months our
own supply of imported oil, I went to the
American people for the sixth time since
my inauguration as President and called
on the Congress to take rapid action on
five different elements of meeting our
energy needs: First was an appeal to the
Congress to give me full authority to im-
plement a gasoline rationing plan when
and if it's needed; second was an appeal
to provide low-income assistance for
energy cost increases for the poor and the
elderly, which I will sign into law in just
a few minutes; third was to pass a wind-
fall profits tax, to provide for the well-
being of the American public, and to
derive this income, which is needed, from
the unearned profits of the oil companies
of this country.
The House has passed an adequate
windfall profits tax bill. The Senate is now
in the process of debating this bill on the
floor and will be voting on a series of
amendments. I hope the strongest possible
windfall profits tax will be forthcoming
from the Congress.
The House and the Senate have acted
on the energy mobilization board, legis-
lation which will permit us to expedite
decisions on projects that will provide bet-
ter energy production in our country. The
differences between the two Houses must
now be resolved in conference.
And the fifth request that I made to
the Congress was to implement for us an
ability to proceed rapidly with the devel-
opment of synthetic fuels, solar energy,
including gasohol, and strong conserva-
tion matters. This legislation has now
been passed in its entirety by the Senate.
It's been passed partially by the House,
and my hope is that this action can now
be completed by both Houses and signed
into law.
Any delay in implementing this com-
plete package of energy proposals will be
a deep disappointment to the American
people. Time is of the essence, and I can
say from the bottom of my heart as Pres-
ident that it involves the security of our
Nation. Failure to pass adequate energy
legislation to reduce our dependence on
foreign oil is a clear and present danger
to the security of the United States.
We stand here as a sober and deter-
mined group, the President and the key
Members of Congress. We are working
as hard as we can to meet the energy
needs of our country. There are only two
actions which we can take to resolve this
difficulty: One is to enhance conserva-
tion, the saving of energy, the elimination
of waste of energy; and on the other hand,
the increased production of energy in our
own country.
This is a complicated and difficult mat-
ter, but I want to congratulate again the
Members of the House and Senate for the
action that they've already taken and to
encourage them to join in with me in an
2155
