July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Pacific power is vitally engaged in Asia
and the Pacific and will continue its best
efforts to ensure the peace and security of
the region.
5. On the Indochina refugee problem,
President Carter outlined the discussions
at the Tokyo Summit and steps being
taken by the United States and other
countries to deal with the situation. He
stressed the need for all nations to make
the maximum effort possible, whether by
resettlement, financial contributions, or
temporary shelter. President Park, noting
the serious situation both in terms of in-
dividual human suffering and destabiliz-
ing impact on the directly affected na-
tions in Southeast Asia, stated that the
Government of the Republic of Korea
would make an additional grant of a con-
siderable sum to the United Nations
High Commission for Refugees.
6. President Carter, referring to the
basic relations between the United States
and the Republic of Korea, noted the
existence of strong bonds of friendship
and cooperation and assured President
Park that the United States will continue
to support the efforts of the Government
of the Republic of Korea to maintain
peace and stability in Korea and sustain
economic and social development. Presi-
dent Carter stressed the solidarity that ex-
ists between the United States and the
Republic of Korea as traditional allies.
SECURITY COOPERATION
7. The two Presidents reaffirmed the
importance which the United States and
Korea attach to the reciprocal commit-
ments contained in the United States-Re-
public of Korea Mutual Defense Treaty
of 1954. They also agreed that the con-
tinued security of the Republic of Korea
is pivotal to the preservation of peace and
stability in the northeast Asian region.
President Park reviewed the security sit-
uation on the peninsula and the contin-
uing threat to peace posed by the North
Korean military build-up. The two Pres-
idents agreed that US-ROK cooperation
in maintaining a high degree of strength
and combat readiness to deter and defend
against possible aggression was an impor-
tant contribution to peace and stability.
They noted that the activation last No-
vember of the ROK-US Combined
Forces Command had enhanced the ef-
fectiveness of the joint defense coopera-
tion between military authorities of the
two countries. President Carter reiterated
the firm commitment of the United
States to render prompt and effective as-
sistance to repel armed attack against the
Republic of Korea in accordance with
the Mutual Defense Treaty, and affirmed
that the United States nuclear umbrella
provided additional security for the area.
8. President Carter expressed his ap-
preciation for the full consultations be-
tween the two Presidents and their
Defense Ministers on security issues and
said that he would be consulting with
U.S. congressional leaders on his return
in the light of these detailed discussions.
President Carter reaffirmed the deep in-
terest of the United States in preventing
any destabilization of the peninsula or re-
gion and assured President Park in con-
nection with the question of further with-
drawal of American ground combat
forces from Korea that the United States
will continue to maintain an American
military presence in the Republic of Ko-
rea to ensure peace and security.
9. President Park reviewed the exten-
sive and continuing efforts of the Repub-
lic of Korea to modernize and enhance
its self-reliant defense capabilities and the
progress achieved in the first five-year
Force Improvement Plan which is nearing
completion. President Carter expressed
1208
