Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
expeditious action on the remaining three
items that are so crucial to our Nation.
I'd like now to call on Senator Robert
Byrd to say a word representing the Sen-
ate, if he will, and then I'll call on the
representative of the House and then one
of our fine Governors, who will help to
administer this program for the poor and
the elderly. And then I'll sign the legisla-
tion.
Senator Byrd?
SENATOR BYRD. Mr. President, the leg-
islation that you are about to sign repre-
sents a commitment on the part of the
Congress with respect to a comprehensive
synfuels program. It also represents a
commitment on the part of the Congress
to aid the elderly and the poor in the
face of rising energy costs.
I would only want to pay special trib-
ute, Mr. President, to Senator Javits, who
is the author of the amendment in the
Senate to add $1.2 billion in aid to the
elderly and to the poor. I also want to
express my deep appreciation to Ted
Stevens, who is the ranking minority
member on the Senate appropriations sub-
committee for the Department of the
Interior. And also, I want to thank Dee
Huddleston, who acted as chairman of
the subcommittee. And certainly I would
want to express my heartfelt gratitude to
Sid Yates, Congressman Yates, who is
chairman of the House conferees, because
without the cooperation and the under-
standing that marked the conference, we
would not have been able to send to your
desk a bill for you to sign.
You're very right in saying that in the
face of world developments, we have to do
something and do it expeditiously, to deal
with our reliance on unreliable sources of
foreign oil. The Senate has passed an
energy mobilization board bill. It has
passed an omnibus energy bill, establish-
ing an energy security corporation. And
in that legislation, of course, is included
conservation provisions; a synthetic fuels
program provision is in that bill. And we
now are in the process of getting conferees
appointed so that these Senate and House
conferees, once they're named, can meet
in conference to iron out the areas of
differences.
So, we're working. And I assure you
that we're going to do all that we can to
get those conference reports back to each
House as soon as possible—and that won't
be easy, as we have seen in the past. I've
never seen anything so contentious as the
subject of energy when it reaches the Sen-
ate floor.
THE PRESIDENT. I've noticed that.
[Laughter]
SENATOR BYRD. And if I were to take
off my jacket and my shirt, I could show
you some scars―[laughter]—that you may
remember were inflicted upon me when I
helped to break the spirit of a filibuster a
couple of years ago.
But in any event, we applaud you for
your leadership in this vital area, and
we're going to do the best we can in the
Senate to do our part.
Thank you very much for inviting us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Bob.
I met earlier this morning with the
Speaker of the House, who had to go back
to the Hill to get the House work under-
way today. And of course, Jamie Whitten,
who's the chairman of the appropriations
committee, has worked in a yeoman's way
to get this legislation to my desk. Many
others have been involved. I'd like to call
on Congressman Natcher, however, to
speak for the House at this time.
REPRESENTATIVE NATCHER. Thank you
very much, Mr. President.
As you will recall, on the House side we
started with a House joint resolution. This
is important legislation, and legislation
which, of course, will be a milestone in
programs where we have people in need
2156
