Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
National Advisory Committee on
Oceans and Atmosphere
Appointment of Five Members.
November 13, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of five persons as members
of the National Advisory Committee on
Oceans and Atmosphere. They are:
MICHAEL R. NAESS, of Houston, Tex., senior
executive vice president and director and
chief operating officer of the Services Group,
Zapata Corp., Houston, Tex.;
JACK R. VAN LOPIK, dean of Louisiana State
University's Center for Wetland Resources
and a professor in the Department of Marine
Sciences;
JAMES M. WADDELL, JR., of Beaufort, S.C., a
South Carolina State senator and chairman
of the South Carolina Coastal Council;
DON WALSH, director of the Institute for
Marine and Coastal Studies at the Univer-
sity of Southern California and a professor of
ocean engineering;
ROBERT M. WHITE, administrator of the Na-
tional Research Council, formerly chairman
of the National Academy of Sciences' Cli-
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars
Appointment of Four Members of the
Board of Trustees. November 13, 1979
The President has appointed four per-
sons as members of the Board of Trustees
of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars in the Smithsonian
Institution. They are:
THEODORE C. BARREAUX, of Alexandria, Va.,
vice president in charge of the Washington
office of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants;
MAX M. KAMPELMAN, a partner in the Wash-
ington, D.C., law firm of Fried, Frank, Har-
ris, Shriver, and Kampelman;
JESSE H. OPPENHEIMER, a partner in the San
Antonio, Tex., law firm of Oppenheimer,
Rosenberg, Kelleher & Wheatley, active in
civic affairs in San Antonio;
ANNE FIROR SCOTT, an assistant professor of
history at Duke University and author of
several books on women in American life.
mate Research Board, and president of the Blocking Iranian Government
Joint Oceanographic Institutions.
Marine Mammal Commission
Appointment of Two Members.
November 13, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of two persons as members
of the Marine Mammal Commission.
They are:
MURRAY L. JOHNSON, a Tacoma, Wash., sur-
geon and research biologist who is curator
of mammals for the Puget Sound Museum
of Natural History and collaborator in mam-
malogy with the U.S. National Park System;
ROGER S. PAYNE, of Lincoln, Mass., a research
zoologist with the New York Zoological So-
ciety's Center for Field Biology and Con-
servation, whose principal research interest
is the behavior of whales.
Property
Executive Order 12170. November 14, 1979
Pursuant to the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States including the
International Emergency Economic Pow-
ers Act, 50 U.S.C.A. sec. 1701 et seq., the
National Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C. sec.
1601 et seq., and 3 U.S.C. sec. 301,
I, JIMMY CARTER, President of the
United States, find that the situation in
Iran constitutes an unusual and extraordi-
nary threat to the national security, for-
eign policy and economy of the United
States and hereby declare a national emer-
gency to deal with that threat.
I hereby order blocked all property and
interests in property of the Government
of Iran, its instrumentalities and con-
trolled entities and the Central Bank of
2118
