Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
If you think of anything else I can do
to help gasohol production, you let me
know and I'll do it.
Q. I'll meet you afterwards.
(Continued)
sources. One of the great advantages of this fuel
is its already proven technology, although re-
search into improved production methods will
also be undertaken.
Noting the strong interest among many
Members of Congress, the President indicated
that he is anxious to work with them to enact
new authority to promote the further develop-
ment of alcohol fuels through small- and inter-
mediate-scale plants.
He proposed a 2-year direct or guaranteed
loan program to be administered by the De-
partment of Agriculture, with a limit of $3 mil-
lion per project. The loan program would be
supplemented with a program of technical
assistance and research and financed from the
energy security trust fund. With the help of
this program, individuals or groups of indivi-
duals could play an active role in lessening our
Nation's dependence on foreign oil.
The President's support of this measure is the
latest in a series of steps the administration has
taken to further the development, production,
and use of alcohol fuels, including:
• Presidential directives to:
-use gasohol in Federal vehicles, whenever
feasible;
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. [Laugh-
ter]
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP
Q. Mr. President, I am Gertrude Ger-
dom from Burlington, Iowa, and I'm a
housewife. And I want to tell you I think
you're doing a real good job and also ask
if you've caught any fish since you've
been on your trip.
THE PRESIDENT. I think I've done a
better job of being President than I have
catching fish this trip. But we're going
to try again this afternoon, and I believe
we're going to catch some.
Q. Good luck. God bless you.
THE PRESIDENT. Gertrude, that's the
kind of question I never get from the
Washington press corps. Thank you very
much. I love you. [Laughter]
SIZE OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
Q. I'm Emerson Cordes from Ever-
green Park, Illinois. I'm retired. Many
of us were heartened recently when you
gave your Sunday night speech, espe-
-simplify and reduce Federal reporting cially setting forth two objectives that we
requirements for alcohol fuel producers.
• Presidential recommendation that the cur-
rent 4-cent-per-gallon excise tax exemption for
gasoline-alcohol (10 percent) blends be extend-
ed permanently.
Implementations of a 10-percent invest-
ment tax credit for facilities that convert alter-
native substances or feedstocks into synthetic
liquid fuels, including alcohol fuels.
• Loan guarantees of $30 million by the
Department of Agriculture for two innovative
pilot projects for the production of alcohol.
An $11 million loan and grant program
by the Department of Energy, the Economic
Development Administration, and the Com-
munity Services Administration to assist in the
construction of 100 small-scale alcohol produc-
tion plants.
• Increased funding of DOE research and
development of alcohol fuels from $3 million
in FY 1977 to $25 million in FY 1980. Also,
the USDA is programing nearly $6 million
in FY 1980 for this purpose.
could all get behind that would really
help our country, that of controlling in-
flation and attacking the energy problem
in all the many ways you suggested. But
to reach these objectives, you're going to
need all of our help and our support. And
right now, we've lost an awful lot of con-
fidence in that Washington establish-
ment. We just don't feel it has the capa-
bility or the willingness to respond to the
people's needs and expressed feelings.
And I'm wondering if you've ever
thought of setting an objective, perhaps,
for your administration of reducing the
size of that Washington establishment by,
say, 10 percent, just to show that the peo-
ple still own it and that they don't
own us.
1502
