Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
instead on sampling, reduced frequency of
reporting, differing compliance standards,
or exemptions.
1-104. Each agency shall prepare an
annual paperwork budget, i.e., an estimate
of the total number of hours required to
comply with requests for information. The
budget should itemize each form used,
describe its purpose and identify those
affected by it. The Director of the Office
of Management and Budget shall review
and may modify each agency's proposed
budget. After the Director has approved
an agency's paperwork budget, it may be
increased only by the Director upon re-
quest of the head of the agency.
1-105. Forms or similar requests for in-
formation shall be reviewed within two
years after their initial issuance and then
at least once every five years. Following
review, they should be revised or aban-
doned to the extent they are not required
to meet an agency's basic information
needs. These reviews will be conducted
by the agencies, and reports of the reviews
will be submitted to the Director.
1-106. The Director shall audit com-
pliance with this Order and may issue
rules and regulations necessary to imple-
ment it. The Director may issue exemp-
tions for agencies whose use of forms is
limited. The Director also shall:
(a) Seek to eliminate duplication in re-
quests for information by establishing a
Federal information locator system, which
will list all the types of information col-
lected by Federal agencies and will be
available for use by all agencies. This or
similar systems will not contain any infor-
mation obtained from the public. The Di-
rector shall take any other steps needed
to prevent duplication, including the as-
signment to a particular agency of lead
responsibility for the collection of certain
types of information.
(b) Seek to inform the public and
broaden public and agency comment by
preparing and publishing in the FEDERAL
REGISTER an annual paperwork calendar
of significant requests for information.
This calendar will be based on the infor-
mation contained in the agencies' paper-
work budgets.
(c) Report annually to the President
on implementation of this Order and con-
trol of the paperwork burden generally.
1–107. The authority vested in the Di-
rector under this Order shall not affect
any authority vested in him by any other
Order. This Order shall be implemented
in a manner consistent with all applicable
Federal statutes.
1-108. For purposes of this Order,
agency means those agencies covered by
Executive Order 12044.
1-109. This Order will expire on Sep-
tember 30, 1983.
The White House,
November 30, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:03 p.m., November 30, 1979]
Federal Paperwork Reduction
Message to the Congress.
November 30, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In the past two and one half years, my
Administration has achieved real progress
in cutting the paperwork burden govern-
ment imposes on the public. Today I am
announcing steps to expand and acceler-
ate that effort.
I have today signed an Executive Order
on paperwork reduction. I am also calling
on the Congress to enact two bills which
will help eliminate needless forms, cut
2180
