Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 10, 1979
Department of Justice
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation
of Griffin B. Bell as Attorney General.
August 3, 1979
To Attorney General Griffin Bell
I accept with genuine regret your resig-
nation as Attorney General of the United
States.
As a dedicated and independent pro-
fessional, as a wise and judicious admin-
istrator, as a fair and compassionate pub-
lic servant and as a valued personal friend
of the President you have served our
country well. Your accomplishments have
been a source of pride for me and for
others who have assessed the accomplish-
ments of the Department of Justice under
your leadership. You have left a good
heritage of personnel and policy which
will serve to perpetuate the advantages of
your good work.
You have my best wishes and sincere
thanks as you return to private practice,
and I look forward to having your advice
and support in the months ahead.
Give my love (and thanks) to Mary.
Your friend,
Dear Mr. President:
JIMMY CARTER
August 2, 1979
As we have discussed, I hereby formally
tender my resignation as Attorney Gen-
eral of the United States, which will be
effective upon the appointment and qual-
ification of my successor. I do so with grat-
itude to you for affording me the oppor-
tunity to serve as Attorney General.
As a lawyer and citizen, this has been
the highest privilege of my life. For 30
months I have been the lawyer for the
people of the United States. The work has
been hard; the challenges have been
great; and I have given my best effort. It
is an experience that I will cherish for all
of my days.
When you asked me to undertake this
responsibility, I told you I would stay on
the job until I could warrant to you that
the Department of Justice was strong,
running well, and an institution of which
you and the American people could be
proud. In asking you earlier this year for
my release to return to the private sector,
I gave you that representation, and I now
leave the Department knowing that it is
in the hands of good and strong men and
women whom you have placed in its top
leadership positions and that it is staffed
by professionals.
You have been a bulwark of strength
to me in leading the Department. I have
carried out your direction to develop tra-
ditions of excellence and independence in
the Department and you, indeed all
Americans, can have the satisfaction of
1401
