July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
NATIONAL GOALS
Last night I spoke to you about a na-
tion in a time of crisis. I sounded a warn-
ing in harsh terms, terms not often used
by a President speaking to the people of
our country.
I did not speak this way from a sense
of hopelessness or despair. I described this
crisis of confidence and sounded the warn-
ing to our Nation, because our future will
equal the promise of the past only if we
face the truth, heed the warning, and
change our course.
I spoke this way because it is the truth.
In a time of shadowy dread and fear,
of growing anger and frustration, the only
firm ground on which we can regroup and
rebuild our own confidence is to be honest
about ourselves.
The energy proposals which I presented
last night and this morning in Detroit
[Kansas City] will complete the list of
campaign promises that I made in 1976
for legislation to be passed. But today I
want to talk to you about a larger prom-
ise, the promise I made in my acceptance
speech and the promise I made hundreds
of times during my campaign throughout
this Nation-the promise that I would de-
scribe for you and to carry forward the
vision of this Nation that I hold in my
heart. That's the promise that I pledged
to redeem last night.
It is our common task to commit our-
selves to a renaissance of America-to a
rebirth of the American spirit. First of all,
we must restore our confidence and our
sense of the future. Somehow we've lost
it, and all else pales in comparison to the
importance of the need for return of con-
fidence of Americans in the future of our
Nation.
The second thing we must do is to re-
vitalize our basic human values. What is
it that we individually in our own lives
value most? We must believe and we must
belong to something bigger than just our-
selves, whether it be religion or commu-
nity or family or our national service.
The third thing we must do is to re-
generate our sense of unity, joining hands
with each other in a sense of commitment
to a national purpose of which we can be
proud and which we can serve with com-
mitment and determination-our belief
that we are building a better nation for
the years to come.
And we must define, finally, new goals
for our Nation and encourage all Ameri-
cans the President and all of you-to
join in determining these goals. What will
our Nation be? What do we want to
achieve in the years ahead for ourselves
and for our children? We must bring to-
gether the different elements in America-
producers, consumers, labor, business—
bring all of us together from the battle-
field of selfishness to a table of common
purpose.
This is a vision of America towards
which I will lead this Nation. In the
months ahead, I will come to you through-
out America with fresh proposals. Some
will involve the traditional government,
some will not. Above all, I will defend our
common national purpose against those
narrow special interests who often forget
the overriding needs of America. I will
persuade, I will speak against, I will fight
any selfish interest that undermines our
national purpose, and I will demand that
the Government reflect those commit-
ments which I make to you today.
Obviously I can't do this by myself. As
I promised last night, I will continue to
travel across this country to hear the peo-
ple of America. I will listen, and I will
act. I intend to open the government
process as wide as possible so the fresh
air of America can blow across Washing-
ton, D.C.
1248
