Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 20
cellaneous responsibilities falling to the
lot of the "energy czar." My tenure in that
anomalous position has by far exceeded
that of any of my predecessors. It has
covered the establishment of this Depart-
ment, the long battle over passage of the
National Energy Act of 1978, the severe
short-term difficulties posed by the fall of
the Shah, the Iranian shutdown and its
aftermath-as well as such lesser matters
as the coal strike of 1978 and the natural
gas crisis of 1977.
As we discussed prior to the Tokyo
Summit, it would be far better for you to
have in place one who is less scarred by
earlier battles. On August 4 I shall have
completed two years in this office. I trust
that you will accept the resignation that I
have previously offered. I would thus
hope to be out of office by October 1-
the second anniversary of the establish-
ment of this Department. In the interim
I shall provide steady and continuing
support for the new programs you have
initiated and ready assistance to Charles
Duncan during this period of transition.
Mr. President, under your leadership,
the energy problems, so easy to ignore,
have come to be better understood. Con-
servation, so widely dismissed a few
years
ago, has now become a simple reality.
The thirty year war over natural gas
pricing has been ended. The controls on
oil prices—with their crippling effects
are being phased out. The nuclear option
has been preserved-and the age of re-
newables has been initiated. We have
made a start on a synthetics program
which promises within a decade to be-
come massive. Despite all the difficulties,
impressive achievements have occurred
during these last two years.
Yet, despite all the efforts, Mr. Presi-
dent, I fear that the depth of our national
problem has not as yet been accepted by
the American people. The severe impacts
on our economy-and potentially on our
political and social institutions—posed by
the prospective oil stringencies of the
1980's have not been fully recognized.
Even more important, the geopolitical
implications of the dependence of the
United States and her allies on the most
volatile and vulnerable region in the
world should cause the deepest apprehen-
sions. The geostrategic risks are stark—
as is the attendant precariousness of sup-
ply. The revolution in Iran, as the
embargo before it, should have swept
away all illusions regarding these geostra-
tegic risks.
The task remaining is therefore, Mr.
President, an imposing one. You shall
have whatever assistance I can provide―
as well as my best wishes-as you continue
grapple with these intractable
problems.
to
Sincerely yours,
JAMES R. SCHLESINGER
[The President, The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20500]
Changes in the Cabinet
Remarks to Reporters. July 20, 1979
I have a brief statement to make, con-
sisting of five parts.
First, after a long and very careful
assessment, I have made some major
changes in my Cabinet.
Secondly, these changes are all con-
structive, and the transition from one
leader to another in each case will be
orderly and properly conducted.
Third, I do not expect any further
resignations from the Cabinet, other than
those that have already been made. There
are a few vacancies which I will fill with-
out delay.
1291
