Sept. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
deterrent or correctional purpose is served
by continuing their incarceration. Mr.
Collazo has served over 28 years; Ms. Le-
bron and Messrs. Rodriguez and Miranda
have each served over 25 years. Bureau of
Prison reports show that in recent times
only three inmates have served more time
in Federal custody than these four.
2. Humane considerations militate
against retaining in custody persons who
have served (according to Bureau of Pris-
on records) prison terms of far greater
length than the terms normally served by
those convicted of equally or even more
heinous offenses.
3. It is the consensus of the law en-
forcement officials consulted that commu-
tation would be appropriate and would
pose little substantial risk of the defend-
ants' engaging in further criminal activity
or becoming the rallying point for ter-
rorist groups. To the extent that clemency
might, under other circumstances, be
viewed as evidence of leniency toward
terrorists, no such conclusion could be
drawn here in light of the length of the
sentences served.
In addition, the President concurred
with the judgment of the Secretary of
State that the release of these four prison-
ers would be a significant humanitarian
gesture and would be viewed as such by
much of the international community.
The four prisoners will be released from
Federal prison immediately upon com-
pleting routine administrative discharge
procedures for their release.
World Conference on Religion
and Peace
Remarks at a White House Reception for
Conference Participants. September 6, 1979
Let me say, first of all, that it's a great
honor for me and my wife to have the
representatives from many nations here to
visit us in the White House. Is there any-
one here from Japan? [Laughter] Raise
your hand if you're from Japan. Good.
Very good.
Anyone here from India? Very fine.
Canada? The Federal Republic of Ger-
many? People's Republic of China?
China. Very good. The Soviet Union?
And 40 other nations, I understand.
Your organization and the purpose of
it, the fact that you are meeting in the
United States, warms my heart. Our Na-
tion's motto is "In God We Trust." And
we believe in separation of church and
state. We don't permit our Government
to dominate nor to interfere in the right
of each individual person to worship as
he or she chooses.
The Bible says, "Let me hear what God
will speak, for He will speak peace to His
people." And I would guess that each
holy book or thesis or statement of ethical
principles would encompass the same
philosophy.
Our religion is based on peace. And the
Bible also says, "Depart from evil, do good,
seek peace, pursue it-pursue it actively,
search for peace." This has not been a
characteristic of all those who profess faith
or all those who are related to or com-
mitted to a religion.
Many wars have been caused by and
fought under the banners of religious
beliefs. Suffering, divisions have occurred;
sometimes with no noble purpose, often
because people of slightly different reli-
gious beliefs were jealous of one another
and struggled for dominance because they
could not communicate, they did not
understand each other, they were not
filled with a desire for peace, there was no
sense of love.
Even in our present time many nations
are divided within themselves and against
one another because of irreconcilable reli-
gious beliefs and a lack of a desire to
1598
