Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 6
in front of our future . . . which opens
and closes at the same time."
This afternoon Pope John Paul and I
met alone in the Oval Office and dis-
cussed the future-the future of faith, the
future of people, the future prospects for
peace. We share a belief that "the Church
must in no way be confused with the
political community, nor bound to any
political system." But we also spoke of
opportunities we might pursue together.
We will work to renew our spiritual
strength that can bear us beyond the blind
materialism which brings no joy and
change that into true caring for one
another-in our families, in our communi-
ties, in our nations, in our common world.
We will pursue this goal through action,
not just through words.
I join His Holiness in urging all indi-
viduals and nations of the world to allevi-
ate the hunger of people and the home-
lessness of refugees-not as political acts,
but as acts of humanitarian concern. We
cannot profess to love humanity and
watch hundreds of thousands of men,
women, and children die in human
tragedy, which we ourselves can help, as
a nation and as people, to prevent. It's
our responsibility to provide prompt and
generous aid to them through action of
our own.
In another area of opportunity-con-
cern and action on behalf of human
rights-we have long shared a common
purpose. As His Holiness has written,
"The essential sense of the State, as a po-
litical community, consists in that the
society and the people composing it are
master and sovereign of their own
destiny."
We call on all people and all nations to
look beyond ancient hatreds, beyond
differences in race and customs, traditions
and beliefs, to see the shared humanity of
every other human life on Earth. When-
ever state and religion can do that to-
gether, then violations of the human
rights of any person anywhere in the
world-whatever cause may be claimed
in justification of those deprivations-will
be seen to be, as Your Holiness has so
accurately described them, "warfare on
humanity” itself.
It's abhorrent in our time to allow
differences in the way God's children wor-
ship the same Father to wound each
other, when our common faith could do
so much to heal each other.
All of us share full responsibility for
seizing another opportunity: In a world
filled with weapons there can be no more
urgent human passion than to wage and
to win the struggle for peace-for the
sake of every living thing on Earth.
We must, above all, wrest the fateful
lightning of nuclear destruction from the
hands of man. We must successfully con-
clude our nuclear arms agreements, and
in this continuing effort we must find a
way to end the threat of nuclear annihila-
tion in every nation on Earth. The age of
nuclear weaponry can either be long or
short, as we choose.
We must continue the common strug-
gle-the church and governments-for
peace.
In closing, let me repeat the phrase
from your poem: "We stand in front of
our future."
Fellow Americans, in the presence of
this good man, as we pause quietly for
these few moments in our sometimes
frantic pace, we ask ourselves: What is
important? What is progress? What are
we creating which we need fear? In his
last words [hours] Jesus prayed for his dis-
ciples, "Holy Father, keep them in Thy
name, which Thou hast given me, that
they may be one, even as we are one."
And we are also reminded: "God is love."
Let all of us here of every faith stand
as one-under God-for peace and jus-
tice and for love.
1831
