Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 8
rapidly increasing American investments;
a nation who still sends missionaries and
priests to the United States, to Georgia,
and to many other parts of the world; a
nation that is committed to peace enough
to be a demonstrator of courage, whose
soldiers now serve in a sacrificial way in
the Congo, in Cyprus, in Lebanon; a na-
tion that has indeed found its leadership
role in Europe and throughout the world.
Those who know history understand
that Ireland was the nurturer of the seed
of Western civilization throughout the
Dark Ages and has meant so much to our
country-in the past, in the present, and
will in the future—in our heritage, our
belief in freedom, our culture, our love of
arts. And we are all proud that Ireland
has now been recognized in every nation
as occupying a legitimate and well-de-
served role of leadership in the political,
cultural life of Europe and the world.
Ireland is also a nation which has suf-
fered from bloodshed and division. Ire-
land is not alone in modern day suffering.
I talked to my wife not too long ago, at
6 o'clock our time, which was 6 o'clock in
the morning in Thailand. She's now, about
7:30, arrived at one of the refugee camps
that she'll be visiting all during this day,
our night, and she'll be exploring ways
where our great and prosperous and
blessed country can help those who suffer
from starvation and persecution.
A little earlier this evening I had to
cancel my planned, long-planned trip to
Canada, because Americans are suffering
from international terrorism in being held
against their will, and my responsibility
is to protect the lives of Americans in
foreign countries and here at home.
Our guest, the Prime Minister of the
great nation of Ireland, represents the
kind of leadership necessary in a world
that's still plagued with suffering and
with threats, with violence to the laws of
man and God, and with terrorism. He's a
man of quiet strength. As I said earlier,
as on the playing fields, in his leadership
role he's a man of gentleness. He has a
firm voice of reason, and because of his
quiet strength, Ireland and we and the
other nations who look to him for lead-
ership benefit greatly.
I would like for all of you to join me in
a toast to Prime Minister and Mrs. Jack
Lynch, our friends, to the Irish every-
where, and to the indomitable spirit of
their lovely land, which is also our lovely
land. To the Irish and to our notable
guest of this evening.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Miss Lillian-glad to see you here, de-
lighted you have come-Ambassadors,
ladies and gentlemen:
When I see the President of the United
States using as a script two sides of a
small envelope-[laughter]-it ill-be-
hooves me to take out my script here this
evening. [Laughter] There are a few
points in it that perhaps I would like to
refer to it in order to get across to you.
And I'd, first of all, like to thank you, Mr.
President, for your gracious welcome, for
your kind words about my country, about
my wife, and about me.
I just want to recall an occasion, oh,
some 30 years ago, when a very well-
known American came to Ireland, and
he had performed admirably in the Ber-
lin Olympics of 1936, I think it was. His
name was Jesse Owens. And he had won
the 100, the 220, the relay, and the long
jump; he had four Olympic gold medals.
And I introduced Jesse Owens as a great
athlete, as a gentleman, and a lot of other
things. And when he got up to address
the assembly-it was some kind of an ath-
letic seminar-he said, "Thank you, Mr.
Lynch, for saying exactly what I had
written down for you." [Laughter] Your
President has said things about me that
I mightn't have written for him, but I
know they were too profuse, but certainly
about my country, he said nothing that I
wouldn't have wanted him to say anyway.
2099
