July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
a case like that, when I'm sure it's for the
best interests of our country, even if it does
cost me something politically.
HEALTH PROGRAMS
Q. How do you do, Mr. President?
My name is Tom Bruner, and I'm the
director of a drug and alcohol drug treat-
ment unit with North Central Compre-
hensive Care Center in Elizabethtown.
And I would like to lend praise to your
administration and to Mrs. Carter in
particular for effecting improved mental
health services. However, as Secretary
Califano exits, do you intend to continue
his step-up in alcohol and drug depend-
ency programing and research, as he ad-
vocated, or is his absence indicative of
a policy modification?
THE PRESIDENT. I have absolute con-
fidence that the new Secretary of HEW,
Pat Harris, has the same motivations and
the same commitment to health in all
its aspects, and also particularly mental
health, as did Secretary Califano, who did
a very good job.
I know my wife, as you've mentioned,
has mental health and the problems of the
elderly as her top priorities in her role
as First Lady. And I can guarantee you
that my wife, Pat Harris, the new Sec-
retary of HEW, myself will be good part-
ners with you in giving our people with
mental health problems a better life in the
future, including drug addiction as well.
You can depend on that.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. I'm
Lloyd Bussage from Louisville, Kentucky.
Concerning the ratification of SALT II,
you as President have called upon the
support of the American people to get
this SALT II ratified. And yet other do-
mestic leaders are telling the American
people differently. For example, General
Rowny, the leader of your negotiation
team, has resigned-had resigned-and
he felt that it was no good, that the Rus-
sians were getting the upper hand on ne-
gotiations. And just this morning Henry
Kissinger stated that he could not support
the treaty until American arms and Rus-
sian arms were made equal. He felt the
Americans were not quite as strong as
Russia, and he would not support it until
they were brought up to equal. And this
sort of puts the American people in a posi-
tion of being in the middle and not know-
ing who to believe.
Mr. President, who should we believe,
and why?
THE PRESIDENT. Believe me. Also be-
lieve the Secretary of State, and also be-
lieve the Secretary of Defense. And also
believe all the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The
top military officer in the Army, the Navy,
the Marines, the Air Force, plus the
Chairman of that group, had General
Rowny as their subordinate. He was their
representative in the negotiations. And
they all have testified since he did that
the SALT treaty, in balance, is good for
our country. They agree basically with
what Secretary Kissinger said.
Along with a SALT II treaty-which
is good for our Nation-there is a re-
quirement that we meet the defense needs
of our Nation. And I'm absolutely deter-
mined that our defense needs will be met.
We had a long downward trend in
defense expenditures before I became
President. We have now reversed that
trend, not only in NATO but in overall
expenditures as well.
I think one of the problems is that the
American people need to support a strong
defense. In the last 2 years alone, for
instance, when I've made my defense rec-
ommendations to the Congress, the Con-
1350
