July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lin group: ourselves, the Germans, the
French, and the British. And I think we
four then took it to the others.
Q. Sir, what do we hope to gain by talk-
ing tougher at OPEC?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't see how
the rest of the world can continue to sit
back in a quiescent state and accept un-
restrained and unwarranted increases in
OPEC oil prices. I think there's no doubt
that all seven of our nations agree very
strongly with this deep concern. We also
all agreed that the 60-percent increase in
6 months is unnecessarily high and com-
pletely unwarranted.
Q. But given all of that, given the fact
that all of this is unrestrained and unwar-
ranted, what can we do besides making
strong statements?
THE PRESIDENT. I'd rather not go into
that. [Laughter]
Q. You mean there are things we can
do?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'd just rather
not go into that.
And I think we've all recognized that
so far, and we've been timid. And I think
the statement in Tokyo, collectively, might
have some special significance in the
future. We'll just have to wait and see.
ENERGY SUPPLIES AND ECONOMIC
GROWTH RATE
Q. What does the 8.5 million barrels a
day for U.S. mean to the Americans?
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. It means
that the level of imports that we experi-
enced in 1977 and the level of imports that
we're experiencing this year will be main-
tained as a goal. We'll have to assess our
progress each year. All of us agreed to
that. It'll be our goal that we will not ex-
ceed that amount of imports in 1985.
This could be accomplished by three
basic means: One is to maximize produc-
tion of oil in our own country; secondly,
to conserve energy in all its forms; and,
third, what might be considered a ra-
tional basis to develop alternative sources
Q. Besides going in with just—taking of energy-solar; coal; nuclear, with spe-
the oil-
THE PRESIDENT. I'll let the press specu-
late on what can be done. The first thing,
I think, is to let all the consuming nations
on Earth, both advanced, industrialized
nations and those who are semidevel-
oped, and those who are very poor and
poverty stricken, realize the serious threat
that already has been mounted to the
world economy and what more serious
threats can be mounted in the future un-
less there's some public, concerted state-
ment of concern toward the OPEC na-
tions. It's very difficult for a single
nation like Japan, or like Germany, or like
France, maybe like the United States,
to let a lonely voice be mounted against
the OPEC countries, because they can
single that country out with punitive with-
holding of oil or some other action.
cial attention paid to safety and environ-
mental considerations; oil derived from
tar sand, shale. These kinds of energy
sources must be aggressively developed.
And I think that all of the countries
assembled in Tokyo recognized that we
have a special advantage in our country
in having some reserves. Germany has no
oil. France has no appreciable oil or coal.
Germany has pretty good coal supplies.
Great Britain has both coal and oil. We
have coal, oil; obviously, we have tre-
mendous resources in shale. Canada has
diminishing, rapidly diminishing supplies
of oil, tremendous potential in tar sands.
So, each country is so different, one from
another-Japan, almost completely de-
pendent on imported energy. So, we had a
very serious problem to address.
Also, our country this year ought to
1214
