Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
miniature computers to provide more and
more systems and services for business
and homes. The new technology makes it
possible to hold meetings, transmit mes-
sages, do research, bank, shop and receive
a widening variety of information and en-
tertainment—all through electronics. In
the process, the technology has invali-
dated the old assumption that all aspects
of telecommunications service are natural
monopolies. Second, FCC and court ac-
tions over the last decade opened portions
of the industry to competition. Despite
these far-reaching developments, the stat-
utory framework has remained
changed, and regulatory changes have
come slowly.
Outmoded regulatory controls and
slow procedures are harming new com-
petitors, established telephone companies,
and the users of telephone and other tele-
communications services. Regulatory de-
lays and uncertainties discourage firms
from entering new markets and offering
new services. In a dynamic industry, these
delays can mean that the product or serv-
ice offered is obsolete by the time the
regulatory proceeding ends. Innovation is
hobbled by uncertainty and by the need
to respond to artificial regulatory condi-
tions instead of real consumer demand.
Consumers are the final beneficiaries of
competition, through lower prices and
wider choices. The competition already
allowed in the telecommunications indus-
try is producing benefits. For example, the
market for telephone sets and other ter-
minal equipment recently was opened to
competition. Consumers now can shop
around for good prices, choose from a
wide variety of products, and decide
whether to buy or lease. Competition is
also providing more choices among so-
phisticated, new services, such as those
that combine data processing and trans-
mission.
The choice is clear. Competition is a
fact of life in this industry. It cannot and
should not be rolled back, and we should
not allow it to continue developing hap-
hazardly. That approach means delay and
uncertainty, and it poses a long-run dan-
ger to the health of our telecommunica-
tions system. Instead, we need both leg-
islation and well-planned action at the
FCC. The task is to create a structure that
will give consumers the benefits of compe-
tition and deregulation wherever they
make sense while keeping telephone serv-
ice reliable and affordable.
The FCC under Chairman Charles
Ferris is working hard on this effort, but
the Act itself needs change. The House
and Senate Communications Subcommit-
tees are now working on legislation to
meet this challenge. I urge Congress to
press forward and enact a bill that incor-
porates the following basic principles:
• Competition should be encouraged
and fully competitive markets should be
deregulated. The bill should set a policy
of encouraging competition wherever it is
workable and of eliminating needless reg-
ulation. Deregulation makes sense for
competitive markets, such as terminal
equipment, and for small firms that can-
not dominate markets. Many communi-
cations and equipment offerings should be
deregulated now, and legislation is needed
to avoid endless litigation over the FCC's
authority to do so. Of course, some com-
munications markets, such as the local ex-
change, may remain regulated monopolies
indefinitely. The legislation should not,
however, preclude competition in any
market.
As the industry moves toward competi-
tion and deregulation, some continued
controls will be needed because one firm
dominates the telecommunications indus-
try and others have local monopolies.
Firms should be prevented from using
1700
