Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 14, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors. September 7, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to spend a few
minutes with you.
This is an interesting day for you to be
in Washington. We have, as usual, an ac-
cumulation of both domestic and foreign
issues to be addressed by me and by my
associates, with whom you've met already.
It is a coincidence that we have already
had a major announcement on the de-
ployment of the MX missile in a mobile
form this morning, and in just a few min-
utes, about 4 o'clock, I will make a state-
ment to the Nation concerning the Soviet
troops in Cuba.ยน
I've talked to Dr. Brzezinski since he
met with you and have read a transcript
of his answers and your questions con-
cerning those troops.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
At the same time, we are pursuing our
goal of peace for our country, its en-
hanced security, the honoring of our com-
mitment to our allies and friends, the
mutual disarmament and the reduction
of the threat of a nuclear confrontation,
the control of the proliferation of nuclear
explosives among nations that don't pres-
ยน See page 1602 of this volume.
ently have them, our focused peace ef-
forts in the Middle East, in southern
Africa, and in other places, and also do-
mestic issues that are well known to you
and very important to me.
We've had excessive inflation in our
country now for more than 10 years. This
is a matter of constant concern to us. We
are trying to address the basic roots of
it with increased agricultural productivity
and the other provision of goods for our-
selves, more stable marketing techniques,
the reduction of the Federal budget defi-
cit, a constant policy on Government ex-
penditure restraint, reduction of Govern-
ment intrusion into business affairs, the
elimination of unnecessary forms and
Government regulation, the provision of
a stable dollar.
We have a massive effort ongoing to
establish an energy policy for the first
time in our country, although it's long
overdue. We've already had success in the
Congress and with my own executive ac-
tions to reduce the projected importation
of foreign oil by about 4 million barrels
per day. Our presentations to the Con-
gress will result in an additional saving
of 42 or so million barrels in the future.
I need not go into detail about that. I'll
be glad to answer any questions for you.
At the same time, we have budgets,
appropriations, authorizations of every
facet of American life that all come to my
attention and on which I have to make
1607
