Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 23
have far outdistanced North Korea in
economic growth. Similarly, we can look
forward with confidence to an enhanced
defense capability in South Korea. As I
have said before, our security commit-
ment will remain firm. We are hopeful
that the decade ahead will bring com-
parable development in the political area.
Specifically, we hope to see greater em-
phasis on the protection of political rights
and more rapid development of political
institutions.
GROUND TROOP WITHDRAWALS
Q. Mr. President, your Korean troop
withdrawal policy has been controversial
in this country up to now-illustrated by
the Senate Armed Services Committee's
approval of Senator Sam Nunn's sub-
committee recommendation on Army
active duty ceiling following its House
counterpart committee's adoption of an
amendment on it in mid-May.
You said in an interview on February 9
that you are holding in abeyance further
troop withdrawals from South Korea un-
til reassessment of new intelligence study
of increased North Korean military
strength, impact of Sino-U.S. normaliza-
tion, and perspective of the North-South
dialog. Mr. President, have you made
your determination on this issue? If not,
when do you think you would announce
your decision before, during, or after
your Far East trip?
A. I have made no decision on ground
troop withdrawals yet. I want to take a
firsthand look at the situation, talk to
President Park, and consult with Con-
gress before making up my mind. What-
ever decision is made, one thing is clear:
Our commitment to the security of the
Republic of Korea is unshakable. Our
policy will be based on this commitment
and the maintenance of stability and
peace on the Korean peninsula.
RELATIONS WITH NORTH KOREA
Q. When the U.S. table tennis team
traveled to North Korea to participate in
the international championship there in
late April, it was widely speculated that
the United States might try another
"Ping-pong diplomacy." I understand
that North Korean leaders have sent
feelers to Washington through various
ways for bilateral talks on trade and cul-
tural relations with the United States,
and you have stated many times that the
United States wants to open relations
with all the countries with which she does
not have now.
Mr. President, may I ask you to specify
your policy toward the North Koreans?
Do you have any proposal or plan for
solving the perennial Korean question,
other than four-power conference among
the United States, China, North and
South Korea, and cross-recognition of
Seoul and Pyongyang by major powers?
A. Let me state our policy toward
North Korea quite simply. We are pre-
pared to participate in discussions with
North Korean officials aimed at reducing
tensions on the Korean peninsula, but
only if officials of the South Korean Gov-
ernment are full and equal participants.
We have also said that to promote an
atmosphere conducive to the reduction of
tensions, the United States Government
is prepared to improve our relations of-
ficially and unofficially with North Korea,
provided that there are parallel improve-
ments by the Soviet Union or China in
relations with South Korea. We are not
hostile toward North Korea. However, we
are not going to take unilateral steps
which are unreciprocated by North
Korea's major allies, nor allow ourselves
to become manipulated in a manner
1153
