Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
pean nations, Atlantic Alliance, in the last
few days. We discussed matters of trade
and commerce and the future of our two
countries in dealing with the problem of
energy.
In every instance we have made good
progress. There are very few, if any, dif-
ferences between the people of Great
Britain and the people of the United
States. It's a delight for us to have her
here, and she will be meeting with some of
our congressional leaders and some of the
Cabinet officers this afternoon. I will be
with her again tonight.
We are very grateful that you've come,
Madame Prime Minister, and we look for-
ward to seeing you this afternoon, this
evening, at the banquet. And in the mean-
time our officials will be discussing mat-
ters with one another.
Thank you again for being with me.
Perhaps you'd like to make a statement
for the press.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Thank you.
Mr. President, I would like really to
confirm what you've said, how well and
how easily the talks and discussions went.
I don't find that surprising in any way.
We, after all, share very similar views
about the importance of defending free-
dom under the law and therefore the im-
portance of giving defense a good deal of
priority in our national programs. We
notice what the President has done for
defense over here, and we've felt that we
in Great Britain have been able to re-
spond, and we also put it in the forefront
of our election program.
We are particularly grateful to the
President for the great help we have had
in trying to bring the Rhodesian prob-
lem to a successful settlement and a suc-
cessful conclusion. At all stages we've kept
in touch with the President and with Sec-
retary Vance, and they've been most
helpful.
Of course a large part of our discussions
were taken up with Iran, for reasons
which everyone in the whole world will
understand. And we indicated very
clearly to the President that when the
United States wishes to go to the Security
Council for further powers under chapter
seven, Great Britain will be the first to
support him in his endeavors. You'd ex-
pect nothing less, and you will receive
nothing less but our full support.
Naturally, we're concerned about en-
ergy, the Middle East, the future of oil
supplies, and we've talked too about that.
You all look now just a little bit chilly,
so perhaps I can conclude those—so am I
-those few comments with everything
went extremely well. We're very happy to
be here, very grateful to the President for
giving us so much of his time, and we felt
that everything went just as you would
expect it to go between America and
Great Britain, and that couldn't be more
satisfactory.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:48 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
President's Special Commission for
the Study of Ethical Problems in
Medicine and Biomedical and
Behavioral Research
Executive Order 12184. December 17, 1979
RELATING TO THE PRESIDENT'S COMMIS-
SION FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICAL
PROBLEMS IN MEDICINE AND BIOMEDI-
CAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH
Public Law 95-622 established the
President's Commission for the Study of
Ethical Problems in Medicine and Bio-
medical and Behavioral Research. Appro-
2260
