Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 30
duplication, streamline those forms which
are necessary and strengthen central over-
sight of Federal paperwork.
Government efficiency is a central
theme of my Administration. If we are to
restore confidence in government, we
must eliminate needless burdens on the
public. We have pursued this goal
through regulatory reform, civil service
reform, reorganization, and other initia-
tives. Paperwork reduction is an impor-
tant part of this program.
Some Federal paperwork is needed.
The government must collect informa-
tion to enforce the civil rights laws, com-
pile economic statistics, design sound
regulations, and for many other purposes.
In recent years, however, government
forms, surveys and interviews have mush-
roomed. Much of this paperwork is un-
necessary or duplicates information being
collected elsewhere.
My Administration has stopped the
paperwork surge and started cutting this
burden down to size. We have reduced
the amount of time Americans spend fill-
ing out Federal forms by almost 15%-
127 million hours. That is the equivalent
of 75,000 people working full-time for a
year. We have evaluated the 520 recom-
mendations of the Paperwork Commis-
sion and have already implemented more
than half of them.
The Internal Revenue Service made it
possible, for example, for five million tax-
payers to switch from the long tax form
to the short one. The Occupational
Safety and Health Administration ex-
empted 40,000 small businesses from re-
porting requirements. The Interstate
Commerce Commission sliced a 70-page
report required from 13,000 carriers down
to 8 pages. The Labor and Treasury De-
partments slashed the paperwork burden
that was crushing the small pension plans.
I am today announcing that we are con-
solidating three reports required from the
States on welfare and food stamp pro-
grams; this will eventually save 500,000
hours and $10 million per year.
The progress in cutting Federal paper-
work has been substantial, but we must
do more. Congress is enacting new re-
quirements in energy, environmental
protection, and other programs that will
add to the paperwork burden. To con-
tinue our success in eliminating Federal
paperwork, we need the broad manage-
ment program I am announcing today.
The Executive Order I have signed
establishes strong management tools for
the Executive agencies. First of all, it cre-
ates a "paperwork budget." Each agency
will submit an annual estimate of the
numbers of hours required to fill out all
its forms. The Office of Management and
Budget will then hold agencies to that
total or order it cut. The process will be
similar to the spending budget; it will
give agencies incentives to set priorities
and to eliminate or streamline burden-
some forms.
The Order creates a Federal Informa-
tion Locator System, which will list all
the types of information collected by Fed-
eral agencies. Before an agency collects
information, it will check in this System
to see if another agency already has the
data.
The Order also requires agencies to
consider the special paperwork problems
of small organizations and small busi-
nesses. Data gathering that may be easy
for a corporation with computerized rec-
ords may be very costly for a small busi-
ness person who keeps records by hand.
Some reports must necessarily be univer-
sal and uniform, but in many cases agen-
cies can meet their information needs
while providing exemptions or less bur-
densome reports for small businesses.
Some agencies already have started do-
2181
