Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The President. I think that will prob-
ably be part of the Kemeny report. And
on that basis, we will do what we can.
As you know, the States have a right to
decide whether or not a nuclear power-
plant can be located within its borders.
Some of the States have forbidden,
through referenda and through action by
the State legislatures, the installation of
nuclear powerplants in their State. There
is one plant in Georgia that was built
while I was Governor. And we have taken
action to encourage States to evolve evac-
uation plans.
And I think that what you have asked
and what the people of New York decide
is a very important consideration. For the
Federal Government to mandate, how-
ever, that the nuclear powerplants in
New York should be shut down under
present circumstances, I think, is an un-
warranted encroachment on the local
prerogatives. And I would not favor that,
and neither would the Congress do it.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. And by the way, I love you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank
you.
SOVIET TROOPS IN CUBA
Q. Mr. Carter, my name is Fred Fein-
gold. I'm from Hollis Hills, here in
Queens, and I'm a sales representative. I
was going to ask you a question about in-
flation, but that subject has been gone
over a bit. I then was going to ask you a
question about national health care, but
that question, I think, was pretty well
done. [Laughter] I was then going to speak
about Israel, and that question-[laugh-
ter] was covered. Therefore, to avoid
repetitious questions, I'm going to ask you
about the Russian troops in Cuba.
In the event that all diplomacy fails,
we do everything we can diplomatically-
which I'm sure you're doing now-do you
foresee another Russian missile crisis if
nothing works and the troops just stay
there?
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that this is not the same thing as the 1962
missile crisis. At that time, the Soviets had
within Cuba missiles, that could reach our
own Nation, that had nuclear warheads.
There was a direct threat to our country,
and millions of people could have been
killed from those launching pads. Our
country was threatened with an offensive
attack.
The present brigade of Soviet troops in
Cuba is not a threat to the security of our
country. There are about 2,500 troops
there. They do have 40 tanks and a few
field pieces; they have no offensive weap-
ons that can reach our shores. They have
no capability for a seaborne invasion;
they have no capability for an airborne
invasion. So, it's not a threat to our secu-
rity.
The thing that concerns us, however—
and this is a serious matter, and the status
quo is not acceptable to us-is that it's a
combat unit. The Soviets deny it has com-
bat status. But it is a combat unit located
in a country in this hemisphere, in a
country that is totally dependent on the
Soviet Union.
Cuba, in effect, is a puppet of the So-
viet Union, and they act completely in
accordance with Soviet foreign policy. A
hundred percent of all their weapons are
given to them by the Soviet Union. The
Soviet Union gives Cuba about $8 million
every day to sustain it economically. They
pay five times the world price, for in-
stance, for all Cuba's sugar. They provide
them with all their oil. And in response
to that or in trade for that, Cuba acts, in
effect, as a Soviet surrogate in many na-
tions around the world.
In 1975, as you know, they moved
thousands of troops into Angola. Since
1754
