Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 9
candidates would probably prevail in
1980, as they did in 1976.
There were no official debates, as such,
until the general election in 1976, when
President Ford and I, as a nominee, were
given that opportunity. But I feel at ease
about it. I will protect my record, which
I think is a good one. And as I say, I look
forward to the campaign with anticipa-
tion and confidence.
Q. Mr. President, may I follow up?
Will you support the winner of the
convention?
is-
the last few months of more than 100
percent per year. Also, as I said earlier, if
you could discount those energy increases,
the rate of inflation would be the same
this year as it was the preceding 2 years.
We have cut the budget deficit by $36
billion since I've been elected. We have
reduced the total number of employees in
the Federal Government. We've reduced
the percentage of the gross national prod-
uct being spent by the Government by 2
full percent, from 23½ down to 212.
We've cut paperwork by 15 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. My presumption We've begun a strong move to deregulate,
Q. And second, your opponents
support you if you win?
THE PRESIDENT. My presumption is
that I would support whatever Democrat
gets the nomination. I have always voted
Democratic.
ECONOMIC POLICY
Q. Mr. President, wholesale prices con-
tinue to increase, indicating that there
will be further inflation at the retail level
throughout the rest of this year and per-
haps longer. Most of the predictions that
you've made and your economic advisers
have made about the economy have
proved to be on the low side and are con-
stantly being revised upward, especially
with regard to inflation.
Don't you think it's about time for some
kind of reevaluation of your economic
programs and policies? Are you going to
just continue to go along on the same
course, or do you think any kind of reex-
amination of your policy is indicated?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so far the pro-
gram has been well conceived, and I think
it has some very beneficial results. We are
all surprised at the rate of inflation,
brought about primarily, as I said, by an
annual rate of increase of energy prices
that is, to get the Government's nose out
of the private business sector and the lives
of private people. We've had a very
stringent effort made to eliminate unwar-
ranted spending, and we've moved when
necessary to stabilize the value of the
dollar.
We've also proposed to the Congress
for the first time a means by which we
could reduce the inflationary impact of
importing 50 percent of our oil. This has
been a long, slow, tedious process, but I
think when the Congress does complete
its work this year on an energy package,
this will remove the single major factor
that has been causing excessive inflation.
I don't intend to change our basic
policy, and I believe that we've had may-
be inadequately assessed results even from
the wage-price guidelines.
The
wage increases, for instance, this
year, the first 9 months of this year, have
been lower than they were in 1978. We've
had more than a million union workers
who have signed contracts within the
wage guidelines. And the price standards
have also been very effective. For in-
stance, the items that come under price
standards have been increasing at only
one-half the rate of those that cannot be
controlled, like OPEC oil prices.
1841
