Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 20
neer spirit that built our great country is
symbolized by the footprints of American
astronauts on the bleak landscape of the
Moon.
The first lunar landing and those which
followed it were due to the unique and the
specialized contributions of tens of thou-
sands of Americans-scientists, engineers,
astronauts, skilled craftsmen, and many
others. We must continue to use these
skills and build upon the success and the
inspiration of the Apollo program.
The 10th anniversary of the lunar land-
ing is a time to reflect on what we as a
nation can accomplish with unity, daring,
and determination. We landed on the
Moon because our Nation set a firm goal,
and we united behind that effort. Today,
we face an equally challenging goal in
fighting for energy security. Like the
Apollo mission, it is a test of our Nation's
resources and our spirit as a people.
We will win energy security for our
Nation in the same way we won the race
to the Moon. We will marshal the un-
equaled technological and scientific ca-
pacity of the American people. We will
draw upon our vast and abundant natural
resources, and we will unite as a people
in our determination to preserve our free-
dom and our independence as a nation.
I know that the spirit to unite, to pre-
vail, to overcome this energy crisis is
tion, representing the American people,
can provide the leadership this country
needs.
As President, I am also determined to
maintain America's leadership in space.
The first great era of space exploration is
about over; as an initiative, unprece-
dented. But the second-the era of the
space shuttle, when we harvest the great
benefits that have been made possible by
that exploration-is about to begin.
As the poet Robert Browning wrote
over a century ago, "Man's reach should
exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?"
As a nation, we always must have the
boldness to reach for the heavens and to
set a brave example for all peoples of this
Earth.
On behalf of the United States of
America, I want to repeat the gratitude of
our country to these three brave men,
those who followed them and preceded
them in space, and the many scientists,
workers, average Americans, technicians
who helped to make this enormous
achievement possible. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. Robert
A. Frosch is Administrator of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
strong among the American people today. Federal Emergency Management
I've seen it on the faces of those with
whom I have met and talked in the last
few weeks. I have no doubt that as a
nation we will succeed.
Our Nation will also face a number of
other difficult challenges in the years
ahead. But this Nation and this Govern-
ment must be prepared with confidence to
meet these challenges. I'm now involved
in an intense and serious period of review
and evaluation. I will make the decisions
necessary to ensure that my administra-
Executive Order 12148. July 20, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and laws of the
United States of America, including the
Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950, as
amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2251 et seq.),
the Disaster Relief Act of 1970, as
amended (42 U.S.C. Chapter 58 note),
the Disaster Relief Act of 1974 (88 Stat.
143; 42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earth-
1277
