Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 28
I have reviewed your joint letter to me
of November 2, 1979, recommending ap-
proval of a proposed Amendment to the
Agreement Between the Government of
the United States of America and the
Government of the United Kingdom for
Cooperation on the Uses of Atomic En-
ergy for Mutual Defense Purposes. I note
from your joint recommendation that the
United Kingdom is participating with
the United States pursuant to an interna-
tional agreement by substantial and ma-
terial contributions to the mutual defense
and security. The proposed Amendment
will permit cooperation which will fur-
ther improve our mutual defense posture
and be in support of NATO.
I hereby:
approve the program outlined in the
proposed Amendment to the 1958
Agreement;
⚫ determine that cooperation under
the proposed Amendment will pro-
mote and will not constitute an un-
reasonable risk to the common de-
fense and security; and
• authorize the execution of the pro-
posed Amendment for the Govern-
ment of the United States in a man-
ner specified by the Secretary of
State.
JIMMY CARTER
Veterans' Disability
Compensation and Survivors'
Benefits Amendments of 1979
Statement on Signing H.R. 2282 Into Law.
November 28, 1979
It is a great pleasure to sign into law
H.R. 2282, the Veterans' Disability Com-
pensation and Survivors' Benefits Amend-
ments of 1979. This bill increases by 9.9
percent the rates of compensation for
service-disabled veterans and their sur-
vivors.
Benefits to disabled veterans and their
survivors are a reflection of our deep
gratitude to those men and women in-
jured or killed in the service of their
country. My administration has consist-
ently supported periodic increases in
benefits for them as the cost of living
rises. In keeping with that policy I have
recommended and the Congress has
enacted increased compensation each
year since I took office.
My budget last January proposed an
increase in compensation benefits, effec-
tive this fiscal year. I am pleased that
H.R. 2282 accomplishes this by substan-
tially increasing benefits for about 22
million service-disabled veterans and
their survivors, retroactive to October 1,
1979.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 2282 is Public Law
96-128, approved November 28.
Department of Defense
Nomination of Togo D. West, Jr., To Be
General Counsel. November 28, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Togo D. West, Jr., of
Washington, D.C., to be General Counsel
of the Department of Defense. He would
replace Deanne Siemer, who has resigned.
West has been Special Assistant to the
Secretary of Defense since earlier this
year.
He was born June 21, 1942, in Winston-
Salem, N.C. He received a B.S.E.E.
(1965) and a J.D. (1968) from Howard
University.
West was a law clerk with the firm of
Covington & Burling in 1967 and 1968
and was law clerk to Judge Harold R.
Tyler of the U.S. District Court for the
2165
