Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cancy on the Court of Military Appeals
which will be created following confirma-
tion of the Honorable Matthew Perry as
a United States District Court Judge for
the District of South Carolina. Judge
Perry is now a member of the Court of
Military Appeals.
The President directed the Commis-
sion to make special efforts to consider
well-qualified women and members of mi-
nority groups as possible nominees.
Labor Dispute in the Grain
Industry
Statement by the President. August 17, 1979
The dispute between the American
Federation of Grain Millers and the grain
companies, now entering its seventh week,
is a matter of great concern to me. The
farmers, who are not a party to the dis-
pute, but whose livelihoods are so deeply
affected by it, have no satisfactory alter-
native means of getting their product to
market. With the peak harvest season now
upon us, the importance of an early agree-
ment is evident.
I have directed that Secretary Bergland
and Secretary Marshall monitor the sit-
uation closely and report regularly to me.
I have also directed that the Federal Me-
diation and Conciliation Service provide
whatever assistance will facilitate the
strike's prompt settlement.
This evening I will meet in St. Paul
with Governors Link of North Dakota
and Quie of Minnesota to discuss the
strike and its effect on the upper midwest.
But there should be no doubt about
my own views concerning the best way to
resolve this strike. It has been demon-
strated repeatedly that the process of free
collective bargaining is the best method
for resolving disagreements between labor
and management. In exercising their
rights under that process, the parties to a
dispute have a special responsibility to
recognize and consider the hardships their
actions are imposing on others. I urge the
Grain Millers and the companies to work
conscientiously with the Federal Media-
tion and Conciliation Service to achieve
an early, equitable settlement to this dis-
pute.
In this situation, it is clear that such
a settlement can occur if the local parties,
who are the most sensitive to local prob-
lems and needs, are allowed to continue
negotiating together. Although the im-
pact of the strike is causing hardship in
this area, the stringent legal test of Taft-
Hartley requires a demonstration of dan-
ger to the health and safety of the entire
Nation. That strict requirement now ef-
fectively precludes the use of this remedy.
I am confident that the Grain Millers
and the companies will act responsibly
and in the Nation's best interest in at-
tempting to resolve this strike promptly
and fairly.
Community Involvement in
Energy Conservation
Letter to City Officials. August 17, 1979
As you know, local leaders around the
country are already working hard to make
their communities more energy efficient,
and the people who live there more energy
conscious. I am writing to pledge the full
assistance of the Federal Government in
your efforts and to request your most
vigorous leadership in developing your
own community-wide conservation plans.
Many communities such as Portland,
Oregon; Clinton County, Michigan;
1452
