Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 18
Sometimes we tend to forget the bless-
ings of freedom and the blessings of liv-
ing in a democracy, where every human
being is important, where each one of us
has a right to be different, to live where
we choose, to worship as we choose, to
have equal opportunity, no matter what
language we might speak or how long our
family may have been in this country or
what color our skin might be or how
wealthy our families might be, either.
These kinds of differences don't make our
Nation weak. They make our Nation
stronger.
We have people in our country from al-
most every race and every nation on
Earth. We have ties to all the rest of the
world, and when we are faced with a tre-
mendous challenge, like World War I or
World War II or the Great Depression-
when I was a young man, those chal-
lenges were easy to see and easy to un-
derstand. We felt that our Nation was
threatened and our future was not cer-
tain, and with that threat our families
were drawn closer together and our com-
munities were drawn closer together, and
our Nation enjoyed a high degree of unity,
because we knew that our Nation was
under a threat. That was when we were
strongest, with a mutual commitment, be-
cause we knew that each person was im-
portant. And we had to have faith in one
another, and we had to have faith in the
future.
Recently our country has been faced
with a series of problems which we
couldn't quite understand-the Vietnam
war, the Watergate scandals, 10 or 12
years of inflation, and a shortage of en-
ergy which has caused us to turn too
much to foreign nations for oil. It's made
our Nation overly dependent on
certain supplies of oil from the Middle
East and other places, and it's let us real-
ize for the first time in our great country
that we do have limits, and we cannot
afford to waste any more, as we have
wasted, what God gave us in the past.
This is not a problem that we cannot
solve. It's not a question that we cannot
answer. It's not an obstacle that we can-
not overcome, if we are united. But we
must do two things. First of all, we must
conserve energy. We must quit wasting
energy. And secondly, we must increase
the energy that we produce in our own
country-solar energy; increased use of
coal; more production of oil and gas
from our own wells; the production of
new kinds of energy; synthetic oil from
shale rock, from coal.
These kinds of things are a great chal-
lenge to us. But they ought to unite us
and not divide us, one from another. It's
very important for you to have confidence
in your government-in your mayor, your
county officials, your State officials, your
Federal officials, your President. Regard-
less of whether you might be Republican
or Democrat or Protestant or Catholic or
Jewish, that doesn't matter. In a time of
stress and trial, that's the time we need
to unite with a common effort.
When elections come, vote how you
choose, but when our Nation is faced with
a problem, every single American must
say, "What can I do to make my Nation
stronger and greater and more united to
face a common challenge?"
There is no doubt in my mind that we
can resolve our energy problem and give
our Nation security so that no matter
what happens in the Middle East, our
Nation will not suffer, so that we can be
reliant on ourselves. We now have before
the Congress proposals that will solve
these problems if Congress acts. A wind-
fall profits tax will give us money derived
from taxing the oil companies, to help
poor families pay the increased cost of
energy, to give us a way to conserve en-
1469
