Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
half of all the parts of a tree that we don't
use now. So, we've got a potential there
to produce energy from growing plants.
One obvious example is gasohol, where
you make ethanol from corn-you can use
other products as well-mix it with gaso-
line, and make gasohol. There's a great
deal of interest in it. We are encouraging
that in every possible way with research
and development.
The Iowa legislature, for instance, has
passed a bill that encourages individual
farmers to put in a gasohol plant on their
farm. At first it would be too expensive to
use sound, marketable grain for the pro-
duction of ethanol. Good corn costs too
much. But the waste corn, the corn that's
been contaminated with crotalaria seeds
or with weevils or that has rotted, and so
forth, is very good for making ethanol.
And in Iowa, in many communities, you
can go there and buy gasohol.
We have no Federal tax on gasohol.
The total amount of present supplement
in a gallon of ethanol is about $60 a bar-
rel. It's good that we are interested in it.
In other countries, like Brazil, they use, I
think, cassava roots, which are grown very
cheaply and which have a very high sub-
stance to them. And about 10 percent of
all their fuel in automobiles is presently
alcohol from those cassava roots, or from
sugarcane byproducts. We are moving in
that direction very rapidly.
Gasohol will be a major industry, in
my opinion, in this Nation in the future.
ENERGY-EFFICIENT AUTOMOBILES
Q. My name is Bill Lane, and I'm from
Wheeling, West Virginia. And, Mr.
President, my question: Although the
large, poor mileage automobiles are not
selling very well right now, I think that
when the gasoline becomes more avail-
able, I'm afraid that people are going to
start buying them again. I just wonder if
you favor any heavy luxury tax to put on
these cars.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think it's
going to be necessary. I don't believe that
we will ever see a time in our Nation
when gasoline is both plentiful and cheap.
And the problem that we have now in our
automobile production industry—with
GM and Ford and Chrysler and Ameri-
can Motors-is that they have not shifted
toward a more efficient automobile.
Chrysler today is in serious trouble.
They could sell hundreds of thousands of
small Chrysler automobiles if they had
planned accordingly, but they've insisted
on producing the large, so-called gas-
guzzling automobiles. I don't think we'll
ever go back to a time in the future when
those large, inefficient automobiles are
popular.
I had a meeting, within the last month,
with Tom Murphy, who's the president—
or chairman of the board of General Mo-
tors. In the past, they have fought the
requirement of more efficient automo-
biles, that they would have to have 272-
miles-per-gallon average by 1985. He
came to tell me that they're giving up
that fight; they're going to meet that
standard and then some. And this year,
we'll have an average nationwide of 1-
mile-per-gallon more efficiency just be-
cause the American public is more energy
conscious and is shifting toward the
smaller and more efficient automobiles.
What I would like to do is to see
American producers of automobiles stay
with the efficient cars. And I believe we
can meet anybody in competition and
therefore cut down the dependence that
Americans presently have on imports.
I believe that's the avenue of the fu-
ture. I don't believe that we will go back,
in the American preference, for the large,
gas-guzzling, inefficient automobiles. So,
1651
