July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
them pay what money they have saved
up to the Vietnamese Government for
the right to leave their country under
pressure. They've been pushed out from
the shores of Vietnam in ships, and liter-
ally thousands of them have died.
In the meantime, the Vietnamese Gov-
ernment has invaded Cambodia, now
known as Kampuchea, with 15 divisions
of armed forces and violated those inter-
national borders.
So, under those circumstances, the push-
ing out under duress and pressure of thou-
sands of refugees-in May, 50,000 alone-
without any care about what happens to
those refugees once they leave Vietnam,
and attacking their neighbor Kampuchea
with 15 divisions of armed forces, I don't
think it's time for us to normalize relation-
ships with that country.
What we are trying to do, however, is
to recognize the need to take care of
those refugees. I met during the week-
end, the last weekend I was at Camp
David before I made my energy and con-
fidence speech, with a group of young
people in Pennsylvania-Carnegie, Penn-
sylvania. And one of the young married
women there said she didn't think we
ought to take in any refugees because it
was too much of a burden on the Ameri-
can people. And I responded to her, I
know a lot of American people feel that
way, perhaps, that we've already got
enough burdens on the Federal Govern-
ment, we don't want to pay taxes to take
care of other folks. But let me repeat very
briefly what I told her.
There is a total of about 220,000 Viet-
nam refugees that we're going to take
into our country. These were our allies
and friends during the war. They fought
alongside of us; their lives were in danger.
That's one refugee for every thousand
Americans. It's not too heavy a burden
for Americans to bear.
In addition to that, this is a nation of
refugees. I doubt if there are any native
Indians here. If so, they would be the
only exceptions to the fact that all of our
ancestors were immigrants and that many
of them came here as refugees-as reli-
gious refugees, sometimes as prisoners who
were let out of prison just if they would
come to the New World. And I believe
that our country is big enough and strong
enough and rich enough and generous
enough to take care of a few refugees from
Vietnam that were our allies and friends
during the last war. And that's the way I
feel, and I thank you for your question.
I might add one other thing. We have
had superb results with those Vietnamese
who come to our country. They don't
know how to speak English, most of them.
They immediately begin to learn how to
speak English. They are eager to get a
job. They get off welfare faster than any-
body I have ever seen. They become self-
supporting citizens, and we have tried to
place them in communities where the em-
ployment rate is very high so they do not
contribute to the unemployment rate.
So, we are handling it well, and they
are doing their share. I think in a few
years, they'll be extremely good American
citizens that will make us proud of them
and proud of ourselves.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mike Carney, Mr. President, from
Cox's Creek. This is the same line of
ques-
tioning. You've taken a tough stand on the
energy situation. I'd like to know when
you're going to take a tough stand on
foreign policy in regards to taking up for
our allies. For an example, South Korea,
Nicaragua, Turkey, and in the past, Iran.
And maybe we wouldn't have the energy
situation we have today or, for an ex-
ample, the Panama Canal-if the Govern-
1348
