Aug. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Muscatine, Iowa
Remarks on Arrival at the City.
August 21, 1979
Don't we live in a great country?
[Applause] Good music, beautiful rivers,
lovely women, rich land, democracy, free-
dom, unity—we've got a lot to be thank-
ful for.
This last 3 or 4 days has been as nice as
anything we've ever done in our lives,
because we have seen some of the most
beautiful country in the world, we've
met a lot of wonderful people, both on
the river in boats and on the shore, who've
come out to see us, and we are deep-
ly grateful for the hospitality and the
friendship and the welcome that the peo-
ple in the Midwest have given us. We
thank you, very, very much.
Thank you. Is anybody here from Mus-
catine? [Applause]
I'd like to say just a couple of things to
you-and we don't have much time to
stay, but Rosalynn is going to go down one
side and I'll go down the other, and Amy
in the middle, and we'll kind of shake
hands with as many folks as we can reach
after I say a few words.
Don't leave. Don't leave. We're not
going to go far down the fence. So don't
leave. You have to hear a speech first.
[Laughter]
Tomorrow we're going to have, in Bur-
lington, Iowa, a townhall meeting, and
there will be several hundred people there
who will ask me questions, I guess for
about an hour, and I imagine it'll be
broadcast and telecast so you can watch
and hear it. And we'll be talking about
some very serious questions and issues that
affect a President of a great nation.
We'll be talking about agriculture and
how farmers can be made more produc-
tive, how farm income can go up, how
exports of farm products can reach an
alltime high year after year after year—
how the quality of our land has given us
a great strategic advantage to be used for
peaceful influence around the world.
We'll be talking about adequate farm
prices, and we'll be talking about control-
ling inflation, and we'll also be talking
about peace.
I'm very grateful that since I've been
in office not a single young American has
had to endanger his or her lives in any
sort of combat overseas. And I want to
keep it that way.
And we'll also be talking about the
control of nuclear weapons. I'm deter-
mined that as long as I'm in the White
House we'll do everything we possibly can
to control and eventually to eliminate nu-
clear weapons from the face of the Earth.
That's my ultimate goal.
As you know, we now have before the
U.S. Senate the SALT II treaty, which
has been negotiated over 6 years under
three different Presidents to put new and
expanded controls over nuclear weapons.
That's one of the important issues that
the Senate must address this year. And I
need your influence in the Congress to
make sure we take this major stride for-
ward toward peace, toward enhancing
our own Nation's security, and toward
controlling nuclear weapons.
The other issue is equally as important
for us economically, and that is the han-
dling of another threat to our Nation's
security that is energy. We have become
too dependent on the importing of oil
from foreign countries. We now import
about one-half all the oil we use. We
not only import enormous quantities of
oil, but we import inflation and we import
unemployment.
We've made some progress the last 22
years, but we still have a long way to go.
1492
