Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ilies in the United States took advantage
of that opportunity last year.
My guess is that with higher heating oil
brought on us by OPEC oil prices, that
more families will take advantage of that
in 1979 and even more in 1980. But that
program should be extended so that rent-
ers of multifamily homes would benefit
from the weatherization of their apart-
ments. And I think we ought to let that
program go forward. I believe the Con-
gress will favorably consider that.
MR. FOELL. Chris.
SUPPORT FROM CONSTITUENCY GROUPS
MR. LYDON. Mr. President, 4 and 5
years ago you and I used to talk at rather
great length about who was for you and
against you in 1976.
In office, it has seemed that your rela-
tions have eroded with a lot of the core
constituencies of the Democratic party,
including the black leadership, union
leadership, Jewish leadership, liberals,
environmentalists, and others, particularly
against Senator Kennedy in 1980.
What-in political terms that you and
I have talked about before-what is the
Carter coalition? Or do you think you can
win without a constituency coalition, so
to speak?
THE PRESIDENT. Chris, first of all, I
wouldn't want the viewers of this program
to be misled. The fact that you and I
discussed this 3 or 4 years ago does not
necessarily imply that we agreed 3 or 4
years ago.
MR. LYDON. NO. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I would say that we
disagreed more than we agreed. And I
don't agree with your basic premise now.
I don't think we've lost that constituency
group or those groups. In some cases, may-
be so.
Obviously when a President or a Gover-
nor or a mayor is in office, and there are
disappointments by some people, there
are programs that don't quite work, or
when unforeseen or uncontrollable eco-
nomic circumstances sweep across a city
or a nation, the incumbent officeholder is
the one to be blamed, particularly if
there's no campaign underway. Then
when the campaign takes place, like in
Boston, or like it was in Massachusetts a
year or two ago, in 1976, the people start
saying, “Which one of these two people
can I best trust?"
I would say, for instance, in Miami,
where we just had a test vote a week or
so ago, is a good example. I wouldn't say
that it was an accurate mirror of the whole
Nation, but there are heavy populations
there of Jewish citizens, Hispanics, blacks,
as well as others, and we did very well in
all those constituency groups in a sharp,
highly publicized test of political strength.
future, but I think that that shows that
I can't predict what will happen in the
we've not lost those basic strengths.
And if you remember correctly, in 1976
I would say one of our most significant
political victories was in Pennsylvania. All
of the labor unions, the leaders and so
forth, were for Senator Jackson. But we
carried Pennsylvania overwhelmingly, be-
cause the workers, members of those
unions and others, voted for me.
I think we've got a much better rela-
tionship now with the labor leaders and
their members than we did during the
1976 campaign. They've gotten to know
me; I've gotten to know them. They've
seen what we've done. We've got an
almost perfect record, I have as President,
and my administration, on labor issues,
that they've actually been able to observe
for the last 22 years.
So, I wouldn't yield to anyone on the
ability to attract those really valuable con-
stituency groups that you named.
1994
