Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
renewable energy sources? Would they
push for a national energy conservation
program? Would they winterize homes?
Would they help poor people pay their
fuel bills? Would they devote $13 billion
to public transportation? Of course not,
of course not.
These crucial steps are not their busi-
ness, but they're the public's business.
They're the Nation's business. And the
Nation needs these funds to make our
energy future secure.
I have traveled the length and the
breadth of this country, fighting for a
tough, permanent, fair windfall profits
tax, and I will continue to fight for it. I
do not intend to lose this fight, and if you
will help me, we will not lose.
And finally, I would like to say this:
I deeply appreciate the support that the
American Public Transit Association has
given me in this fight so far. Today I call
upon you collectively, as an association
and as individuals, to redouble your sup-
port as the crucial votes in the Senate, and
then the Senate and House, on windfall
profits draw near. With your help, we can
gain this tax and drive our program
forward.
Cutting our reliance on foreign oil will
curb inflation, strengthen the dollar,
stimulate new jobs, give Americans a bet-
ter life. Public transportation is part of
this chain of support-saving energy,
adding jobs, and improving the overall
quality of life in our Nation's history-
one of the most important challenges that
we have faced in our Nation's history.
We're about to enter a new decade,
carrying with us the lessons of the past,
the good lessons and the bad lessons, and
the hopes and the dreams and aspirations
of all Americans.
The choices ahead are difficult, and we
cannot avoid making them, but Ameri-
cans have never looked for an easy way
out when we were faced with a challenge
that threatened our country. I believe in
the decency and in the courage of the
American people. I believe that we have
the material and the moral and the spirit-
ual strength to meet any challenge.
Together, in the years ahead, we can
seize control again of our own destiny,
and we can make sure that America will
remain what America is today-the great-
est nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:55 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the New York Hilton Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Harold
Fisher, chairman of the New York Metropol-
itan Transit Authority and chairman of the
American Public Transit Association.
Urban Mass Transportation
Administration
Nomination of Theodore C. Lutz To Be
Administrator. September 25, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Theodore C. Lutz as
Administrator of the Urban Mass Trans-
portation Administration, Department of
Transportation.
From November 1976 to May 1979,
Mr. Lutz served as general manager of
the Washington Metropolitan Area Tran-
sit Authority (METRO) in Washington,
D.C. From 1973 to 1976, he served as
Deputy Under Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Transportation. From 1968 to
1973, Mr. Lutz was a budget examiner in
the Office of Management and Budget.
He was born September 24, 1945, in
Philadelphia, Pa. He received a B.A. de-
gree from Carleton College in 1967 and
an MPA degree from Syracuse University,
Maxwell Graduate School of Citizenship
and Public Affairs in 1968.
NOTE: The announcement was released at
New York City, N.Y.
1744
