Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 7
agency, in the spirit of the Kemeny com-
mission's recommendation. In the mean-
time, I've asked Commissioner Ahearne,
now on the NRC, to serve as the Chair-
man. Mr. Ahearne will stress safety and
the prompt implementation of the needed
reforms.
In addition, I will establish an inde-
pendent advisory committee to help keep
me and the public of the United States in-
formed of the progress of the NRC and
the industry in achieving and in making
clear the recommendations that nuclear
power will be safer.
Third, I'm transferring responsibility to
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, the FEMA, to head up all off-
site emergency activities and to complete
a thorough review of emergency plans in
all the States of our country with operat-
ing nuclear reactors by June 1980.
Fourth, I have directed the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission and the other
agencies of the Government to accelerate
our program to place a resident Federal
inspector at every reactor site.
Fifth, I'm asking all relevant Govern-
ment agencies to implement virtually all
of the other recommendations of the
Kemeny commission—I believe there were
44 in all. A detailed fact sheet is being
issued to the public, and a more extended
briefing will be given to the press this
afternoon.
With clear leadership and improved
organization, the executive branch of
Government and the NRC will be bet-
ter able to act quickly on the crucial is-
sues of improved training and standards,
safety procedures, and the other Kemeny
commission recommendations. But re-
sponsibility to make nuclear power safer
does not stop with the Federal Govern-
ment. In fact, the primary, day-by-day
responsibility for safety rests with utility
company management and with suppliers
of nuclear equipment. There is no sub-
stitute for technically qualified and com-
mitted people working on the construc-
tion, the operation, and the inspection of
nuclear powerplants.
Personal responsibility must be stressed.
Some one person must always be desig-
nated as in charge, both at the corporate
level and also at the powerplant site. The
industry owes it to the American people
to strengthen its commitment to safety.
I call on the utilities to implement the
following changes. First, building on the
steps already taken, the industry must
organize itself to develop enhanced stand-
ards for safe design, operation, and con-
struction of plants. Second, the nuclear
industry must work together to develop
and to maintain in operation a compre-
hensive training, examination, and evalu-
ation program for operators and for
supervisors. This training program must
pass muster with the NRC through ac-
creditation of the training programs to be
established. Third, control rooms in nu-
clear powerplants must be modernized,
standardized, and simplified as much as
possible to permit better informed deci-
sionmaking among regular operating
hours and, of course, during emergencies.
I challenge our utility companies to
bend every effort to improve the safety of
nuclear power.
Finally, I would like to discuss how we
manage this transition period during
which the Kemeny recommendations are
being implemented. There are a number
of new nuclear plants now awaiting oper-
ating licenses or construction permits. Un-
der law, the Nuclear Regulatory Commis-
sion is an independent agency. Licens-
ing decisions rest with the Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, and, as the Kemeny
commission noted, it has the authority to
proceed with licensing these plants on a
case-by-case basis, which may be used as
2203
