Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
MTN IMPLEMENTATION
I am dedicated to the aggressive im-
plementation of the Multilateral Trade
Agreements. The United States must
seize the opportunities and enforce the
obligations created by these agreements.
Under this proposal, the Department of
Commerce will assign high priority to
this task. The Department of Commerce
will be responsible for the day-to-day im-
plementation of non-agricultural aspects
of the MTN agreements. Management of
this function will be a principal assign-
ment of an Assistant Secretary for Trade
Policy and Programs. Implementation
activities will include:
monitoring agreements and targeting
problems for consultation and nego-
tiation;
operating a Trade Complaint Cen-
ter where the private sector can re-
ceive advice as to the recourse and
remedies available;
aiding in the settlement of disputes,
including staffing of formal com-
plaint cases;
identifying problem areas for con-
sideration by the Trade Representa-
tive and the Trade Policy Commit-
tee;
⚫ educational and promotion programs
regarding the provisions of the agree-
ments and the processes for dealing
with problems that arise;
providing American business with
basic information on foreign laws,
regulations and procedures;
• consultations with private sector ad-
visory committees; and
general analytical support.
These responsibilities will be handled
by a unit built around the staff from Com-
merce that provided essential analytical
support to STR throughout the MTN
negotiation process. Building implementa-
tion of MTN around this core group will
assure that the government's institutional
memory and expertise on MTN is most
effectively devoted to the challenge ahead.
When American business needs informa-
tion or encounters problems in the MTN
area, it can turn to the Department of
Commerce for knowledgeable assistance.
Matching the increased importance of
trade in the Department's mission will be
a much strengthened trade organization
within the Department. By creating a
number of new senior level positions in
the Department, we will ensure that trade
policy implementation receives the kind
of day-to-day top management attention
that it both demands and requires.
With its new responsibilities and re-
sources, the Department of Commerce
will become a key participant in the
formulation of our trade policies. Much
of the analysis in support of trade policy
formulation will be conducted by the De-
partment of Commerce, which will be
close to the operational aspects of the
problems that raise policy issues.
To succeed in global competition, we
must have a better understanding of the
problems and prospects of U.S. industry,
particularly in relation to the growing
strength of industries abroad. This is the
key reason why we will upgrade sectoral
analysis capabilities throughout the De-
partment of Commerce, including the
creation of a new Bureau of Industrial
Analysis. Commerce, with its ability to
link trade to policies affecting industry, is
uniquely suited to serve as the principal
technical expert within the Government
on special industry sector problems re-
quiring international consultation, as well
as to provide industry-specific informa-
tion on how tax, regulatory and other
Government policies affect the interna-
tional competitiveness of the U.S. indus-
tries.
1733
