Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
going to be prepared in case of an emer-
gency to do monitoring, both air and
water.
[Ms. Blum introduced Robert H. Green and
Lizbeth A. and Anthony J. Etienne to the
President, who presented each with an award.]
Mr. President, this next young woman
that we have here today was selected by
her very own classmates at Rosemead
High School. She is representing them to-
day. Their class made four movies. They
made movies on energy, on the environ-
ment, on pollution problems. They were
the actors, they were the scriptwriters,
they were the producers, and they were
the distributors of this. They showed the
films to civic groups and other schools,
and they have made quite a contribution
there in educating other people their age
and older.
[Ms. Blum introduced Mary Jane Roddy to the
President, who presented her with an award.]
Mr. President, next we have some high
school students from Lakeland, Florida.
They've done something pretty special
too. They tested the water quality in the
lakes around Lakeland-and we who are
from the South know how many there are
there-in order to determine, for the area
development commission, the quality of
the water and the wildlife that was
present in the area. And as such, they've
done as much for clean drinking water for
Florida as any adults ever have in the his-
tory of the State.
[Ms. Blum introduced James F. Skinner, Cindi
Parker, and Randolph L. Barber to the Presi-
dent, who presented each with an award.]
Mr. President, next we have two camp-
ers, summer campers, from the National
Wildlife Federation Camp. They spent the
whole summer session studying the open
areas, studying the woodlands, mapping,
compassing, and they also studied the
interdependence of animals in the mead-
ows and the forest habitats. And doing
this, and through their camping experi-
ences, they have been provided a real
understanding, that they're sharing with
their classmates now, on how the natural
environment affects the social and histori-
cal environments, too.
[Ms. Blum introduced Kimberly Shafer and
Nathan Liepold to the President, who presented
each with an award.]
And next, as you can well see, we have
a Cub Scout, an Explorer Scout, and a
Boy Scout. They're representing a coming
together of your youth program, Mr.
President, and the Boy Scouts of America.
There will be 500 young men and women
who are going to be participating in pro-
moting energy conservation, at your re-
quest and call for energy conservation-
5 million within the next year. And these
young people are representative of those
5 million people.
[Ms. Blum introduced Michael Birlew, Kevin
Ward, and Tana Landgraf to the President,
who presented each with an award.]
THE PRESIDENT. I think the entire au-
dience and the news media can see the
contributions that these young people have
already made and the wide difference
among their
their projects. They've taken
this as an initiative on their own, some
acting as individuals, some acting as part
of very fine organizations, some at summer
camps, some within their own home com-
munity, some in the ocean, some in the
woods, some in the South, some in the
North. And they are representative of
literally tens of thousands of young people
who participated in this youth environ-
ment project to make sure that Americans
at their age and of all ages know how im-
portant it is to preserve the quality of life
for our people.
And on behalf of our Nation, I'd like
to again express my deep thanks to them,
individually and collectively, and also to
express my thanks for all those tens of
thousands that they represent by coming
here to the White House to receive these
awards. Thank you very much for being
2076
