Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 8
reform program, and to Senate action on
my entire welfare reform package.
Even in this period of necessary fiscal
stringency, we must not fail to do what we
can for those who are most in need.
Visit of Prime Minister
John M. Lynch of Ireland
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
November 8, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. An Taoiseach [Prime
Minister], welcome to you.
This is a wonderful occasion for our Na-
tion to welcome to our country the Prime
Minister of the Republic of Ireland, the
President of the European Community,
and a great friend of the United States.
In all three of these roles, Mr. Prime Min-
ister, you're welcome to the United States
of America.
You represent a nation which is the
ancestral home of 20 million American
citizens, so we are bound to you in many
ways. We are bound to you because we
share common goals, the goals of democ-
racy and freedom, the goals of peace, the
goals of mutual trade and common bene-
fit and respect for basic human rights, not
only in our own nations but throughout
the world.
It's a great pleasure to have you here,
because your friendship is continuing a
longstanding relationship between our two
countries. More than 200 years ago,
before
we had a country, as a matter of fact,
the people of Ireland proved to be our
friends. Benjamin Franklin visited Dub-
lin as an emissary of the colonies to ask
for the support and encouragement of
the people of Ireland and for our own in-
dependence and our own freedom. Your
people gave us that support and that en-
couragement. We're grateful to you. Since
then we've shared a mutual understand-
ing and a mutual sympathy for the ideals
and aspirations and hopes and dreams of
the people of this Nation and the people
of yours.
You come here representing not only a
great nation but carrying a great and
powerful international voice. The soldiers
representing your country are now serv-
ing to preserve the peace in the Congo, in
Cyprus, in Lebanon, in a benevolent ac-
tion, and also actions requiring a great
deal of personal courage, which has al-
ways been a characteristic of the Irish
people.
You come here representing leadership
in the councils of Europe, and we have
benefited greatly from close personal con-
sultations with you on matters that affect
the entire European community because
you occupy the Presidency of that great
body of sovereign nations.
We share other things in common not
quite so pleasant. We both have experi-
enced the adverse consequences of terror-
ism, of a threat of violence, of murders
perpetrated and murders threatened
against innocent people. Those who ad-
vocate violence and terrorism violate the
laws of God and the laws of man.
I look forward to our discussions this
morning, again this evening, and tomor-
row, because we have so many ways in
which our two nations in harmony can
promote the common aspirations of our
people, a quest for a peaceful and a just
society for the people of your nation, for
the people of the United States, and the
entire world.
Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of all
Americans, but particularly on behalf of
all of those of us who bear Irish blood
in our veins, we welcome you from a great
country to a great country. Thank you
for coming.
THE PRIME MINISTER. I would like to
thank you, Mr. President, for your very
kind words, for your gracious tribute to
my country, for each contribution towards
2093
