Aug. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
am wondering if you have made the same
statement in regard to Jerry Brown?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't deny I made
the statement. I made it in a small group
with five or six people sitting around the
table with no intention for it to be pub-
licized.
I have never let the identity of or the
size of opponents in a political campaign
deter me, and if I should be a candidate
and if Senator Kennedy or Governor
Brown or anyone else should decide to run
against me, then I believe that I would
triumph, to express it in more diplomatic
terms.
I have no concern about that. I made
my plans to run for President originally
beginning early in 1972, and at that time,
my presumption and my conviction was
that I would be running against Wallace
and Kennedy. And it was not until No-
vember of 1974 that Senator Kennedy an-
nounced that he would not be a candidate.
And I had no fear then of running against
those two very popular men, and now I
would have no fear of any group of op-
ponents or any single opponent if I
should decide to run again.
Q. Senator Kennedy not only could
certainly discourage these draft move-
ments in Florida but in other States?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question.
FLORIDA AND THE 1980 PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN
Q. Mr. President, in 1976 campaign,
Florida was a rather key State in your
strategy. Would you foresee it to be
equally critical in 1980 if you should be a
candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I don't think
there is any doubt about that. The coun-
try's eyes will be on Florida for the same
reasons that they were in 1976. Florida is
a large State; it's a State within which
have been sharp contests in recent years,
at least between Democrats and Republi-
cans, the congressional seats are contested.
It's a State that's looked upon as a blend
of both cosmopolitan and parochial inter-
ests, rural and urban, and where people
come from all over the country. It has a
heavy population of senior citizens, a high
population of minority groups, and issues
are sharply drawn. I think just the nature
of Florida and the character of the State
makes it a highly interesting political loca-
tion, and the early nature of the contest
enhances all those factors.
So, yes, it will be important for any
candidate for President as it was in 1976.
FOREIGN OIL SALES
Q. Mr. President, you got a lot of soft-
balls in your town meeting tonight. One
of the hardest, attempt to be hard, came
in the matter of the kerosene to Iran.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. I wonder why you don't simply ad-
mit that it's paid in blackmail?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't-
Q. My question: Aren't we going to
have to pay more of it, and what if the
Arab nations really put the squeeze on us,
how much blackmail are we willing to
pay? And will we go to more if necessary
to get the oil that we need?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
characterize that question.
Q. Soft.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's an
extremely biased sort of question. I'm not
going to sit here and acknowledge that
our Nation has been blackmailed-
Q. You would not answer whether this
country would go to war in order to get
oil?
THE PRESIDENT. The basic presump-
tion of your question is that our Nation
and I personally have been blackmailed.
That is not an accurate statement, and if
1582
