Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 19
and engineering and has national signifi-
cance in its science education and training
programs.
Throughout my Administration, I have
frequently called to your attention that
much of our social and economic progress
depends upon a firm base of science and
technology. In March 1979, I addressed
this theme in a special message to you,
highlighting the science and technology
initiatives taken in my Administration in
domestic, national security, and interna-
tional arenas. I also pointed out that our
national investment in scientific research,
especially basic research, is returned to us
many times over in the advances it gen-
erates in health care, energy, food produc-
tion, and the protection and proper use
of our resources and environment.
We live in an increasingly demanding
world, in which we are called on to make
judgments that affect our progress and
well-being as human beings and nations.
Our planning and decision-making re-
quire better understanding of the laws
of nature, the effects of technological de-
velopment, and the complexities of human
relationships. The search for such under-
standing demands the aggressive develop-
ment of new knowledge, an adequate sup-
ply of trained, responsible scientists, and
a well-informed citizenry.
The National Science Foundation plays
an important role in developing these
scientific and human resources. It is my
hope that this Annual Report of the
Foundation will encourage your continued
strong support.
The White House,
July 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Science
Foundation-Twenty-Eighth Annual Report
for Fiscal Year 1978" (Government Printing
Office, 143 pages).
Department of the Treasury
Resignation of W. Michael Blumenthal and
Nomination of G. William Miller To Be
Secretary. July 19, 1979
The President has accepted the resigna-
tion of Secretary of the Treasury Michael
Blumenthal. The President will nominate
William Miller, Chairman of the Federal
Reserve Board, as Secretary of the Treas-
ury. The President said, "Chairman
Miller has, in his tenure at the Federal
Reserve Board, established a reputation
at home and abroad that will enable him
to provide strong, effective leadership for
economic policy. He has demonstrated a
firm commitment to the defense of the
dollar, sound economic policy, the fight
against inflation, and strong measures to
deal with our energy problem. He has my
confidence and support."
The President, Secretary Blumenthal,
and Chairman Miller have agreed that
the transition will be handled in a manner
that will ensure maximum continuity and
no interruption of the effective perform-
ance at both the Treasury Department
and the Federal Reserve Board.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 4:38 p.m. to reporters assem-
bled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
The press release also includes a transcript of
the question-and-answer session which followed
the announcement.
Department of the Treasury
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
W. Michael Blumenthal as Secretary.
July 19, 1979
To Secretary Mike Blumenthal
I accept your resignation with great
appreciation for the excellent service you
have rendered at the Treasury, both for
me and for the country.
1273
