Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 25
rich and poor, and to the future of our
Nation's economy in the months ahead.
There will be a period of slow growth in
our country. I believe that next year we'll
see this growth restored to a moderate
rate. We will watch this situation very
closely. Obviously inflation is not the only
factor. I am deeply concerned about the
chronic unemployment in some of the
types of people in our country. We've
done the best we could to reduce unem-
ployment. We've had remarkable success
in creating 8 million new jobs. I saw some
figures the other day that said the unem-
ployment compensation had been slashed
55 percent. But we're going to watch
unemployment.
But my judgment now is to maintain
our steady course and to dwell as best I
can on a balanced growth in the economy
as best we can manage, but let us remem-
ber that inflation is the biggest threat to
all Americans at this time.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
Q. Mr. President, related to your ear-
lier statement about energy, there's talk in
the Senate about exemptions of the first
3,000 barrels of oil produced daily by in-
dependent oilmen from the windfall pro-
fits tax. How would this or a plowback
provision or other exemptions affect your
energy security corporation, the other
parts of your bill, and how much room
does the Senate have to tamper with the
House-passed bill?
THE PRESIDENT. We need the revenues
that would have been derived from my
original windfall profits tax proposal to
the House. The net income from the
House-passed bill is roughly the same as
I proposed. My proposal was a permanent
tax; the House passed a tax that will be
terminated in 1990.
There's a threat now that the oil lobby
will focus its attention on the Senate. I
think it's almost a sure thing. And unless
the American people speak out, because of
one reason or another claimed by some of
the Members of the Senate, we'll see the
windfall profits tax robbed under the pro-
posals that you described of about $54 bil-
lion, which will make it impossible for us
to have an adequate synthetic fuels pro-
gram, to have an adequate mass transit
program, to have an adequate care for the
poor people who are severely impacted by
rapidly rising energy costs. It would in
effect make it impossible for us to meet
our crucial energy goals.
And I think that I cannot prevail alone
here in Washington with an oil lobby
working quietly unless the American peo-
ple let their voice be heard. But if these
exemptions are made, it'll be a grant of
$54 billion to the oil companies on top of
greatly increased income to the oil com-
panies by the phased decontrol, and they'll
be able to spend these new revenues,
which they have not earned, in order to
increase production of oil and gas in our
own country.
So, what you describe is a great threat
to the very program that is so important to
me and to the country.
PATRICIA ROBERTS HARRIS
Q. Mr. President, does Mrs. Harris
have your full approval and encourage-
ment to continue such HEW programs as
the desegregation of the North Carolina
college system, the desegregation of public
schools in Chicago and other cities, and
the antismoking campaign? And if the
answer to that question is yes, why did you
fire Secretary Califano?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is
yes.
1309
