Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 20, 1979
Energy and National Goals
Address to the Nation. July 15, 1979
Good evening.
This is a special night for me. Exactly
3 years ago, on July 15, 1976, I accepted
the nomination of my party to run for
President of the United States. I prom-
ised you a President who is not isolated
from the people, who feels your pain, and
who shares your dreams and who draws
his strength and his wisdom from you.
During the past 3 years I've spoken to
you on many occasions about national
concerns, the energy crisis, reorganizing
the Government, our Nation's economy,
and issues of war and especially peace.
But over those years the subjects of the
speeches, the talks, and the press confer-
ences have become increasingly narrow,
focused more and more on what the iso-
lated world of Washington thinks is im-
portant. Gradually, you've heard more
and more about what the Government
thinks or what the Government should
be doing and less and less about our Na-
tion's hopes, our dreams, and our vision
of the future.
Ten days ago I had planned to speak
to you again about a very important sub-
ject—energy. For the fifth time I would
have described the urgency of the prob-
lem and laid out a series of legislative rec-
ommendations to the Congress. But as I
was preparing to speak, I began to ask
myself the same question that I now know
has been troubling many of you. Why
have we not been able to get together as
a nation to resolve our serious energy
problem?
It's clear that the true problems of our
Nation are much deeper-deeper than
gasoline lines or energy shortages, deeper
even than inflation or recession. And I
realize more than ever that as President
I need your help. So, I decided to reach
out and listen to the voices of
America.
I invited to Camp David people from
almost every segment of our society-
business and labor, teachers and preach-
ers, Governors, mayors, and private citi-
zens. And then I left Camp David to lis-
ten to other Americans, men and women
like you.
It has been an extraordinary 10
days, and I want to share with you what
I've heard.
First of all, I got a lot of personal ad-
vice. Let me quote a few of the typical
comments that I wrote down.
This from a southern Governor: "Mr.
President, you are not leading this Na-
1235
