Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
There need be no fear on the part of
anyone in this country that their needs
which are presently being met will not be
met in the future or that their needs will
be ignored. They are an ever-present
concern to me, to Senator Kennedy, to
other Members of the Congress, and to
the American people.
MR. SCOTT. A followup, Mr. President.
As you travel about the country and go
among the people, are you confident now
that they believe in you and believe the
things that you just said to me?
THE PRESIDENT. That's hard to say. No,
I don't think there is an adequate degree
of confidence in the strength of our coun-
try. I'm convinced that there is. But as I
mentioned this morning in the Kennedy
Library dedication, we had a series of
things in the last 15 years or more that
really shook the confidence of our people
in our Nation, in one another, and par-
ticularly in government.
The Vietnam war was perhaps the
most important single factor. The assas-
sination of John Kennedy and Robert
Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Jr.,
caused people to be deeply concerned
about the societal structure in which we
live. I would say the Watergate embar-
rassment and the deposing of an incum-
bent President caused Americans to doubt
the integrity of their own Government.
And as far as the strength of our Nation
was concerned, we've always thought that
we were right, that our Nation fought
noble battles, and we also thought that
we would never lose. There are many
people who doubt that the Vietnam war
was a noble undertaking, and we lost;
we didn't succeed in meeting the goals.
So, those kinds of factors, combined
with 10 years of inflation and a realiza-
tion that now we don't have as much to
waste as we always thought we did-
energy is a notable example-have caused
us to stop and pause and say, "Where
do we go next?" But in the going-
somewhere-next, we need not be afraid,
because in spite of all those problems, our
Government has survived; it has a basic
integrity that's not going to be changed.
We are sensitive about the needs of poor
people and those who've been deprived
in the past or have felt the rages of dis-
crimination.
In addition to that, among the world
of nations, we are reaching out. We've
won new friends in the last few years that
we never thought we'd get 15 or 20 years
ago. Egypt, India, the People's Republic
of China, Nigeria have moved toward us
and away from the Soviet Union. So,
we've been successful there.
And I believe that if we can resolve
the energy question, which I think we can,
and let people see that it's not an un-
pleasant experience or a great sacrifice or
a permanent inconvenience when we
save instead of waste, I think that our
Nation can survive this present series of
challenges, as we have for the last 200
years. I've got complete confidence in the
people of our country and in the strength
of our institutions.
MR. FOELL. Mary.
AMERICAN STANDARD OF LIVING
Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. President,
you've been talking about inflation. This
past week Paul Volcker, the Chairman
of the Federal Reserve Board, said that
Americans must accept a lower standard
of living if the inflation rate is to be con-
trolled. Why should people be asked to
accept a lower standard of living? Isn't
that the job of government, to control
inflation? And how can you ask people
who had very little to do with the causes
behind inflation to tighten their belts?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree with
1992
