Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 14
Undocumented Aliens
Memorandum From the President.
September 13, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: The Human Rights of Undocu-
mented Aliens
Protection of the basic rights of all per-
sons in our land is a vital part of our com-
mitment to a just and humane society.
This Administration's policy on human
rights can only be effective if we assure
the rights of all persons in the United
States, whether or not they are citizens of
this country.
I will continue to enforce vigorously
this nation's immigration laws. Those
found in violation will be dealt with as the
law prescribes. But persons accused of
being undocumented aliens must be
treated fairly and humanely. No one in our
country should be vulnerable to mistreat-
ment or exploitation because he or she is
afraid to secure protection of the law.
Since many of the problems in this area
are under state and local jurisdiction, I
sent letters to the Nation's Governors on
May 4, asking for their concern, assist-
ance and advice in dealing with these
problems. In those letters, a copy of the
text of which is attached, I also described
some of the significant efforts the Federal
Government has made in this area.
The work of each of your departments
and agencies touches upon some aspects
of the treatment of undocumented aliens
in the United States. I will not dwell on
all Government activities in this message
but will mention some issues of particular
importance.
grams by law must exclude specifically
persons who are not citizens or legal perm-
anent residents of the United States. In
such cases, I ask that the concerned agen-
cies review their policies and practices in
implementing these requirements to en-
sure that they are clear, equitable, ade-
quately disseminated and understood and
compassionately applied within the limits
of the law, and that they are carried out
with respect for the basic dignity and pri-
vacy of all persons concerned.
I urge you to give full cooperation to
Consular and other officials of Mexico and
other countries who, in the discharge of
their duties in the United States, seek your
help in investigating possible incidents of
abuse involving their citizens. I also ask
you to work closely with the Department
of State and the working groups of the
U.S.-Mexico Consultative Mechanism.
I urge you to continue to keep this Ad-
ministration's commitments in mind as
you develop and carry out your programs
and I would particularly welcome your
recommendations of possible remedies for
additional problems in this area of which
you may be aware.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on September 14.
United Nations
Nomination of U.S. Representatives and
Alternate Representatives to the 34th
Session of the General Assembly.
September 14, 1979
The President today announced the
nomination of four persons as Representa-
tives and three persons as Alternate Rep-
A number of Federal, or Federally-resentatives of the United States to the
assisted, social welfare and medical pro-
34th Session of the United Nations Gen-
1667
