Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 13
that our Nation is vulnerable to our sup-
pliers of oil. My guess is that the trend in
OPEC oil production among the Arab
and non-Arab countries in the coming
months will be downward, not upward.
And with a shorter and shorter supply in
prospect, there's no doubt in my mind
that prices will be going up. It would be
a mistake for me to mislead the American
people.
Some of the countries are producing
more oil than they want to produce. Saudi
Arabia is a typical example—a very good
example, not typical. They would be ade-
quately compensated, in money of all
denominations and foreign holdings, with
a much lower level of production. They
are not the only country producing per-
haps more than they would prefer to pro-
duce for their own, narrowly focused,
parochial needs.
Other countries have an attenuation in
their production, because their explora-
tions have not been successful in revealing
additional supplies of oil. And there are
additional countries who would like to
use a shortage of oil, or a reduction in
their sales of oil, for political purposes. I
don't know of any instance where there
is an inclination among the Arab oil-pro-
ducing countries to increase production.
So, we're going to see shortages, and it's
a very serious problem for us in not hav-
ing an adequate national energy policy.
As you know, I proposed such a policy in
April of 1977, after I'd been in office 90
days, and the Congress has still not acted.
They've not passed any legislation, not
one line of legislation relating to oil. And,
as you know, there is a very difficult and
sensitive problem on the Hill in passing
legislation to take away the prerogatives,
sometimes the exaggerated prerogatives,
unwarranted prerogatives, of the oil
companies.
I, in effect, represent two major and
different kinds of nations. One is by far
the largest oil-consuming nation on Earth,
and at the same time, one of the largest
oil-producing nations on Earth. And for
the first time in the last 2 years, we have
seen a rough equivalency between the in-
fluence on the Hill of oil consumers com-
pared to oil producers. In the past the
field was open to oil producers exclusively,
and you could understand that when oil
was $1.50 a barrel.
I'd like very much now to answer two
or three questions of yours, if you have
any, and, Al,³ perhaps I could call on you
for the first question, if the others don't
object. [Laughter]
QUESTIONS
PUBLIC OPINION POLLS
Q. In light of what's happened in the
polls recently and the general tone of edi-
torials about your administration, are
you reading newspapers any more and
enjoying them any more? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. A few months ago I
doubted very seriously the authenticity
and accuracy of the polls. [Laughter]
Lately my opinion of them has increased
substantially. [Laughter]
But I would guess, to be serious about
it, that a lot of the poll response has been
because of the Iranian question, a natural
desire on the part of Americans to support
their President in a time of crisis or chal-
lenge. That's part of it. The other part,
to be equally frank, is that I believe that
the expectations that were felt among
many Democrats concerning Senator
Kennedy's ability has been attenuated
since he became an active candidate. That
was almost inevitable, and I don't say that
in derrogation of him. But those two fac-
tors are obviously at play.
³ Allen H. Neuharth, president and chief
executive officer, Gannett Co., Inc.
2241
