Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 19
the future. One of the most important
ways of accomplishing this is by establish-
ing a strong Executive Resources Board
in your organization to oversee the admin-
istration of the Senior Executive Service.
National Meals on Wheels
Week, 1979
Proclamation 4689. September 19, 1979
This Board will also direct executive de- By the President of the United States
velopment systems to identify and train
candidates for future membership in the
SES.
The people who serve on these Boards
hold the key to the future of the SES. It
is imperative that you impress upon the
Chairperson and members of your Execu-
tive Resources Board the importance this
Administration places upon executive
selection and development.
The Office of Personnel Management
has established criteria for executive selec-
tion and development programs. I believe
these criteria provide the flexibility you
need to devise a system which meets the
specific characteristics and needs of
your
organization. Central to every program
must be the identification and selection,
in advance, of top performers who have
executive potential and whose talents
should be developed to enable them to
take top-level responsibilities. This will
involve both wide competition and a very
careful selection for the executive develop-
ment programs required by the Reform
Act. I also want to make certain that
women, the handicapped, and members of
minority groups are given full considera-
tion when selections are made.
We have the opportunity, now, to estab-
lish systems that will provide an effective,
motivated, and exemplary corps of career
executives to serve the needs of our Nation
in the years to come. There are no more
important actions we can take to provide
long-term benefit to Government and
more efficient delivery of services to the
public.
JIMMY CARTER
of America
A Proclamation
This year marks the twenty-fifth anni-
versary of the Meals on Wheels programs
which make nutritious food available to
aged and ailing persons in their homes.
Since 1954, thousands of volunteers in
these programs have made it possible for
many of the Nation's elderly to reside at
home rather than in institutions and to
live healthier, happier and more inde-
pendent lives.
In recognition of the outstanding con-
tributions of these volunteers, the Con-
gress, by House Joint Resolution 367, has
designated the week beginning Septem-
ber 16, 1979, as National Meals on Wheels
Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the week of Septem-
ber 16 through September 22, 1979, as
National Meals on Wheels Week.
In accord with the congressional resolu-
tion, I invite the Governors of the several
States, the chief officials of local govern-
ments and the people of the United States
to observe this period with appropriate
ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:44 p.m., September 19, 1979]
1693
