Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
now, and we will address those problems
together.
This has always been a problem and a
challenge. But this Nation is now in the
throes of an energy crisis, a crisis of dan-
gerous overdependence on foreign oil-a
challenge and overdependence which di-
rectly threatens the security of our very
Nation, a crisis that affects every single
person who lives in this country. In a few
blunt words, that is why public transit is
important to all citizens of this country,
regardless of where they might live.
In cities and small towns, among sub-
urbanites and rural dwellers, subway
riders and pickup truck drivers we all
have an interest in public transit-even
though some may not ever ride in a pub-
lic transportation vehicle-because we all
have an interest in solving the problem of
energy. And we will solve that problem.
The subways, the buses, and the trolleys
of America will help to carry America to
a time of energy security.
In my first energy speech to America,
I told the American people bluntly that
the era of cheap and abundant energy
and wasteful consumption was gone. I
was warned that this would not be good
politics. Nobody likes bad news. And
when I made that evening address to the
American people, I said in that talk that
it would undoubtedly cost me 15 percent
in the public polls. That was the under-
estimation [laughter]— of my first year.
I called the energy crisis the moral
equivalent of war, a statement that was
ignored by some and ridiculed by others.
But I was determined then and I'm de-
termined now to level with the Ameri-
can people. It has not been easy to get
that message across, but today, 22 years
after that speech, millions of Americans
now know from hard experience and care-
ful analysis that I was not exaggerating.
Not too long ago the United States
was a net exporting country for oil. By
1973, when the OPEC nations' oil em-
bargo hit with a massive increase in
prices, we were importing about one-third
of all the oil we used, sometimes at less
than $2 a barrel. But we failed to come
to grips with the underlying problem that
OPEC began to exploit. We were given
fair warning; we did not listen. Instead,
through a complicated system of price
controls, we tried to insulate ourselves
from the realities of a global economic
change.
This policy, or absence of a policy, did
not work. In fact, it encouraged our illu-
sions about cheap energy and actually
made our dependence worse, so that this
year we are importing about one-half all
the oil we use. And because OPEC has
taken advantage of this industrial world's
thirst for oil at any price, OPEC has con-
tinued to jack up the prices. The dollars
have flowed out even faster than oil has
flowed in. In 1973, for instance, we were
paying in American dollars, for foreign
oil, $7 billion. Next year we will pay $70
billion—a tenfold increase.
When those billions of dollars flow out
of our country, American jobs flow out
with them. And when those millions of
barrels of foreign oil flow in, we import
inflation. Without the astronomical rise
in energy costs, in fact, the inflation rate
would be at least one-third lower than it is
now. The last 3 months, the inflation rate
would have increased only one-fourth of
1 percent, if you don't count energy. But
energy has been increasing in price at an
average of 100 percent per year.
Our economic well-being is at stake
and so is our political freedom of action.
We are vulnerable to interruptions in oil
supply at any time from very uncertain
sources, and we are mandated to pay
whatever prices are asked. And the com-
petition for oil supplies tends to weaken
1740
