Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 19
You have my personal best wishes and
friendship.
Sincerely,
Dear Mr. President:
JIMMY CARTER
In accord with our conversation yester-
day afternoon, I hereby formally tender
my resignation as Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare.
For me, it has been a deeply enjoyable
and satisfying experience to administer so
many of the programs enacted into law
under President Lyndon Johnson.
I have called HEW the Department of
the people because its programs touch the
lives of so many Americans each day. The
Department reflects the compassion of the
American people. It tends to the needs of
the old and the young, of the poor, the
ill, and the handicapped. It exists to pro-
tect the health of all Americans, to assure
equal educational opportunity for all citi-
zens, and to guarantee the individual
rights of victims of discrimination of all
kinds. It administers Social Security and
the other basic income maintenance pro-
grams of our nation.
My goal as Secretary has been to
demonstrate that Government can do all
these things, not only with compassion,
but with competence. Achieving that goal
is urgently necessary because there are
still in this nation millions of people
whose needs can be met only by Govern-
ment-and they are the most vulnerable
among us.
controversy. I have tried to execute these
laws vigorously.
I appreciate the opportunity you have
given me to serve our nation and you.
of
I wish you well as you continue striv-
ing to fulfill the enormous responsibilities
your office, and to build upon your
achievements, of which you can be justly
proud.
Sincerely,
JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
[The President, The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C.]
Agency for International
Development
Nomination of Douglas J. Bennet, Jr., To Be
Administrator. July 19, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Douglas J. Bennet, Jr.,
of Connecticut, to be Administrator of
the Agency for International Develop-
ment. He will replace John J. Gilligan
who has resigned.
Bennet was born June 23, 1938, in
Orange, N.J. He received a B.A. (1959)
from Wesleyan University, an M.A.
(1960) from the University of California,
and a Ph. D. (1968) from Harvard
University.
From 1963 to 1964, he was assistant to
the Economic Advisor of AID. Bennet
was special assistant to the Ambassador
to India from 1964 to 1966. From 1967
to 1969, he was an assistant to Vice Presi-
To do this job effectively, I needed the
authority to run this Department and the
freedom to decide and speak out on con-
troversial public issues. You have given dent Hubert Humphrey. He was admin-
me that authority and freedom, and I
appreciate it.
Whenever the laws that the Congress
charges the Secretary of HEW to execute
are administered with vigor, there will be
istrative assistant to Senator Thomas
Eagleton 1969 to 1973 and also held the
same position on Senator Abraham Ribi-
coff's staff from 1973 to 1974. From 1974
to 1977, he was staff director for the Sen-
1271
