Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the fuel economy shown on this slide, a
dramatic increase of over 40 percent. The
use of these vehicles by the American
public has already saved over 500 million
barrels of oil. Of course, this saving will
continue to grow as new fuel-efficient ve-
hicles replace older cars and as even more
fuel-efficient cars are introduced in the
years ahead.
Frankly, I believe no other industry in
the world has yet demonstrated such ex-
ceptional energy-saving progress. Before
considering the opportunities for further
improvement in vehicle fuel economy, I'd
like to comment briefly on what I think is
a common misconception, namely, that
foreign-built cars are technically ahead of
U.S.-built cars in terms of fuel economy.
This chart, which plots the combined
city urban cycle fuel economy, the so-
called metro highway fuel economy, as a
function of vehicle inertia weight. You
will note that—and this is EPA data for
the year 1979, as published by them-
note that the dotted curve representing
imports lies below the line for the Amer-
ican-built cars, except at one inertia
weight where they are essentially equal.
Let me now turn to a consideration of
the technical opportunities that may exist
for further improvement in fuel economy.
As a basis for this discussion, I will use
plots similar to the previous one of fuel
economy versus vehicle inertia test weight.
The line represents the average fuel
economy of the 1979 U.S.-made gasoline-
powered cars, as published by the EPA. A
change in weight moves one along the line,
a change in power-train efficiency moves
one vertically away from the current tech-
nology line. And thus a new power-train
technology that works for all engines in all
inertia weight vehicles would move us
above the current line.
Please note that a point on this line gives
the fuel economy of a vehicle at a specified
weight. This graph cannot be used to de-
termine or project corporate average fuel
economy, because the sales mix of small,
medium, and large cars is such a dominant
force in determining this.
Now, several technical changes can be
expected to provide improvements in the
average overall efficiency of the present
power train. For example, better fuel con-
trol, better combustion chamber design,
increased use of electronic control systems,
turbocharging with reduced engine dis-
placement while maintaining constant
performance, and improved transmissions
through the use of torque converter lock-
ups in overdrive will also contribute. And
if these improvements could be used for all
vehicle weight classes, this would lead to
fuel economy improvements shown here
by the upper curve-an increase of about
15 percent over current power trains. Of
course all of these improvements will not
be possible on every weight class, and
neither is it likely that all of these
improvements could be introduced
simultaneously.
I've carried forward to this plot the
dark line from the earlier side and have
marked it "current conventional." Now,
there are two other piston engine tech-
nologies
nologies that may become available in
reasonable quantities by 1985-the diesel
and the stratified charge gasoline engine.
In both of these engines, the fuel is in-
jected into the combustion chamber. The
first of these I will discuss is the gasoline
version of the stratified charge engine,
which at Ford is called PROCO, for pro-
gram combustion. The slide shows this,
and my associate is presenting you with a
model of this combustion chamber.
You'll see that there is an injector for
the fuel at the center, for directly inject-
ing the fuel into the combustion chamber;
you see that the piston has a unique cup
design; you see that there are two spark
1550
