Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
performed well beyond, I think, anyone's
expectations, not only because it has chan-
neled significant amounts of money into
the urban areas but, most importantly,
has been the key link in forming the part-
nership that President Carter so desper-
ately sought between the Federal Govern-
ment and local governments and between
the government itself and the private en-
terprise system.
It was his belief that the private sector
had built this country and that it was
certainly capable of rebuilding it if gov-
ernment could create the atmosphere in
which the private sector could move and
to exercise its ingenuity and its capital and
its desires.
And so, we're here today, marking the
second anniversary of the founding of
that program, and I'm so happy-
[At this point, the President entered the East
Room.]
-happy to join here with so many
who brought it about.
THE PRESIDENT. When I heard all of
you were in town, I knew that Moon was
announcing new UDAG grants today.
[Laughter]
It's a real pleasure for a President to
meet with a group who have formed an
effective partnership in dealing with some
of the most serious problems of our coun-
try, and I emphasize the word "success-
ful." Sometimes an idea or a dream or a
determined effort-many times those con-
cepts are not realized. And there is a
building up of hope and expectation and
a forming of a partnership, the delinea-
tion of a plan, an effort through Congress,
a bill is passed, money is appropriated,
and then there's an embarrassed realiza-
tion that the idea was not a good one.
This is not the case.
In 1975 and 1976, I traveled around
this country as a candidate, and there
were several serious problems that I de-
tected. I would say that one of the most
persistent problems was the realization in
our urban areas, our cities, our down-
town central cities that their prospects
for a good life or even survival was not
good. This was a concept or belief that
permeated our country. It was most
highly publicized in New York City, but
at the time of the shock of the New York
City financial problem announcement,
there was a general feeling around the
country that "this could happen in my city
next."
We began to evolve this program-Pat
Harris, Bob Embry, many others that I
won't name now-to try to deal with that
problem, because we realized, first of all,
that there was not an adequate consulta-
tion between labor, business, private in-
vestors, county officials, mayors, Gover-
nors, Members of Congress, administra-
tion officials, or the President, that there
was no way to share the problem and, in
effect, share the probing for a solution.
But we formed one, and the outcome has
been, I think, very good.
The Urban Policy Group has func-
tioned well. Some of you in this room have
been here to Washington, have been in
the Cabinet Room, have been in the Oval
Office 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 times as we've tried
to hammer out a solution to serious prob-
lems in our urban areas.
The Urban Development Action
Grants, UDAG program, has been the
centerpiece of what we proposed. It's new,
it's innovative. And we also recognized
that there would not be enough Federal
money to solve the problem, but we also
saw that there were many potential in-
vestments that would restore the spirit of
a community and keep the responsibility
where it ought to be the people who had
to pay for and administer and benefit
from a major project. The ratio between
1968
