Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ects to meet energy and urban goals and
to improve overall environmental quality.
I am directing you to act immediately to
assure that:
transportation funds are used to pro-
mote energy conservation through
such energy saving features as special
lanes for carpools, vanpools, and
transit vehicles, and that encourage-
ment be given to applying funds to
public transportation projects;
• careful review is given to any trans-
portation proposals which would en-
courage urban sprawl-one of the
major causes of our high energy con-
sumption or which would tend to
attract jobs out of our urban centers;
consideration is given to the improve-
ment and rehabilitation of existing
facilities and the use of non-construc-
tion methods as alternatives to con-
structing new facilities;
major transportation projects are
utilized as a positive factor for im-
proving the urban economy and at-
tracting jobs to the nation's urban
cores; and
• firm actions are taken to mitigate ad-
verse effects of transportation proj-
ects on the environment-both the
natural environment and the urban
environment—and that the environ-
mental commitments that we make in
approving transportation projects are
carried out when the projects are
built.
Please report on your progress in im-
plementing this directive to the Chair-
man of the Council on Environmental
Quality and the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget on February 1,
1980 and August 1, 1980.
JIMMY CARTER
Economic Assistance for
Pollution Control
Memorandums From the President.
August 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency
pro-
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized that most Amer-
icans benefit directly from the healthier
and more agreeable environment that re-
sults from our pollution control programs.
I also noted that unfortunately these
grams have been a factor that has con-
tributed to a limited number of closures
though there are a number of federal
of already marginal industrial plants. Al-
assistance programs available which can
aid those who have lost their jobs and
the communities in which they reside, the
existing programs are not being widely
used.
Therefore, I am directing you to take
the following actions:
• Establish an Economic Assistance
Program, including the designation of
economic assistance officers at headquar-
ters and in the field, whose purpose is to
ensure that economic adjustment assist-
ance is both understood by all eligible
parties and made quickly available to
those who qualify for it.
Expand the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency's "Economic Dislocation
Early Warning System" so that it in-
cludes more information on potential dis-
ruptions to communities and groups of
workers, as well as to businesses and so
that it is operated in such a way that pos-
sible economic disruptions are identified
as early as possible and that relevant agen-
cies are quickly notified.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
1384
