Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 30
As I indicated when the Commission
was formed, its task was one of the most
important which has ever been assigned
to a Presidential commission. Its findings
and its recommendations will be studied
very carefully by me, by the members of
my administration, the Congress, the
American public at large, members of the
industry, and, I think, indeed, many lead-
ers in foreign countries, who've been wait-
ing to see what the Commission's analysis
and recommendations would comprise.
They have fulfilled this extremely chal-
lenging task with the greatest degree of
care and dispatch. Over a 6-month period
they have met frequently. They've investi-
gated thoroughly. The attendance at the
meetings has been almost perfect, and
each member, highly diverse among
themselves, has been a great contribution
to the overall recommendations.
The staff and the Commission mem-
bers deserve the gratitude of the Ameri-
can people, and on behalf of our Nation,
Chairman Kemeny, I want to thank you
personally and, for all of us, for the great
work you've done.
This accident at Three Mile Island
brought home the need to assure that
nuclear power is as safe as possible. This
report will guide us all in learning about
the accident itself and in assuring the
higher degree of safety for our citizens.
by the industry, some by me through
Executive order, some will require legis-
lative recommendations and decisions by
the Congress.
Our own assessment and our decisions
on what to do cannot be made immedi-
ately, and we'll have to be very careful
and very methodical in our recommenda-
tions to the public. After my advisers and
I complete our analysis, then I will report
to the Congress and to the Nation on
further steps which are needed to improve
and protect the public health and safety
as it relates to nuclear power.
The Commission will now be dis-
banded, but I've asked the Commission
members and, particularly, Chairman
Kemeny to make themselves available to
me in case there are followup questions
that we need to have answered or addi-
tional consultations with them on specific
recommendations included in the report.
This afternoon at 1:30, Dr. Kemeny
and the members of the Commission and
staff will have a definitive briefing for the
press, but I wanted to express my thanks
to him and to the Commission at this
point. And he will be available to you and
others during the afternoon to answer
more specific questions.
Dr. Kemeny, thank you very much, on
behalf of our country.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:37 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Throughout my own Presidency, I've
given a high priority to furthering the
safety of nuclear energy. It has been and
will continue to be one of the most critical
tasks of our generation. The Commission
has made many far-reaching recommen- Department of Education
dations to improve nuclear safety-I
think, specifically, 44 different recom-
mendations and these far-reaching rec-
ommendations deserve our immediate and
careful attention and study.
This is a complicated report. It's highly
technical in nature in some respects and
will require very careful assessment. Some
of its recommendations can be carried out
Statement on the Nomination of Shirley
Hufstedler To Be Secretary. October 30, 1979
Judge Shirley Hufstedler has one of the
best minds in the country. To fill the posi-
tion of first Secretary of the new Depart-
ment of Education, I wanted a strong,
creative thinker who could take a new,
fresh look at the way we educate our
2063
