Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 1
Here is the background on Soviet forces
in Cuba: As most of you know, 17 years
ago in the era of the cold war, the Soviet
Union suddenly attempted to introduce
offensive nuclear missiles and bombers
into Cuba. This direct threat to the
United States ended with the Soviet
agreement to withdraw those nuclear
weapons and a commitment not to intro-
duce offensive weapons into Cuba there-
after.
At the time of that 1962 missile crisis,
there were more than 20,000 Soviet mili-
tary personnel in Cuba. Most of them
were withdrawn, and we monitored their
departure. It was believed that those who
stayed behind were not combat forces, but
were there to advise and train Cubans
and to perform intelligence functions.
Just recently, American intelligence
obtained persuasive evidence that some of
these Soviet forces had been organized in-
to a combat unit. When attention was
then focused on a careful review of past
intelligence data, it was possible for our
experts to conclude that this unit had
existed for several years, probably since
the mid-1970's, and possibly even longer.
This unit appears to be a brigade of two
or three thousand men. It is armed with
about 40 tanks and other modern military
equipment. It's been organized as a com-
bat unit. Its training exercises have been
those of a combat unit.
This is not a large force, nor an assault
force. It presents no direct threat to us.
It has no airborne or seaborne capability.
In contrast to the 1962 crisis, no nuclear
threat to the United States is involved.
Nevertheless, this Soviet brigade in
Cuba is a serious matter. It contributes to
tension in the Caribbean and the Central
American region. The delivery of modern
arms to Cuba and the presence of Soviet
naval forces in Cuban waters have
strengthened the Soviet-Cuban military
relationship. They've added to the fears
of some countries that they may come
under Soviet or Cuban pressure.
During the last few years, the Soviets
have been increasing the delivery of mili-
tary supplies to Cuba. The result is that
Cuba now has one of the largest, best
equipped armed forces in this region.
These military forces are used to intrude
into other countries in Africa and the
Middle East.
There's a special relationship between
Cuba and the Soviet Union. The Cubans
get their weapons free; other Soviet satel-
lite countries have to pay for their mili-
tary supplies. The Communist regime in
Cuba is an economic failure that cannot
sustain itself. The Soviet Union must send
to Cuba about $8 million in economic aid
every day.
Fidel Castro does not pay money for
Soviet arms; the Cuban people pay a
much higher price. In every international
dispute, on every international issue, the
Cuban regime automatically follows the
Soviet line. The Soviet brigade is a mani-
festation of Moscow's dominance of Cuba.
It raises the level of that dominance, and
it raises the level of responsibility that the
Soviet Union must take for escalating
Cuban military actions abroad.
Now I want to report further on what
we are doing to resolve these problems
and to counter these activities.
Over the past 3 weeks, we've discussed
this issue at great length with top Soviet
officials. We've made it clear that the
presence of a Soviet combat unit in Cuba
is a matter of serious concern to us.
1803
