Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 23
Ours is truly a great country. And I
hope that Hannibal won't change very
much, only in the number of people that
can come here to witness and to be part
of the life of Samuel Clemens, who spread
the good news about America in many
parts of the world.
We saw translations of "The Adven-
tures of Tom Sawyer" in the museum that
went to 50 different kinds of languages so
that people all over Earth can know
about you and about his boyhood and
boyhood and
about the truth of America.
He was indeed a remarkable person
who saw, with a remarkable insight, what
made America great. Coming down the
river, Amy has been reading "Tom Saw-
yer" for the second time, and I've been
reading “Life on the Mississippi" for the
second time, or third time, or fourth time
as well. It's been part of my life as it
has been part of many of you.
Mark Twain, or Samuel Clemens, had
one of the greatest senses of humor, I
guess, of anyone who's ever lived in our
country. He always had a good thing to
say about America. And I hope that's
part of our own lives, to say something
good about our own country. I jotted
down a few things that he said, and I'll
be very brief.
He had a lot to say about inflation. I
don't know if you know it or not, but in
"Life on the Mississippi" he said that
when he was a young boy, he first saw
St. Louis, he said, "I could have bought
it for $6 million, and it was the biggest
mistake of my life that I didn't do it.”
And then he commented on energy-I
won't read the whole quote-but Mark
Twain saw a tremendous change in the
use of energy on the Mississippi.
When he was first training to be a pilot,
as you know, the steamboats used wood,
and the woodyards would go for miles
and miles on both sides of the river near
the towns. At that time there were 10,000
steamboats on the river system of our
country. He was part of that life.
And the last thing I'd like to com-
ment on is about the Federal Govern-
ment. He had some good things to say
about the Federal Government. And I
particularly liked this because you don't
hear that very much anymore. He went
by one of the Federal projects, and he
said, "Everything about it suggests the
hand of the national government." Listen
to this: "The government's work is al-
ways conspicuous for excellence, solidity,
thoroughness, and neatness. The Govern-
ment does its work well in the first place,
and then takes care of it afterwards."
That's the good news. The bad news
is this project that he was describing was
a cemetery. [Laughter]
Well, we still live in a great country, as
you well know, and times are changing,
including energy. Last night, we came by
one of the very few large electric power-
plants on the Mississippi. We produce a
very
small amount of electricity now, with
all this tremendous power going past
Hannibal, about 165 megawatts. We have
the capability already assessed to produce
2,400 megawatts of power, 15 times as
much, just using the dams that are al-
ready constructed there for the locks. I'm
going to instruct the Department of the
Army to simplify the procedures so that
these projects can be completed earlier
without going through all the redtape
and complication and delay that hold up
such projects now.
1509
