Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 10
nership with the aging people of our
country. In academic circles, in business
and labor, local, State, and Federal
agencies of government, in community
programs, in churches and other benevo-
lent institutions, there is an opportunity
for free interchange of advice and coun-
sel, communication and common work,
to realize the hopes and dreams of many
Americans, regardless of age.
I would like at this time to recognize
those who will be leading the White House
Conference on the Aging, to be conducted
next year. The Chairman is Sadie Alex-
ander, immediately behind me, who will
be saying a few words in a moment. She's
a famous person on her own. She's been
part of the progress made in our country
in the finest possible way. She happens to
be the first black woman ever awarded an
earned Ph. D. in this country, in econom-
ics, and she later achieved her doctor of
laws degree from the University of
Pennsylvania.
Their Executive Director will be a very
well known person in Washington, former
Congressman from California, Jerry
Waldie. Our Deputy Chairman is a man
who conducted the last White House
Conference on the Aging, who's been in
the forefront of eliminating discrimination
of all kinds in our country and been a
constant prod for the conscience of Amer-
ica, Dr. Arthur Flemming. The Cochair-
men and Chairwomen of this group will
be Dr. Neugarten, Miss Morales, and
Miss Winston.
And this is a wonderful group who will
lead the planning and help to conduct
the White House Conference on the Ag-
ing. My wife and I and other members of
my immediate family and my entire ad-
ministration will be supportive of this very
fine effort.
And now I would like to call on our
new Chairperson, Dr. Alexander, to say
a few words.
DR. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, Madame Secretary, members of
the commission, and distinguished guests:
As a child I lived some years in Wash-
ington, and I remember that
my mother
used to frequently take us to chapel at
Howard University, 4 o'clock on Sunday
afternoon. On one of these occasions,
Booker T. Washington was to speak. And
I heard my mother and her lady friends.
discussing what they would wear to the
reception for Mr. Carter—Mr. Washing-
ton. [Laughter] Yes, that's on my mind;
we're going to give him a great one, too.
When we got to the chapel and Mr.
Washington was introduced, he of course
thanked the persons who were responsible
for his invitation, and then he stated how
he regretted that he couldn't possibly re-
main for the reception. He was to meet
with some very important people, upon
whose decision would rest whether or not
Tuskegee would continue. He said, “You
know, perhaps it's fortunate I cannot
spend the night in Washington. I find that
people who come here for appointments—
seem impossible for them to leave. They
never seem to realize that they were ap-
pointed by one administration." [Laugh-
ter] But he said, "I'm afraid that if I in-
hale the air of Washington for a whole
evening, I, too, might not be able to
leave." Well, I want to assure you that I
will be able to leave. [Laughter]
I have not come back too often, be-
cause I was too busy in Philadelphia. Last
June, I told the members of my firm that
I was going to leave by December 31 of
this year. Nobody believed me. But then I
went ahead quietly to get my work out of
the way. I only have two important cases
left, and I intend to get them off the dock-
et. But I thought to myself that the
French expression, that important ven-
tures cast their shadows, was certainly
true in my case.
2213
