Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 30
ticularly intrigued by the statue of Ad-
miral Yi in the center of Seoul. I'm told
that the "turtle boats" of the Admiral
commanded in the 16th century were the
world's first ironclad naval vessels. I sus-
pect that in his time these Korean ships
were as new and revolutionary as the nu-
clear submarines which I helped to
develop.
My visit with our combat troops last
night and this morning, Mr. President,
was a reminder that in our more recent
history, tens of thousands of your country-
men and mine fought and died side by side
to defend this country against aggression.
Everyone must know that Koreans and
Americans will continue to stand shoulder
to shoulder to prevent aggression on this
peninsula and to preserve the peace. Our
military commitment to Korea's security
is strong, unshakable, and enduring.
The security interests of the United
States are directly involved in that com-
mitment. The vital interests of four great
powers intersect in this very region today.
That is why the maintenance of peace on
the Korean peninsula is so vital to the
international community.
Evidence of change in Korea is all
around us. You can see among the Korean
people the dynamism, the creative energy
and dedication that have produced
Korea's economic miracle out of a nation
once so badly scarred by war.
I am impressed that the benefits of
prosperity are widely shared by the
Korean people. I understand that the in-
come, for instance, of the average rural
family in Korea now exceeds that of its
urban counterpart. That accomplishment
is almost unique among developing na-
tions and should be a source of special
pride to you.
Compare your progress with that of the
economy in the North. The Republic of
Korea is proof that a free economy is the
clearest road to shared prosperity and a
better life for all.
We also believe strongly in the United
States that a free society is the key to
realizing the full potential for develop-
ment and growth.
There is a growing consensus among
the international community about the
fundamental value of human rights, in-
dividual dignity, political freedom, free-
dom of the press, and the rule of law. The
free expression of ideas stimulates inno-
vation and creativity. The right to par-
ticipate in the political process helps to
unite a country in the pursuit of common
goals.
There is abundant evidence in Korea
of the dramatic economic progress a ca-
pable and energetic people can achieve
by working together. I believe that this
achievement can be matched by similar
progress through the realization of basic
human aspirations in political and hu-
man rights.
Accelerating change is also the central
fact of life throughout the international
community in recent years nowhere
more so than in Asia, the home of one-
third of the world's people today. China
has turned outwards toward the United
States, Japan, and the Western world in
search of modern techniques and new re-
lationships. Japan has assumed a position
of new global influence. Korea, always
strategically vital, has become a world
economic force. The unity of the ASEAN
nations is becoming a stabilizing factor
throughout Southeast Asia.
Today we are entering a more mature
stage in the U.S.-Korean relations. Our
success will depend on whether we can
take advantage of both historical conti-
nuity and dynamic change to foster prog-
ress in the areas which concern us both.
Cooperation is the key.
1205
