Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 25
protecting the interests of our people in-
dividually and collectively and also re-
pairing a very serious threat to the very
security of our country.
We import now about half of all the oil
we use-82 million barrels a day; next
year, $70 billion worth. And along with
oil we import inflation and unemploy-
ment. Our inflation rate right now would
be 4 percentage points lower if you didn't
have to count energy. And if you just take
that one factor out-energy-the inflation
rate in '79 would be no higher than it
was in '78, no higher than it was in '77.
You see what a tremendous impact this
has had on our country, and it's getting
worse, not better, provided we don't act.
The best way to cut imports is not to
drill for more oil or to burn more coal or
even to use more advanced synthetic fuels.
The best way to cut our imports is to save,
to stop wasting, to conserve energy. And
that's why we're here this afternoon-to
talk about a special way to save energy.
There are many ways. And I hope that
every family represented here, before
go to bed tonight, will get your family to-
gether, from little children 5 years old all
the way up to grandparents or even great-
grandparents and say, "How can we in
our own lives and using our own influence
in our homes, to and from jobs, on the job,
cut down on the waste of energy, save
energy?"
you
Our country's doing a fairly good job
so far. We've got a long way to go. Half
the oil that we use in this country is not
only imported, but half of it is used in
transportation. And obviously the biggest
potential saving in oil is in transportation.
I got word, after I took off in Air Force
One, today that the Senate Finance Com-
mittee has passed the windfall profits
tax-much lower tax on the unearned
profits of the oil companies than I
had wanted or anticipated. And I hope
that with Bill Bradley's good work and
others-Pete Williams-that on the floor
of the Senate we can restore to the Amer-
ican people what has been lost so far in
the Senate Finance Committee in taxing
these profits which the oil companies have
not earned.
These taxes will be used for several rea-
sons: One is to help the poor families of
our Nation pay the rapidly increasing cost
of energy. Another one is to improve the
quality of transportation, public transpor-
tation. And over the next 10 years, we've
set aside $32 billion for research and de-
velopment to make sure that we have
more efficient transportation vehicles. We
can save about 75,000 barrels a day for
every mile per gallon that we cut off the
gas-burning automobiles. There's a tre-
mendous savings there.
But I want to talk this afternoon, just
for a few minutes, about ridesharing-
ridesharing. It's not anything compli-
cated; it's carpools, vanpools, subscription
buses, public transit, and so forth. This
saves fuel. It preserves our environment.
It maintains personal mobility, and it
helps the income and the standard of liv-
ing of families simply because they stop
wasting the money that they earn.
Over 50 million Americans every day
commute to and from work in an auto-
mobile by themselves one passenger.
And if you doubt what I say, the next time
you take a trip-I'm sure your car will be
full-[laughter]—just look at the cars you
meet. This is a tremendous waste, 150
million unoccupied spaces for American
riders every day—we've only got 220 mil-
lion people in our country-and that's
just the cars going to and from work.
These spaces, if filled, would be just as
valuable as drilling a new well to find
more oil. So far, about 20 percent of all
the commuters share a ride or ride on
public transportation, about 20 percent.
2021
