Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 19
Federal moneys and private investments
had been about 6 to 1, as you well know,
and the results have been notable.
There is no more a feeling of isolation
or despair or hopelessness or alienation
from the Federal Government-quote,
"from the Federal Government." I believe
that mayors, county officials, local officials
from all over the country now feel that
there is an open reception here for you
and for those that you represent. I think
there's a new sense of enthusiasm.
I do some traveling still since I've been
in the White House. I was in Chicago re-
cently; I was in Kansas City recently; I
was in New York City recently; Hartford,
Connecticut, recently; and smaller towns
as well. And I don't get the complaints
that I used to get, and that's, in itself,
gratifying.
There has been, in addition, an effort,
because of your instigation, to bring good
people into the Government. I can't say
that there haven't always been good peo-
ple occupying the same positions; I'm not
criticizing others. But we've got in the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment-brought in by Pat, now with
Moon Landrieu-a collection of people
who understand the problems of the ur-
ban areas and who know what it means
to be faced with a serious challenge and
who know what it means to resolve a
problem. We've got more mayors in the
President's Cabinet now than we had all
put together in the last 50 years, and I
think that's a great achievement in itself.
I've been determined that the urban
centers would, in the future, be the back-
bone of the social and economic structure
of our country and not the Achilles heel
which it has been in the past. We've
moved on a broad front: CETA pro-
grams, we've doubled them; youth pro-
grams, we've added 70 percent; educa-
tion programs, 60 percent in funding from
the Federal Government. But in urban
development, with UDAG and EDA, we
have increased these commitments 3,000
percent. We're now putting 30 times as
much effort and financing into the recon-
stitution of our urban areas as had been
the case before, and it's paid rich divi-
dends. It's let us know what could be done
in housing, in social programs, in health,
in education, in transportatión.
As we've gone into these projects and
investigated them, we've learned a lot
about the community. There hasn't been
a chasm that we couldn't cross. We've
been there on the street, in the alleys,
looking at homes, looking at people who
had to be moved and where they wanted
to be moved to and how they wanted to
be treated. And we've learned in the
process to make government, on a daily
basis, much more responsible, much more
responsive, much more knowledgeable
about the people that we were trying to
serve.
In the last 2 years, I think, we've had
about $6 billion in programs. In 1980 we
are asking for another $6 billion program
that will engender 400,000 jobs in the
private sector. Here, again, about one-
sixth of the money will come from the
Government itself.
Another thing that we've tried to do is
to not eliminate private initiative. The
initiative is yours, whether you're a mayor
or county official or whether you don't
hold public office. The initiative is yours.
We're trying to help. And the applications
don't get bogged down in interminable
redtape and delay. We try to have a turn-
around time, between when we get an ap-
plication and when we give an answer, 60
days. And I think it's a rare occasion when
people have to wait 90 days, is it not, Pat?
That's extraordinary for the Government
to do that way, and I say this not to con-
gratulate myself, but to tell you that we've
1969
