Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 15
matter of simple and urgent humanitarian
concern.
Two respected agencies the Interna-
tional Committee of the Red Cross
(ICRC) and the U.N. Children's Fund
(UNICEF)-have been acting as agents
for concerned governments and the
United Nations in launching a major re-
lief program to get food and medicine to
the people of Kampuchea before it is too
late.
I am today announcing an initial
United States pledge of $7 million to this
effort: $2 million from the United States
Emergency Refugee and Migration Assist-
ance Fund, plus 10,000 tons of food,
worth $5 million from Food for Peace.
This is in addition to the more than $1.2
million we have already devoted to feed-
ing and caring for people along the Thai-
Kampuchean border. I hope we can do
more once the food and medicine begins
to flow to those who need it, and I am
eager to work with Congress to that end.
Subsequently, we expect that the United
Nations World Food Program, which is
taking a leading role in mobilizing inter-
national food assistance, will draw upon
U.S. pledges already made.
Secretary-General Waldheim has ap-
pealed to U.N. member states to support
this effort with money and food. Japan,
the Federal Republic of Germany, Aus-
tralia, Britain, and the European Eco-
nomic Community, have already re-
sponded. I urge others to follow their
others to follow their
example.
I want to commend the private volun-
tary agencies which have moved so
quickly to deal with this emergency. Dur-
ing Pope John Paul's visit to the White
House, he and I discussed the need to act
swiftly. I know that his concern is
shared by religious groups of many
denominations.
A heavy responsibility rests on the
regimes and fighting armies causing so
much of the misery in Kampuchea. I call
on those who are supplying them the
weapons of war to use all their influence
to assure that humanitarian relief reaches
the people.
Kansas City, Missouri
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the
National Conference of Catholic Charities.
October 15, 1979
Bishop Sullivan, Father Dunn, Monsig-
nor Corcoran, Governor Carlin, Con-
gressman Skelton, distinguished volun-
teers who combine together, and have
for 251 years, in our Nation to make us
proud of benevolence and unselfishness
through Catholic charities:
I was at Sunday school yesterday
morning, and someone said to me, "Mr.
President, you're spending an awful lot
of time with Catholics lately." [Laughter]
And one of my Baptist friends, who was
standing there said, "It hasn't hurt you
a bit." [Laughter]
After inviting Pope John Paul to come
to the United States and, 10 days ago,
having the great honor to receive him as
my personal guest, I thought for the Na-
tion how unprecedented an event it was
to have the President of the United
States welcome the spiritual leader of the
world's Roman Catholics to our Nation's
Capital for the first time, to the White
House, the symbolic home of all Ameri-
cans. For me personally, this occasion
ranked as one of the best experiences of
my Presidency.
There was a glow of warmth and
friendship with the outstretched arms of
millions of Americans to welcome our
distinguished visitor. He and I had a de-
lightful private conversation, quite ex-
tended. I told him I was surprised. He
said he was, too. I knew that the welcome
1925
