Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
affecting coastal resources to help assure
consistency among federal efforts in
achieving the objectives of the Coastal
Zone Management Act.
Therefore, I am directing you to con-
duct a systematic review of all federal
programs significantly affecting coastal
resources and to evaluate and identify:
(1) any conflicts in the policies and ob-
jectives of existing programs, particularly
conflicts with CZMA goals; (2) whether
these programs are being implemented in
a consistent and coordinated fashion; and
(3) if any program contributes to uneco-
nomical or environmentally unsound de-
velopment activities affecting critical
natural systems. The federal agencies,
coastal states, local governments, the pri-
vate sector, scientists and citizen groups
should be asked to participate in the re-
view process.
The review shall be completed within
one year, in order to provide the basis for
specific recommendations to improve im-
plementation of the Coastal Zone Man-
agement Act, to improve federal agency
administration of programs and proce-
dures affecting the coastal zone, and to
develop any additional legislation to
achieve our national coastal management
goals.
Please give this assignment your imme-
diate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Public Land Resources
Memorandums From the President.
August 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of the
Interior
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized the importance
of the 417 million acres of public lands
administered by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement for their energy and natural re-
sources and their natural, scenic, and
cultural values. I emphasized my Admin-
istration's commitment to purposeful
management of these lands and resources
in an environmentally sound and cost-
effective manner. I am therefore directing
you to manage the public lands admin-
istered by BLM in accordance with the
following principles:
• The Federal Government will be a
good steward of the land, seeking to find
the best balance of uses to assure that
resources are available to meet the Na-
tion's needs and that environmental values
are promptly and carefully protected.
• The Federal government will be a
good neighbor, providing full opportuni-
ties for those affected by our management
decisions to be involved in making them,
with a special concern for the people and
institutions of the Western States that are
most directly affected.
• The Federal Government will make
cost-effective investments in protecting
and enhancing these lands within the con-
straints of fiscal responsibility.
• The Federal Government will seek to
resolve conflicts among competing uses in
a spirit of cooperation and trust, and will
make-not avoid-tough decisions on the
allocation of the valued resources of public
lands.
Building on the progress we have made
in the past two years, I am directing you
to improve BLM's overall planning proc-
ess by establishing a "program develop-
ment process" for BLM which shall:
present alternative programs for pub-
lic investment on federal lands to
achieve national objectives in an
economically and environmentally
sound manner;
1374
