Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
fidence and to help redefine our own sense
of national purpose." The American
people elected Jimmy Carter so that we
could restore confidence in government,
so that we could bring peace to the
troubled spots of the world, so that we
could make the Government more caring
and more determined to meet the acute
needs of our most vulnerable citizens. And
I intend to work as hard as I can over the
next 18 months so that all of us in this
administration can fulfill our promise to
the American people to get these things
done, and I am convinced that this will
happen.
My friends, judgments and controversy
are a part of public life, if you didn't
know. [Laughter] They come with the
turf; they go with the territory. We who
choose public life can neither fear them
nor avoid them. Like Gibbon, we must
believe that the winds and waves serve
the ablest navigators, though they may
overwhelm those without purpose or
direction.
You who know me know the source of
my purpose and direction. They are
rooted in a strong belief in our system of
government and optimism about our
future, a confidence in our ability to get
the job done, and a deep concern for
those we are called on to serve. But I sin-
cerely doubt that anyone in public life
can withstand the realities of public life
without the support, advice, and assist-
ance of good friends. I need, welcome,
and cherish your advice and assistance
just as today I thank you for the assurance
that your support by your presence here
has given me.
Now, I've behaved very well. The Pres-
ident was very optimistic before I came
over. He said, “You are going to say a few
words, aren't you?" [Laughter] As he has
said, he said I was outspoken, I'm sure
he has frequently thought, but not by
many. [Laughter] So, for all of you, some
of whom have known me for decades,
that take us to 30 years-I see Judge
Parker, whom I met when we were both
students at the University of Chicago in
the forties; we won't say when, Barring-
ton-but I want to say it will either reas-
sure you or frighten you or make you say,
"I told
you so."
High office really hasn't changed me,
and with all that that means for those of
you who know me, I leave on that note,
my good friends, saying thank you for
being here today.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:17 p.m. at
the ceremony in the East Room at the White
House.
Federal Trade Commission
Nomination of Patricia P. Bailey To Be a
Commissioner. August 3, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Patricia P. Bailey, of Wash-
ington, D.C., to be a Commissioner of the
Federal Trade Commission for a term ex-
piring September 25, 1980. She would
replace Elizabeth Hanford Dole, resigned.
Bailey is executive legal assistant to the
General Counsel at the Merit Systems
Protection Board.
She was born June 20, 1937, in Fort
Smith, Ark. She received a B.A. from
Linderwood College in 1959, an M.A.
from the Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy, Tufts University, in 1960, and
a J.D. from the American University Law
School in 1976.
From 1961 to 1966, Bailey was with the
Agency for International Development as
an assistant desk officer for the Domini-
can Republic, then Haiti; desk officer for
Trinidad-Tobago and Guyana; and exec-
utive assistant to the coordinator of the
Alliance for Progress, Latin American
Bureau. In 1967 and 1968, she was a staff
1394
