Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 15
We can cut our oil imports by one-half
by 1990. We can reassert American lead-
ership. We can achieve energy security.
All it takes is a spirit of common enter-
prise and determination, and that's what
we've got.
Energy price increases are now the
main force driving inflation. Oil price in-
creases have caused 4 percent of our own
inflation rate. Without energy, the infla-
tion rate this past summer-this sum-
mer—would be no higher than it was in
1978 or 1977.
Clearly, no economic problem today is
more important than the 10 years of high
inflation, and I intend, with your help,
to bring it under control.
We took a big step forward just a few
weeks ago by forging a historic national
accord. It's a broad agreement with la-
bor on economic and domestic policy,
with direct participation on wage and
price stability. For the first time ever,
we've made full partners of those who suf-
fer most from inflation-the working men
and women of America.
The national accord acknowledges
that we all have to tighten our belts.
We've recognized inflation as the number
one threat economically to our country.
The national accord acknowledges
that we can succeed. We can and we will
do it fairly. We can and we will protect
jobs. We can and we will protect the poor
and the disadvantaged. That's what the
national accord is all about. It's not just
to make life comfortable for the few. It is
to bring economic justice and security to
all Americans.
There's nothing easy about this infla-
tion fight for you or for me. In fact, I'm
the fourth consecutive President to con-
front this same problem. Presidents before
me have tried mandatory controls, and
they've also tried the deepest recession
since the 1930's. Neither worked. I believe
they didn't work because we've never be-
fore had a comprehensive energy policy,
and we've never before had a national
accord where the tackling of the inflation
problem would be a joint effort among
government, business, and labor.
The national accord gives us all an his-
toric opportunity to bring inflation down
without massive unemployment and suf-
fering. It's a program that can appeal to
our finest instincts and can bring about
the best in Americans.
We face other challenges and opportu-
nities. As President, my first and my fore-
most responsibility is to keep America
strong and to maintain peace for our peo-
ple. We are also helping to bring peace to
our friends in the Middle East, who've
been enemies for centuries and at war al-
most continually for the last 30 years.
We're determined to control nuclear
weapons. The Senate must ratify the
SALT II treaty.
And as Americans, we will always hold
high the banner of basic human rights
throughout the world.
We are indeed maintaining America's
leadership among all nations on Earth.
This is not an easy role, but we will not
fail.
Let me add this about inflation and jobs
and world peace and our other chal-
lenges: When I became President, I de-
cided to confront the fundamental prob-
lems of our country. I decided to do it
forcefully and directly, no matter what the
political impact might be, no matter what
the public opinion polls might be.
Whatever the future may hold, I want
the personal satisfaction to know that we
did not duck problems, that we did not
settle for half-hearted approaches, that
we always put the interests of this country
first. We owe that debt to the Democratic
Party. We owe that debt to the people of
1937
