Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cial Assistant to the President James R.
Schlesinger, then as Assistant Administra-
tor for Energy Resource Development at
the Federal Energy Administration. From
October 1977 to September 1979, he was
principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of
Energy for Policy and Evaluation.
Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare
Nomination of John A. Calhoun III To Be
Chief of the Children's Bureau.
November 30, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate John A. Calhoun III, of
Belmont, Mass., to be Chief of the Chil-
dren's Bureau at the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. He
would replace Blandina Cardenas Ramir-
ez, who has resigned.
Calhoun is former commissioner of the
Massachusetts Department of Youth
Services, currently serving as an instruc-
tor at Harvard Graduate School of Edu-
cation on a part-time basis.
He was born December 1, 1939, in
Philadelphia, Pa. He received an A.B.
from Brown University in 1962 and a
Masters of Divinity from Episcopal Theo-
logical School in 1965.
From 1965 to 1966, Calhoun was an
elementary schoolteacher in Philadel-
phia. From 1966 to 1970, he was with
Action for Boston Community Develop-
ment, where he served as director of the
Job Corps, director of the New Careers
program, director of the Summer Work
and Cultural Enrichment programs, and
director of the Manpower Program De-
velopment Department.
From 1970 to 1973, he was vice presi-
dent of Technical Development Corp.,
where he worked on program develop-
ment and administration in the field of
corrections and technical assistance to
various private and government agencies
whose functions related to criminal jus-
tice. From 1971 to 1973, he was also di-
rector of the Court Resource Project.
From 1973 to 1976, Calhoun was ex-
ecutive director of the Justice Resource
Institute, a nonprofit criminal justice re-
form agency which he helped found. He
was commissioner of the Massachusetts
Department of Youth Services from 1976
to 1979. He has been a part-time instruc-
tor at Harvard Graduate School of Edu-
cation, teaching a course on "Delinquents,
Schools and Families," since last August.
Calhoun has served as a consultant to
numerous government and private agen-
cies and is the author of a number of
articles.
Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe
Statement on a Report on United States
Compliance With the Final Act.
November 30, 1979
My administration is deeply commit-
ted to the cause of human rights both here
and abroad. As a means to promote re-
spect for fundamental freedoms and the
development of a more peaceful, stable
world, the United States attaches great
significance to the Final Act of the Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe. This document, signed in 1975 at
Helsinki by the leaders of 33 European
nations, Canada, and the United States,
pledges its signers to work toward lower-
ing barriers and improving cooperation
between East and West. Each nation made
solemn promises to take steps to improve
the lives of its citizens. These obligations
2184
