Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Proposed rules should be published to the President through the Secretary of
within 30 days of the close of the comment Energy.
period under Section 1-103.
1-105. Final rules shall be adopted by
each agency in accordance with the pro-
visions of Sections 102(b), 403(b) and
701(a) of the Powerplant and Industrial
Fuel Use Act of 1978, and the provisions
of this Order, not later than 180 days
from the date of this Order.
1-106. No one shall be awarded any
financial assistance unless that award
complies with the provisions of the con-
servation rules adopted by the agency
pursuant to this Order.
1-107. To the extent permitted by law
and where not inconsistent with the finan-
cial assistance program, final rules may
provide for the reduction or suspension
of financial assistance under any award.
Such reduction or suspension shall not be
ordered until there has been an oppor-
tunity for a hearing on the record, and
shall last for such time as the recipient
fails to comply with the terms of the con-
servation rule.
1-108. No conservation rule shall be
adopted which is inconsistent with the
statutory provisions establishing the fi-
nancial assistance program.
1-109. No conservation rule shall be
used to enforce compliance with any
prohibition under the Act against any
person or facility which has been specifi-
cally determined by the Secretary of
Energy as subject to or exempt from a
prohibition under the Act. The conserva-
tion rules shall be used to enforce other
new ways of achieving the purposes of the
Act related to the conservation of petro-
leum and natural gas.
1-110. In order to assess the effective-
ness of this program, each agency shall
annually prepare a report on its activities
in accord with Section 403(b) (1) (B) of
the Act. These reports shall be submitted
1-111. The Secretary of Energy shall
prepare for the President's consideration
and transmittal to the Congress the report
required by Section 403 (c) of the Act.
1-112. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget may issue any
rules, regulations, or orders he deems
necessary to ensure the implementation
of this Order. The Director may exercise
any of the authority vested in the Presi-
dent by Section 403(b) of the Act, and
may redelegate such of that authority as
he deems appropriate to the head of any
other agency.
The White House,
December 17, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:40 a.m., December 18, 1979]
Settlement of Conflict in
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia
White House Statement. December 17, 1979
Today, final agreement was reached at
Lancaster House on a Rhodesian settle-
ment. The world can celebrate a triumph
of reason and an extraordinary diplomatic
success. A long, destructive, and tragic
conflict is ending.
This settlement is a tribute to the
parties concerned, who rose above bitter-
ness and suspicion to agree upon a for-
mula for peace. It is a tribute to the
United Kingdom, whose leaders took the
issue directly in hand and applied a re-
markable combination of wisdom, cour-
age, persistence, and skill. The concerned
African states played a vital role.
Active American involvement in the
search for a Rhodesian settlement began
2262
