Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
platform, including the President, who
will arrive shortly, we're here today, very
pleased that you can join us, quite simply
to celebrate a spectacularly successful pro-
gram in which the Federal Government
and local governments and the private
sector all over this Nation have been par-
ticipating now for 2 years.
It's my great personal pleasure and
privilege to present to you the distin-
guished former Secretary of HUD, present
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, the shy, the retiring-[laughter]
the demure Patricia Harris.
SECRETARY HARRIS. My distinguished
colleagues, my particularly distinguished
successor at HUD, all my friends:
This really, you know-it's Old Home
Week to be here.
Jack, many a true word is spoken in
jest. Simply because you don't know that
you were accurately describing me doesn't
mean that you weren't. [Laughter]
I particularly wanted to be here today,
because I wanted to go back a bit in his-
tory. The former Secretary of State en-
titled his autobiography "Present at the
Creation." And there are few of us in this
room who were present at the creation of
UDAG, and I'm not sure that many
people know the story of how the UDAG
started, and I want to be sure that you
hear it today.
Before there was an inauguration, be-
fore there was a Jay Janis or Bob Embry
or even a Larry Simons at HUD, in fact,
before there was a Pat Harris at HUD,
but after the President said, "Pat, I'd
like you to do this," I asked a group of
people to join me at my former law firm
and talk about where we were going in the
area of community development.
I was initially very conservative. And I
said, instead of changing the way in
which we distributed funds under the
Community Development Block Grant
formula, we ought to ask for a 1-year ex-
tension. And those three conservative
characters, who are still at HUD, demure
and quiet Carl Riedy, shy Ron Gatton,
and quiet, agreeable Deputy Assistant
Secretary Garrison, were in the room that
day, and they, along with Chuck Edison,
said to me, "We can do some very good
things."
And they started talking about the for-
mula for the distribution of Community
Development Block Grant funds, and they
started talking about a discretionary pro-
gram whose purpose was to do something
we all agreed we wanted to do as part of
the Carter administration-give maxi-
mum discretion to the cities on how they
revitalize their cities, to maintain stand-
ards for the expenditure of Federal funds,
but allow the widest discretion to the
cities, and finally, to bring in the private
sector to aid in the development of cities
in a way that would keep the private sec-
tor there, but more importantly, would
have the private sector there at the begin-
ning.
They discussed these ideas with me,
and I said, "Go ye forth and till the earth
and sow the seeds." Well, a lot of things
happened. We had discussions with the
OMB, but the President's wisdom pre-
vailed. [Laughter] And we were able to
go to the Congress with a plan that some
people in Congress questioned. And a few
people wanted to know if this wasn't too
much discretion for Democratic HUD
Secretaries, because after all, everybody
knew HUD Secretaries were the same-
Democrats or Republican. They had for-
gotten. And we got the UDAG.
The seed was planted, and what a har-
vest it's been: nearly 500 projects ap-
proved, nearly a billion dollars in grants
awarded, nearly a quarter of a million
permanent jobs created, more than $52
billion in private sector commitments—
1966
