Sept. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
with all of you to use your influence for
favorable consideration of the imple-
mentation legislation for the Panama
Canal treaties, so that we will not be em-
barrassed by violating the word of honor
of our Nation and mistreating the heroic
and the generous and the good friends
that we have who live in Panama and
throughout the southern part of this
hemisphere.
In the tragic wake of the recent Hur-
ricane David, the American people re-
sponded immediately and with open
hearts to the needs of the people of Do-
minica and the Dominican Republic.
Governor Romero and the people of
Puerto Rico have been especially helpful.
And the people of Miami, under Mayor
Ferre's leadership, also deserve our con-
gratulations for their donations of food
and medicines for the people of the Do-
minican Republic.
This month, here in Washington, I will
meet with President L贸pez Portillo of
Mexico, and I expect this meeting to fur-
ther the balanced relationship that I seek
with our near neighbor and our friend.
There are many issues of great impor-
tance to both nations that we can only
manage because they have been so long
ignored through continual, careful, and
close consultation between the United
States and Mexico. We'll be discussing
energy and trade and border issues, as
well as other matters on which we are
now negotiating with the Mexican Gov-
ernment. These negotiations are now and
will continue to be frank, fair, and ma-
ture. They are conducted within a frame- .
work of mutual respect and with a con-
viction that both nations will benefit from
them. That's how it should be, and with
your continued support, that's how it al-
ways will be.
Our relations with Mexico are among
the most important that we have in the
entire world. And I will never let the in-
evitable problems and differences of opin-
ion that may arise, deflect us from the
mutual respect, friendship, cooperation,
and sensitive attention to our proper
duties which we share with President
L贸pez Portillo and the Mexican people.
In closing let me say this: These are
just a few items on a big agenda, but I
know that we can do this together. Our
goals are the same to bring all Ameri-
cans, no matter in which country we live,
into full partnership in every aspect of our
lives, with full justice, economic opportu-
nity, and political participation. If that
day is to come down, and come down to us
soon, we must work together to bring it
about. It will not come automatically. I
cannot do it alone; no President could.
Government cannot do it alone. You can-
not do it alone. But together, if we have
a common goal, mutual respect, courage,
and respect for one another and for the
principles that bind us together, we can
make it happen.
To close my remarks I would like to use
for a few seconds our Nation's second
language.
Tenemos que trabajar juntos para ga-
rantizar la participaci贸n total en todos
aspectos de la sociedad americana para
todos miembros de la comunidad his-
pana, para el futuro de nuestros hijos,
para el futuro de la comunidad hispana,
y para el futuro de nuestra naci贸n.
Muchas gracias a todos. [We have to work
together to guarantee the total participa-
tion in all aspects of the American society
for all members of the Hispanic commu-
nity, for the future of our children, for the
future of the Hispanic community, and
for the future of our Nation. Thank you
very much.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:38 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel.
1666
