Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
I don't see any deleterious consequences
of open debate and sharp expressions of
opinion even when they differ. I think
that the more American people are in-
volved in the evolution of decisions and
the establishment of policies for our coun-
try, domestically or foreign, the less likely
we are to make a serious mistake.
We've made some serious mistakes in
recent years with Vietnam and Watergate
and CIA violations of the law and so
forth, because the American people were
Thank you again. If you don't mind,
I'd like to get an individual photograph
with each of you before you leave. And
I'll stand right over here, and if you'll
come by, we'll just take a handshake.
NOTE: The interview began at 11 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Patricia Y.
Bario is a Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 11.
Remarks at a Meeting With Civic and
Community Leaders. October 11, 1979
excluded from the process or because they Albuquerque, New Mexico
were told lies, even by people who worked
in the Oval Office. And I want to make
sure that never happens again. I think
had the American people known the
truth from the beginning, those deep em-
barrassments for our country, which
shocked the consciousness of our Nation
Governor Bruce King, it's a great honor
for me to come to meet with this distin-
guished bipartisan group this morning.
and contributed to the disunity and the Laughter] The only thing I can say is that
doubt, would have been avoided.
So, I feel that that's part of my respon-
sibility, to correct past mistakes, to deal
fairly with the American people, and to
prevent future mistakes. And I think the
political campaign season is a good oppor-
tunity for that.
Let me say in closing that I've appre-
ciated the chance to talk to you. By the
way, we do get a very good coverage from
these editors meetings in the national news
media. There is hardly a Saturday eve-
ning or a Sunday that goes by that two or
three items, sometimes front-page stories,
don't come out of this session. We make a
transcript of all my answers. The ques-
tions are quite often probing and different
kinds of questions, and we give you I
you—I
think they explained the ground rules-
we give you a chance to use the answers
for a number of hours before they are
made public. But there are a lot of good
news stories that come out of these edi-
torial sessions that I think are probably
other than what I would get in a White
House press conference.
the people in Albuquerque get up pretty
early. And I'm very proud to be with the
most effective and distinguished mayors in
the city, David Rusk. David celebrated
his 39th birthday this week-yesterday?
Yesterday. I've celebrated 16 of those 39th
birthdays. [Laughter]
It's good for me to come back to be with
you. As I walk down the rope-and I'll
shake hands with everyone here before I
leave I was reminded of the times I've
been to New Mexico before and the
friendship that you've always extended to
me, which is typical of the hospitality and
the character of those of you who live in
this beautiful State.
I do have a lot of responsibilities on my
shoulders, but it's one of the most chal-
lenging and, certainly, the most exciting
jobs on Earth. And it's one that I am
thinking very seriously about keeping for
a while if you'll help me. [Laughter]
This past week, we had an experience
that I think will live in the history of our
Nation and in the memories of all Amer-
icans and I'm glad that Archbishop
1863
