Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
President of a free nation to try to inter-
fere with the right of an American citizen
to travel to a country of his choice and to
meet with foreign leaders of his choice.
This is a free country, and I don't have
any control over Jesse Jackson. And if I
tried to constrain him because he's black
or because he might talk to some unpopu-
lar person, then the next thing that I
might want to do is to try to keep Jewish
citizens from going to Israel. This is a
ridiculous thing to get involved in.
He has a right to go where he chooses,
to talk to whom he chooses. The foreign
leaders have a right to talk to him. It's not
embarrassing to me. And I think the thing
that we have to depend on is the sound
judgment of the American people ulti-
mately to resolve a controversial issue of
this kind. I've met with large numbers of
the beginning. We come in and help when
they ask us to.
MR. FOELL. I'm sorry, ladies and gentle-
men, but our time is up. Mr. President,
thank you for joining us today.
Questioning the President have been
Tom Ellis of WCVB-TV, Channel 5 in
Boston, Jim Scott of WBZ, Channel 4,
Mary Richardson of WNAC, Channel 7,
and Christopher Lydon of WGBH, Chan-
nel 2. I'm Earl Foell of the Christian Sci-
ence Monitor. Thank you for joining us.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 12:50 p.m. in the Volpe International Ter-
minal at Logan Airport. It was taped for broad-
cast on October 21.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 21.
Jewish citizens, large numbers of black Energy Emergency in Florida
citizens; they talk to me very frankly.
Jesse Jackson did not go at my instiga-
tion, he did not go to represent me, he does
not represent me. I've got myself, the Vice
President, the Secretary of State, and
Robert Strauss specifically charged with
trying to bring about permanent peace in
the Mideast, to protect the security of
Israel, to let that nation live in peace with
its neighbors, and to legitimately solve the
rights or to honor the rights of the Pales-
tinian people. I don't need private citizens
to negotiate for me, and I don't permit
them to. But they have a right to do as
they choose as free people, and I would
protect that right.
MR. FOELL. Is Mr. Strauss making
headway?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so; I believe
he's making as much headway as anyone
can. But now we are really, for the first
time, letting, to a maximum degree, the
Egyptians and Israelis negotiate with one
another, which is what we wanted from
Memorandum From the President.
October 19, 1979
Memorandum for the Administrator,
Environmental Protection Agency
Based on a request submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Florida to
extend my July 6, 1979 determination that
a regional energy emergency continues to
exist in the State of Florida of such sever-
ity that a temporary suspension of certain
air pollution control regulations which
apply to fossil-fuel fired electric generat-
ing plants under the Florida Air Quality
Implementation Plan may be necessary,
and that other means of responding to the
energy emergency may be inadequate, I
hereby extend that determination from
October 15, 1979, to and including De-
cember 31, 1979. This extension is limited
by the same conditions as my July 6, 1979
determination.
If, during the extension, I find that a
regional energy emergency no longer
1998
