Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 29
These controls continue in effect pur-
suant to section 6(j) of the Act.
No country has been formally deter-
mined to have a government engaging in
a consistent pattern of gross violations of
internationally recognized human rights.
Therefore, except for the embargoes on
North Korea, Vietnam, Kampuchea,
Cuba, and the South African police and
military, the validated license requirement
for these items does not constitute a pre-
sumption that an application for such a
license would be denied. However, where
a consistent pattern of such violations ap-
pears to be developing, either positive or
negative use of export controls might help
to deter such development.
II. South Africa and Namibia
Prohibition of the export of virtually
all items to military and police entities and
controls on the export of aircraft and heli-
copters to all consignees and on the export
of specified computers to government con-
signees are intended to distance the
United States from the practice of apart-
heid, strengthen the effect of the United
Nations arms embargo, and support racial
justice throughout Africa.
There has been no movement toward
fundamental social and political change
in South Africa. Not extending controls
would adversely affect the credibility of
our South African policy in the minds of
both the South African Government and
black African nations.
The United States has attempted to in-
fluence the South African Government
through public expressions of dissatisfac-
military and police from acquiring U.S.
goods indirectly. On the other hand, we
believe that U.S. firms have been consci-
entious in complying with the controls.
Foreign firms with no U.S. ties are prob-
ably less zealous in adhering to U.S. regu-
lations, especially for items exported to
them under general license and for U.S.
components or technology incorporated in
foreign manufactured products.
Most types of equipment and technol-
ogy affected by the controls are available
from foreign sources. However, Australia
recently restricted sales of aircraft to
South Africa.
The effects of the controls on U.S. ex-
ports can be only roughly estimated. Fac-
tors other than export controls affect the
overall export picture.
In general terms, the U.S. share of the
South African market dropped from 13
percent in 1977 to 11 percent in 1978. If
the 13 percent share had been maintained,
U.S. exports would have been $400 mil-
lion higher in 1978. In 1977 the United
States had the largest market share; in
1978 the United Kingdom and Germany
had larger shares. Significant decreases in
U.S. market shares occurred from 1977
to 1978 in pharmaceuticals, tires, chemi-
cals, trucks, locomotives, motor vehicle
components, and computers. For the first
five months of 1979 the U.S. share of the
market had recovered to 12.8 percent.
There have been substantial U.S. sales
since May.
Although it is difficult to determine
whether losses are the result of the em-
bargo or of other factors, examples re-
the following:
tion with its social and political systems ported by individual U.S. firms include
and reduction of diplomatic and other
relationships. These other means have
been insufficient to serve as an adequate
alternative to export controls.
Regarding enforcement, it is recognized
that it is extremely difficult, if not im-
possible, to prevent the South African
million order for a commodity for which
-loss to a Japanese firm of a $45
previous orders alternated between U.S.
and German suppliers;
-inability of a U.S. company to pro-
vide technical data to its South African
2293
