June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
2. But new challenges have arisen. In-
flation, which was subsiding in most
countries, is now regaining its momen-
tum. Higher oil prices and oil shortage
have reduced the room for maneuver in
economic policy in all our countries. They
will make inflation worse and curtail
growth, in both the industrial and devel-
oping countries. The non-oil developing
countries are among the biggest sufferers.
We are agreed on a common strategy
to attack these problems. The most ur-
gent tasks are to reduce oil consumption
and to hasten the development of other
energy sources.
Our countries have already taken sig-
nificant actions to reduce oil consump-
tion. We will intensify these efforts.
The European Community has de-
cided to restrict 1979 oil consumption to
500 million tons (10 million barrels a
day) and to maintain Community oil im-
ports between 1980 and 1985 at an an-
nual level not higher than in 1978. The
Community is monitoring this commit-
ment and France, Germany, Italy and the
United Kingdom have agreed to recom-
mend to their Community partners that
each member country's contribution to
these annual levels will be specified. Can-
ada, Japan, and the US will each
achieve the adjusted import levels to
which they are pledged in IEA for 1979,
will maintain their imports in 1980 at a
level not higher than these 1979 levels,
and will be monitoring this.
The seven countries express their will
to take as goals for a ceiling on oil im-
ports in 1985, the following figures:
-For France, Germany, Italy*, and the
United Kingdom: the 1978 figure.
-Canada whose oil production will be
*Footnote: Italy's commitment with refer-
ence to the 1978 level is accepted in the con-
text of the overall commitment of the Euro-
pean Community.
declining dramatically over the period
between now and 1985, will reduce its
annual average rate of growth of oil con-
sumption to 1%, with the consequent re-
duction of oil imports by 50,000 barrels
per day by 1985. Canada's targets for im-
ports will therefore be 0.6 million barrels
per day.
-Japan adopts as a 1985 target a level
not to exceed the range between 6.3 and
6.9 million barrels a day. Japan will re-
view this target periodically and make it
more precise in the light of current devel-
opments and growth projections, and do
their utmost to reduce oil imports
through conservation, rationalization of
use and intensive development of alterna-
tive energy sources in order to move to-
ward lower figures.
-The United States adopts as a goal
for 1985 import levels not to exceed the
levels either of 1977 or the adjusted tar-
get for 1979, i.e. 8.5 million barrels per
day.
These 1985 goals will serve as reference
to monitor both energy conservation and
the development of alternative energy
sources.
A high level group of representatives of
our countries and of the EEC Commis-
sion, within the OECD, will review peri-
odically the results achieved. Slight ad-
justments will be allowed to take account
of special needs generated by growth.
In fulfilling these commitments, our
guiding principle will be to obtain fair
supplies of oil products for all countries,
taking into account the differing patterns
of supply, the efforts made to limit oil
imports, the economic situation of each
country, the quantities of oil available,
and the potential of each country for en-
ergy conservation.
We urge other industrialized countries
to set similar objectives for themselves.
We agree to take steps to bring into
1198
