Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 17
tion with its consideration of the amend-
ment.
The International Convention on Load
Lines establishes uniform international
principles governing the safe loading of
ships in all seasons and waters. The pur-
pose of this amendment is to expedite the
procedure for amending the technical an-
nexes to the Convention.
I believe that the proposed amendment
is highly desirable. The Convention's
present amendment procedure has made
it impossible to bring into force many
technical improvements to the require-
ments of the Convention. The new
procedure will greatly facilitate and
accelerate the entry into force of these
essential improvements.
I recommend that the Senate give con-
sideration to this amendment and advice
and consent to its acceptance.
The White House,
October 17, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Department of Education
Organization Act
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
October 17, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. The first thing I want to
do is to invite into the room the real bene-
ficiaries of the new Department of Educa-
tion, a group of fourth grade students
from Brent Elementary School. This
morning they can stand where they want
to. [Laughter]
In 1962 I was serving on a local school
board in the Deep South and had been
for 7 years. We were going through a time
of sociological change, when public,
elected officials, and churches, business
leaders stood mute while children suffered
because of ancient policies of racial dis-
crimination. That situation changed be-
cause of schoolteachers and the courage of
educators, who saw the devastating effect
of continued racial policies in the South
and throughout the country.
I decided to run for the State Senate
to see if I could help in Georgia, based on
my own experiences under those trying
circumstances. And when I got to Atlanta
as a newly elected senator, I had one re-
quest, and that was that I be put on the
education committee. And I was.
I later ran for Governor, and my prime
campaign commitment was to improve
education in Georgia. And we did. I spent
probably 25 percent of my time as Gover-
nor trying to deal with better education
for our students.
When I became President, that situa-
tion was drastically different. There has
not been in the Federal Government an
adequate mechanism by which we can
improve the quality of education in the
United States, and I say that not in criti-
cism of those who've served under such
difficult circumstances. But I think you
could interrogate local elementary and
high school principals and classroom
teachers, county school board members,
State school superintendents, college pro-.
fessors, university presidents, Governors,
and you would find an almost complete
negative attitude toward how much sup-
port is given from the Federal Govern-
ment for better education, compared with
the tremendous potential that exists.
As Fritz¹ pointed out, we have in-
creased tremendously the Federal finan-
cial contribution to education, 60 percent
in 22 years, with the help of the Con-
gress. This has obviously been focused in
a very fine way, but the interrelationship
between local people-public and private
1 Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
1955
