Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. One of the things that
I've done is to have in this same room
all of the State school superintendents,
for instance, and in a different meeting,
I've had 18 or 20 representatives of the
university system, and also mayors and
Governors' representatives, to come in
here and give me specific examples of
what paperwork or reports or applica-
tions could be eliminated. And when
they've done it, they've immediately gone
to OMB, and we've cut them out. And
we've made good progress so far.
Chairman Jack Brooks.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
I might say that we've had remarkable
success with our reorganization efforts
under the leadership of these men here.
I had the authority given to me early in
my term to submit to the Congress reor-
ganization plans, and so far, under the
able leadership of Jack Brooks and Sena-
tor Ribicoff and Senator Nelson and
others, we're batting a thousand, right?
Haven't lost one yet.
Frank, would you like to say a word?
REPRESENTATIVE HORTON. Mr. Presi-
Representative BROOKS. Thank you, dent, speaking as the past Chairman of
Mr. President.
I would just like to commend you, Mr.
President, for the results that you have
already made in cutting down on the
paperwork burdens and the results you've
already achieved. And this is not a subject
that's going to attract a lot of attention,
and it won't help in the polls very much,
but it's of tremendous importance to all
the people, particularly the business com-
munity, because they're going to realize
substantial benefits from what you're ini-
tiating today.
Now, I'm very pleased to say that the
legislation that we're working on that
has been promoted substantially by Sena-
tor Chiles and others, and Frank Horton
and myself, and your people; we're work-
ing on that legislation-I anticipate that
it will be introduced this session, and we'll
be ready to act on it the first of next
year, very shortly after the beginning of
the year.
With the legislation, with the Execu-
tive order in place, with the Government
reorganizations and reforms that you
have already put through, you will have
clearly carried out your pledge to the
American people to improve the efficiency
of the Government, and I want to con-
gratulate you on that achievement.
the Paperwork Commission, I'd just like
to also add my congratulations to the ad-
ministration for its determination and
dedication to doing away with paperwork.
That was quite an interesting work
that we did on the Paperwork Commis-
sion. I might say parenthetically, its life
was 2 years. It self-destructed at the end
of 2 years. And in October of 1977, I fur-
nished to you the final report, which was
right on time. In addition to finishing our
work on time and not asking for an exten-
sion, we also turned back $1.4 million,
which is also unheard of.
But as a result of what we suggested,
some 60 percent of those recommenda-
tions have been carried out by the admin-
istration, and I'm sure, as a result of this
Executive order, many more are going to
be followed up on. The legislation that
you referred to, that is sponsored in the
House by Jack and myself and Tom
Steed-who is also a member of the Com-
mission and who's here with us today-
that legislation will go a long way to carry
out the legislative mandates that would
have to be done in order to carry out the
work of the Commission.
The other thing I'd like to say is that
it's my feeling, in dealing with the people
2178
