July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
well know. It's been an integral part of dowed by God with tremendous reserve
my life.
I look forward each year to having the
time to meet with the State officers who
are assembled here at the White House to
show the national importance of FFA,
and to show your close ties with the in-
cumbent President, no matter what back-
ground that particular President might
have.
You adopted a bold theme for this
year: “FFA Preparing For Progress."
Progress does not just happen. Real prog-
ress comes only as a result of discipline,
planning, and a lot of hard work. Our
Nation faces difficult challenges in the
years ahead. I described some of those
challenges, some of those problems, some
of those opportunities in my address to the
Nation last Sunday evening. Your Gov-
ernment, which is distrusted by some,
which is supported by almost all, is an
important element in your lives, in the
lives of all Americans, obviously in the
lives of farmers.
I'm now involved in an intense effort to
review my own role as President and the
makeup, the constitution of my Govern-
ment, our relationship to the Congress, to
the Governors, local officials, to officials
who are not in government, and to the
individual citizens of our Nation, to
strengthen these crucial ties between gov-
ernment and people. I'll make the tough
decisions that are necessary for improve-
ments, and I know that you as leaders
understand that quite often the decisions
of a leader are not easy.
I want you to listen to me very closely.
I want to talk directly to you.
Two of the most important questions in
the future of this Nation, in the future of
people throughout the world, are fuel and
food, for the remainder of this century,
and into the next century as well.
Our Nation has been generously en-
supplies of these precious natural re-
sources; fuel, perhaps more than any other
country on Earth, and the most bountiful
gift of productive land for the production
of food on which our own Nation and
many nations throughout the world now
depend, and will depend even more heav-
ily in the future.
How to provide more food for a grow-
ing world population while we use less
energy is a very difficult task. Our Na-
tion must be well fed, and we must have
an increasing quantity of food to export
to others. How we do both these things
while consuming less energy is the chal-
lenge. You, the present and future lead-
ers of the agricultural community, must
assess this basic, inherent conflict and re-
solve it, study agricultural practices, make
changes, create new techniques and new
concepts when necessary. This is what is
meant by progress, and, in short, you will
be called upon to transform American
agriculture in the years ahead.
I have every confidence that you young
men and women, the leaders of the Fu-
ture Farmers of America, can take up this
gauntlet and can meet this new day both
with imagination, with strength, with
confidence, and with vigor.
Now I would like to ask you all to-
gether for a unique call from the Presi-
dent to you, one tailored especially for
FFA. Since everyone knows that FFA is
important to me, I today ask you to link
your hands and your hearts with me as
President in the energy battle that we
now face. I ask you to take the lead
among all other youth groups in the
United States, in our war for energy se-
curity. To that end, in consultation with
your own leaders, I set before you this
extraordinary challenge.
I'm asking every FFA chapter in this
country to get involved in this basic ques-
1268
