Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
July 1
The President declared a major disas-
ter for the State of Iowa as a result of
high winds and tornadoes, beginning on
or about June 28, which caused extensive
public and private property damage.
July 2
The President met at the White House
with:
-members of the White House Man-
-Secretary Schlesinger, Secretary Blu-
menthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chair-
man of the Council of Economic
Advisers, Mr. McIntyre, Ambassa-
dor Owen, Mr. Eizenstat, Mr. Kahn,
Barbara Blum, Deputy Administra-
tor, Environmental Protection Agen-
cy, James Gustave Speth, member,
Council on Environmental Quality,
and other administration officials, to
discuss energy issues.
The President announced the appoint-
ment of Gov. George Ariyoshi of Hawaii
as the President's Personal Representa-
tive to the Gilbert Islands independence
celebrations, to be held July 12 in Tara-
wa. Mrs. Ariyoshi will accompany the
Governor. Other Representatives of the
President, also with the rank of Special
agement Task Force on Energy Ambassador, are: John P. Condon, U.S.
Shortages;
-Secretary of Energy James R. Schles-
inger, Secretary of the Treasury W.
Michael Blumenthal, Deputy Attor-
ney General Benjamin R. Civiletti,
George C. Eads, member of the
Council of Economic Advisers,
James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of
the Office of Management and
Budget, Ambassador at Large Henry
D. Owen, Special Representative of
the President for International Eco-
nomic Summits, Stuart E. Eizenstat,
Assistant to the President for Do-
mestic Affairs and Policy, Alfred E.
Kahn, Advisor to the President on
Inflation, and other administration
officials, to discuss energy issues.
July 3
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs;
-members of the Economic Policy
Group Steering Committee;
Ambassador to Fiji; Gen. Louis Wilson,
former Commandant of the U.S. Marine
Corps; Evelyn Colbert, Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State for East Asian and Pa-
cific Affairs; Frank M. Tejeda, member
of the Texas State House of Representa-
tives; James Alexander Hodges, president
of Paragon Agency, Macon, Ga.; Allan
Schaefer, a Hartford, Conn. attorney;
and Lee M. Sessions, Jr., vice president of
the Citizens and Southern National Bank,
Atlanta, Ga.
The President left the White House for
a stay at Camp David, Md.
July 6
The White House announced that the
President has cancelled his trip to Louis-
ville, Ky., scheduled for July 7 and 8. He
will remain at Camp David for meetings
on major domestic issues with individuals
both in and outside of government. The
President has asked Gov. Julian Carroll of
Kentucky, chairman of the National Gov-
ernors' Association, to bring a representa-
tive group of Governors to Camp David
this evening for discussions prior to the
1222
