Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 27
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard for me to
answer that question.
I was mischievous. My parents had
to exert very good discipline on me, par-
ticularly my father. I had to work very
hard, but not any harder than the other
members of my family. I played with
neighbors, although living on an isolated
farm, we didn't have very many neigh-
bors then. Most of my neighbors were
black children, who were my only friends
when I was a little child. I went to school
about 22 miles away in a tiny town
called Plains, which has a total popula-
tion of about 650 people then and now.
Plains has not grown in the last 50 years.
I had a good life as a child and was
very close to my mother, father, and my
brothers and sisters. I might say I had
great opportunities to improve myself, as
do you, and I was, I would say, a typical
child with problems and achievements-
some good, some bad. And I turned out
to be President, because in our country,
as in yours, there is no limit on what an
individual human being can be, because
our Government gives us freedom and be-
cause in our society, each person has
equal opportunity, and we look
every person as a very valuable part of
the Nation.
upon
So, that's one of the great things about
being in a democracy, in a free nation like
you enjoy and that I enjoy, that no mat-
ter what your background or how poor
you might be at the beginning of your
life, you can still have a chance to be a
very influential person, either in politics
or out of it. And no matter what your
life might amount to at the end, it can
still be a full and gratifying life.
Thank you for letting me describe in
a fumbling way my life as a child. It's
been a long time ago. It's hard for me
to remember all about it.
Q. President Carter, I am sure you re-
spected your father. What sort of man
was he? When you were a small child,
what sort of thing did your father use to
tell you?
THE PRESIDENT. Until I was 13 years
old, I was the only son in the family, and
my father and I were very close. We
worked in the same field, we hunted to-
gether, fished together, walked in the
woods together, went on short trips to-
gether.
My father was a very stern father in
that when he spoke, I jumped. I didn't
disobey him. When I was an unruly child
or when I hurt my sisters or did some-
thing improper, my father would punish
me for it.
My father was a hard-working man,
very honest. He died in 1953. My mother,
who is 81 years old this year, is still liv-
ing, and she was also a great influence
in my family. My mother was a regis-
tered nurse, and my father was a farmer.
But both my parents were very important
factors in my life and guided me, I think,
in a proper way.
I might say, I won't have time to take
another question, I don't believe, but I
would like to close by making these
comments.
This has been an exciting experience
for me. I feel a warmth of friendship and
good will from you that's typical of the
attitude of Japanese people toward Amer-
icans. And it's very exciting for me as
President of a great country to have that
sense of our partnership and our common
views toward the basic elements of human
life.
We occupy positions of leadership in
the world, and we have a great responsi-
bility on us-not only Presidents but
fathers and mothers, those who grow tan-
gerines, those who go to school to learn
about how we can be a credit to our coun-
1179
