June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
supply and demand prospects on the
world oil market.
4. We agree that we should continue
with the policies for our economies
agreed at Bonn, adjusted to reflect cur-
rent circumstances. Energy shortages and
high oil prices have caused a real transfer
of incomes. We will try, by our domestic
economic policies, to minimize the dam-
age to our economies. But our options are
limited. Attempts to compensate for the
damage by matching income increases
would simply add to inflation.
5. We agree that we must do more to
improve the long-term productive effi-
ciency and flexibility of our economies.
The measures needed may include more
stimulus for investment and for research
and development; steps to make it easier
for capital and labor to move from declin-
ing to new industries; regulatory policies
which avoid unnecessary impediments to
investment and productivity; reduced
growth in some public sector current ex-
penditures; and removal of impediments
to the international flow of trade and
capital.
6. The agreements reached in the To-
kyo Round are an important achieve-
ment. We are committed to their early
and faithful implementation. We renew
our determination to fight protectionism.
We want to strengthen the GATT, both
to monitor the agreements reached in the
MTNs and as an instrument for future
policy in maintaining the open world
trading system. We will welcome the full
participation of as many countries as pos-
sible in these agreements and in the sys-
tem as a whole.
7. We will intensify our efforts to pur-
sue the economic policies appropriate in
each of our countries to achieve durable
external equilibrium. Stability in the
foreign exchange market is essential for
the sound development of world trade
and the global economy. This has been
furthered since the Bonn Summit by two
important developments-the November
1st 1978 program of the United States in
conjunction with other monetary author-
ities, and the successful emergence of the
European Monetary System. We will con-
tinue close cooperation in exchange mar-
ket policies and in support of the effective
discharge by the IMF of its responsibili-
ties, particularly its surveillance role and
its role in strengthening further the inter-
national monetary system.
8. Constructive North-South relations
are essential to the health of the world
economy. We for our part have consist-
ently worked to bring developing coun-
tries more fully into the open world trad-
ing system and to adjust our economies
to changing international circumstances.
The problems we face are global. They
can only be resolved through shared re-
sponsibility and partnership. But this
partnership cannot depend solely on the
efforts of the industrialized countries. The
OPEC countries have just as important a
role to play. The latest decision substan-
tially to increase oil prices will also se-
verely increase the problems facing devel-
oping countries without oil resources as
well as the difficulties for developed
countries in helping them. The deci-
sion could even have a crippling effect
on some of the developing countries.
In this situation, we recognize, in
particular, the need for the flow of fi-
nancial resources to the developing coun-
tries to increase, including private and
public, bilateral and multilateral re-
sources. A good investment climate in de-
veloping countries will help the flow of
foreign investment.
We are deeply concerned about the
millions of people still living in conditions
of absolute poverty. We will take particu-
1200
