Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 1
heart of Americans and of people all over
the world. To generations of Americans,
in war and peace, she embodied sincerity
and traditional values.
As we have missed the General-Presi-
dent whose triumphant life she shared, we
will miss this gentle lady.
President's Environmental
Youth Awards
Remarks on Presenting the Awards.
November 1, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, everybody. Doug
Costle¹ is testifying and is on the way over
here, but Barbara Blum and others are
present who can represent the Environ-
mental Protection Agency very well.
As President I want to say how grateful
I am to all of you for coming, and par-
ticularly for the young people who will
win the awards. One of the gratifying
things about this program is that over
200,000 young Americans have been given
awards for outstanding work in protect-
ing the quality of life of American
people.
Their projects pay rich dividends as
they are conducted and concluded, but
they also lay a groundwork for advanced
scientists, for Members of Congress, my
own administration, and Presidents to see
how we can, through these processes, have
a better way of preserving our precious
heritage and environmental quality.
There's another aspect, I think, that's
equally important for now and the future.
When a 3-year-old American or an 18-
year-old American or anyone in between
takes on a project, sometimes they can
add a sense of innovation and a freshness
of thought that a more senior American
would never contribute. And they lay the
¹ Administrator, Environmental Protection
Agency.
groundwork for themselves, in their own
lives, to continue this work in years
ahead.
I've read down the list of awards and
seen the diversity of projects that have
been concluded. Some of them are quite
exciting and quite productive already.
And at this time Barbara Blum will read
the citations, the awards will be given out,
and I'd like to congratulate each one of
the recipients of the awards personally.
Barbara?
Ms. BLUM. Thank you, Mr. President.
I'd just like to echo what Jimmy Carter
has said. It's been a great pleasure to work
with the youth of this country in his En-
vironmental Youth program and to bring
people into the environmental movement
and into caring that have never been there
before to care and are just beginning to
be our future.
Mr. President, today we have four
young men who represent the Cub Scout
Pack 981 in Annapolis, Maryland. For
several weeks they studied aquatic life
in marshes in the Chesapeake Bay area—
one of the most important areas of our
country and they culminated their
studies by doing something pretty crea-
tive: They floated popcorn on the water
and then followed the popcorn as if it
were an oil spill to see the movement of
the waters. I think that was very creative.
[At this point, Ms. Blum, Deputy Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, in-
troduced Scott M. Laurie, Christopher R.
Petchler, Kevin E. Kovelant, and John
Woerner to the President, who presented each
with an award.]
Next we have something else pretty
special everybody's really pretty special
today but we have three young men
from Cincinnati, Ohio, who, as part of the
Civil Air Patrol-and they represent a
group of children who, with their own
money, took courses in radiation monitor-
ing. There is a nuclear facility that's about
to open in their area, and now they're
2075
