Nov. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
be represented (i.e., the Departments of
Defense, Interior, Agriculture, State,
Transportation, and Energy, and NASA,
the Central Intelligence Agency, the
Agency for International Development,
and the Environmental Protection
Agency). The National Governors' Asso-
ciation and the National Conference of
State Legislatures will be invited to
participate.
-Separate weather programs for the
military and civil sectors will be main-
tained under the Departments of Defense
and Commerce, because of their differ-
ing needs. We will continue procurement
of current spacecraft until development
of a new system design is justified. Future
polar-orbiting satellite development and
procurement will be jointly undertaken
by Defense, Commerce, and NASA to
maximize technology-sharing and mini-
mize cost.
-Ocean observations from space can
meet common civil and military data re-
quirements. Accordingly, if we decide to
develop ocean satellites, joint Defense/
Commerce/NASA management of the
program will be pursued.
Death of Steven J. Crowley
Statement by the President.
November 21, 1979
Marine Corporal Steven J. Crowley's
death is a tragic loss and a stark reminder
of the dangers the men and women of our
Armed Forces face in the service of their
Nation.
On behalf of all Americans, I extend
my heartfelt sympathy to Steven Crow-
ley's family and to the U.S. Marine Corps.
NOTE: Corporal Crowley, of Port Jefferson,
N.Y., was killed during a mob attack on the
American Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan.
Aid for Ugandan Refugees
Memorandum From the President.
November 19, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Determination pursuant to Sec-
tion 2(c) (1) of the Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended,
(the "Act") authorizing the use of $1
million of funds made available from the
United States Emergency Refugee and
Migration Assistance Fund
In order to respond to a special appeal
by the United Nations High Com-
missioner for Refugees on behalf of refu-
gees and displaced persons in Uganda, I
hereby determine, pursuant to Section 2
(c) (1) of the Act; that it is important to
the national interest that up to $1 million
from the United States Emergency Refu-
gee and Migration Assistance Fund be
made available through the Department
of State for transfer to the United Na-
tions High Commissioner for Refugees.
The Secretary of State is requested to
inform the appropriate committee of the
Congress of this Determination and the
obligation of funds under this authority.
This Determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The memorandum was announced on
November 21.
2150
