Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 20
from the University of Michigan Law
School in 1956.
From 1956 to 1972, Renfrew was with
the San Francisco firm of Pillsbury, Mad-
ison & Sutro, as an associate from 1956 to
1965 and a member from 1965 to 1972.
United States Space Policy
Announcement of the President's Decisions
Concerning Land Remote-Sensing Activities.
November 20, 1979
The President today announced the
designation of the Commerce De-
partment's National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration (NOAA) to
manage all operational civilian remote-
sensing activities from space. This desig-
nation is one of several policy decisions
announced today after a review of civil-
ian space policy mandated by a Presiden-
tial directive in October 1978.
Early in his administration the Presi-
dent directed a comprehensive review of
space policy. The review, completed in
May 1978, resulted in a Presidential di-
rective that established a national space
policy framework. It created a Policy Re-
view Committee on Space, chaired by the
Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, Frank Press. One of
the tasks of the Policy Review Commit-
tee has been to assess the Nation's future
civil space remote-sensing requirements.
That review was the basis for the policy
decisions announced today.
Designation of a single agency, NOAA,
to manage all civil operational satellite
activities will lend itself to further inte-
gration and potential cost saving in the
future. NOAA's experience in success-
fully operating and managing three gen-
erations of weather satellites prepares it
to assume the responsibility for land re-
mote-sensing in addition to its ongoing
atmospheric and oceanic activities.
NOAA's first action will be to develop a
transition plan, in coordination with
other appropriate agencies, for moving to
a fully integrated satellite-based land
remote-sensing program.
Initially, our operational land remote-
sensing efforts will rely on experience de-
rived from the LANDSAT program.
LANDSAT was begun in 1972 by the
National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration (NASA) as a satellite effort spe-
cifically designed to observe surface fea-
tures of the Earth.
The President's decision establishes a
three-part framework to serve remote-
sensing activities:
-Integration of civilian operational
activities under NOAA;
-Joint or coordinated civil/military
activities where both parties' objec-
tives can be best met through this
approach;
-Separate defense activities which
have no civilian counterpart.
Other space policy decisions developed
by this review and announced today are:
-The Commerce Department will seek
ways to further private sector opportuni-
ties in civil land remote-sensing activities,
through joint ventures with industry, a
quasi-government corporation, leasing,
etc., with the goal of eventual operation
of these activities by the private sector.
-We will continue the policy of pro-
viding LANDSAT data to foreign users
and promoting development of comple-
mentary and cooperative nationally oper-
ated satellite systems so as to increase ben-
efits for all nations.
-The Department of Commerce will
establish and chair a Program Board for
continuing Federal coordination and reg-
ulation of civil remote-sensing activities.
The involved Federal organizations will
2149
