Aug. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
initiative instead of waiting for a public
official, even a President, to tell you or
others what must be done.
Presidents learn more from people than
people learn from Presidents.
we'd like to go back to buying American
again. Is that going to be possible?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, of course, it is.
One of the things that the Congress has
just done is to pass a Multilateral Trade
Ms. WOLF. As mothers do from chil- Negotiation bill which helps to reduce the
dren.
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely. So, we're
all in it together. We've got a great coun-
try. We can make it even greater.
MS. WOLF. That's true. And I feel like
I am part of the greatest country in the
world. But it's gotten its greatness from
my ancestors, from my very recent ances-
tors, because we're a young country. And
I want to be part of that greatness; I want
my grandchildren to say we live in the
greatest country on Earth. And we waste
so much. I think that's more of a problem,
one of the basic problems, rather than
more specific things like energy, although
that is a big problem.
THE PRESIDENT. Amen. Thank you
very much.
MS. WOLF. Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. JACKSON. The next caller, Mr.
President, is Mrs. Owen Gardner, and
she lives in Davenport, Iowa.
THE PRESIDENT. Luella, go ahead.
MRS. GARDNER. Good morning, sir.
How are you?
THE PRESIDENT. Just fine.
FOREIGN IMPORTS
Q. So nice to have you in Davenport,
and we want you to know that we think
you're doing a good job.
I want to get a different kind of a
question in this time. We want to know
if there are any new laws in-import
laws-in progress that will curb so many
foreign items coming in.
You know, you can't go to the store
and buy American-made sweaters or
shoes or TV's or cars or anything, and
obstacles to international trade, and it
makes the competition more efficient.
We have just take automobiles, for in-
stance. Your first name is Luella, is it not?
MRS. GARDNER. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. Just take automobiles,
for instance, since you mentioned that.
We have tried in the years gone by-be-
fore I became President, of course-to
encourage American automobile produc-
ers to make cars that were more efficient,
smaller, lighter, safer, and also that had
cleaner exhausts.
Some of the foreign nations got ahead
of us, because American customers de-
manded the large and very expensive,
very heavy, inefficient automobiles. It was
a matter of customer demand, not some-
thing that was decided for us by the auto-
mobile manufacturers.
This was when oil was selling for $2 or
$2.50 a barrel. Now it's almost 10 times
that high. There's a rapid transformation
taking place in the automobile production
industry of our country, to make automo-
biles not only more efficient but also safer
and almost equally as convenient.
So, I think that the rapid change in the
buying habits of Americans to accommo-
date changing circumstances is going to
make your wish come true. Every Ameri-
can who goes into a store to buy products
will have a choice. And I think it would
be good for us to choose American prod-
ucts whenever they are of high enough
quality and reasonably competitive on
price.
Sometimes you can buy something a
little bit cheaper from a foreign country.
1488
