Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
not take 10 years to do it if we all work
together.
EMPLOYMENT IN THE COAL INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, Kathleen Jones from
Bellmont, Ohio. Do you consider over
4,000 Ohio coal miners out of work a
minimal effect, as the U.S. EPA has
stated is their reason not to invoke Sec-
tion 125 of the Clean Air Act?
THE PRESIDENT. You know, I don't
want to see any Ohio coal miners or other
employees out of work.
I noticed in the statistics concerning
the Steubenville area that the unemploy-
ment rate has gone down in the last 12
months, and I'm very glad to see that.
The unemployment rate in Ohio is fairly
good. And I think the combined employ-
ment opportunities for both coal and steel
have been greatly improved since I've
been in the White House.
I don't claim to you that we have
solved all the problems with coal, but we
are working out the environmental prob-
lems in spite of the absence of an agree-
ment with the State government of Ohio.
I hope that'll be solved soon. I'm not
criticizing anybody.
Secondly, as I said earlier, we'll have
$75 billion, about 3 or 4 billion dollars a
year, once the windfall profits tax is
passed, to take coal and use it for new
things that we presently do not use it for,
either finely pulverized coal to be burned
as it is, coal to be refined so that it is very
clean-burning, coal to be used in electric
powerplants that presently use crude oil
or oil, and other means.
I believe that by 1995, as I say, we will
triple the use of coal, and that obviously
has to come from Ohio as well as other
places.
I'm very concerned about the unem-
ployment rate among coal miners, but I
believe that they are getting in better
shape now. And I will devote my full time
working on this energy question with
John Glenn, Doug, and others in Wash-
ington. I need you all to help me, though,
to get this program through the Congress.
Let me add one other thing that you
didn't ask me about, but it's important
for you to understand. I really govern two
countries, as far as energy is concerned.
One is a producing nation on oil, and the
other is a consuming nation on oil.
In the past, in Washington, whenever
there was an argument about energy, the
oil companies won. They had the best
lobbyists; they were the most effective;
they were well-organized; and nobody
ever challenged them, until 2 years ago.
And now there's an aroused interest on
the part of the coal industry and other
energy-producing areas, and also con-
sumers.
We've made good progress. We've al-
ready cut our potential imports of foreign
oil by 4 million barrels got still a long
way to go. But if we don't get the wind-
fall profits tax passed on the oil com-
panies, we won't have a synthetic fuels
program; we won't have a conservation
program; we will not have a program to
help poor families overcome a high energy
cost in their homes. We will not have an
ability to change over into coal-burning
plants instead of oil-burning plants. The
whole thing depends on action by the
Congress.
I predict to you that we will win this
fight. But it's not a sure thing. And I
hope that all of you realize that it's not
the time for scapegoats or to blame me
for what I've not done or what my prede-
cessors have not done. Now's the time for
us to marshal our efforts. And I believe
that we can be just as successful in Ohio
coal areas with new uses and presently
known uses as we have been in steel-
1646
