Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
the details of your contract to be able to
answer any better.
Q. Mr. President, ITT had four con-
tracts that they did have COLA clauses.
They took strikes on all four and did
away with them. ITT conglomerate does
not have a contract now that has a COLA
clause in it. I wish that the Government
would make it mandatory. I would settle
for simply a COLA, cost-of-living.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. I want
to make sure that you understand. I'm
not trying to get involved in the contract
negotiations. I've got enough to handle
on my own. [Laughter] But we will try to
make the guidelines fair, and we will talk
very carefully to Glenn Watts and to
other labor leaders before we come out
with what we recommend as voluntary
wage guidelines this fall. I am sure Glenn
is listening very carefully to your voice,
as have I. Thank you very much.
Q. Whatever you decide, we are be-
hind you.
the future. Prices are going up on a
worldwide basis, and I know that Ameri-
cans are very upset and very disappointed
and sometimes very angry because we
have reached a 90-cent to a dollar price
for gasoline and also a very high cost for
home heating oil.
The price of gasoline in Italy is $2.75 a
gallon; in France, $2.50; in England,
$2.25; in Germany, about the same.
We've been very fortunate to be not only
the world's greatest consumers of oil, but
we are also one of the world's greatest
producers of oil. But no matter what I
do, no matter what the Congress does, no
matter what anybody does in the years
ahead, the price of energy is going to go
up. That is a fact. It's a worldwide fact,
and I cannot mislead you.
Now, the second point is this: It's par-
ticularly hard on the poor people of our
country. I'm trying to get the Congress to
pass a permanent windfall profits tax on
the oil companies. I hope you'll help me
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very get it passed, because this money, which is
much.
FUEL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, Tom Scanlan, sales
bargaining unit, president, Local 1395,
Watertown, Massachusetts.
I live in the Northeast, where people
are paying almost 90 cents a gallon for
home heating oil. This really frightens
the old and the poor and people on fixed
incomes. How do you justify wage guide-
lines for workers who already pay a
fourth or a large portion of their income
just to keep warm? What do you plan to
help us up in that area?
THE PRESIDENT. I take responsibility
for a lot of things, but I can't take the
responsibility for the increase in energy
prices. And I cannot tell you that the
prices are not going to increase further in
a lot of money, will be used for three basic
purposes.
First of all, to finance the development
of our own energy resources which we
have not yet used—shale oil, oil from coal,
other sources. The second reason that we
want this windfall profits tax is to improve
the quality of our public mass transit
systems-buses, subways, trains, and so
forth. The third reason is to give special
allocations of financial help to the very
poor in our country who must depend on
energy to heat their homes in particular.
We proposed originally $800 million a
year to this fund to meet the kind of prob-
lem that you describe-when a poor fam-
ily has the price of fuel oil go up through
no fault of their own and it takes a major
part of their income to pay for it. We're
going to at least double this amount,
maybe even triple it, when the Congress
1255
