Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ounce, long white stick is as useful as it is
simple. For a blind person, it is a kind of
beacon. In the hands of someone trained
in its skillful use, the white cane becomes
an extension of the body, providing assur-
ance that the path ahead is clear.
Upon encountering someone using a
white cane, those of us who are fortunate
enough to see well should slow our pace
for a moment to notice if the person seems
to need assistance. Offering an arm to a
blind person crossing the street or guiding
him or her around a barrier requires only
a few moments. Indeed, just yielding the
right of way to a blind person can make
the difference between a pleasant and safe
excursion or a frustrating and possibly haz-
ardous one. Motorists, cyclists, and joggers
should be especially alert to the person
with a white cane.
To heighten public awareness of the
importance of the white cane to the inde-
pendence and safety of blind and visually
handicapped Americans, the Congress,
by a joint resolution approved October 6,
1964 (78 Stat. 1003; 36 U.S.C. 169d) has
authorized the President to proclaim
October 15 of each year as White Cane
Safety Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim October 15, 1979, as
White Cane Safety Day.
On this occasion, I urge all Americans
to consider the needs and accomplish-
ments of those who successfully overcome
the difficulties imposed by visual disability
and blindness. Such individuals merit
recognition and respect for the special
efforts they must make to function inde-
pendently in a world where the ability to
see is taken for granted.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-ninth day
of August, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:10 p.m., August 30, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on August 30.
Labor Day
Statement by the President. August 30, 1979
Labor Day has traditionally been a time
of rest and relaxation, the last long week-
end of summer. But it is also a time to re-
flect on our accomplishments and chal-
lenges.
We can be thankful and proud of the
hard work that has built the most produc-
tive economy in world history. We can be
thankful for the brave men and women in
American labor whose past struggles won
fundamental rights for American work-
ers. They strengthened our democratic
system and enlarged the freedom of op-
portunity for succeeding generations.
Today is an appropriate time to ac-
knowledge our recent accomplishments.
This is the third Labor Day of my Presi-
dency. In these years, we have strength-
ened important health, safety, pension,
and minimum wage protections for Amer-
ican workers.
Today, almost 100 million men and
women have jobs in our Nation-82 mil-
lion more than when I took office. This
dynamic expansion of our economy has
made a crucial difference for those who
suffer most from unemployment—minori-
ties, women, and young people.
Nonetheless, we still face difficult chal-
lenges that threaten to erode some of these
hard-won gains. The most serious chal-
lenge is inflation-which erodes the pay-
checks of all working Americans. Working
1528
