Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to God and, in that spirit, have confidence
that the future will bring us a better life
with God and with one another.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:58 p.m. at
Lafayette Square.
The ceremony was sponsored by the Ameri-
can Friends of Lubavitch.
Visit of Prime Minister Thatcher
of the United Kingdom
Toasts at the State Dinner.
December 17, 1979
The President. As you all know, Eng-
land is one of the first nations on Earth,
perhaps the first, to have a woman as ruler
of the country, and we are very honored
tonight to have the Prime Minister of the
United Kingdom, who's a distinguished
guest. She's able to share the responsibili-
ties for the United Kingdom with the
Queen. Unfortunately, the President of
the United States has to do both.
[Laughter]
One of the ceremonial duties of every
President when the Prime Minister of the
United Kingdom, Great Britain, comes
here, is to remind him or her that the
British burned this house in 1812.
[Laughter] Fortunately, we had a very
lively woman who lived here then, Dolley
Madison, who unrolled these portraits of
George Washington and his wife, Martha,
took them out beyond the Potomac River,
and saved them. And George Washington
returned to the White House, in his por-
trait, after the war was over. I hope that
after the visit of this British entourage
that the present President might be able to
return to the White House after the next
election year. [Laughter] But I can't make
any predictions about that.
I've had a chance today to meet with
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and
I met her earlier when she visited this
country before she was Prime Minister.
And I met with her in some very intense
economic and energy discussions and
talked about the interrelationship among
the democratic developed nations of the
Earth in Tokyo early this year. I've been
very highly impressed with her. Charles
Dickens said in "The Pickwick Papers,"
"She knows what's what, she does."
[Laughter] And I think this very accu-
rately describes the Prime Minister of
Great Britain.
Today we talked about strategic arms
limitation talks, the control of conven-
tional weapons, the deployment of theater
nuclear forces in Europe, the strengthen-
ing of the Atlantic Alliance, the European
Community and how those nations inter-
relate one with another, the problems in
Rhodesia. And I want officially to con-
gratulate her and Lord Carrington for the
tremendous achievement that was an-
nounced today when the Patriotic Front
initialed the agreement on which you've
worked so successfully, and I want to con-
gratulate you both.
This shows what the yearning for peace
and freedom can do, when given an op-
portunity by a distinguished and strong
and courageous leader and a diplomat
who knows the sensitivities of others and
who honors those sensitivities in a strong
and forceful way. It's indeed a triumph,
and we are grateful to be part of the an-
nouncement today.
We talked about the future of Namibia,
which I think will be greatly enhanced by
the achievement of the recent days. We
talked about the refugees, not only in
Indochina but around the world, the un-
fortunate people, and the need for the
developed democratic nations on Earth,
who've been blessed so greatly, to give
2264
