Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
rials for industry. To make synthetic na-
tural gas, the carbon monoxide and
hydrogen can be reacted together in an
additional step to make more methane.
This then can be mixed with natural gas
for home heating.
Coal can be gasified either under-
ground, where the coal naturally occurs,
or on the surface after the coal is mined.
In underground gasification, oxygen and
steam are compressed and injected into
the coal deposit. The product gas finds its
way to a production well, and it flows to
the surface where it is purified. Under-
ground gasification will be most useful for
deep coal deposits which cannot be mined
by conventional methods. This technology
is still in a very early stage of develop-
ment.
Surface gasification is being used on a
commercial scale in other countries. Sev-
eral different types of gasifiers are used.
Each has its own set of advantages and
disadvantages. For example, some will
work better with certain coals and not
with others. In general, all of them gasify
the coal with steam and oxygen in speci-
ally designed reaction vessels, and the coal
ash is discharged either dry or as a molten
slag. Product gases are purified before they
can be used as fuel. Gasification research
is aimed primarily at improving these gas-
ifiers by various techniques and ap-
proaches.
In coal liquefaction, there are two types
of processes. They are called indirect and
direct. Both will produce either all li-
quids or a mixture of gaseous and liquid
products.
In an indirect process, the coal is first
gasified, then some of the product gases
are reacted to form either liquid hydro-
carbons or methyl alcohol, also known as
methanol. The liquid hydrocarbons make
good diesel and jet fuel, but the gasoline
component is low in quality. Methanol is
a potential transportation fuel. To use it
widely, however, would require changes
in engines and fuel supply systems.
Therefore, a new process is being devel-
oped to convert methanol into gasoline.
Methanol would also be an excellent fuel
for gas turbines used to generate electric-
ity. The technology for commercial-size
plants is available today to make both
indirect liquids and methanol.
Direct liquefaction is not fully devel-
oped. But progress is being made in sev-
eral large research projects. Direct lique-
faction involves grinding coal to a small
size, mixing it with oil from the process,
and reacting it with hydrogen at high
temperatures and pressure. The liquid
products make an excellent gasoline com-
ponent and acceptable heating oil and
fuel oil. Direct liquefaction also requires
gasification of the residue to make the
hydrogen needed for the process.
The samples in the bottles illustrate the
quantity of gasoline and fuel oil that can
be obtained from this amount of bitu-
minous coal in the direct liquefaction
process. These liquids were actually ob-
tained as products from a small pilot
plant.
Overall, about 100 gallons of liquids
can be produced from 1 ton of coal. Both
indirect and direct liquefaction processes
will be needed in the future to use the
various kinds of coal and to produce dif-
ferent kinds of liquid products.
Synthetic fuels plants will be large and
complex installations. In many respects,
they will be similar to petroleum refine-
ries. Plants producing either liquids or gas
will likely be located near coal mines to
minimize the cost of moving the coal from
the mine to the plants. However, air qual-
ity, water supply, ash disposal, and phys-
ical size requirements will also play a
major role in determining where these
plants will be located.
1540
