Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
that can find fault with our administra-
tion's policy on labor.
We're backing up this accord and what
I've just said by demonstrating needed
Government fiscal restraint. This is not a
time to waste money; it's not a time to
create excessive and unneeded bureaucra-
cies. This is not just an ideology, but it's
a simple necessity of our time.
In 1976 when I ran for President, we
had a budget deficit of $66 billion. I've
just gotten the figures on this past year-
$262 billion.
And the last thing I want to say is this:
As
you may have surmised, I have confi-
dence in America. We can meet the chal-
lenges, we can solve the problems, we can
answer the question if we are united with
a common purpose.
Mine is a complicated and a difficult
job, but I enjoy serving in the highest and
greatest elective office in the world. And I
deeply appreciate the support that you've
given me in the past and which you've
come tonight to pledge to me in the fu-
ture. The Presidency can sometimes be a
lonely job, but here tonight you've helped
to make it a lot less lonely.
As you well know from my fairly brief
but, so far, fairly successful political ca-
reer, I have never feared a political fight,
and I can say truthfully to you that I look
forward to 1980 with anticipation and
confidence. And as I said many times in
1976, when not nearly so many people lis-
tened, if I can keep my Mama's permis-
sion-[laughter]—I do not intend to lose.
Like all the rest of you in this room, I
believe in a strong nation and a good na-
tion, where every person has a better op-
portunity in life. I believe in a world
where people can live with one another in
peace and not war. These are not just
dreams, but they are permanent agenda
for all of us in the Democratic Party. And
tonight, here among my friends, I would
like to pledge to you as President, the
leader of this Nation, and as the leader of
our party that with your help, I will meet
that responsibility, my responsibility, to
bring this Democratic agenda to comple-
tion.
I'm determined to make even greater
the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 p.m. in
the Yorktown Room at the Hyatt Regency
Hotel.
Prior to his remarks, the President attended
a reception for Friends of Carter/Mondale in
the East Room at the White House.
New Brunswick, New Jersey
Remarks at a Meeting on Energy Conservation.
October 25, 1979
When they told me that Congressman
Eddie Patten was going to make a speech
just 1 minute long, I decided to come and
hear it. [Laughter] And I was not disap-
pointed. I can't believe it. I'm sure he's
going to finish his speech after I'm gone.
[Laughter]
I know all of you weren't here when I
arrived at the airport and came down
through this beautiful community, and I
wish you could have seen the tremendous,
friendly reception that I got.
I remember the turning point in Bren-
dan Byrne's campaign. He told me when
they waved at him with all five fingers he
knew he had it made. [Laughter] That's
an actual quote from Brendan. [Laughter]
I think he used it all over New Jersey,
and I can't think of a more vivid descrip-
tion of a turning point in a political cam-
paign than that one.
I'm here to talk to you about a very
serious matter. And you have distin-
guished leaders on the platform with me
who are an integral part of the process of
2020
