Aug. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
with the PLO until they did two things.
One was to acknowledge Israel's right to
exist and secondly to espouse U.N. Resolu-
tion 242. We will stick to that commit-
ment. It was made when Nixon was
President. Ford, when he was in office,
reconfirmed our national commitment to
the Israelis, and when I became President,
I also committed our Nation to adhere to
this commitment.
I have met with the leaders of Jordan,
Syria, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and in every
instance when I have met with them, at
least on my initial meeting with them, I
have asked them to induce the PLO to
recognize Israel's right to exist and to
recognize 242. In most instances those
Arab leaders said they thought they could
accomplish that. They have not been able
to.
So, we will not negotiate with nor
recognize the PLO until after they recog-
nize Israel's right to exist and the effica-
bility of U.N. 242.
Q. This is not your policy, but you
apparently think it is a proper policy.
THE PRESIDENT. It was not my policy.
I have endorsed the policy, and I will
carry it out.
TOURISM AND ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, back to energy for a
second, sir. Some people, after one of your
speeches, got the idea, seemed to get the
idea that even vacation trips would not be
patriotic-to tour States like Florida, Cal-
ifornia, Arizona, others we could name.
What is the proper role of tourism in
society that is no longer energy rich?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is very im-
portant. I think the last answer I gave to
the group at the townhall meeting, I tried
to emphasize then that there was a very
important role for vacations in an energy-
conserving society. I think the structure of
our lifestyle, as it does change, with, for
instance, a 10-hour work day with 4 work-
ing days, that's the kind of thing toward
which we might move, would enhance the
possibilities of tourism and recreation, give
us more time, more days to enjoy life.
Also, the development of more effici-
ent automobiles would make vacations
possible under the same level of an indi-
vidual family budget—and the improve-
ment of transportation systems in general,
particularly mass transportation systems,
which let vacations and tourism be a
greater part of American life. So, I con-
sider a vacation to be a very important
part of my existence, and I would hope
the energy shortage would encourage peo-
ple to conserve enough so that vacations
in an individual family's life would be
appropriate.
WHITE HOUSE STAFF
Q. Mr. President, you are engaged in
a tough campaign to try to get America
to tighten its belt. You're asking business
to take fewer profits; you're asking labor
to accept lower wages. How do you rec-
oncile that symbolism with the $56,000-
a-year staff chief for Mrs. Carter? Isn't
that a problem for you in image?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't claim that any
part of the White House staff would not
be a problem. The totality of the White
House staff under my administration is
considerably below what it was in previous
administrations. I think 25 to 28 percent
fewer people work in the White House for
me and Rosalynn combined than worked
for, say, President Ford and Betty Ford, or
Nixon and Pat, and so forth.
There is a tremendous responsibility on
not only a President but, of course, the
First Lady. I would guess that Rosalynn
gets 3,000 letters a week which have to
be answered, some by her personally, some
by her staff. She has a heavy responsibility
for taking care of the visitors that come to
the White House, not only state visits,
but we have large numbers of groups that
1580
