Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 13, 1979
Energy Emergency in Florida
Memorandum From the President.
July 6, 1979
Memorandum for the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency
Based on a request submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Florida to ex-
tend my June 12, 1979 determination that
a regional energy emergency continues to
exist in the State of Florida of such sever-
ity that a temporary suspension of certain
air pollution control regulations which
apply to fossil-fuel fired electric generat-
ing plants under the Florida Air Quality
Implementation Plan may be necessary,
and that other means of responding to the
energy emergency may be inadequate, I
hereby extend that determination from
July 5, 1979, to and including October 15,
1979. This extension is limited by the same
conditions as my original determination
and is expanded to include any necessary
temporary suspension of sulfur dioxide
as well as opacity and particulate
requirements.
If, during the extension, I find that a
regional energy emergency no longer ex-
ists in Florida, I will direct that this ex-
tension be rescinded, and that all suspen-
sion orders issued by the Governor be
terminated on the day of that rescission.
Please continue to work with State offi-
cials to monitor carefully the residual oil
supply in Florida and to inform me if the
emergency should cease to exist. You will
continue to retain full authority to disap-
in Florida and to exercise your emergency
prove temporary suspension of regulations
powers authority under Section 303 of the
Clean Air Act, when and if necessary. It
is important to keep suspensions to an
absolute minimum since Section 110(f) of
the Clean Air Act limits each suspension
to a maximum duration of 120 days.
While my determination permits the
temporary suspension of certain emission
limiting requirements, it in no way per-
mits the suspension of any national am-
bient primary or secondary air quality
standard. Protection of these national
health and welfare protective standards is
consistent with Governor Graham's peti-
tion, and I commend him for his past
restraint in using the authority to suspend
some air pollution requirements. (This
determination shall be published in the
FEDERAL REGISTER.)
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:39 p.m., July 10, 1979]
NOTE:
The text of the memorandum was
released on July 9.
1225
