Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
HAZARDOUS WASTES
In August 1978, I declared Love Canal
in Niagara Falls, New York, a national
disaster, thus authorizing the use of fed-
eral disaster relief aid. The tragedy of
Love Canal exemplifies the legacy of past
improper hazardous waste disposal.
Last month I submitted to Congress a
legislative proposal designed to prevent
future disasters like the one at Love
Canal. My proposed legislation—the Oil,
Hazardous Substances and Hazardous
Waste Response, Liability and Compen-
sation Act-will provide the first com-
prehensive program to address releases
of oil and hazardous substances from
spills and from inactive and abandoned
sites into navigable waters, ground waters,
land and air. The legislation builds on
present authority and fills gaps where
present authority is inadequate to protect
the human environment.
We do not yet know all of the problems
associated with the disposal of hazardous
wastes, but we must take further steps
immediately. A report done for the En-
vironmental Protection Agency estimates
that there are 33,000-50,000 dumpsites
which may contain some hazardous
wastes. Of these, EPA estimates that 1,200
to 2,000 may present potentially signifi-
cant problems, and 500 to 800 of them
may have to be abandoned. Other ac-
counts of improper disposal describe shal-
low burial in steel drums which leak after
years in the ground, dumping in open la-
goons, and clandestine dumping in sewers
and along our highways. These abuses
have caused serious damage to human
health and economic welfare, pollution of
ground and drinking water, and degrada-
tion of residential and recreation areas.
The cost of cleaning up these sites runs
into the billions of dollars. But the costs
of ignoring the problem would be far
higher.
Timely action by the Congress on my
program will enable the Federal govern-
ment, in cooperation with State and local
governments and industry, to:
identify abandoned hazardous dump
sites across the nation;
establish a uniform system of report-
ing spills and releases;
provide emergency government re-
sponse and containment to clean up
and mitigate pollution without delay
in cases where those responsible do
not respond adequately or cannot be
quickly identified;
provide vigorous investigation of re-
leases of oil, hazardous substances or
hazardous waste from spills or aban-
doned and inactive sites;
provide stronger authority to compel
the responsible parties to clean up
dangerous sites wherever possible;
• provide compensation for damages to
property and for some other eco-
nomic losses resulting from spills;
and
provide financing for these actions
through a national fund of appropri-
ations and a fee on the oil and chem-
ical industries, and State cost-sharing
over certain limits.
SOLAR ENERY
My Solar Energy Message, submitted
to the Congress on June 20, 1979, calls for
a national commitment to the use of solar
energy. That message and the program it
lays out came from a 13-month effort by
Administration and the public, begun
on Sun Day--May 3, 1978.
my
Solar energy is renewable and secure.
It is clean and safe. In the long run,
solar and other renewable sources of en-
1357
