Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 9
In 1977, Mexico and the United States
entered into the Prisoner Transfer Treaty
that, since its ratification, has permitted
more than 400 young Americans to com-
plete prison sentences in their own coun-
try. While Vice-President Mondale was
in Mexico last year, he signed the most
comprehensive
commercial aviation
agreement ever negotiated between any
two countries, and the impact of this
agreement on tourism in the United
States as well as in Mexico has been dra-
matic. Moreover, the joint decision to ex-
pand and strengthen the Consultative
Mechanism, announced on your trip to
Mexico City earlier this year, has gen-
erated negotiations that promise major
bilateral agreements in many other areas.
There have been significant, if less ob-
vious, improvements in this country's
perception of Mexico and in this govern-
ment's ability to help shape a relation-
ship that is productive for both coun-
tries. Through the presidential policy re-
view process, the efforts of the Depart-
ment of State, and our emphasis on work-
ing with the Congress, there is a greater
public and governmental awareness of
our relationship with Mexico and the im-
pact that seemingly unrelated domestic
and foreign policies can have here. Bob
Krueger in the new position of Ambassa-
dor-at-Large will provide a great service
to both countries as he continues to ex-
pand the interdepartmental coordination
and cooperation that already have begun.
In Mexico City, the U.S. Embassy it-
self, the nation's largest diplomatic mis-
sion, has played an increasing role in the
formation and conduct of our policies.
For example, the Embassy was directly
involved in the formation and early de-
liberations of the Askew Committee.
While massive undocumented immigra-
tion will confront our two countries for
many years, that committee will provide
constructive new proposals in this diffi-
cult area. With the State Department's
encouragement and cooperation and the
creative application of zero based budg-
eting, we now have a lean, more efficient
and highly professional staff at the Em-
bassy and its constituent posts. I will miss
working with the people here, but my
successor will find his or her job less diffi-
cult because of their presence and their
dedication.
There is a common theme in much of
what has happened over the last few
years, Mr. President. It is the gradual
recognition that Mexico seeks no favors
from us, no "special" relationship, but
that, instead, Mexico seeks our friend-
ship as the mature, responsible, inde-
pendent, and rapidly-developing nation
that it has become. That friendship will
continue to reward both countries in the
years ahead. And it is that friendship that
will enable Mexico and the United States
to resolve the difficult, persistent and
shared problems that remain.
I submit my resignation to you only
after a great deal of deliberation. I do be-
lieve, however, that after two and a half
years in Mexico City, it is time to return
to Wisconsin where I began my public
service more than 30 years ago, and I be-
lieve that this is a logical and appropriate
time to do so. Jean and I very much ap-
preciate the personal kindness that you
and Rosalynn have shown us and the
public trust that you have placed in us.
Thank you.
With warm regards,
PATRICK J. LUCEY
Patrick J. Lucey
United States Ambassador
[Hon. Jimmy Carter, The White House, 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C.]
1847
