Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
authority that I have to require the oil
companies to meet the basic energy needs
of our Nation. The oil companies must
cooperate.
I have ordered almost 200 auditors
into the field to ensure that the Nation's
refiners comply with the law, and an-
other 400 will be sent to monitor fuel
jobbers and dealers. At my direction, the
Department of Justice and the Depart-
ment of Energy are jointly investigating
the oil companies to see if the current
shortage involves any improper or illegal
activity. We will bring the full force of
the law to bear on those who profiteer
from our national shortage or who try to
cheat the American public.
We now have an independent account-
ing firm checking on the effectiveness of
the new Department of Energy in verify-
ing oil industry data. It's very difficult to
get accurate information, but I want to
make sure that the information that is
achieved by us and is distributed to the
American people is absolutely accurate.
I'm ordering the Energy Information
Administration, which is an independent
group, to send its weekly report to our
news media throughout the country, tell-
ing what are our present energy supplies
that week. I would like the interested
American public, individual citizens like
you, to be just as familiar with the energy
situation as you are with local weather
reports.
But again, let me be totally honest with
you and very direct. All of this that I
have described to you does not save oil
and it does not create oil. In the short
term, we will simply have to stretch out
a limited supply. We will have to play a
kind of shuffling game, allocating limited
supplies of oil among our farmers, our
truckers, our homeowners, industry, and
also, of course, among motorists.
This will have to go on until our long-
term efforts start paying off. Therefore,
I
urge the Congress to give me power to
set mandatory State-by-State conserva-
tion goals and to impose mandatory con-
servation. If a State fails to meet its tar-
get, I want to give local and State offi-
cials authority first and hope that all of
you and all Governors will carry out this
responsibility. If you do not, then I will
act from Washington as President.
Congress must also act finally to give
me authority to develop a standby gaso-
line rationing plan. It is absolutely crucial
for us to arm ourselves against the possi-
bility of further serious interruptions in
our energy supplies. We never know when
we might lose a major portion of our oil
imports. If this happens, a gasoline ra-
tioning plan will help us distribute those
limited supplies fairly.
But I want to now mention the most
important thing of all. Every single
American must stop wasting energy.
These are some of the things that we can
do to defend ourselves in the immediate
crisis.
More than 2 years ago, you may re-
member, I called the energy crisis the
moral equivalent of war. There were a
lot of jokes about it from the oil industry
and from the news media. Now the bat-
tle has been joined. This time there can
be no delay, this time there can be no
retreat.
Last night I set forth a general strat-
egy for winning the
egy for winning the energy war, one
which will enable us to meet all America's
new energy needs from America's own
energy resources. We will have to succeed
both by conservation and production, be-
cause from this time forth we will never
import one drop of oil more than we did
2 years ago in 1977. I am drawing our
line of defense here and now.
1243
