Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 1
United States agreement with the objec-
tives of the force improvement program
and reaffirmed the readiness of the
United States to continue to support the
successful implementation of the pro-
gram. President Carter assured President
Park that the United States will continue
to make available for sale to Korea ap-
propriate weapons systems and defense
industry technology necessary for enhanc-
ing Korea's ability to deter or defeat
aggression and for the development of
appropriate defense industries in the Re-
public of Korea.
REDUCTION OF TENSIONS ON THE KOREAN
PENINSULA
10. The two Presidents agreed on the
priority need to continue the search for
means to reduce tensions on the Korean
peninsula. President Park explained the
recent efforts of the Republic of Korea
government, beginning with his initia-
tive of January 19, 1979, to resume pro-
ductive dialogue with North Korean au-
thorities. President Carter assured Presi-
dent Park of United States support for
these efforts and expressed the hope that
meetings between the responsible authori-
ties of the South and the North of Korea
would become possible.
11. In view of the importance of this
issue for peace and stability on the Korean
peninsula and in the region, and as a
testament to the personal commitment of
the two Presidents to seek honorable
means to promote dialogue and reduce
tensions, President Park and President
Carter have decided jointly to propose the
convening of a meeting of senior official
representatives of the South and the
North of Korea and the United States to
seek means to promote dialogue and re-
duce tensions in the area. In order to pro-
mote this effort and to prepare for the
meeting which it is hoped can be ar-
ranged, the two Presidents have directed
the Foreign Minister and the Secretary
of State to communicate jointly with the
Foreign Minister of North Korea in this
regard in an appropriate manner.
12. The two Presidents agreed that any
arrangements that would reduce tension
and establish lasting peace leading ulti-
mately to the peaceful unification of the
Korean people should result from dia-
logue between the two responsible author-
ities of both the South and the North of
Korea. President Park noted the consist-
ency with which the Republic of Korea
has pursued efforts at dialogue and the
reduction of tensions, as exemplified in the
policies which he announced on June 23,
1973.
13. President Carter stated that, if and
when North Korea's principal allies are
prepared to expand relationships with the
Republic of Korea, the United States is
prepared to take similar steps with North
Korea. President Carter also noted that
unilateral steps toward North Korea
which are not reciprocated toward the
Republic of Korea by North Korea's
principal allies do not improve stability or
promote peace in the area.
14. The two Presidents shared the view
that the admission of both the South and
the North of Korea to the United Nations
an interim measure pending their
eventual unification would provide au-
thorities of both Korean parties with
broader opportunities for dialogue aimed
at the resolution of their differences.
RESPECT FOR INTERNATIONALLY
RECOGNIZED HUMAN RIGHTS
15. The two Presidents noted the im-
portance to all nations of respect for inter-
nationally recognized human rights. Pres-
ident Carter expressed the hope that the
1209
