Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ergy provide a hedge against inflation.
Unlike the costs of depletable resources,
which rise at increasing rates as reserves
are consumed, the cost of energy from
the sun will go down as we develop bet-
ter and cheaper ways of applying it to
everyday needs. For everyone in our
society especially our low-income
fixed-income families-solar energy will
provide an important way to avoid rising
fuel costs in the future. No foreign cartel
can embargo the sun or set the price of
the energy we harness from it.
I have set a national goal of achieving
20 percent of the Nation's energy from
the sun and other renewable resources by
the year 2000. To do this we must com-
mit ourselves to several major new initia-
tives which will hasten the introduction
of solar technologies. I am proposing a
variety of solar programs to be funded
from my proposed Energy Security Trust
Fund, including a Solar Bank to help
finance solar installations in homes and
commercial buildings; tax credits for new
buildings that use solar energy and for
using the sun's heat for industrial and
agricultural processes; and stronger ef-
forts to remove institutional, financial,
and information barriers that currently
inhibit the use of solar energy by citizens.
These proposals are in addition to the ex-
panded research, development and dem-
onstration program I included in my
budget for fiscal year 1980.
marily on recommendations presented to
me by the Interagency Review Group on
Nuclear Waste Management. Some of the
important findings of that Report include
the following:
Existing and future nuclear waste
from military and civilian activities, in-
cluding discarded spent fuel from the
once-through nuclear fuel cycle, should
be isolated from the biosphere so that
it does not pose a significant threat to
public health and safety.
• The responsibility for establishing a
waste program should not be deferred to
future generations.
• A broader research and development
program for waste disposal, particularly
geologic isolation, should begin promptly.
• Public participation should be de-
veloped and strengthened for all aspects
of nuclear waste management programs.
I also look forward to receiving the rec-
ommendations on reactor safety from the
Kemeny Commission in the aftermath of
the Three Mile Island accident so that
we can assure that nuclear reactors are
as safe as the public expects them to be.
WATER RESOURCES POLICY
I remain firmly committed to the water
resources policy reforms I announced in
my Message to Congress one year ago. The
revised criteria used by the Administra-
tion in reviewing proposed water projects
have already shown their worth. They are
NUCLEAR WASTE MANAGEMENT AND producing environmental benefits and re-
SAFETY
I will soon announce a national nu-
clear waste management policy that will
be designed to deal effectively with nu-
clear wastes from all sources, including
commercial, defense, medical, and re-
search activities. This nuclear waste
management policy will be based pri-
ducing wasteful government spending, In
1979, for the first time in four years, the
Executive branch proposed funding new
water projects, using the more systematic
and objective evaluation procedures I
have instituted. With the help of Congress
and State and local governments, the Ad-
ministration has prepared legislation to
make further reforms in water resources
1358
