Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
These are the promises that I made to
you 3 years ago, and I intend to keep
them.
I will start right here and now by hear-
ing your views, answering your questions
about America's future. Before I do, I
would like to say one final thing.
I can point the way, Congress can en-
act laws, government can execute pro-
grams, but true success can only come
from the commitment of the people of the
United States. Your concerns, your sacri-
fices, your values, your participation will
determine the future life of the nation
which we all love.
A great labor union such as yours was
not built by Americans who said, "Me
first, me last, me always." Your organiza-
tion, one of the greatest on Earth, was
built the way great causes in America's
past were always built-by decent, caring
citizens working together with confidence
for a common purpose, a common goal, a
common good.
I ask each of you today for a renewed
commitment to a greater America. Do I
have your commitment for a greater
America? [Applause]
Thank you very much.
You've got a partner here. You've an-
swered my question, and now I'll answer
yours. I'll be glad to answer the first
question.
QUESTIONS
TAX RATES
Q. Mr. President, I'm A. D. Boutwell,
vice president of Local 10509, in Hatties-
burg, Mississippi.
I understand that there may be some
type tax proposal in the future if the in-
flation rate continues at its present level,
and certainly we hope and pray that it will
not continue in the future as it has in
the past. And I was wondering if you
might tell us what type of tax break you
had in mind and when this action may be
taken.
THE PRESIDENT. I do not plan on any
tax increases. My primary concern at this
time is to control inflation as far as the
economy goes. We will monitor very care-
fully the economic situation in America.
In the last 22 years, since I have been
in office, we've been fortunate in cutting
the unemployment rate from more than 8
percent down to 5.6 percent—more than
a 25-percent reduction. We've cut unem-
ployment compensation payments down
55 percent. In the coming months, be-
cause of a very high OPEC price in-
crease they've almost doubled the price
of oil in the last 7 months-we do face
some increase in inflation, perhaps some
increase in unemployment.
If we see a real need to do something
about the economy, if the unemployment
rate starts getting too high, then I will
take action. But that action will not be to
raise taxes. It would be to lower taxes.
And if we lower them, my first preference
would be to lower the payroll tax.
So, I think you need not fear of tax
increases while I'm in office.
OIL INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, Jewell White, Lock-
port, Illinois, Local 5011.
Mr. John Swearingen, chairman of the
board of Standard Oil of Indiana, stated
in the New York Times on June 4 that
the oil companies won't increase produc-
tion until gasoline reaches $1.50 a gallon.
My question, Mr. President: Do you
agree that to resolve the energy crisis we
must reorganize by abolishing the secrecy
of the oil industry and let workers learn
all the facts about costs, profits, imports,
refining capacity, and alternate energy
sources?
1249
