Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 26
1-6. Budget Review.
1-601. Each agency shall include a
separate consumer program exhibit in its
yearly budget submission to the Office of
Management and Budget. By October 1
of each year the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget shall provide
the Chairperson with a copy of each of
these exhibits. The Chairperson shall
thereafter provide OMB with an analysis
of the adequacy of the management of,
and the funding and staff levels for, par-
ticular agency consumer programs.
1-7. Civil Service Initiatives.
1-701. In order to strengthen the pro-
fessional standing of consumer affairs per-
sonnel, and to improve the recruitment
and training of such personnel, the Office
of Personnel Management shall consult
with the Council regarding:
(a) the need for new or revised classi-
fication and qualification standard(s),
consistent with the requirements of Title
5, United States Code, to be used by agen-
cies in their classification of positions
which include significant consumer affairs
duties;
(b) the recruitment and selection of
employees for the performance of con-
sumer affairs duties; and
(c) the training and development of
employees for the performance of such
duties.
1-8. Administrative Provisions.
1-801. Executive agencies shall co-
operate with and assist the Council and
the Chairperson in the performance of
their functions under this Order and shall
on a timely basis furnish them with such
reports as they may request.
1-802. The Chairperson shall utilize
the assistance of the United States Office
of Consumer Affairs in fulfilling the re-
sponsibilities assigned to the Chairperson
under this Order.
1-803. The Chairperson shall be re-
sponsible for providing the Council with
such administrative services and support
as may be necessary or appropriate; agen-
cies shall assign, to the extent not incon-
sistent with applicable statutes, such per-
sonnel and resources to the activities of the
Council and the Chairperson as will en-
able the Council and the Chairperson to
fulfill their responsibilities under this
Order.
1-804. The Chairperson may invite
representatives of non-member agencies,
including independent regulatory agen-
cies, to participate from time to time in
the functions of the Council.
1-9. Definitions.
1-901. "Consumer" means any individ-
ual who uses, purchases, acquires, at-
tempts to purchase or acquire, or is
offered or furnished any real or personal
property, tangible or intangible goods,
services, or credit for personal, family, or
household purposes.
1-902. "Agency" or "agencies" mean
any department or agency in the execu-
tive branch of the Federal government,
except that the term shall not include:
(a) independent regulatory agencies,
except as noted in subsection 1-804;
(b) agencies to the extent that their ac-
tivities fall within the categories excepted
in Sections 6(b) (2), (3), (4), and (6) of
Executive Order No. 12044.
(c) agencies to the extent that they
demonstrate within 30 days of the date of
issuance of this Order, to the satisfaction
of the Chairperson with the advice of the
Council, that their activities have no sub-
stantial impact upon consumers.
The White House,
September 26, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:56 p.m., September 26, 1979]
1765
