Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
I can take one more question, I under-
stand.
TAX REDUCTIONS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Kathleen Mc-
Gilloway. I'm a housewife, and this is
also the first time I've ever spoken to
a President.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm glad to talk to
you, Kathleen.
Q. But it has generally been acknowl-
edged that our present tax structure is
grossly unbalanced, penalizing married
working couples and middle-income
families. They pay high taxes while
large corporations pay little or none. Do
you plan to rectify this situation?
many
THE PRESIDENT. I could hear you,
Kathleen.
That's one of the failures that we've
experienced since I've been in office.
When I was here in New York in August
of 1976 and made my acceptance speech
at the Democratic National Convention,
I pointed out then that the tax system in
this country is a disgrace to the human
race. It still is. It's not fair.
We've made some changes in it, very
minor changes, because the pressure
groups and the lobbyists in Washington
are almost beyond comprehension. And
when you start trying to make corrections
to the tax laws, quite often the Congress
goes in the opposite direction and opens
up more loopholes for those who are pow-
erful enough and influential enough to
have active lobbyists there.
We have had some reduction in taxes
since I've been in office, about $28 billion.
We may have to have some more in the
future. But I cannot tell you that we have
made any substantial progress in that re-
spect. And it's only going to be when an
aroused public demands action by indi-
vidual Members of the House and the
U.S. Senate that we will ever have sub-
stantive tax reform. I wouldn't say it's
hopeless, but it hasn't happened so far.
Two years ago we could not get the
public to demand an energy policy. It
looked hopeless. And now we see progress.
And I think the same thing applies to the
Middle East, and the same thing applies
to SALT, and so forth. You just have to
take one thing at a time until the public
is genuinely interested, and then you can
make progress.
But I hope and pray that in the future
we will change the tax structure to make
it fairer to the average citizen and take
away the gross loopholes that reward the
powerful and the rich, who can pay lobby-
ists to protect their interests in Washing-
ton. I'm with you. I have not been able to
do anything yet.
Let me say one other thing in closing. I
think your questions have been very good,
and I've enjoyed them and enjoyed the
chance to answer them. I learn a lot from
you, by knowing what is of interest to you
and having a chance to explain what I
have done and what I have not done, the
successes we've achieved and the failures
that we've achieved so far.
We're in it together. If I'm successful as
a President, then you have a better coun-
try. When I fail in my duties, because of
obstacles that I just cannot overcome, it
hurts you as well. But I think we all ought
to remember this: No matter what your
political affiliation or no matter what
your special interest might be, we tend to
dwell in this country on the transient in-
conveniences and disappointments, and
we remember very vividly the things that
divide us one from another and the in-
tense debates and the times when we've
failed to overcome a challenge the first
try. But what we forget is the manifold
blessings that we have in this country and
how many things bind us together and the
principles of freedom in a democracy,
1759
