Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 10
Albuquerque, New Mexico
Remarks at the National Association of
Development Organizations' Dinner.
October 10, 1979
Jack Watson just came up and gave
me some advice about my opening state-
ment. He suggested that I apologize for
substituting for him as your speaker this
evening. [Laughter] As a matter of fact,
if there's one group with whom I feel at
home, it would be those of you who've
been involved in economic development
throughout our country in the last num-
ber of years.
One of the first things I did as a young
man involved in public service was to
organize an eight-county area planning
and development commission. I did not
have an executive director. I had to act
as that myself. [Laughter] My eight
[Laughter] My eight
counties suffered severely from it until I
finally got a professional. But it was a
turning point in my life.
We had 30 towns and small villages
that I served, and we began to bridge
the chasm that existed even in front of
the county line, and to let people who
were competent and eager and filled with
the true spirit of America begin to assess
the advantages that God had given them,
and to make plans for the future that
would give their children and grand-
children a better life.
I felt that I was a part of the growth
of America. And I felt responsible for the
retention of its qualities, and I recognized
the rapid changes that took place in the
lives of the people that I was trying to
serve, and I felt responsible for them, and
vice versa. And to lead the life which
many of you do as professionals in serv-
ing others in this way is a characteristic
and a commitment which I admire very
deeply.
I graduated from the area planning
and development commission to the
President of the United States. But I
haven't forgotten what I've learned, and
as Vernon would know-Vernon Martin
was a good friend of mine, even in those
days as he would know, the responsibili-
ties which fall on the shoulders of a Gov-
ernor or a President are very similar to
the responsibilities that fall on the shoul-
ders of those assembled here in this meet-
ing and those whom you represent
throughout the country: how to correlate
conflicting interests; how to preserve en-
vironmental quality and at the same time
take advantages of economic growth; how
to make sure that each person, no matter
how large or small a status in life is oc-
cupied, can feel part of a community and
not estranged from it; how government
can be made effective; how the delivery of
services to a human being in need can be
as effective as the original vision was at
the inception of a law; how to deal with
rapidly changing, sociological interrela-
tionships to let people who are different
live in harmony with one another; how to
realize limitations on our lives, limitations
of energy, limitations of wealth, limita-
tions of health care, limitations of hous-
ing, transportation-all those limits that
they have-how to either accommodate
them and make the best of them if they're
inevitable or to eliminate them or mini-
mize them if something can be done about
them.
You live truly challenging lives, and as
we evolve programs for economic devel-
opment or local public works for dealing
with housing, transportation, education,
welfare, health, I need your partnership
in making our great country even greater.
I met your newly elected president,
President Kuhn, who will take office, I
think, in January. He'll have another ex-
citing challenge before him, and I wish
him well. And I hope that in the next
1853
