Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 16
Hospital Cost Containment
Legislation
Statement by the White House Press Secretary
on House of Representatives Disapproval
of the Legislation. November 15, 1979
guished leaders who represent one of the
finest aspects of American life:
I really appreciate the book concerning
the duties of a trustee for libraries. In the
future I may be looking for my old job
back. [Laughter] So, Juanita, if you can
Let me say a word about hospital cost keep it open for me for 5 years I'll really
appreciate it. [Laughter]
containment.
The President asked specifically that I
say that the action of the House of Repre-
sentatives is a blow to the fight against
inflation. He asked me to say in addition
that the action in the House was a victory
for a highly financed, special-interest
lobby, and a defeat for the common good.
He asked that I point out that the action
of the House today will add literally tens
of billions of dollars to the Federal deficit
in the coming years, and tens of billions
of dollars to the cost of living for Ameri-
cans who are already having difficulty
making ends meet.
that
However, he also asked that I say
the ballgame is not yet over and that we
intend to continue to fight to contain hos-
pital costs, which have increased 1,000
percent since 1960, and that we expect
that hospital cost containment legislation
will yet
be passed either as a separate bill
or as part of a national health insurance
plan, one of which is now being considered
by the Senate Finance Committee.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at 5:25 p.m. to reporters assembled
in the Briefing Room at the White House.
The press release also includes a transcript
of the question-and-answer session which fol-
lowed the statement.
White House Conference on
Libraries and Information Services
Remarks at a Meeting of the Conference.
November 16, 1979
Chairman Charles Benton, Library Di-
rector Juanita Brightwell, other distin-
I'm delighted to be here with you this
morning. It's been one of the develop-
ments in my own administration to which
I've looked forward with great anticipa-
I need one to talk to you.
tion. I don't have a text. I don't feel that
I had a quick introduction to Washing-
ton, to Washington society life, and to
newspaper coverage of the First Family.
The first stories that came out, as a matter
of fact, were about Amy's reading habits
at the table of an official banquet when
the President of Mexico came to see us.
She read a book throughout the banquet
dinner. When I defended Amy I had sev-
eral of my Cabinet members ask for per-
mission to do the same at the next ban-
quet. [Laughter] As a matter of fact, we
have had to put a restraint on that--but
since I was a little boy, my own family has
had the habit of reading at the table. We
have a lively conversation and read simul-
taneously, and Amy is just carrying on one
of the Carter family traditions. I hate to
admit this, being an outdoor type and an
athletic type, but my family never had to
ask me what I wanted for Christmas, be-
cause they always knew that I would re-
ply "books."
And when I first went home from the
Navy, as Charles pointed out, my first
public position was as the trustee of the
Sumter County Library Board. I still have
my library card. It's Number 5, and I use
it whenever I'm home.
This morning I would like to talk to you
about some of the elements of libraries
that are important to a young boy grow-
ing up in an isolated community. Students
in our public schools, business leaders and
2129
