Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Consumer Affairs Council
Memorandum From the President.
September 26, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
I hereby designate Esther Peterson, my
Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs, to
be Chairperson of the Consumer Affairs
Council established by Executive Order
12160, which I issued today.
JIMMY CARTER
Saudi Arabian Crude Oil
Production
White House Statement. September 26, 1979
We have received official confirmation
of today's reports that the Government of
Saudi Arabia intends to continue produc-
tion of 9.5 million barrels of oil per day-
1 million barrels above its established
limit for 3 more months.
President Carter welcomes this decision
as "a constructive complement to the ef-
forts of the oil-importing nations to curb
consumption and switch to other fuels."
"I hope no one will take this news as
a signal to relax the effort that each citi-
zen must make to ease our demand on a
limited world supply of oil," the Presi-
dent said.
Continued high production by Saudi
Arabia and several other countries will
relieve concern about the adequacy of oil
supplies this winter. It will permit full
restoration of oil inventories drawn down
after Iranian oil exports were halted last
winter and subsequently reduced to about
half their usual volume. It should help to
stabilize prices in the world oil market.
Democratic National Committee
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner.
September 26, 1979
Are we going to win in 1980? [Ap-
plause] Right on. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Governor Jim Hunt, for
that very good introduction, and thank
all of you who are here for letting us par-
ticipate in the largest, most successful sin-
gle fundraising event in the history of the
greatest political party on Earth. Thank
all of you very much.
We've already recognized the Gover-
nors, the Cabinet, the Members of the
Congress, who do give me remarkably
good support, the last 2 days. And I thank
you for it. [Laughter] Last week was just
one of those weeks best to forget about.
But we're correcting all our mistakes.
[Laughter]
But I'd like to recognize one special
Democrat, who means as much to me as
anyone that I have known since I've been
involved in politics. He represents the es-
sence of the Democratic Party, the kind of
principles and achievements and ideals
and accomplishments that make every
Democratic chest swell with pride. I'd
like for all of us to express our apprecia-
tion and admiration to Averell Harriman.
Averell. [Applause]
He's helped to carve out the history of
our country in the past. He's helping to
forge the history of our country now. And
he provides the guidance for an even
greater America in the future.
We have a lot to be thankful for. We
are here tonight because we know, as
Harry Truman said in September, 26
years ago, the principles and the pro-
grams of the Democratic Party are ex-
actly what's best for the United States of
America. We still have that relationship
1766
