Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 15
these ideals may seem at times to be old-
fashioned or outmoded. But we've been
clearly reminded in recent days that these
principles mean just as much to us now as
they have ever meant during any time of
critical decision in the history of our Na-
tion.
These fundamentals have old names to
which we must continually give new
meaning-names like "strength," "cour-
age," "patriotism," "independence," "the
love of freedom," "human rights," "jus-
tice," "concern for the common good."
This is the 12th day that more than a
hundred innocent human beings, some 60
of whom are members of the United
States diplomatic mission, have been held
hostage in our Embassy in Iran. For a rare
time in human history, a host government
has condoned and even encouraged this
kind of illegal action against a sovereign
territory and official diplomatic relations
of another nation. This is an act of ter-
rorism-totally outside the bounds of in-
ternational law and diplomatic tradition.
In this time of trial, our deep concern
is for the lives of these brave hostages, our
Nation's loyal citizens and faithful repre-
sentatives. Every American feels anger and
outrage at what is happening to them, just
as every American feels concern for their
safety and pride in their great courage.
This crisis calls for firmness, and it calls
for restraint. And I'm proud that this
situation has brought forth calm leader-
ship by officials and private citizens
throughout this country.
Firmness does require patience, and it
requires perseverance. Firmness also
means measured action, deliberate actions
that clarify the real issues, reduce the like-
lihood of violence, protect our interests,
and ensure justice.
The United States has done nothing
and will do nothing that could be used to
justify violent or imprudent action by any-
one. While we are pursuing all avenues
of diplomatic resolution, we're also acting
unilaterally as appropriate with re-
straint, yes, but without hesitation.
First, in order to discourage violence
and possible bloodshed here, which when
televised and transmitted back to Iran
might threaten the safety of the hostages,
I've discouraged the issuing of permits for
demonstrations on Federal properties here
in Washington. Consistent with our laws
and pursuant to my own powers and re-
sponsibilities, I have also encouraged local
and State officials to take similar legal
action.
Second, I've directed our immigration
authorities to review the visas of some 50,-
000 Iranian students, who are guests here
in our country. Our Nation is fully com-
mitted to the enhancement of human
rights, the protection of legal rights, and
the enhancement of civil justice. All pro-
visions of the United States Constitution
will be honored. All foreign nationals who
are here lawfully may continue here with
their work or their studies. But those who
are here illegally will be processed
promptly and lawfully for deportation
back to their own country.
Third, I want to remove any question
that our principles might be compromised
by our supposed need for Iranian oil.
Early this week, therefore, I ordered an
immediate halt to any purchases or ship-
ments of Iranian oil to the United States
of America.
I'm determined to make clear that we
will never allow any foreign country to
dictate any American policy.
Fourth, in order to protect our eco-
nomic interests and to ensure that claims
on Iran by the United States or by United
States citizens are settled in an orderly
manner, we've legally frozen official Ira-
nian property and financial assets. The
order does not affect any accounts other
than those of the Government of Iran,
the Central Bank of Iran, or other govern-
ment-controlled entities.
2123
