Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
possible to even reach the goals that we're And, in the meantime, it is finding a grow-
talking about.
But suppose instead we are able to cast
the silicon as a brick, as one would cast in
a foundry, or instead be able to pull a
ribbon of silicon directly out of the melt.
Or perhaps, even better than that, sup-
pose we are able to make a photovoltaic
material that we could spray, literally
spray on to low-cost, perhaps a glass sub-
strate, and that in itself could make a
photovoltaic device.
In fact, all of those technologies are
viable, and they're all being demonstrated
in various ways, and they're all being
worked on in many programs throughout
the United States.
In this last viewgraph, I have tried to
indicate the various kinds of what I will
call the leading technologies that we're
investigating as far as photovoltaics is con-
cerned. The bellwether is the Czochralski
technology, showing an 18-percent com-
mercial approach which is presently
commercialized.
The next one in terms of its commercial
readiness is what we call an uncrystalline
or semicrystalline ingot, which is a cast
technology, where we literally cast bricks.
That has just been newly commercialized.
There are some cadmium sulfite tech-
nologies which are potentially going to be
commercialized in the near future, which
are thin, film-spray types of approaches.
The potential of having so many ap-
proaches all pointed towards our same
goals, all having the viability, many of
them having the viability of reaching our
objectives, gives us some confidence that
we may be able to get photovoltaics into
the ballpark of being a competitive energy
system for our long-range electrical needs.
So, in conclusion, photovoltaics contin-
ues to look promising as a possible alter-
nate energy source. Perhaps as early as
1986, some impact may begin to be seen.
ing world commercial application. It
works; it's reliable, particularly in areas
where utility power has not yet pene-
trated, photovoltaics is finding its greatest
interest.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Goldsmith,
there's been a lot of publicity this past
week—and I'm sure you noticed-about
the chemical process for producing the sil-
icone single crystal. I understand that it's
been done from several sources, but it
didn't show up on your last chart. Does
it have a breakthrough potential, or is it
just one of many with approximately
equal potential?
DR. GOLDSMITH. Well, the process, I
believe, that has been given the most pub-
licity during the past week was the proc-
ess which was reported by the Stanford
Research Institute.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
DR. GOLDSMITH. I personally am not
that familiar with that particular process
to be able to comment that it really offers
the breakthrough potential that we're
looking for. However, there are other very
interesting technologies which are very
similar in nature, that is, that it has great
breakthrough potentials coming from
other organizations that I do know about
that look quite encouraging.
For instance, the Union Carbide ap-
proach looks to me to be a very interest-
ing, and an approach that deserves a
great deal of attention, as well as a simi-
lar kind of a technology at the Tell Me-
morial Institute.
So, I don't think we're hurting for
techniques for purifying silicon, which
is the Stanford Research Institute
technology.
THE PRESIDENT. Is the purification of
silicon in the production of the crystal
the most expensive part of the process? Is
1558
