Sept. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:14 p.m., September 14, 1979]
Mobile, Alabama
Remarks Prior to an Inspection Tour of Areas
Damaged by Hurricane Frederic.
September 14, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say, first
of all, that the entire Nation is deeply
concerned about the damage caused by
the recent hurricane here in Alabama
and also in Mississippi and Florida.
Because of extremely good cooperation
between the Federal and State agencies
and local volunteers and others, the
evacuation that took place ahead of Hur-
ricane Frederic, so far as I know, was the
most massive evacuation in the history of
our country. About 500,000 people were
moved out of the area that was later
damaged by the storm.
This was a very severe hurricane, equal
in its damage potential to Hurricane
Camille about 10 years ago. Early esti-
mates, as a matter of fact, show that the
property damage might exceed what oc-
curred with Hurricane Camille.
Ten years ago, 250 people lost their
lives, but because of the evacuation tech-
niques and the quick action on the part
of Governor James and the other Gov
ernors involved, we've had serious loss of
life, but so far as I know, only nine people.
This is too much, obviously, but it's much
better than the 250 that could have oc-
curred had this action not been taken.
The Federal agencies and the State
agencies are now, have been, and will
continue to work with the closest possible
coordination. All Federal agencies are
working under the direction of John
Macy, the head of FEMA. Our aid to
this area has been approved by me—I
think the quickest declaration of an
emergency that I've ever had since I've
been President-and we will continue this
aid, not just for a few days or a few
weeks but on a long and sustained basis,
until the damage caused by this hurricane
has been repaired.
This might take not only months but
several years, but we will be here working
with local and State officials to make sure
that the damage is repaired as best we
can and also that adequate aid is pro-
vided. With mobile homes, unemploy-
ment compensation, loans for homes and
businesses, farmers, and as we repair this
damage, we hope that working with local
citizens and with officials at the State and
local level as the damage is repaired that
we can take much more effective steps to
minimize any future damage than was
taken 10 years ago.
I think it's accurate to say that the gulf
shore region of our country is susceptible
to fairly frequent, all too frequent storm
damage, and I think in the design of
buildings, in the orientation of transpor-
tation systems, and the organization of
local volunteers, with building codes and
otherwise, we can make sure that future
storms have less damage to property and
to our people than this one did.
My overwhelming sense here is one of
concern, dedication to provide maximum
service, but above all, my admiration, my
appreciation, and thanks to Governor Fob
James and others in this area who helped
to minimize damage with their timely
action and the unselfish volunteer work
that has been so evident here in Alabama.
Governor, I thank you, and we are very
eager to cooperate in every way we can.
GOVERNOR JAMES. Thank you, Mr.
President.
1672
