June 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of unmatched productivity and economic
strength and a strong, shared devotion to
the ideals of freedom, democracy, and the
betterment of mankind.
Our relationship has seen times of great
trouble and tragedy. But the close part-
nership we have forged in the last genera-
tion, in the Pacific region and around the
world, amply justifies the common vision
of the Japanese and Americans who saw
in the 19th century that the future of our
two nations would inevitably be linked.
Our achievements together over the
years-in trade, in education, in science,
in culture, in sports, in the cause of peace
and friendship among nations are a
triumph of determination and hard work.
Your grandfather expressed that spirit
eloquently in one of his poems. He said:
"Even up a mountain peak which seems
to reach the skies, we dare to say for him
whose will is set on climbing it, there is a
way."
We have much to learn from you.
You've succeeded in preserving the best
of your own traditions while harnessing
the opportunities offered by change.
You've maintained a sense of community
bonds, the closeness of families, a special
grace and civility and gentleness in your
relations with each other despite the noise
and the pressures of an industrial society.
You've preserved the special Japanese
ability to create and discover delicate
beauty and harmony in every aspect of
life, from the simplest, most natural
things, to great architectural structures.
At the same time, you've grown to be
an economic super power. You've har-
nessed the ingenuity and the creativity
and energy of your people to gain the
fruits of industry, technology, productiv-
ity, vigorous trade, prosperity, and
growth.
Most important to Americans, you've
achieved all of this in one of the most
open, democratic, free societies on Earth.
You've found a harmony between the
dignity and worth of each individual hu-
man being and the responsibilities of
shared effort and common purposes that
a democracy demands.
We live in a world of rapid, sometimes
bewildering change. People in many na-
tions are struggling to preserve the values
of their cultures and their traditions
while they meet the complex challenges
of development and growth. Japan offers
a model of hope from which all nations
can learn.
Your Majesty, I understand that at the
beginning of each year you plant a tiny
rice seedling as a symbol of your hope
that your people will enjoy a bountiful
future. I am a farmer. I know about the
hard work, the attention, the care that
successful crops require. I share your
faith that working together, both our
peoples can enjoy a more hopeful, more
prosperous future, and that together with
our allies and our friends who meet with
us this week, we can do much to spread
the blessings of prosperity and peace to
disadvantaged peoples around the world.
During the next few days, leaders of
great nations will represent the industrial
democracies at the economic summit. It
would be easy to focus only on the magni-
tude of the challenges we face in energy,
in our own economies, in helping to meet
the needs of the developing nations, in
working together to build a more secure
and a peaceful world. But I also think
about the tremendous resources of our
seven nations; the resources of our econ-
omies, the strongest, most vital, most dy-
namic in the world; the resources of our
farmland and agricultural systems, the
most productive on this Earth; our
achievements in technology and science,
in which we are unequaled; and the re-
1166
