Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Our form of government has endured
every test. Americans have never found a
question that we could not answer if we
were united. Americans have never found
an obstacle that we could not overcome if
we were united. Americans have never
found a challenge we could not meet if
we were united. Our form of government
has endured, and it has grown. It has im-
proved itself in quality for two centuries.
And long after the mobs have gone home
in Iran, long after there have been many
changes of government and constitutions
and ideologies elsewhere in the world,
American democracy and the ideal of
America will stand as they do today-
the brightest and the best hope of man-
kind, a clear, undimmed beacon of funda-
mental human rights and human values.
Tonight America stands as the greatest
nation on Earth. Boston College stands as
a great and a fortunate institution. Tip
O'Neill has enhanced the greatness of
both, and we are all grateful to him.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me intro-
duce the Speaker of the House of the
United States of America, Thomas P.
O'Neill, Jr.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:11 p.m. in
the Regency Ballroom at the Hyatt Regency
Hotel.
Federal Council on the Aging
Remarks at the Swearing-In Ceremony for
Five Members. December 10, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. This is a very good day
for our country and a very exciting time
for me, and I know it is for all those as-
sembled around behind me. We have an
opportunity with the White House Con-
ference on the Aging, scheduled for 1981,
to have another exhilarating and challeng-
ing presentation to make to our Nation
for one of the most important issues of
our time.
In the last 20 years, there have been
two previous White House Conferences
on the Aging, and both of them have, in
effect, transformed the thinking of Ameri-
cans about those among us who have
reached an age, potentially, of retirement,
but who have so much to offer to our
country in a rapidly increasing fashion.
We have this afternoon, also, an oppor-
tunity to address the Federal Council on
the Aging by swearing in five new mem-
bers to that very important body.
In the last 3 years, we have made a
good bit of progress in issues dealing with
the aging. We've passed legislation,
finally, to prohibit discrimination among
Americans because of age. We've had a
chance to strengthen the Older Americans
Act. We've had an opportunity to expand
the SSI, primarily for elderly people.
And, in addition, we have strengthened
and made much more secure social secu-
rity, which is the basis for our social pro-
grams for those who've reached the re-
tirement age.
It's very important that we recognize
the need for elderly people to have a
maximum opportunity for self-determina-
tion. Their lives have become ever more
valuable with the passing years, because
they've accumulated experience. After re-
tirement, or at the age of retirement, they
have, sometimes, time to contribute to
their country. They have vivid insight into
the problems and challenges of our time.
They have a broad perspective, in having
seen crises come and go. They are com-
pletely conversant with the elements that
comprise American society. They have
confidence in our country, because they've
seen us meet similar challenges in the
past.
Many elements of American societal
life can be harnessed to provide a part-
2212
