Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 12
Skylab
Message to Australian Prime Minister J.
Malcolm Fraser. July 11, 1979
I was concerned to learn that fragments
of Skylab may have landed in Australia.
I am relieved to hear your Government's
preliminary assessment that no injuries
have resulted. Nevertheless, I have in-
structed the Department of State to be in
touch with your Government immediately
and to offer any assistance you may need.
NOTE: Skylab was launched by the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration on May
14, 1973. The orbiting spacecraft, weighing
approximately 77 tons, was used as a research
observatory workshop.
On reentering the Earth's atmosphere, Sky-
lab disintegrated, and about two-thirds of the
debris burned up during its descent. The re-
maining pieces were scattered over the Indian
Ocean and Australia in an estimated 100-mile-
wide, 4,000-mile-long path.
Combined Federal Campaign
Memorandum From the President.
July 12, 1979
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies
It is a pleasure to announce The Hon-
orable Bob Bergland, Secretary of Agri-
culture, has agreed to serve as Chairman
of the Combined Federal Campaign for
the National Capital Area this fall.
The solicitation efforts of the United
Way of the National Capital Area, the
National Health Agencies, and the Inter-
national Service Agencies are combined
into a single drive to meet the needs of
more than 150 local, national, and inter-
national health, welfare, and social serv-
ice agencies in this one drive.
These organizations deserve our whole-
hearted support, to enable them to pro-
vide assistance to our neighbors and
friends who have special needs. By work-
ing through the Combined Federal Cam-
paign we can provide the voluntary
agencies a beacon of hope for providing
the needed assistance.
The Combined Federal Campaign
offers a unique opportunity through a
once a year gift-a pledge made easier
through the use of voluntary payroll de-
ductions for Federal personnel to help
persons in our community, in our Nation,
and in overseas lands. I am confident
Mr. Bergland will have your whole-
hearted support in this endeavor. Addi-
tionally, I hope you will commend the
campaign with its payroll deduction fea-
ture to Federal employees and military
personnel in your organization.
I request that you serve personally as
Chairman of the Combined Federal Cam-
paign in your organization and appoint
one of your top assistants as your Vice
Chairman. Please advise Mr. Bergland of
the person you designate as your Vice
Chairman.
JIMMY CARTER
Combined Federal Campaign
Memorandum From the President.
July 12, 1979
Memorandum for Federal Employees
and Military Personnel
Federal government employees tradi-
tionally have responded generously in aid-
ing those less fortunate than ourselves.
Particularly noteworthy have been the
tremendous compassion and support we
have demonstrated through our contribu-
tions to the Combined Federal Campaign.
Once again, this yearly opportunity to
support the services of voluntary health
and welfare agencies, including the
1231
