June 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
viously a national staff writer for the Bill Stewart
Washington Post.
She was born March 28, 1935, in Santa
Fe, N. Mex. She received an A.B. in jour-
nalism from the University of Southern
California in 1956 and an M.A. in polit-
ical science from the University of Chi-
cago in 1962.
McBee was with the Washington Post
from 1957 to 1965, as a copy aide for a
year, then as a staff reporter covering gen-
eral news, education, and civil rights.
From 1965 to 1969, she was a Washington
correspondent for Life magazine.
From 1970 to 1972, McBee was Wash-
ington editor for McCall's magazine. She
returned to the Washington Post in 1973
as a national staff writer on urban affairs
and Justice Department coverage. From
1974 to 1977, she was assistant national
editor at the Post. She was a national staff
writer covering urban affairs and Federal-
State-local' relations from 1977 until she
joined HEW earlier this year.
Negotiations on Combatting
Terrorism
Nomination of Anthony C. E. Quainton for
the Rank of Ambassador While Representing
the United States. June 25, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Anthony C. E. Quainton, of
Seattle, Wash., for the rank of Ambas-
sador, which would pertain when he is
representing the United States at negotia-
tions dealing with combatting terrorism.
Quainton, 45, has been Director of the
State Department's Office for Combatting
Terrorism since 1978. He has been a For-
eign Service officer since 1959.
Telegram to the American Broadcasting
Company for Use at a Memorial Service for the
News Correspondent. June 28, 1979
The murder of ABC correspondent Bill
Stewart in Nicaragua is a tragedy for his
family, his friends, and for freedom-
loving people everywhere.
Bill Stewart was a dedicated and cour-
ageous journalist. At the time of his
death, he was attempting to perform the
highest duty of the American press: to
inform the public on the important issues
of the day.
As nations become increasingly inter-
dependent, our ability to solve our com-
mon problems, our very ability to survive
and our hope of peace depends to a large
degree upon our knowledge of conditions
and events around the world. It is im-
portant that our journalists, as well as
those of other countries, be allowed to
world events without undue
cover
restraint.
When journalists are intimidated, the
search for truth is intimidated.
On behalf of all Americans, Rosalynn
and I extend our heartfelt condolences to
Bill Stewart's wife, his family and friends.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the telegram was made
available by the White House on June 29, the
date of the memorial service, which was held
in New York City.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
1158
