Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 23
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I
would not respond to Mr. Connally's
statement. [Laughter] This is a free coun-
try, and we have freedom of speech, as is
the case in Japan. I would like to point
out Mr. Connally holds no public office,
and perhaps when you analyze his state-
ment, you will see why he holds no public
office. [Laughter] But he has a right to
speak.
We would point out with gratification
the progress that has been made in the
so-called Tokyo Round of economic dis-
cussions. Just this week, I have submitted
to the Congress legislation to implement
the Multilateral Trade Negotiation re-
sults, and my prediction is the Congress
will approve these legislative proposals
without delay. This will help to lower pro-
tectionist trends that were of concern to
us, and I think the downward trend in
protectionism will extend several years in
the future.
We do import a great quantity of Japa-
nese goods, more than we export to Japan.
There have been several voluntary agree-
ments reached to look to lessen this dis-
parity. We are pleased with the progress
that has been made. We would like to see
more opportunity for us to sell American
goods in Japan, not only finished goods,
where we are highly competitive with the
Japanese producers, but also coal, timber,
citrus, grapes, other things that we have
to export.
I might point out the proposal that in-
volves American citrus, since you raise
that issue, only amounts to 2 or 3 percent
as much as Japan produces in citrus. And
the months that we would like to have a
chance to sell more citrus are during June,
July, and August, for instance, when
Japan citrus production is at its lowest
point.
So, when we can have an open market
for our goods without damaging the farm
economy or the economic economy of
Japan, we would certainly like to increase
our sales to Japan. But we have explored
those possibilities with a common respect,
and we have made good progress.
ASIAN SECURITY ISSUES
Q. Mr. President, partly because of the
growing threat from the North, the Japa-
nese attitude toward security matters has
changed so much that Japan can now
cooperate with the U.S. even in the se-
curity field. Can you tell us your views
on the role Japan should play in the
security field? Is it more desirable for the
United States that Japan's role be con-
fined to the defense of Japan herself, or
should Japan, along with the United
States, play a regional security role to
maintain peace and stability in Asia?
THE PRESIDENT. It is obvious that both
the United States and Japan want to see
peace and stability in Asia. Our own mili-
tary involvement in Asia will not be de-
creased. We want to do our share in as-
suring the security of our own people and
the people of Japan and our other allies
and also enhancing peace for all who
live in the Western Pacific area.
We are very proud of our alliance with
Japan, carefully formed voluntarily by the
leaders of both nations. We have been
pleased at the commitment of Japan to
provide for its own defense. The level of
defense expenditures by Japan is a deci-
sion for the Japanese people to make, not
for us to try to influence. We respect this
independent decisionmaking process, and
we have complete confidence that Japan
and its Government will make wise deci-
sions.
So, we share common goals, we work
together in harmony, we respect the in-
dependent decision rights of one another,
and we are very pleased with the present
arrangement and the future prospect.
1147
