Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 23
the transaction. Neither Contracting
Party may impose restrictions on such pay-
ments except in time of declared national
emergency.
2. The Contracting Parties agree, in
accordance with their respective laws,
regulations and procedures, to facilitate
the availability of official export credits on
the most favorable terms appropriate
under the circumstances for transactions
in support of economic and technological
projects and products between firms, com-
panies and corporations, and trading or-
ganizations of the two countries. Such
credits will be the subject of separate ar-
rangements by the concerned authorities
of the two Contracting Parties.
3. Each Contracting Party shall pro-
vide, on the basis of most-favored-nation
treatment, and subject to its respective
laws and regulations, all necessary facili-
ties for financial, currency and banking
transactions by nationals, firms, com-
panies and corporations, and trading or-
ganizations of the other Contracting Party
on terms as favorable as possible. Such
facilities shall include all required author-
izations for international payments, re-
mittances and transfers, and uniform ap-
plication of rates of exchange.
4. Each Contracting Party will look
with favor towards participation by finan-
cial institutions of the other country in
appropriate aspects of banking services
related to international trade and finan-
cial relations. Each Contracting Party
will permit those financial institutions of
the other country established in its terri-
tory to provide such services on a basis
no less favorable than that accorded to
financial institutions of other countries.
ARTICLE VI
1. Both Contracting Parties in their
trade relations recognize the importance
of effective protection of patents, trade-
marks and copyrights.
2. Both Contracting Parties agree that
on the basis of reciprocity legal or natural
persons of either Party may apply for reg-
istration of trademarks and acquire ex-
clusive rights thereto in the territory of
the other Party in accordance with its
laws and regulations.
3. Both Contracting Parties agree that
each Party shall seek, under its laws and
with due regard to international practice,
to ensure to legal or natural persons of
the other Party protection of patents and
trademarks equivalent to the patent and
trademark protection correspondingly
accorded by the other Party.
4. Both Contracting Parties shall permit
and facilitate enforcement of provisions
concerning protection of industrial prop-
erty in contracts between firms, companies
and corporations, and trading organiza-
tions of their respective countries, and
shall provide means, in accordance with
their respective laws, to restrict unfair
competition involving unauthorized use
of such rights.
5. Both Contracting Parties agree that
each Party shall take appropriate meas-
ures, under its laws and regulations and
with due regard to international practice,
to ensure to legal or natural persons of
the other Party protection of copyrights
equivalent to the copyright protection
correspondingly accorded by the other
Party.
ARTICLE VII
1. The Contracting Parties shall ex-
change information on any problems that
may arise from their bilateral trade, and
shall promptly hold friendly consultations
to seek mutually satisfactory solutions to
such problems. No action shall be taken
by either Contracting Party before such
consultations are held.
2003
