Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
closely with the local and State officials.
The primary responsibility for the enforce-
ment of the law in a given community lies
with local officials, first of all, State offi-
cials secondly, and with the Federal Gov-
ernment coming in to participate in some
types of crime which involve interstate
violations of the commerce laws or the
violation of basic civil rights.
We've had remarkably good success,
I think, in trying to interrupt and reduce
the flow of illicit drugs coming into our
country, particularly from Mexico. And
now we're increasing our efforts to coop-
erate with Colombia, with Peru, and
Peru, and
other Latin American countries, in addi-
tion to our good success with Mexico.
So, the effort to prevent white-collar
crimes, to enforce the antitrust laws and
others, I think, have been very successful.
We've prosecuted and concluded long-
standing cases involving illicit surveillance
of citizens and other sensitive matters that
were left over from previous administra-
tions adequately. So, I think that's the best
analysis I can give you.
We still have a serious problem with
crime. One of the factors that's impos-
sible to assess is how much a better report-
ing system affects the number of crimes
reported. My guess is that there's a much
more efficient way now to have an accu-
rate count of the number of crimes com-
mitted. I say none of this with apology for
the excessively high crime rate, but we're
doing the best we can under difficult
circumstances.
JEWISH AND BLACK AMERICANS
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask
you about the my name is Gabriel
Cohen. I'm with a national Jewish news-
paper, the National Jewish Post and
Opinion, which you do not read.
[Laughter] I would like to ask you-
THE PRESIDENT. How do you know I
don't read it?
Q. I already asked that question.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I see, but I didn't
answer. Go on.
Q. I'd like to ask you about the rupture
between the black and Jewish communi-
ties, but before that, I'd like to ask you a
personal question.
THE PRESIDENT. All right.
Q. I understand you are from Georgia,
and my wife and I met in Atlanta. And we
now have eight children, and I thought
maybe you know something that we don't
know. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've only got
four children, but I'm working on grand-
children now. [Laughter]
Q. The question I have about-there
is a deep concern in the Jewish commu-
nity, a very deep concern, and I don't
know that it comes to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, there's a concern
in the White House, too, if I anticipate
your question correctly. Go ahead.
Q. I know you have methods and peo-
ple through whom you do consult. But
the charge, for instance, that the Jews con-
trol the press, that has been made by Mr.
Jackson-well, you probably know better
than anybody that Jews do not control the
press. Another charge is that dual loyalty,
we call it dual loyalty, but it means that
the Jews are more loyal to Israel than they
would be to the United States. And the
thought occurred to me, if you will forgive
me, that perhaps well, I know you've al-
ready spoken out on it, and I know that
you have stated that the Jews were not
responsible for the Young resignation.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. But perhaps you have in mind con-
vening a group of Negro and-or black
and Jewish leaders, and maybe not so
much the leaders and trying to resolve
this. It's a very dangerous situation, be-
1860
