Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 11
liances with our friends around the world
have never been any stronger. We have
excellent and improving relationships
with the doubtful nations of the world-
the black, the poor, the new, the brown,
the yellow nations—who in the past have
been active enemies of ours. We have the
highest reserves of energy of any nation
on Earth. I think we have 24 percent of
all the energy reserves known to man-
kind, whereas the OPEC countries all put
together only have less than 5 percent,
for instance. So, there's no real identifi-
able basis for an absence of confidence.
But it's a fact that the people have not
only lost confidence in themselves now
and in the future, lost confidence in our
institutions, lost confidence in our
Government, the free enterprise system,
the press, and so forth, but they have an
increasing inclination toward divisive-
ness.
This is the first time in history that I
know about when our country has been
faced with discomfort or inconvenience
or more tangible and far-reaching adverse
impacts on human life, without having at
the same time a threat to our Nation that
was cohesive in its implications. Ob-
viously during the First World War, the
Second World War, our country was
bound together because we were threat-
ened militarily. During the Great Depres-
sion, when people were inconvenienced
with massive unemployment and so forth,
we were bound together with an eco-
nomic threat to our country. Now we
don't have that tangible, identifiable
threat. The threat to our national secu-
rity that does actually exist from a short-
age of oil supplies and an increasing and
excessive dependence on foreign oil is
hard for the American people to see or to
quantify or to accept.
So, when this kind of thing happens,
without the binding effect of an identifi-
able, tangible threat, but with an incon-
venience, people
venience, people tend to grasp for a
temporary advantage to the exclusion of
others. And I think that this is something
that must be first identified and ad-
dressed, as I've tried to do so far and as
I'll continue to do with my travels and
speeches around the country. And
secondly, we need a tangible achievement
to show the strength of our country,
which I've outlined is there. And I think
dealing with the energy question is the
best and most important test of this kind.
PALESTINIAN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, so much has been
said in the last few weeks about your posi-
tion regarding the Palestinians, PLO,
Israel, and so on and so forth. Most of the
answers have been coming through the
Secretary of State. I wonder if you could
tell us in your own words what your posi-
tion is on the creation of a separate
Palestinian state-
The PRESIDENT. I'm against it.
Q.-
cetera.
-your position on the PLO, et
THE PRESIDENT. I'm against any crea-
tion of a separate Palestinian state. I
don't think it would be good for the
Palestinians. I don't think it would be
good for Israel. I don't think it would be
good for the Arab neighbors of such a
state.
I do believe that we must address and
resolve the Palestinian question in all its
aspects, as was agreed to by Prime Min-
ister Begin and President Sadat and my-
self in writing at Camp David.
I do believe that the Palestinians should
have a right to a voice in the determina-
tion of their own future, which is also
specified and agreed to by Begin, Sadat,
and by me at Camp David in writing.
1427
