Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 9
able, that there is no need for us to be
discouraged or disillusioned or divided or
doubtful about one another or about our
Government processes. We're the strong-
est nation on Earth-economically, polit-
ically, and militarily. We're going to stay
that way.
And what I prescribed as a major test
of American will and confidence was the
evolution of and the passage of an en-
ergy program, which had never been
done in the history of our country, that
would be adequate to meet the challenge
before us. I think the Congress has made
good progress so far. I predict that before
they adjourn this year, that we will have
this test of our Nation's will successfully
achieved.
So, I believe that through the process
of helping one another, having confi-
dence, working on major projects, and
letting the Government show that it can
be competent to deal with a major prob-
lem like this, we can resolve the malaise
that has existed in our country. I'm not
discouraged. I believe that
succeed.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
can
Q. Mr. Carter, a few moments ago you
said that you thought you probably
would like to be the Democratic nominee,
in reference to the question on debating
Why are you waiting until December to
announce, in view of the fact that Senator
Kennedy is probably about to run? Why
don't you tell us now that you're going to
run?
THE PRESIDENT. I said I was going to
make an announcement December 4. I
didn't say what it would be yet.
I think that that's not too late. I want
to do all I can without being an an-
nounced candidate to work with the Con-
gress to get controversial issues decided
and also to make plans for the initiation
of a campaign year.
There's a tendency in our country to
want to move that campaign date earlier
and earlier. I believe that what I have
decided on a date is compatible with past
history. Also, of course, there is a limit to
how late one can wait. There are some
States that require filing, I believe,
around the middle of December.
And so, I think that's late enough to
give me a chance to do what I can with
this year's Congress; not too late to miss
any filing dates if I decide to meet them.
ROSALYNN CARTER
Q. Mr. President, fairly or unfairly, the
polls suggest that one of your major
political problems is a perceived lack of
leadership. At the same time, Mrs. Carter
is very visible these days. She's traveling
and speaking on your behalf. She's almost
on television as much as you are these
days.
Do you think it's possible that her high
profile in some strange way might ironi-
cally exacerbate your political problem?
And secondly, is it true that some of your
advisers believe that she has too high a
public profile and would like her to be a
little less visible?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that if you
would compare my wife's schedule now
with what it was, say, a year ago, it
wouldn't be materially different. The dif-
ference is that now the press is paying at-
tention to where my wife goes and what
she says.
Rosalynn has always been very close to
me personally as well as to consult with me
on matters of interest to me and to her. In
some areas of public life, she plays a very
strong role. She's interested in mental
health, which he has been since even
before I became Governor of Georgia.
1843
