Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
ing for scapegoats, without condemning
one another, without being fearful about
the future, without having lost the spirit
of America, and I think we've been re-
markably successful.
We set up a trigger price mechanism to
cut out illegal dumping of foreign steel.
We appropriated $14 million for mod-
ernization programs to make sure that
obsolescent steel plants had a new incen-
tive to modernize and to save jobs. We
also introduced, for the first time, in a
friendly way, the steel industry to the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, so they
could understand one another for a
change and kind of work together to ac-
commodate the law's requirements, but
not to put handcuffs on the steel industry
itself.
The 78-percent utilization rate of all
our steel capacity has now grown to more
than 90 percent. Those constant annual
losses in 1977 changed in 1978 to $1.3
billion in steel industry profits that can
go to new hiring, distribution of profits
to owners, and new improvements to keep
our steel industry vital. In 1979 my un-
derstanding is that the profits will be even
higher than they were last year.
We now have 465,000 steelworkers on
the job. And early this summer, the steel
industry as a whole had a $1 billion pay-
roll, the highest payroll the steel industry
has ever seen in the history of our coun-
try. These kinds of achievements have
been accomplished through cooperation
and through using the tremendous ad-
vantages that God has given us in this
country. It shows, I think, in a vivid way
what we can do when we face a challenge
together and with confidence in ourselves,
in each other, in our Nation. It shows that
there's room for jobs, there is room for
profits, there's room for environmental
quality, the quality of our lives, there's
room for productivity, for community de-
velopment, there's room for cooperation
between Government and citizens.
Now we've got another challenge, and
I need you to help me with that. I be-
lieve that it's better for us instead of im-
porting more foreign oil, to use more
Ohio coal. And very briefly let me tell
you why, in case you need convincing.
We import about 50 percent of all the
oil we use. We import, along with that
oil, inflation. We import unemployment.
We will send overseas this year from our
country about $70 billion that we ought to
keep here. We've got enough coal to last
us 600 years, but in the past, in the last
number of years, there has not been that
dedication of industry, employees, and the
Government working together. We've al-
ready made some progress. We're going
to make some more.
The years ahead, I predict, will see a
tremendous improvement in the utiliza-
tion of American coal, including Ohio
coal, and a restoration of the security of
our country, because it's not good for us
to have our Nation in danger because we
are overly dependent on oil from an un-
certain source and at an uncontrollable
price. As you know, the OPEC oil prices
have increased in the last few months,
since December, 60 percent. That's an
annual rate of inflation in energy of about
100 percent. This has got to stop, but I
need your help with it.
I believe that by 1995, we can triple
the amount of coal used in this country.
We can honor, in the process, environ-
mental laws. We could have an increasing
sense of unity among Americans. We can
enhance our Nation's security. We can
have more jobs in our country, less un-
employment, less inflation. Three-fourths
of all the synthetic fuels that we anticipate
producing in the coming years will be
from coal. And the windfall profits tax,
when it passes, it'll bring in about $88
1641
