Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 10
Meeting With Foreign Minister
Hans-Dietrich Genscher of the
Federal Republic of Germany
White House Statement. August 9, 1979
While here on a working visit, Vice
Chancellor and Foreign Minister of the
Federal Republic of Germany Hans-
Dietrich Genscher met with President
Carter this morning for 30 minutes in the
Cabinet Room. Also present at the meet-
ing were Secretary of State Cyrus Vance;
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the Pres-
ident for National Security Affairs;
George Vest, Assistant Secretary of State
for European Affairs; and Steve Larra-
bee, NSC staff. The Foreign Minister was
accompanied by West German Ambas-
sador Berndt von Staden. During the
meeting the President and Foreign Min-
ister Genscher discussed issues of mutual
concern, including theater nuclear forces,
SALT II, and energy.
Following the meeting at the White
House, Secretary Vance hosted a lunch-
eon in honor of Foreign Minister Gen-
scher, which was also attended by other
senior West German and U.S. officials.
Prior to his departure for the Federal Re-
public, Foreign Minister Genscher will
also meet with Secretary of Defense
Harold Brown and Dr. Brzezinski.
The meetings with Vance and other
American officials are part of a regular
exchange of views on matters of common
interest to both countries.
Director of Selective Service
Nomination of Bernard Daniel Rostker.
August 9, 1979
The President today announced his
intention to nominate Bernard Daniel
Rostker, of Great Falls, Va., to be Direc-
tor of the Selective Service System.
Rostker is Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and
Reserve Affairs.
He was born February 1, 1944, in New
York City. He received a B.S. in educa-
tion and economics from New York Uni-
versity in 1964, and an M.S. (1966) and
Ph. D. (1970) in economics from Syra-
cuse University. He served in the U.S.
Army from 1968 to 1970.
From 1970 to 1977, Rostker was an
economist with the Rand Corp. From
1972 to 1977, he was program director
for Rand's Project Air Force Manpower,
Personnel and Training Program.
Rostker has been Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Navy since 1977 and has
been responsible for policy development
and program evaluation in all areas of
Navy and Marine Corps military and
civilian manpower, personnel, and train-
ing.
International Seafarers
Convention
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. August 10, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, the
International Convention on Standards
of Training, Certification and Watch-
keeping for Seafarers, with Annex, 1978
(the Convention), done at London, July
7, 1978. The report of the Department of
State is enclosed for the information of
the Senate in connection with its consid-
eration of the Convention.
This Convention establishes improved
and often new international require-
ments for training, certification and
watchkeeping for masters, officers and
1419
