Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
centrate on some of these fundamental re-
search issues.
To conclude, our industry's products
will have achieved a 100-percent improve-
ment in efficiency by 1985. I believe that
significant improvements in fuel efficiency
will indeed continue beyond that. But we
must recognize that the gains will probably
be gradual, that there are some high
technical risks, and that progress will be
increasingly expensive.
Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I know we're running
a little short of time, but is there any work
being done on what are the possibilities for
the burning of gases that are presently
emitted?
DR. COMPTON. There has been re-
search. You are speaking of the exhaust
gases or gases as a fuel?
THE PRESIDENT. Both. I was particu-
larly thinking about the correlation be-
tween cutting down emissions, undesirable
emissions.
DR. COMPTON. The problem with using
gases as a fuel, such as hydrogen, is not so
much with the vehicle as it is with provid-
ing a distribution and storage facility na-
tionwide. There are also weight penalties
associated with carrying it on board the
vehicle.
The combination of those appears to us
to make it unattractive as a mobile source
of fuel.
vice president of the Solarex Corporation,
and formerly in charge of solar photo-
voltaics research at NASA's Jet Propulsion
Laboratory, and he will tell us about
photovoltaics.
DR. GOLDSMITH. Good morning, Mr.
President, ladies and gentlemen. It is in-
deed a pleasure to be here this morning.
In my presentation this morning, I'll try
to brief you very quickly on the status of
photovoltaics, where it is at the present
time-technologically, economically, in
the world, and what might be done in
terms of improving that technology so
that it might in the future become a con-
tributor to our national energy needs.
To get into the topic, I'd like to very
briefly describe for those in the audience
who may not be familiar with photovol-
taics. If one takes a very common material,
which is what is made up of this par-
ticular wafer that I have in my hands, you
note that it's about 3 inches in diam-
eter and about ten thousandths of an inch
thick. This is made of silicon, the second
most common element in the crust of the
Earth. If impurities are placed in this, tiny
amounts of phosphorous and boron, this
material becomes electrically active, that
is, that when photons, light is emitted and
is impinging upon this piece of material, it
activates the electrons inside of this sili-
con, and the solar cell becomes an energy
THE PRESIDENT. Theoretically, it's pos- producer, it converts the sunlight into
sible.
DR. COMPTON. It is certainly possible.
There is not a theoretical limit to burning
hydrogen on board a vehicle. It is a ques-
tion, though, of whether the overall sys-
tem is better served to use the hydrogen in
other ways than for the vehicle.
PHOTOVOLTAICS
DR. PRESS. Our last speaker this morn-
ing, Mr. President, is Dr. John Goldsmith,
electricity. And it does it directly, which is
very different than any other form of solar
energy conversion technology that cer-
tainly we talked about today.
Now, that principle of direct solar
energy conversion means that it does this
without any moving parts, without any
emissions, without any pollution, without
any vibration, and because it does it elec-
tronically, meaning that there is no chem-
ical reactions going on within it, its life-
1554
