July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
there would be more farmers in Washing-
ton trying to run over me with tractors
than you've ever seen before. [Laughter]
So, it's a good song and a good slogan,
and we are doing tremendous amount of
trade, but that equal swap is just not pos-
sible.
Let me close by saying this: Last year
we set a record on agricultural exports.
The year before that we set a record on
agricultural exports. This year we're go-
ing to set another record on agricultural
exports. Our exports of wheat are going
up, and I predict to you that in the gen-
erations ahead, maybe just the decades
ahead, maybe just the years ahead, we're
going to find that wheat is a much more
valuable export item for the world than
oil is going to be, coming from the OPEC
nations. So, we're in a good position in
the United States of America. We're going
to stay that way.
WAGE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, Norman Henschel,
president, Local 1108, Suffolk County,
Long Island, New York.
Mr. President, with the inflation rate
nearing 14 percent, and with the Com-
munications Workers of America going
into major negotiations in 1980, is it fair
or realistic to stay with 7-percent wage
guidelines?
THE PRESIDENT. Did Glenn Watts ask
you to ask me that question? [Laughter]
First of all, in 1980, I do not expect
the inflation rate to be 14 percent. Sec-
ondly, we have been consulting very
closely with Glenn Watts and with Doug
Fraser of the UAW and with other labor
leaders, and also with leaders in manage-
ment, to try to set wage and price guide-
lines that will be fair and equitable. And
I don't want to punish any working peo-
ple, obviously. But it must be remem-
bered that everybody has to take the best
interests of our Nation at heart.
I have been very pleased at the response
of the workers of our country, in very
strong, well-organized unions, in trying to
accommodate the needs of other Amer-
icans in the wage settlements. Most, I
think, have been satisfied, and I would
predict that the CWA, one of the best
organized unions in America, can very
carefully, on their own, negotiate a con-
tract that will be fair to the workers that
Glenn Watts represents, and also fair to
our country.
That's the best answer I can give you
at this point.
TRADE UNIONISM
Q. My name is Ann Kelly. I'm from
Local 7102, Des Moines, Iowa, and I rep-
resent directory assistance operators.
As a trade unionist, my question is, why
does the U.S. Government continue to buy
products from the J. P. Stevens Company,
with their long history of anti-union
activities?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. [Laugh-
ter]
Q. Back into it for us.
THE PRESIDENT. It would be very diffi-
cult, I think, for the United States Gov-
ernment to pass a law or to enforce a law
that all products bought by the Govern-
ment had to be made by union workers.
There would be a lot of products that
were in the borderline between what was
manufactured and what was not. And I
think that ordinarily we work very closely
with the trade unions in assuring that
their products are adequately assessed.
I don't think we've punished those who
do organize. Some industries, as you know,
are almost 100-percent organized. Some,
like the textile industry, are not very
highly organized. But I think it's very
1252
