Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Another thing that we can do is to shift
toward the use of gasohol and other auto-
mobile fuels that come not from oil, which
is going to run out on Earth, but which
can be sustained on a permanent basis.
We've made a move in that direction in
the Congress in the last year, and it's go-
ing to have tremendous influence. Brazil,
for instance, now produces about 10 per-
cent of all its automobile fuel from grow-
ing plants, through gasohol, and I think
our country is moving very rapidly toward
that.
We're also encouraging automobile
manufacturers to shift toward other kinds
of propulsion. You've probably noticed
that one of the major automobile pro-
ducers, the biggest one in the world, has
just come out with an experimental auto-
mobile that uses batteries that can run
30,000 miles on one set of batteries, about
a hundred miles before it has to be re-
charged. You can drive your car a hun-
dred miles during the day, put it in the
garage, plug it into the plug in your ga-
rage; the next day you can go a hundred
more miles. And you can do that 300 times
before you have to change batteries.
So, new design of automobiles, more
efficient driving habits on the part of
Americans, and new forms of energy, like
gasohol, can all help to make sure that we
have a better efficiency in the future and
that we use our fuel more wisely.
That was a great question, and I thank
you for it very much.
I might say that it doesn't hurt people
to ride bicycles instead of cars. I was out
early this morning before the Sun came
up, and I ran 4 miles. And it doesn't hurt
people to walk to work every now and
then.
And I hope that you'll see, in general,
that when our country faces a problem
like energy shortages, that we need not
shrivel up and be fearful about the future
or start lashing out against one another
and try to take some selfish advantage. It
may be that the new awareness on the part
of Americans that we have limited
amount of energy will be the best thing
that ever happened.
I think our country can be stronger, not
weaker. I think our family life might be
coordinated rather than more frag-
mented. I think neighborhoods might be
preserved a little bit more. I think people
might be healthier, because they get more
exercise. And we might pause a little bit in
our lives and enjoy the beauty of the
places that we live, instead of dashing
from one place to another and not even
recognizing what God's given us. So, I
think in general we might be a better peo-
ple because of it.
FEDERAL-LOCAL RELATIONS
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. My
name is Ralph Spencer. I'm from Calu-
met City, Illinois. I am involved there in
local politics, somewhat. I'm an alderman
in Calumet City, and being involved in
the local politics, I do get concerned and
have a lot of people asking, is the return
and the balance of money that goes into
Washington from a particular area and
the amount that comes back to this-par-
ticularly Illinois.
One of the things that is very important
in the financing of local government is
Federal revenue sharing. It has developed
into a very, very important function or
very, very important source of revenue. I
understand that very shortly Federal reve-
nue sharing, as it stands right now, is des-
tined to cease.
What is your feeling, and what is your
stand towards balancing out the payments
to the local people, and what is the future
of Federal revenue sharing?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe there's
1950
