Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
that meet regularly now to make sure
that there's no duplication or extra re-
quirements of reports from the business
community of our country that's affected
by environmental laws. In the past we've
had Energy, Interior, Labor, EPA, and all
the rest of them requiring separate re-
ports. Now at least they are meeting
together.
Another thing that we are going to do
that might be interesting to you is to have
a small business convention or White
House conference this winter. And in
preparation for that conference, we have
taken 200 sample small businesses around
our Nation, and we've sent staff members
in to work with that small business leader
to say, “What are you required to do by
the Federal Government in reports and
forms and regulations compliance that
might be eliminated?" And those 200
small businesses will be feeding in to me
and the other members of the conference
their ideas on how we can change weekly
reports to semiannual reports; how we can
have 5 questions instead of 50 questions;
how many forms can be eliminated or
how many forms can be combined be-
tween the Department of Labor, Com-
merce, HEW, HUD, and so forth.
So, I think that by the end of this year,
when we have that White House con-
ference, we'll make another step forward
to eliminating this burden on the Ameri-
can people.
I don't think the American people are
ever going to be satisfied, no matter how
much progress we make, but we are plug-
ging away at it and we need your help.
If you are interested, you might do this:
If you
you have Federal regulations and forms
and reports in your own life that you
consider to be too frequent or too com-
plicated or not necessary, if you'll let me
know directly, I'll do what I can to modify
that burden on you. And since I get so
many letters, and so forth, if you will send
your report to Senator Wendell Ford, he
can bring your letter to me, and I'll try
to use your case as an example and help
other people like you who want to get
this burden of regulation and paperwork
and redtape off your back. Would you do
that?
Okay, Wendell?
SENATOR FORD. Anything you say, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good. Wendell said
he'd be glad to do it-slightly different
words.
INDOCHINA REFUGEES
Q. Mr. President, continued great
courage to you. My name is Susan
McDonald from Nerinx, Kentucky, and
my question concerns the Vietnamese
refugees. I nursed in Vietnam from 1973
through 1975. I became aware that Viet-
nam, during the many years of U.S. in-
volvement, depended heavily on the U.S.
Food for Peace program. We left Viet-
nam in '75, and at that time, severed all
food aid. Now there's a scarcity of food
in Vietnam, and this scarcity is part of
the reason for refugees.
My question is: What is preventing us,
the United States, from normalizing re-
lations with Vietnam, giving food aid,
and instead of severing that aid abruptly,
tapering it off in a humane manner,
thereby enabling more people of Vietnam
to remain in their homeland?
THE PRESIDENT. We believe that the
reason for the refugees is not because of a
lack of aid from us to Vietnam. Vietnam
is a nation which has not turned to us
or to the rest of the world for either
friendship or economic aid on any sort of
reasonable terms. The Vietnamese have
been forcing refugees-primarily of Chi-
nese descent-to leave their own coun-
try and quite often have been making
1347
