Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
It is a crucial interdependence that re-
quires our constant attention. It deter-
mines whether our food and fiber supply
will meet the needs of our citizens, our
trading partners and our international
humanitarian commitments. In short, it
determines our future.
National Farm-City Week is a time for
our rededication to cooperation, so we as
a Nation can successfully meet the chal-
lenges that lie before us.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the period, Novem-
ber 16 through November 22, 1979, as
National Farm-City Week.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-second day
of October, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:41 p.m., October 22, 1979]
the United States of America and the
People's Republic of China with repre-
sentatives of the People's Republic of
China;
The negotiations were conducted in
accordance with the requirements of the
Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618, January
3, 1975; 88 Stat. 1978) ("the Act");
An "Agreement on Trade Relations
between the United States of America
and the People's Republic of China", in
English and Chinese, was signed on July
7, 1979, by representatives of the two
Governments, and is annexed to this
Proclamation;
The Agreement conforms to the re-
quirements relating to bilateral commer-
cial agreements specified in section 405
(b) of the Act;
Article X of the Agreement provides
that it shall come into force on the date
on which the Contracting Parties have ex-
changed notifications that each has com-
pleted the legal procedures necessary for
this purpose; and
Section 405 (c) of the Act provides that
a bilateral commercial agreement and a
proclamation implementing such agree-
United States-People's Republic of ment shall take effect only if approved by
China Trade Relations
Proclamation 4697. October 23, 1979
AGREEMENT ON TRADE RELATIONS BE-
TWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMER-
ICA AND THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA
the Congress;
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, proclaim as follows:
(1) This Proclamation shall become
effective, said Agreement shall enter into
force according to its terms, and non-
discriminatory treatment shall be ex-
tended to the products of the People's Re-
By the President of the United States public of China in accordance with the
of America
A Proclamation
As President of the United States of
America, acting through my representa-
tives, I entered into the negotiation of
an agreement on trade relations between
terms of the said Agreement, on the date
on which the Contracting Parties have ex-
changed notifications that each has com-
pleted the legal procedures necessary for
this purpose in accordance with Article
X of the said Agreement.
(2) General Headnote 3 (e) of the
2000
