Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 17
them a better life, some alleviation of
their suffering, some hope for the future.
We talked about the intricate problems
of energy, of nations who are great energy
producers, and nations who are great, per-
haps excessive, energy consumers. We
talked about the domestic problems of
inflation and providing jobs for our
people. We talked about international
trade and how this might draw nations
closer together and to transcend inter-
national borders.
We talked about terrorism, the harming
of innocent people to achieve political
goals which quite often, most often, are
indeed unworthy. She is dealing on a daily
basis with terrorism in Northern Ireland.
We stand staunchly beside her in con-
demning bloodshed and violence, death
and murder, and I hope that our country
will always be an assistant to her and to
the leaders of Great Britain in dealing
with this threat to peace and freedom and
the proper interrelationship of human
beings.
We talked about Iran and another ex-
hibition of international terrorism, where
innocent people are being persecuted,
held prisoner, threatened with their very
lives for the achievement of unworthy
political goals.
We talked about many other issues that
are important to our people. But the
overwhelming sense that I had was one
that we constantly share responsibilities
and opportunities, both now, in the future,
and in the past. The ties that bind the
people of Great Britain with those of the
United States are so strong that nothing
can sever them one from another.
We are a nation, as I said this morn-
ing, of diverse nationalities. Perhaps the
most diverse constituency in the world is
the one that I have. People from all over
this Earth came here to live. But we have
a special relationship with Great Britain,
our mother country. Walt Whitman, who
perhaps more than any other American
poet represented what Americans see and
feel and believe, said, "I hear the running
of the Thames River in my speech." Per-
haps you can't hear the running of the
Thames River in my speech since I'm a
Georgian-[laughter]-but I don't think
anyone can escape who lives here-
whether we're from the South or the
North, whether our ancestors came from
England or Ireland or Poland or from
China or from Japan or from the Philip-
pines-we have part of England in us,
because the principles on which our Na-
tion was founded, our deep concepts of
freedom and individuality, of democratic
government originated in our mother
country.
We are very honored to have Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher as our guest,
and we would like to pay tribute now to
her, to her nation, and to the United
Kingdom. And I would like to propose a
toast to Her Majesty the Queen.
To the Queen.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
It has been my first visit to Washington
as head of the British Government, and I
should like, at the end of a memorable
day, to say thank you. Thank you, to you,
Mr. President, to you, Mrs. Carter, and
through you to the American people for
the wonderfully warm welcome I've been
given everywhere.
I know, Mr. President, that as you
pointed out at the beginning of your
speech, the relationship between America
and Britain started off with one or two
errors of judgment on our side. [Laughter]
Looking around me at the beauty here
and at the wonderful nation you've
created, I'm really rather glad that my
predecessors weren't successful in all
things they tried to carry out.
2265
