Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I don't think we'll need any luxury tax
on them. We've got standards now that
they'll meet. I think the American indus-
try, American free enterprise system, can
meet this challenge and have new pros-
perity and keep our United Automobile
Workers employed and also meet the
needs of the American people.
There's a change taking place in our
country, and if you will think back 2 or 3
years ago at your habits and what
bothered you and what questions you
asked political leaders and what you
wrote Congress about and what you heard
discussed in the evening news, now it's
completely different. Our country has be-
come aware of the fact that for the first
time we have a limit on what God has
given us and what we have a right to
waste.
I believe that conservation is not an
unpleasant chore for Americans, but is an
exciting and enjoyable opportunity. It is
a challenge, yes, but it tests American
ingenuity and commitment on an indi-
vidual basis. Everybody in here can help
with conservation. If you will, in your
own home, sit down with your children,
your 6-year-old children, or your grand-
mother and say, "What can we do in our
family to save energy in our driving
habits, in our homes, in our jobs" and
just make a list of the things you can do.
Every time you save energy, you save
money. Every time you save energy, you
cut down on the cost of the energy that
you are using, because you have less com-
petition for it and the price is going to be
cheaper. And every time you save energy,
you're doing a patriotic thing. And in a
test like this, which took place in World
War I, World War II, the Great Depres-
sion, there's a tendency for divided Amer-
icans to be unified. Families will be closer
together; communities will be closer to-
gether; our Nation will be more united.
I have no doubt in my mind at all that
we can meet any challenge with the in-
genuity and the commitment and the
courage and the freedom and the coop-
eration and the free enterprise system of
our Nation.
And I would like to remind you in
closing that our Nation is so great, it's so
powerful, it's so strong. We're so blessed
that we're still the strongest nation on
Earth militarily no one can challenge
us there. We're the strongest nation on
Earth economically. We're the strongest
nation on Earth politically. We're the
strongest nation on Earth morally, ethi-
cally, and we have the greatest freedom.
And when we talk about problems—with
the coal mine shutdown, serious; with the
steel industry challenge, serious; with in-
creased inflation, serious, yes but we're
the kind of people that can meet those
serious challenges.
I just want us never to forget the bless-
ings that God has given us in the greatest
nation on Earth. Let's keep it that way.
I will if you
you will.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. in the
Steubenville High School auditorium.
Following the townhall meeting, the Pres-
ident attended a reception for Democratic State
representatives and officials of the State Demo-
cratic Party at the Fountain Restaurant in
Steubenville.
Department of Energy
Nomination of George M. Fumich, Jr., To Be
an Assistant Secretary. September 12, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate George M. Fumich,
Jr., of Arlington, Va., to be Assistant
Secretary of Energy for Fossil Energy.
Fumich is the first person nominated for
this position.
1652
