Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
polls. It was one of the few mistakes I've
made. [Laughter] I grossly underesti-
mated how unpopular that would prove
to be.
But in the long run it has been the right
thing to do, and the Congress, with your
help, is now moving in a courageous way
toward evolving for us, in law, a sub-
stantive and permanent and adequate na-
tional energy policy. It's long overdue. It'll
give us a framework around which we can
build our lives, around which State and
local governments can cooperate with one
another and with the Federal Govern-
ment, and around which private citizens
can make decisions that will be right for
themselves, for their families, for their
communities, and also for our Nation.
I'm very grateful that I had a chance
this morning to come and speak to and
meet with the Coalition of Northeastern
Governors. They have, along with you,
been in the forefront of exploring for new
ways to accommodate rapid change. And
we live in a country where rapid change
is now and will be part of our lives, but
we have got a country that is resilient.
We're tough; we're strong; we still have a
pioneer spirit. The American people re-
spond when they have a clear guidance
and an understanding and are told the
truth about the problems that we face and
the challenges that confront our Nation.
We have never failed in history to
unite in a time of crisis when the well-
being of our Nation was at stake. In the
past we've had an advantage, however,
in some ways. In the First World War
we knew what the challenge was; we
united. During the Great Depression, we
knew what the challenge was. It was not
quite so well defined, but we drew our-
selves together in a common purpose and
with a common spirit. We worked to-
gether, and we prevailed. In the Second
World War the challenge was evident.
The American people united in a com-
mon purpose, with a common commit-
ment, with courage, and we prevailed.
And now there's a rapidly developing
understanding that our Nation is chal-
lenged or threatened even again, and we
are uniting finally. And when we do unite
and work together toward a common pur-
pose of having energy security, we will
prevail. This is inherent in the character
of American people.
We're different. One of the strengths of
our country is our extreme diversity.
We're a nation comprised of people from
every nation on Earth. Hundreds of dif-
ferent languages are known by Ameri-
cans. Wide-ranging ethnic heritages,
customs, religious beliefs are preserved,
because they are precious to us. Blood ties
to other countries are precious to us. But
at the same time, we put our differences
apart or aside when our country is
threatened, and we unite toward a com-
mon purpose.
We're a nation of immigrants, yes,
we're even a nation of refugees, but that
gives us strength, not weakness. And I'm
very proud of what this has done in the
last few weeks in our country. People are
aroused to meet this challenge success-
fully.
One of the most important character-
istics of American governmental system is
our system of federalism-federalism, the
coalition prescribed under our Constitu-
tion and laws for cooperation between a
county official, a mayor, a Governor, a
President, a Member of the Congress, be-
cause every mayor in this room, every
county official in this room represents ex-
actly the same people that I do. There's
no difference of approach; there's no dif-
ference of responsibility.
And one of the most debilitating things
in a time like this is for there to be an
attempt made politically to benefit be-
cause our Nation is being challenged. It's
not a time to grasp for selfish advantage.
It's a time for us to put aside differences,
2060
