Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 27
anticipated, which shows that Americans
are driving more carefully, trying to save
gasoline, and also shifting, as rapidly as
they are available, to more efficient
automobiles.
I expect there's to be a large increase in
the utilization of the tax credits to win-
terize homes. We've spot checked Govern-
ment buildings around the Nation—and
this has been done by the news media in
some cases—and found a fairly surprising
degree of compliance with the new ther-
mostat control settings that I advocated.
So, to answer your question in one sen-
tence, I think that in general, lately the
American people's concern about energy
has mirrored itself in increased conserva-
tion-not enough yet. I think more will
come in the future.
One other point that's interesting is that
for the last several years, the business com-
munity-industry, primarily-has prac-
ticed better conservation than before.
In 1973, for every 1-percent increase in
the gross national product, energy con-
sumption went up about 1 percent. Now,
when the gross national product goes up 1
percent, energy consumption only goes
six-tenths of a percent. So, that's a sub-
stantial saving that's been brought about
just by business and industry attention to
profits and losses. And now that intense
interest in prices of energy and its adverse
effect on a family budget is beginning to
have a major effect, beneficially, on
conservation.
HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND FINANCING
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned that
the cost of homes is one of the chief things
that have risen, contributing to the infla-
tion problem.
the main supporters of yours in Minnesota,
and he's extremely critical of the Federal
Reserve Board, particularly of Mr. Volck-
er, on raising interest rates all the time.
In fact, he suggests you find a way of get-
ting rid of Mr. Volcker. Do you have any
comments on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, it's
not possible to get rid of Mr. Volcker
under the American law. And, secondly,
the Federal Reserve has very wisely been
isolated from political influence exerted
by the White House or the Congress. It's
an independent agency, and I think it
ought to be independent.
Interest rates are almost directly related
to the rate of inflation, and I think it
would be expecting too much for the
interest rates charges to be lower than the
rate of inflation. The best way to get inter-
est rates down is to lower inflation.
We've been effective in making alter-
native supplies of money available, which
did not exist several years ago, for con-
tinued homebuilding in spite of high in-
terest rates.
The interest rates have been fairly high,
for instance, the last number of months,
ever since certainly all during this
year-but the homebuilding rate in Sep-
tember was still near a 2-million-home-
per-year mark. I think the highest it's ever
been in history was a rate of about 2.3
million homes per year. We've sustained
that level so far. What will happen in
October, nobody can say.
Secretary Miller and the Home Loan
Bank Board are now making a telephone
survey for me around the Nation to see
what is the degree of available money and
how much has homebuilding been con-
strained because of the high interest rates.
THE PRESIDENT. It's primarily the This is a matter of great concern to us.
interest rates.
Q. Yes. Now, I have a letter here that
was addressed to you by the president of
the Minnesota AFL-CIO, who is one of
I might say that in the first 22 or so
years that we've served, we have cut the
unemployment rate among construction
workers down by 40 percent, and I hope
2051
