Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
I am asking you to ensure that the inter-
agency task force on tropical forests,
chaired by the Department of State, sub-
mit to me by November 1979 its report
and recommendations on U.S. goals,
strategies, and programs to help protect
and conserve world forests.
I am asking you to work with the De-
partment of Agriculture, the Council on
Environmental Quality and other rele-
vant federal agencies, and with other na-
tions and international organizations, to
give full support and assistance to the
international program of activities for
conservation and wise utilization of tropi-
cal forests to be developed under the spon-
sorship of the United Nations Environ-
ment Programme.
I am also asking you to encourage
and
support high-level international confer-
ences on forest problems in regions where
forest losses are severe, to raise awareness
and understanding both of the complex
problems and possible solutions.
Finally, I am asking you and the Chair-
man of the Council on Environmental
Quality to report to me within six months
on the best ways to designate "ecological
and natural resources of global impor-
tance" under Executive Order 12114, so
that proposals for major federal actions
significantly affecting these resources will
be reviewed before a decision is made.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
mentally sound care and management of
the earth's forests and to the well-being of
people affected by them.
I am therefore directing you to give
high priority to the following matters in
your budget and program planning:
improved monitoring of world forest
trends, particularly tropical forests,
including use of satellite observa-
tions;
• research on necessary preservation of
natural forest ecosystems and their
rich complex of plant and animal
life;
• research on multiple uses of highly
diverse tropical forests, including
management of natural stands, de-
velopment of ecologically sound
forest plantations, and combined
agriculture and forestry;
• studies on increasing yields in family-
scale tropical agriculture, to relieve
pressures on forest lands that are not
suitable for cultivation;
demonstration of integrated projects
for reforestation, more efficient fuel-
wood use, and alternative energy
sources;
• examination of how U.S. citizens and
U.S.-based corporations may be en-
couraged to support sound forest
management practices.
I am also asking you to work with the
Department of State, the Council on En-
vironmental Quality, and other relevant
federal agencies, and with other nations
and international organizations, to give
Memorandum for the Secretary of Ag- full support and assistance to the inter-
riculture
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I expressed concern about
the rapid disappearance of the earth's
forests, especially in the tropics and sub-
tropics. I believe there is much that the
United States can do in cooperation with
other nations to contribute to environ-
national program of activities for con-
servation and wise utilization of tropical
forests to be developed under the sponsor-
ship of the United Nations Environment
Programme.
Please give these assignments your
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
im-
1387
