Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
made them full partners in the process.
So, we've not created jobs in the construc-
tion industry by handing people jobs in
government; we've created jobs in the
construction industry and other ways by
letting the private sector of our country,
the free enterprise system, be given a free
reign absent Federal obstructions and
eliminating Federal regulations with just
a small amount of taxpayers' money.
That's my philosophy of approach, and
that's what I intend to continue. I can't
guarantee that nobody will lose a job,
whether the inflation rate won't vary at
all. But within the constraints of control-
ling inflation, we will minimize the loss of
jobs, as I described to the construction
workers.
MR. FOELL. Tom.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
MR. ELLIS. Mr. President, you men-
tioned defense preparedness, and we hear
reports that our military strength is falling
below what would be necessary to respond
adequately to a military emergency. And
in view of the recent squabble we had
with Cuba over the presence of Russian
combat troops, which seems suddenly to
have subsided quite a bit, what do you
see as an immediate step that needs to be
done to strengthen our Armed Forces?
Would it be reinstatement of the draft,
an updating of the military?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, let
me say that the military strength of the
United States is the greatest of any nation
on Earth. And there have been some
trends upward by the Soviet Union which
have concerned me and have also con-
cerned my predecessors in office and are
beginning to concern the Congress as
well.
In the last 7 years, for instance-I was
looking at some statistics the other day-
Presidents, two Republicans and myself,
have made recommendations to increase
defense expenditures-$30 billion in total
over 7 years, higher than the Congress has
finally approved. I think that that trend
has changed. This past year, for instance,
that ended on the 1st of October, we had
a 3-percent real growth, growth above
and beyond the inflation rate. We'll have
the same thing for 1980 fiscal year, which
just began on the 1st of October.
We've tried again to eliminate waste
and overlapping and to plan very carefully
to put the defense investment where it will
pay the richest dividends, by strengthen-
ing NATO, for instance, and getting our
allies to come in and do the same thing we
are. Those alliances are very important to
us, and one American dollar, one Amer-
ican service person can be greatly magni-
fied if we work harmoniously with our
allies. We've strengthened the Navy, the
Air Force, and now on strategic weapons.
We're trying to go into new fields as well.
It's important to point out two other
things, and I'll try to be brief. One is that
my number one priority above anything
else above inflation, above jobs, above
home heating oil, above everything else—
is to guarantee the security of this coun-
try. That's number one, because we
wouldn't have anything if this Nation ever
becomes vulnerable to a successful attack
or threat or blackmail from a foreign
country. And I want to make sure that
our Nation's defense commitment is so
strong that any nation that might be
tempted to test us militarily would realize
that they are committing military suicide.
I also want to be sure that the people
of this country understand that we are
at peace. I'm the first President in 40
years where we haven't had a single
American killed in combat in a foreign
country. I'd like to go out of office, no
1989
