Aug. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
certain crewmembers of "seagoing" mer-
chant ships. These requirements should
provide more highly qualified personnel
on board ships and thereby reduce mari-
time casualties and promote safety of life
at sea and protection of the marine envi-
ronment. Such international require-
ments are responsive to proposals which
were made by the United States in March
1977, following a series of tanker acci-
dents in or near United States waters. I
recommend that the Senate give prompt
consideration to this Convention and ad-
vice and consent to its ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 10, 1979.
United States-Norway Treaty
on Extradition
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. August 10, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty of Extra-
dition Between the United States of
America and Norway signed at Oslo on
June 9, 1977.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the treaty.
The treaty is one of a series of modern
extradition treaties being negotiated by
the United States. It expands the list of
extraditable offenses to include aircraft
hijacking and obstruction of justice, as
well as other offenses not now covered by
our existing treaty with Norway. Upon
entry into force, it will terminate and
supersede the existing Treaty of Extradi-
tion of 1893, the Amendatory Extradition
Treaty of 1904, and the Supplementary
Extradition Treaty of 1938.
This treaty will make a significant con-
tribution to international cooperation in
law enforcement. I recommend that the
Senate give early and favorable consider-
ation to the treaty and give its advice and
consent to ratification.
The White House,
August 10, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Canada Convention
on Northern Pacific Halibut
Fishery
Message to the Senate Transmitting a
Protocol. August 10, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit the Protocol,
with Annex, Amending the 1953 Conven-
tion Between the United States of Amer-
ica and Canada for the Preservation of
the Halibut Fishery of the Northern
Pacific Ocean and Bering Sea for Senate
advice and consent to ratification. The
Protocol was signed at Washington on
March 29, 1979.
I also transmit for the information of
the Senate the report of the Secretary of
State with respect to this Protocol and
an exchange of Notes, done on March 29,
1979, and an Agreed Minute, done on
April 6, 1979.
This agreement was negotiated to
bring the 1953 Convention Between the
United States of America and Canada for
the Preservation of the Halibut Fishery
of the Northern Pacific Ocean and Ber-
ing Sea into conformity with the terms
and intent of the Fishery Conservation
and Management Act of 1976, which ex-
tended U.S. exclusive fisheries jurisdic-
tion to 200 miles off the U.S. coasts. It
1420
