Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Yesterday I further instructed Secre-
tary of State Vance and Ambassador Mc-
Henry to oppose any discussion of Iran's
problems in the United Nations Security
Council as long as American hostages are
being held. Only after the hostages are
released will we be willing to address
Iran's concerns and, then, under the pro-
visions of international law and under the
charter of the United Nations. The mem-
bers of the United Nations Security Coun-
cil, I am pleased to announce to you, have
agreed unanimously with our own pro-
posal.
It's important for all of us to remem-
ber that we will not compromise our fun-
damental principles of justice no matter
how grave the provocation nor how right-
eous our indignation. At the same time, we
will continue to use our influence around
the world to obtain the same kinds of
human rights for people everywhere.
In this instance, we are upholding an
important principle on behalf of the entire
world community. It's a clear tenet of
international law and diplomatic tradi-
tion that the host government is fully re-
sponsible for the safety and well-being of
the property and the legal representatives
of another country. Less than a year ago—
and this is a fact not generally known or
recognized-less than a year ago, 70,000
American citizens were in Iran. As you
know, thousands of people were killed
during the upheavals there, but almost
miraculously and because of the good work
of Cyrus Vance and others, our people
were brought home safely. I thank God
for it. Despite the turmoil, each succeed-
ing Iranian Government-and they were
being changed, as you know, quite
rapidly-protected the citizens of other
countries.
Foreign visitors are often vulnerable to
abuse. An embassy is not a fortress. There
are no embassies anywhere in the world
that can long withstand the attack of a
mob if the mob has the support of the
host government itself. We had received
repeated assurances of protection from the
highest officials in the Iranian Govern-
ment, even a day or two before the mob
was incited to attack and before that pro-
tection was withdrawn at the last minute.
The principle of inviolability of embassies
is understood and accepted by nations
everywhere, and it's particularly im-
portant to smaller nations which have no
recourse to economic or military power.
This is why the United Nations Security
Council has also unanimously supported
our demand for the release of the Amer-
ican hostages.
In accordance with this principle, as
recognized and observed by all civilized
countries, the Iranian Government and its
leaders are fully responsible for the safety
and well-being of our representatives in
Iran, in Tehran, and they will be held ac-
countable for that responsibility. It is un-
thinkable that any responsible government
in today's modern world could regard the
seizure and the holding of the diplomatic
officials of another nation as a realistic
means to advance any cause whatsoever.
Terrorism is not an acceptable means to
resolve disputes between individuals or
between nations.
No act has so galvanized the American
public toward unity in the last decade as
has the holding of our people as hostages
in Tehran. We stand today as one people.
We are dedicated to the principles and the
honor of our Nation. We've taken no ac-
tion which would justify concern among
the people or among the Government of
Iran. We have done nothing for which any
American need apologize. The actions of
Iranian leaders and the radicals who in-
vaded our Embassy were completely un-
justified. They and all others must know
that the United States of America will not
yield to international terrorism or to black-
mail.
2124
