Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
President Carter, Senator Frank
Church has said that he wants to attach
an understanding to the SALT treaty
which, in effect, says it won't go into effect
until you can provide him with some as-
surances that that Soviet troop problem
in Cuba has been solved. Do you think
that's feasible? Is that a reasonable re-
quest?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it's nec-
essary. My own belief is, Susan, that the
SALT II treaty ought to be accepted or
rejected on its own merits. Does it indeed
enhance the security of our Nation? It's
obvious to me that it does. Does it indeed
contribute to world peace? And I think
there's no doubt that it does. Is the treaty
fair? The answer is yes. Can it be veri-
fied? The answer is yes.
The Senate will go into the debate on
SALT II, hopefully, around the first of
November, and I don't have any doubt
that there will be some requests by the
Members of the Senate for clarification
of its terms or maybe for some require-
ments on us in the future. Those will be
carefully considered, but my own judg-
ment now is that those kind of amend
ments and so forth are not needed. If they
come, we'll just have to assess them on an
individual basis.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you.
Before we take the next question, I
want to remind our listeners that what
you're hearing is a live, 2-hour telephone
program with President Carter from the
Oval Office at the White House. National
Public Radio welcomes your participa-
tion, but, alas, you cannot call us; we have
to do the phoning out to you. For some
weeks now, citizens have been sending
NPR cards with their names, addresses,
and phone numbers on them, and the
cards are now being chosen at random.
The calls are being placed from Washing-
ton. So, please don't call us; we'll call
you.
The next call is from Mrs. Jeanette
Lindstrom in Sun City, Arizona. Go
ahead, Mrs. Lindstrom.
U.S. MARINES IN GUANTANAMO
MRS. LINDSTROM. President Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Jeanette.
MRS. LINDSTROM. Yes. I'm so thrilled
to be talking with you. I'm just getting
over a bad cold, so you'll have to excuse
my scratchy voice.
THE PRESIDENT. It sounds beautiful.
And I'm glad to talk to you, too.
MRS. LINDSTROM. I'm so thrilled to be
talking with you; I'm so excited.
I'm concerned about the Marines in
Guantanamo. I lost a brother in World
War II. He was a Marine, and this has
got me quite upset about the Marines be-
ing down there. Can you assure me, Mr.
President, that they are not there for any
other purpose than what the media is
telling us?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I can assure you
of that. We have a perfect right to be in
Guantanamo and to have a military base
there.
there. This is in accordance, Jeanette,
with a 1903 treaty. This treaty was recon-
firmed by the Cuban Government in 1934,
and after Fidel Castro became the head
of the Cuban Government, he recon-
firmed to us the right of the United States
to have this small military base. From
time to time, as a matter of routine mili-
tary maneuvers, we've put in more troops
there for a few days or a few weeks and
then take them out just to practice on
military affairs, as is common for all na-
tions on Earth.
There is no prospect for a war or for
conflict or for combat. It's a very safe
thing to do. We're going to stay in Guan-
tanamo in accordance with our nego-
tiated rights, and there need be no con-
cern on your part.
1890
