Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 28
lishing mutually advantageous relation-
ships with our friends in the Caribbean.
We can all benefit from improvements
in education, agriculture, tourism, indus-
try, trade, health, transportation, employ-
ment opportunities, and personal friend-
ships among our people.
The answers for the future are in the
Caribbean's own talents and traditions,
not in the false promises of foreign mod-
els. Solutions will not emerge by blaming
our problems on our own friends. To
seek freedom, justice, independence, and
a better life, one needs to work closely
with those who genuinely share the goals
of development and democracy. I hope
that all the other basin States of Vene-
zuela and Colombia, Mexico and Central
America, will play a vigorous role in this
effort.
The Caribbean group is an excellent
example of the benefits of a multilateral
effort. Closer cooperation between the
Caribbean community and the Central
American Common Market and, perhaps
also, the Andean Pact could be another
step toward greater progress. Like the
Caribbean, Central America is experi-
encing a period of profound change. Un-
like the Caribbean, where nations are
struggling to defend democratic institu-
tions while they modernize, many of the
nations of Central America are seeking
to develop democratic institutions which
had not previously existed. Nevertheless,
both regions have much in common and
also much to learn from each other.
Few societies can more genuinely speak
of a common destiny than ours, for the
United States and the Caribbean, the
ties of history and geography are con-
tinuously renewed by what can only be
described as one of the most intense peo-
ple-to-people relationships in the world
today. It's a relationship filled with ex-
citing possibilities that are waiting to be
explored. As leaders and molders of opin-
ion, we have a special responsibility to
build understanding, to defend the re-
gion's democratic institutions, and to
promote development of social and eco-
nomic justice.
On behalf of the United States, I
pledge our continuing respect and sup-
port for all these efforts.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. His remarks
were videotaped for use at the conference on
November 28.
The transcript of the remarks was released
on November 28.
Diplomatic Relations
Remarks on Receiving Diplomatic Credentials
From Foreign Ambassadors.
November 28, 1979
This morning I have received the cre-
dentials of the Ambassadors of several na-
tions. This is a very important and a
very solemn occasion for me whenever I
have this opportunity. There is a vivid
reminder in this ceremony of the impor-
tance of diplomatic relationships.
In looking down this row of representa-
tives, who are quite distinguished in their
own right, the differences among us are
apparent. We represent countries with
different backgrounds, different political
systems, different customs, heritage, com-
mitments, goals, opportunities, different
levels of income, different alliances with
widely varying countries. The only way to
bridge the inherent gaps between coun-
tries and to maintain peace and proper
relationships is through the honoring of
the integrity of diplomatic immunity.
It's extremely important that mob vio-
lence be controlled and that international
terrorism not be permitted to reign. All
2161
