Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
for a national policy on retirement, the
need for a national policy encouraging
biomedical research into the aging proc-
ess, and the need for a national policy to
overcome stereotypes on aging.
Were I not so well acquainted with the
leadership of this conference, I would
wonder if the job could be done. But, I
know it will be. I know of no one who is
more qualified by experience, training,
and character to undertake this massive
task than Dr. Sadie Tanner Mossell
Alexander.
The President has already told you
the
highlights of Sadie Alexander's career.
She has made a career of breaking down
stereotypes. Now, I see that one of the
conference's specific responsibilities is
with the destruction of the stereotype of
aging. With Sadie Alexander at the helm
of this conference, that particular stereo-
type doesn't have a chance.
I want to say something. The President
was noting that Sadie and his mother were
born in the same year. I know a little
something about that generation, and I'm
beginning to think that those were the
truly liberated, movement vanguard
women. They had no models, as I had
with Sadie Alexander. And there's a
member of my family, my mother, who
now tells me-Sadie, 'cause she doesn't
tell her age-tells me I am now older
than she will ever admit to being.
[Laughter] But that was the generation
that really began the liberation of women.
But
you will be pleased this time, Sadie-
you won't have to do it all by yourself.
You will have the help of some very
able people: your chairperson emeritus,
your deputy chairpersons, and your staff,
headed by Jerry Waldie. Jerry has the
Waldie. Jerry has the
special advantage of knowing the work-
ings of government from at least three
angles. He served 13 years in the Cali-
fornia Assembly, five of them as majority
leader. He served 8 years as a Member of
Congress from California. And most
recently, he has come to know the work-
ings of the Federal bureaucracy through
his activities as Chairperson of the Fed-
eral Mine Safety and Health Review
Commission. He is uniquely qualified to
reshape government policies at all levels,
in order to serve the needs of older Ameri-
cans better. We're very lucky to have him
in this role.
This Nation has no precedents for deal-
ing with the situation that now confronts
it. The aging of America is a new phe-
nomenon, and we are only beginning to
understand what it really means to be old,
the problems and the rewards, the diffi-
culties and the satisfactions. Ronald
Blythe summarized it well in his book
"The View in Winter." "Old age," he
says, "is full of death and full of life; it is
a tolerable achievement and it is a dis-
aster; it transcends desire and taunts it;
it is long enough and it is far from being
long enough."
Our challenge is to develop policies
that will enhance the meaning of all our
lives, young and old alike. With the
leadership announced today, I am confi-
dent we will achieve the goal. And for
every one of us in this room, that goal is
important, because if we are lucky, we
will live long enough to benefit from what
they do. And certainly, all of us hope that
we do, and we wish them well.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:30 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Federal Home Loan Bank Board
Nomination of John H. Dalton To Be a
Member. December 10, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate John H. Dalton as a
2216
