Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I think our country is strong within
itself. There is not an embarrassment now
about our Government, which did exist in
a few instances in years gone by. So, I
don't see at all that our country has be-
come weak. We are strong, and we are
getting stronger, not weaker. But if any-
body thinks that we can dominate other
people with our strength, military or poli-
tical strength or economic strength, they
are wrong. That's not the purpose of our
country.
Our inner strength, our confidence in
ourselves, I think, is completely adequate.
And I believe the unity that the Ameri-
can people have shown in this instance,
their patience, is not at all a sign of weak-
ness. It is a sign of sure strength.
INVESTIGATION OF THE SHAH
Q. Mr. President, serious charges have
been placed against the Shah concerning
the repression of his own people and the
misappropriation of his nation's funds. Is
there an appropriate vehicle to investi-
gate those charges, and do you foresee a
time when you would direct your admin-
istration to assist in that investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know of any
international forum within which charges
have ever been brought against a deposed
leader who has left his country. There
have been instances of changing govern-
ments down through the centuries in his-
tory, and I don't know of any instance
where such a leader, who left his country
after his government fell, has been tried
in an international court or in an interna-
tional forum.
This is a matter that can be pursued. It
should be pursued under international
law, and if there is a claim against the
Shah's financial holdings, there is nothing
to prevent other parties from going into
the courts, in accordance with the law of
a nation or internationally, and seeking a
redress of grievances which they claim.
But as I said earlier, I don't think
there's any forum that will listen to the
Iranians make any sort of claim, justified
or not, as long as they hold against their
will and abuse the hostages, in complete
contravention to every international law
and every precept or every commitment
or principle of humankind.
BROOKS JACKSON [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's fifty-third news con-
ference began at 9 p.m. in the East Room at the
White House. It was broadcast live on radio
and television.
Crude Oil Transportation
System
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate. November 29, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
I am writing you concerning my de-
cision on a west-to-east crude oil trans-
portation system under Title V of the
Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of
1978 (Public Law 95-617).
Title V of PURPA provided for the
submission of proposals for the construc-
tion of a west-to-east crude oil transpor-
tation system. It directed the Secretary of
the Interior, after consultation with heads
of appropriate Federal agencies, to estab-
lish an expedited schedule for conducting
reviews and making recommendations
concerning the submitted proposals. It
required that the Interior Secretary secure
recommendations from other Federal
agencies and comments from State and
local governments and the general public.
He was then directed to prepare a report
containing those recommendations and
comments, together with his own recom-
mendations, and submit it to the Presi-
2174
