Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
has happened in the history of our coun-
try, and time and again, we Democrats
have been called upon to lead the Ameri-
can people through times like these. We
Democrats are not crippled by fear or
trepidation or doubt. That's a character-
istic of our party which has prevailed in
every time of trouble and strife and chal-
lenge. And we have always met that chal-
lenge successfully, and I guarantee you
that we always will.
We brought the Nation through a great
depression as a united Democratic Party.
We fought and we won World War II
and saved the world for freedom and
forged a long peace that followed, as a
united Democratic Party. We got the
country moving again in the 1960's, and
we made an enduring commitment to the
poor and to the people struggling for basic
human rights, as a united Democratic
Party. In 1976 America turned to us
again, and now we must meet the chal-
lenges of the 1980's as a united Demo-
cratic Party.
Those 8 years of Republican rule could
not erase what we had begun to build
in this country, but 8 years of Republican
rule could and did damage the faith of
American people in our own government
and in the very institutions of democracy.
It's hard to remember clearly now how
seriously our Nation was afflicted 3 or 4 or
5 years ago. We inherited illegalities and
embarrassments, confusion, deprivation,
and deep unemployment. But we've never
confronted any of those tough issues
which we inherited and flinched from our
duty. We have never avoided a single dif-
ficult issue, no matter what the political
consequences might be.
Our Federal, State, and local officials, I
guarantee you, in an unprecedented way
are now working as a team. This was not
the case before. Our party, as Tip O'Neill
pointed out so well, is putting America
back to work. We created 8 million new
jobs. We increased job programs for the
poor and the minorities to a level 10 times
greater than that of the Ford administra-
tion budget, and we have knocked the
unemployment rate down by 25 percent.
We've increased education aid by 60
percent. We've added massive improve-
ments in housing, public transportation,
agriculture. We've cut the unwarranted
intrusion in the private enterprise system
by government and eliminated regula-
tions and cut out redtape. We've boosted
business profits. And as Tip said, again, at
the same time, in spite of all those better
services for our people, we have slashed
the Federal deficit by more than 50
percent.
We've not yet solved all the problems
of our country. For more than 10 years
now, our Nation has faced a serious prob-
lem of inflation, a problem that wracks
our economy, that frightens our people,
and which is at the top of our legislative
and the national agenda. But we have re-
fused to take the road that some would
suggest to lick inflation by sacrificing jobs
and employment opportunities. The
Democratic Party never has and will not
now turn its back on the working men and
women of America.
We've listened to Americans who are
concerned about the way government
works, about the growing impersonality
of government bureaucracies. We didn't
just listen; we acted.
We put through the first reform of the
civil service system in a hundred years. It's
paying off. And it will help all Americans,
those who work inside government as
employees full-time and those who re-
ceive the benefits of government service
for the next hundred years.
We've begun to reorganize the struc-
ture of the Federal Government. Let me
just give you one recent example of what
1768
