Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 27
on a farm. I liked to fish and to wander in
the woods and streams.
I think the Americans have still main-
tained this great interest in sports. This
morning, quite early, my wife and Amy
and I were in swimming about 6 o'clock,
and we run every day to stay in good
physical condition.
My own belief is that the modern-day
American young person is a better ath-
lete than they were when I was a child.
The standard of sports is higher, the com-
petition is greater. And I think one of the
new sports that has come to our country
is soccer or international football. This is
a very popular sport now in our country.
It was hardly known when I was a child.
I think one of the greatest things that
people can do in Japan or the United
States is to stay in good physical condi-
tion by participating in competitive
sports. And I'm glad even at the ancient
age of almost 55, I'm still able to partici-
pate in athletics and sports.
FAMILY LIFE
Q. I'm a housewife and therefore don't
really know much about difficult prob-
lems. I would like to ask a question about
households.
I have three daughters. When they
were small, my husband didn't look after
them too well. Now that they have grown
up-and the one in the middle is 11
years old, the same as Amy-and these
daughters, after supper, they would add to
the very warm atmosphere at home. We
have very good rapport. And my husband
seems to be very happy being surrounded
by three daughters all the time.
I read in some article, I understand
President Carter said that one of the most
important women for you is Amy. I'm
sure Amy will be getting married some
years from now. Then I wonder if you'll
feel you want to keep Amy close to
you-[laughter]—will not want her to go
away to someone else. How do you feel?
THE PRESIDENT. You were much more
fortunate than I much earlier. My first
three children were boys, and my wife
and I were married 21 years before Amy
came along. She's very close to us and we
would like to keep her at home, of course.
However, I think in a few more years,
I
hope at least 7 or 8 more years, I hope
that Amy will find a good young man and
get married and move away. We would
obviously like for her to visit us often after
she does so.
We have a very close family. We now
have three grandchildren, two grandsons
and a baby granddaughter who was born
just a few months ago. So, I think the
closeness of families is very important in
the lives of every person.
One of the great things that Americans
admire about Japanese is the very close-
knit family and community relationships
you enjoy in spite of a very great techno-
logical change that you've accommo-
dated in your own lives. We have many
things to learn from you, and I think
that's one of the most admirable charac-
teristics that we admire about the Jap-
anese society, your strong families.
ROLE OF JAPANESE YOUTH
Q. Mr. President, I'm a student at-
[inaudible] Senior High School. I'm
very happy to see you. I've been looking
forward to talking with you today. This
is a marvelous opportunity. I want to ask
you many questions, but as time is lim-
ited, I will ask you only one. However,
before the question: I read your book,
"Why Not the Best?", and I was very
much impressed by it. Here I have your
books. I brought them through very tight
1171
