Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
monetary commitment to Metro on the
table. Now it's up to the surrounding ju-
risdictions to fund their share of the sys-
tem-and Washington needs the full 101
miles of the Metro system—and working
together as partners, we're going to get it.
Until tonight I believe that that was
the plan. We might have to cut maybe a
mile or two off, Mr. Mayor, to get a few
more garbage trucks. We'll see about that
in the future. [Laughter]
Also working together, we've developed
a plan to transfer authority to prosecute
local crimes from the United States attor-
ney's office to the District Government.
Legislation to bring this transfer about
will be a top priority for my administra-
tion. Other cities have control over their
local criminal justice system, and so should
the people who live in the District of
Columbia.
I'm committed as well to having the
mayor appoint local judges. This district
is the only jurisdiction in the United States
where local judges must be appointed by
the President. The right to make deci-
sions affecting your life is crucial to you,
but the District also has special problems
and it needs special help.
We recently approved grants totaling
$58 million for the District. These funds
came from you in Federal income taxes
paid, and they will go to construct new
sewage treatment systems, to complete
urban renewal projects, to modernize the
public housing development, to provide
financial aid and home weatherization for
the elderly and low-income people, and to
pay for various health improvement
programs. The partnership between me
and the mayor, my administration and
his, is already paying off.
And now I'd like just to add a personal
note: This is not just your city, it's my
city, too. My whole family enjoys living in
this exciting and beautiful place. As you
know, we came from a small town, and as
you know, one of the things that we have
been is part of this community. We don't
get to do enough of the simple things
along with you that we enjoy, most of all,
because of the pressures of the office I
hold. But without publicity and without
fanfare, we walk around the Tidal Basin
to see the cherry blossoms, and we run
along the canal towpath, and we visit
some of the churches around the Dis-
trict-not with publicity, but quietly-
St. Matthew's, St. John's, St. Patrick's,
Washington Cathedral, National Cathe-
dral, Warner Presbyterian, Zion Baptist,
Metropolitan AME, my own First Baptist
Church, and others.
As parents of a student in the public
schools, in Stevens Elementary and now
at Hardy Middle School, we are person-
ally interested in the quality of education
in the District for Amy Carter and for
your children, too.
In private homes which we visit, in
stores, in restaurants and theaters and art
galleries and museums, at the memorials
commemorating the lives of famous
Americans, we share the culture and ex-
citement with tourists and with other
residents of the District. Like you, we
watch the Redskins and the Bullets play
ball.
And Rosalynn has visited and worked
with you in many places. I'd like to name
just a few so you will know what my wife
has been and is doing-the Children's
Hospital, the Green Door, D.C. General
Hospital, where she has led Jaycees and
others to remodel that hospital and to get
certification for nurses; immunization
centers for children; the D.C. Village,
Home for Older Americans, at Jubilee
House, Friendship House; employment
seminars for the well, employment semi-
nars for the handicapped; at the Federal
1923
