Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 1
tional Commission and to establish a Ko-
rean-American Cultural Exchange Com-
mittee to be funded jointly by the two
Governments. The Committee would be
designed to stimulate activities in both
countries aimed at further mutual under-
standing and to endorse mutually agreed
programs of this nature. Details will be
worked out through diplomatic channels.
20. President and Mrs. Carter, on be-
half of themselves and all the members
of their party, expressed their deepest
thanks to President Park and the people
of the Republic of Korea for the warmth
of their reception and the courtesies ex-
tended to them during the visit.
21. President Carter cordially invited
President Park to visit the United States
of America, and President Park accepted
the invitation with pleasure. They agreed
that the visit would take place at a time
of mutual convenience. Both Presidents
expressed their desire to maintain close
personal contact in order to preserve and
further cultivate the close partnership
existing between their two countries.
The President's Trip to Japan
and the Republic of Korea
Remarks During a Background Briefing Given
by Administration Officials for Reporters on
Board Air Force One. July 1, 1979
BILATERAL RELATIONS WITH JAPAN;
TOKYO ECONOMIC SUMMIT
THE PRESIDENT. The bilateral discussions
with Japan were no great challenge, be-
cause they are so sound and so harmo-
nious now that there was really no deep
concern before we arrived.
I think the intense dispute that existed
between us and Japan earlier in the year
was basically resolved after Prime Min-
ister Ohira's visit in May, followed up by
the Strauss visit to Japan. So, in my opin-
ion, the relationships
ion, the relationships between us and
Japan are very good.
The challenge at the economic summit
was to try to be substantive and specific on
commitments about energy, on conserva-
tion in the future, and to try to get a
proper balance between individual na-
tions' actions on alternative energy sup-
plies, research, development, production;
combined with a mechanism by which we
could cooperate on very large projects.
For instance, the liquefaction and gasifica-
tion of coal in the United States-that'll
take place in West Virginia-it's already
been joined now by Japan and West Ger-
many. So, we'll have, I think, a growing
common basis there.
One of the most serious problems as far
as the negotiations was concerned was the
previous agreement in Strasbourg that
the European nations would act in con-
cert and not individually. And this was
a very nonsubstantive commitment, be-
cause they could pool the increase in pro-
duction from the North Sea and not be
bound by individual commitments. And
this was a subject of a very intense dis-
cussion.
Q. Can you identify for us the—you
made the remark after, I think, the final
session, that there were three who sup-
ported the amendment. You wouldn't
identify them at that time. I don't know
what kind of basis we're on, background
or what, but can you identify them now?
[Laughter]
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL.¹ I tell you
what, we'll look at this after we get
through, and then I'll decide whether I
want to put the remarks on the record or
keep it on background.
¹ White House Press Office transcripts of
background briefings customarily do not iden-
tify the speakers by name.
1211
