Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 17
tion, use some of that waste heat for dis-
trict heating.
There's also potential for a cable tele-
vision system which could provide special
energy-saving features that would help
reduce the need for people living and
working in this area to travel. Also there's
a possibility for further development of
our mass transit facilities, and I think
placing a development like this in the
center of a city like St. Paul helps to be-
gin reducing the need for people to travel
long distances to work, to live, and to have
their recreation. And it makes the pro-
duction and the distribution of energy
much more efficient because of the com-
pactness of our central city areas.
So, I hope you'll be supportive of this
energy park project in St. Paul.
Thank you.
HOME WEATHERIZATION
MAYOR LATIMER. Mr. President, as you
have pointed out numerous times, the
greatest burden on the poor is in fact the
inflationary impact of energy costs. And
that's why it's very important to us that
our next speaker, Michael McAllister, is
the director of energy conservation for
our local CAP program, which is called
the Ramsey Action Program.
Mike?
MR. MCALLISTER. Mr. President,
Ramsey Action Programs in St. Paul is a
community action agency serving the low-
income people in Ramsey County. Among
the many programs offered, the energy
programs are providing a much-needed
service in two Ramsey County residences.
Currently the energy programs have
three main components. One, optimum
weatherization research projects this
program's operation is in conjunction
with the National Bureau of Standards
and the Community Services Administra-
tion in Washington, D.C. This project is
a thorough evaluation and a study on the
cost-effectiveness of weatherization and
the development of new and improved
weatherization techniques and methods.
This research program is determining
which energy conservation measures are
the most cost-effective in residential con-
struction.
Two, the State and Federal Crisis
Intervention and Emergency Energy As-
sistance programs. In the past 6 months,
4,554 households have received assistance
because of the high energy costs. In Min-
nesota, this program should be expanded
and the funds administered on a year-
round basis. Three, home weatherization
program. In Ramsey County, this pro-
gram is being accomplished by a joint
effort from the city of St. Paul manpower
programs, the Community Services Ad-
ministration, and the State department of
economic security.
Recently a needs assessment on the
homes in Ramsey County was completed.
45,402 eligible people for the home
weatherization program were identified.
Our priorities for weatherization are fuel
oil users, senior citizens, and handicapped
people. In addition, the study revealed
that the working poor need fuel assist-
ance and weatherization assistance. Cur-
rently they are not eligible for assistance,
because their gross income is above the
guidelines; however, their net income is
below the guidelines.
In the past years we have weatherized
over 500 homes in Ramsey County. In
1979 we expect to weatherize 453 homes,
and in 1980 over 1,000 homes will be
weatherized. Depending on the living
habits, our studies show that energy con-
sumption can be reduced by 30 percent
with proper weatherization methods.
However, there are problems with the
program.
The CETA regulations, such as the
average for CETA employees, has to be
1461
