Oct. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tee voted to report the Alaska lands bill
earlier this afternoon. While the protec-
tions afforded by the committee's bill are
not as substantial as those which I orig-
inally proposed and which I continue to
support, the committee's action today is
an important step.
I would like to commend Senator Jack-
son and the other members of his com-
mittee who have devoted their time and
energy to this legislation. In particular, I
would like to express my thanks to Sen-
ator Tsongas, who has led the effort in
committee to strengthen the bill.
The passage of legislation protecting
Alaska's priceless natural heritage is the
highest environmental priority of my ad-
ministration. The legislation I proposed
to the Congress not only protects Alaska's
cultural and natural heritage but also ac-
commodates the need for balanced devel-
opment of Alaska's natural resources.
Earlier this year the House passed such a
bill. I am hopeful that the Senate will as
well.
Industrial Innovation Initiatives
Remarks Announcing a Program To Encourage
Innovation. October 31, 1979
One of the most important responsibili-
ties that I have as President is to make sure
that in the 1980's, and also now, we have
a strong and vital economy with adequate
job opportunities and with the competitive
position of our country maintained in
world markets and also in giving our own
people a better quality of life. We have
additional problems in controlling infla-
tion, solving our energy problem, dealing
with housing needs, improving our agri-
cultural communities, and many others in
a list of important considerations for every
American.
Since I've been in office, we've tried to
form a very close partnership with the
different elements of American society,
particularly in the private sector, and, in
addition to that, to restore what we had
begun to lose in a very serious fashion, and
that is the innovative nature of the Ameri-
can free enterprise system and our initia-
tives that, in the past, have been one of
our most precious resources of our coun-
try.
Today I'm announcing a program and
sending a message to Congress which will
significantly enhance our Nation's indus-
trial innovative capacity and thereby help
to revitalize America's industrial base.
This program is the result of a thorough,
18-month analysis, and it's been con-
ducted by the Domestic Policy Staff, by
representatives from the private sector of
our economy, and also, in particular, by
the Department of Commerce. It repre-
sents the most wideranging initiative ever
made to spur initiative and innovation
and to unleash America's creative genius.
Industrial innovation, or the develop-
ment and commercialization of new prod-
ucts and new processes, is an essential,
but increasingly overlooked factor in a
strong and growing American economy.
This will help to ensure economic vitality,
improve productivity, international com-
petitiveness, the creation of jobs, and a
better quality of life for every American.
Further industrial innovation is neces-
sary if we are to solve some of our Na-
tion's most pressing problems-restrain-
ing the cost of products and thereby re-
ducing inflation, providing new energy
supplies and better conserving existing
supplies of energy, ensuring adequate food
production for ourselves and for the
world's population, protecting our envi-
ronment and our natural resources, and
improving health care for every Ameri-
can.
Our Nation's history, as you know, is
filled with a rich tradition of industrial
innovation. For over a century, America
2068
