Sept. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
eral Assembly, to be held in New York
beginning September 18. They are:
Representatives
DONALD F. MCHENRY, United States Repre-
sentative-designate to the United Nations
BENJAMIN S. ROSENTHAL, U.S. Representa-
tive from New York
LARRY WINN, JR., U.S. Representative from
Kansas
ESTHER L. COOPERSMITH, president of the
United States-Egyptian Cultural Committee
Alternate Representatives
RICHARD W. PETREE, Alternate Representa-
tive of the United States for Special Political
Affairs in the United Nations
WILLIAM L. DUNFEY, president of Dunfey
Hotels of Hampton, N.H.
HOWARD T. ROSEN, a Newark, N.J., attorney.
President's Management
Improvement Council
Executive Order 12157. September 14, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, in accordance with the
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App. I), and in order to improve
the management effectiveness of Execu-
tive agencies, it is hereby ordered as fol-
lows:
1-1. Establishment of the Council.
1–101. There is hereby established the
President's Management Improvement
Council.
1-102. The Council shall be Cochaired
by the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and the Director of the
Office of Personnel Management. The
Council's membership shall consist of
representatives from Executive agencies
and from the non-Federal sector; such as
business, industry, organized labor, foun-
dations, universities, and State and local
governments. The members shall be ap-
pointed by the President.
1-2. Functions of the Council.
1-201. The Council shall advise the
President on significant and critical man-
agement problems and issues affecting
Executive agencies and Government pro-
grams.
1-202. The Council shall work cooper-
atively with the Comptroller General,
senior program management and admin-
istrative officials, and Inspectors General
to provide advice and guidance on spe-
cific management improvement projects
involving one or more Executive agen-
cies.
1-203. Where feasible, the Council
shall advise the Executive agencies in the
development of management systems or
management techniques to improve the
effectiveness and responsiveness of Fed-
eral programs.
1-204. The Council shall advise the
Executive agencies of solutions to critical
management problems, as well as the con-
straints on management effectiveness.
1-205. In developing its recommenda-
tions, the Council shall utilize the experi-
ence of the public and private sectors.
The Council shall also identify and facili-
tate the application to Federal programs
of appropriate successful systems and
techniques which have been used else-
where in public and private sectors.
1-206. The Cochairman shall report to
the President on the performance of the
Council's functions.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. The Director of the Office of
Personnel Management shall, to the ex-
tent permitted by law, provide the Coun-
cil with administrative and staff services,
support and facilities as may be necessary
1668
