Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
serious disturbance in city dwellers' lives,
and degrades the urban environment.
Most noise abatement actions are taken
by state and local governments, but there
is an important role for the Federal gov-
vernment. I am initiating today a pro-
gram to reduce urban noise by directing
the Departments of Commerce, Defense,
Energy, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, Transportation, and the Environ-
mental Protection Agency and General
Services Administration, in consultation
with other federal agencies, to take a num-
ber of actions to improve existing noise
abatement programs, including:
•
programs to achieve soundproofing
and weatherization of noise sensitive
buildings, such as schools and hos-
pitals;
• use of quiet-design features in trans-
portation projects affecting urban
areas;
• measures to encourage the location
of housing developments away from
major noise sources;
• purchase of quiet equipment and
products such as typewriters and
lawnmowers which have been de-
signed to reduce noise-and assist-
ance to state and local agencies to do
likewise; and
• support for neighborhood efforts to
deal with noise problems.
IV. GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
Efforts to improve the environment
cannot be confined to our national
boundaries. Ten years ago, at the dawn
of the environmental decade, we landed
on the moon. For the first time people
could stand on the surface of another
world and look at the whole earth. The
sight of earthrise was awesome. It was
also sobering. From that moment we could
no longer avoid understanding that all life
must share this one small planet and its
limited resources. The interdependence of
nations is plain, and so is the responsibility
of each to avoid actions which harm other
nations or the world's environment. I am
announcing today two initiatives which
address global environmental problems of
the greatest importance.
World Forests
The world's forests and woodlands are
disappearing at alarming rates. Some esti-
mates suggest that world forests could
decline by about 20 percent by 2000. More
than 40 percent of the closed forests of
South Asia, Southeast Asia, Pacific, and
Latin America could be lost.
Nearly all the world's forest loss is oc-
curring in or near the tropics. In these
areas, environmental damage from de-
forestation can be severe even irrevers-
ible and the human costs extremely
high. For example, denudation of Hima-
layan slopes has led to severe soil erosion,
silting of rivers, loss of groundwater, and
intensified, catastrophic flooding down-
stream. Many tropical forests, once cut,
will not regrow because soils, rainfall, tem-
perature, or terrain are too unfavorable;
nor will the land support crops or pasture
for more than a few years. Another serious
possible consequence of tropical forest loss
is accelerating extinction of species. Trop-
ical forests provide habitat for literally
millions of plant and animal species-a
genetic reservoir unmatched anywhere
else in the world. Equally serious is the
possibility that forest loss may adversely
alter the global climate through produc-
tion of carbon dioxide. These changes and
their effects are not well understood and
are being studied by scientists, but the pos-
sibilities are disturbing and warrant cau-
tion.
1371
