Oct. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
2. However, if consultations do not re-
sult in a mutually satisfactory solution
within a reasonable period of time, either
Contracting Party may take such meas-
ures as it deems appropriate. In an ex-
ceptional case where a situation does not
admit any delay, either Contracting
Party may take preventive or remedial
action provisionally, on the condition that
consultation shall be effected immediately
after taking such action.
3. When either Contracting Party takes
measures under this Article, it shall en-
sure that the general objectives of this
Agreement are not prejudiced.
ARTICLE VIII
1. The Contracting Parties encourage
the prompt and equitable settlement of
any disputes arising from or in relation
contracts between their respective
firms, companies and corporations, and
trading organizations, through friendly
consultations, conciliation or other mu-
tually acceptable means.
2. If such disputes cannot be settled
promptly by any one of the above-
mentioned means, the parties to the dis-
pute may have recourse to arbitration for
settlement in accordance with provisions
specified in their contracts or other
agreements to submit to arbitration. Such
arbitration may be conducted by an arbi-
tration institution in the United States of
America, the People's Republic of China,
or a third country. The arbitration rules
of procedure of the relevant arbitration
institution are applicable, and the arbitra-
tion rules of the United Nations Com-
mission on International Trade Law
recommended by the United Nations, or
other international arbitration rules, may
also be used where acceptable to the
parties to the dispute and to the arbitra-
tion institution.
3. Each Contracting Party shall seek to
ensure that arbitration awards are recog-
nized and enforced by their competent
authorities where enforcement is sought,
in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations.
ARTICLE IX
The provisions of this Agreement shall
not limit the right of either Contracting
Party to take any action for the protection
of its security interests.
ARTICLE X
1. This Agreement shall come into
force on the date on which the Contract-
ing Parties have exchanged notifications
that each has completed the legal pro-
cedures necessary for this purpose, and
shall remain in force for three years.
2. This Agreement shall be extended
for successive terms of three years if
neither Contracting Party notifies the
other of its intent to terminate this Agree-
ment at least thirty (30) days before the
end of a term.
3. If either Contracting Party does not
have domestic legal authority to carry out
its obligations under this Agreement,
either Contracting Party may suspend ap-
plication of this Agreement, or, with the
agreement of the other Contracting
Party, any part of this Agreement. In that
event, the Parties will seek, to the fullest
extent practicable in accordance with do-
mestic law, to minimize unfavorable
effects on existing trade relations between
the two countries.
4. The Contracting Parties agree to
consult at the request of either Contract-
ing Party to review the operation of this
Agreement and other relevant aspects of
the relations between the two Parties.
In witness whereof, the authorized
representatives of the Contracting Parties
have signed this Agreement.
Done at Beijing in two original copies
this 7th day of July, 1979, in English
2004
