June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
And on top of that, if I get unem-
ployed, can I be employed on your farm
in the U.S.? What would be the wages?
Will that be enough to support myself,
my wife, and my children? I will be
happy to be employed by you with that
wage, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that we are very careful in our export pol-
icies toward Japan to have a minimum
disruption of the market for your own
products.
We actually sell to Japan very little
citrus products, including oranges and
tangerines, grapefruit, lemons. You have
a total production of 32 million tons of
citrus products within Japan itself.
The present target which has been ne-
gotiated between Japan and the United
States says that by 1983 the American
citrus sales to Japan would be not much
more than 2 percent of the total that you
produce here in your own country. And
we are trying to focus the sale of American
citrus to Japan during the months when
your own production is least, I believe, in
June, July, and August.
So, we have to have some markets for
our products in Japan in order to pur-
chase the tremendous amount of products
that we buy from your factories. But in
negotiating these agreements, we try to
keep the disruption of your products
very minimally. I think the amount of
citrus that is being sold or will be sold in
Japan from the United States has been
greatly exaggerated.
I don't operate my farm now. When I
became President, I wanted to break
away from any direct relationship with
business. So, I rent my farm to others for
a fixed amount per year. My own belief
is that you will be much more prosperous
in Japan growing superb tangerines than
you would to come to my very poor farm
in Georgia and to produce peanuts.
LIONS CLUBS
Q. Mr. President, I'm a charter mem-
ber of the Shimoda Lions Club. I over-
heard that you are one of the members of
the Lions Club. Since you have assumed
your office, have you been there regularly,
attending the club meetings, or are there
other activities that you engage in?
In Japan, there is a saying, namely,
that if you do it once, you will do it twice.
So, I hope that you will win your election
next year and come back to Shimoda very
much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. I'll remember your good wishes
very carefully and with gratitude.
My father was a charter member of the
Plains Lions Club. When I resigned from
the Navy, I became a member the first
week I was home. I later became Tail
Twister, president of our club, zone
chairman, deputy district governor, ul-
timately a district governor of the Lions
Clubs in District 18-C, and chairman of
all the Lions Clubs in Georgia, about 200
of them. But the Lions Club meant a
great deal to me, and it gave me a chance
to learn about public service without
holding public office.
I do not attend the Lions Club now
because of the duties of President and be-
cause I represent also Kiwanians and Ro-
tarians and others as well as Lions. But
when I return to Plains after serving as
President, I intend to be again an active
member of the Plains Lions Club.
PRESIDENT'S CHILDHOOD
Q. Mr. President, I am a pupil, a sixth
grader, and I am 11 years old, as is Miss
Amy.
Mr. President, you are a great man to-
day, but what kind of a child were you
when you were growing up?
1178
