June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
move. What the OPEC nations have done
with their 60-percent increase in prices in
the last 6 months has obviously had a dis-
concerting effect on the very strong in-
dustrialized nations. In some cases, it's
had an almost devastating effect on the
developing nations of the world.
One of the things that we considered
in our private sessions, for instance, was
that some countries now spend 100 per-
cent of all their external earned income
just to buy oil. And other countries, rea-
sonably strong, like Brazil, that in 1973
were spending 10 percent of its earned
income on oil, now spend 40 percent of
its earned income on oil.
This is a potential catastrophe for the
developing nations of the world, in spite
of the fact that all of the industrialized
countries are increasing our aid to the
most severely impacted countries.
Q. Mr. President, before we came to
the summit, we were told that any sort of
a public confrontation with the OPEC
countries would drive the moderate pro-
ducers straight into the camp of the price
hawks, if you will. Is it a situation now
that they're going to do it anyway?
They're going to have these price in-
creases so the industrial countries have to
get on the record with a strong response?
THE PRESIDENT. All of us recognize
that Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, and
maybe one or two others have been a
moderating factor, but the final action of
OPEC is what we have to address. And
obviously, some of the more demanding
members of OPEC would have had much
higher prices than they have imposed.
But I think that looking at the statement
on OPEC from an historical point of
view, it's a very significant and unprece-
dented action.
Q. Was there a lot of debate about the
wisdom of doing it
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. or did the sentiment for it
grow sharply with the decision taken in
Geneva?
THE PRESIDENT. The decision started
out with a great deal of reluctance and
timidity on the part of some, but after
the actions were taken by OPEC and an-
nounced, and after reading their com-
munique, there was a unanimous belief
that we should have a strong statement.
Q. Which is to say, today?
THE PRESIDENT. Which is to say, today.
And we instructed the Foreign Ministers,
during the lunch hour, to prepare the
statement. It was strengthened somewhat
in the afternoon session, not weakened by
anyone.
Q. Is it a statement, or does it call for
any action?
THE PRESIDENT. It's a part of the
communique, expressing our concern,
deep concern about the unwarranted and
damaging action of the OPEC countries
in raising their prices.
Q. Mr. President, is there any room in
all this for a dialog in the future with
OPEC, with a meeting of some sort?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the OPEC
communique pretty well prohibits a dialog
on the basis that we had contemplated.
That was one of the attitudes of theirs
which caused us some concern. But we're
all obviously willing to have a dialog with
the OPEC countries to see how the quan-
tity of oil, the price of oil, and the con-
sumption of oil can be stabilized. And this
is something that we hope will develop in
the future.
I think I need to go.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:55 p.m. at
the U.S. Ambassador's residence.
1186
