Aug. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Statement by the President. August 23, 1979
In the course of the time I will be
There are so many ways in our country Hydroelectric Power Projects
that we can take advantage of what we
already have and have a better nation and
a better life at the same time. Conserving
energy or saving energy is not an un-
pleasant thing. It can be an exciting thing,
an enjoyable thing, that saves us money,
lets us be truly patriotic, lets us restore
the energy security of our Nation, and
binds us together in a spirit of common
purpose.
So, I believe that in many ways the
present crisis that we face with a shortage
of energy, an overdependence on foreign
oil, can be a blessing in disguise. It can
give Americans a chance to prove that a
tremendous challenge can be overcome,
that a tremendous problem can be solved,
that complicated questions can be an-
swered by Americans who are unified.
We sometimes forget what a great na-
tion we have. And I believe that in the
solution of our energy problem, we can
prove again that Americans have never
faced a challenge to our country unsuc-
cessfully. We are the greatest nation on
Earth, and if we remember what we
learned in our childhood, the truth that
Mark Twain told to us with a great sense
of humor, and remember how strong a
family can be or a community can be or
a nation can be when we face a problem
together, there's no doubt in my mind
that we can make the greatest nation on
Earth, the United States of America, even
greater in the future.
If we all work together, we cannot fail.
I know we'll succeed. And I thank you
for being so nice to us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. Be-
fore and after his remarks, the President toured
historic sites in the area, including Mark
Twain's boyhood home and attached museum,
the Becky Thatcher Book Shop, and the Mark
Twain Cave. He also watched a skit performed
by the Clemens Amphitheatre Players outside
Grant's Drugstore.
traveling on the Delta Queen, we will go
through 27 locks and dams on the Missis-
sippi River. The water flowing over these
dams and through these locks holds tre-
mendous promise as a source of hydro-
electric power. Of all the locks and dams
on the Mississippi River between St. Paul
and St. Louis, only five have installed
capacity. Clearly some of the other exist-
ing locks and dams have hydroelectric
potential. Other Corps of Engineers and
Bureau of Reclamation existing structures
around the Nation hold similar potential.
We must move aggressively to begin to
harness this power.
On the basis of the National Hydro-
power Study now being undertaken by
the Corps of Engineers, it is clear that
various Federal dams, locks, and other
water projects would be suitable sites to
be harnessed to produce hydroelectric
power. I am today directing the Depart-
ment of the Army, in conjunction with
the Bureau of Reclamation and the De-
partment of Energy, to develop necessary
legislation which would give those agen-
cies clearer, simpler authority to exploit
the energy potential of existing Federal
projects without requiring them to go
through the full, protracted authorization
process necessary for new construction
projects in cases where the addition of the
necessary turbines is economically justified
and would not have an adverse impact on
the environment or on stream flows.
Recently, I took two other actions to
greatly expand our hydroelectric activi-
ties across the country:
-At a ceremony in Des Moines, Iowa,
on May 4, 1979, I announced a major
1510
