Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 26, 1979
Boston, Massachusetts
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the
John F. Kennedy Library. October 20, 1979
Members and friends of the family of
John F. Kennedy:
As President of the United States, I'm
indeed honored to be here on this occa-
and, second, whether you can recommend
this job to others?" The President replied,
"Well, the answer to the first question is
yes, and the second is no. I do not recom-
mend it to others—at least for a while."
[Laughter]
As you can well see, President Ken-
nedy's wit and also his wisdom-[laugh-
sion, at once so solemn and also so joy- ter]—is certainly as relevant today as it
was then. [Laughter]
ous-the dedication of the John F. Ken-
nedy Library. Like a great cathedral, this
building was a long time coming. But it
more than justifies the wait. Its grace and
its dignity are, I hope and believe, worthy
of the man whose memory it will nurture.
I never met him, but I know that John
Kennedy loved politics, he loved laughter,
and when the two came together, he loved
that best of all.
For example, in a press conference in
March 1962, when the ravages of being
President were beginning to show on his
face, he was asked this two-part question:
"Mr. President, your brother Ted said re-
cently on television that after seeing the
cares of office on you, he wasn't sure he
would ever be interested in being Presi-
dent." [Laughter] And the questioner con-
tinued, "I wonder if you could tell us
whether, first, if you had it to do over
again, you would work for the Presidency
This library, this repository of facts and
ideas, will feed history with a permanent
record of the dreams of John Fitzgerald
Kennedy, and also the realization of those
dreams.
In America, the records of a great po-
litical leader will not be threatened by
succeeding political regimes which might
fear them, because we are a nation com-
mitted not only to freedom but also to the
pursuit of truth.
A library is especially fitting as a tribute
to John Kennedy, for he was not only
a maker of history but a writer of history
as well. His fame as an author of books
foretold his fame as an author of events.
He said he had few apprehensions about
how his Presidency would fare in history,
because he planned to write that history
himself.
To our loss, we will never read the
books that he would have written about
1979
