Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
has been made to Congress to restore $6.1
million of the Sinai Support Mission
NOTE: The 11-page report is entitled "Need
for Additional U.S. Uranium Enrichment Ca-
pacity and Desirability of and Options for For-
funds for FY 1980, to cover anticipated eign Participation in New U.S. Uranium En-
outlays associated with the new U.S. un-
dertaking in the Sinai.
The American peacekeeping initiative
in the Sinai has been highly successful. I
know the Congress will continue its sup-
port of the Mission, as part of United
States efforts to meet our goal of perma-
nent peace in the Middle East.
The White House,
October 5, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to the
Congress SSM: United States Sinai Support
Mission" (19 pages plus annexes).
Uranium Enrichment Capacity
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. October 5, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Sections 103 and
104(c) of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Act of 1978, I hereby transmit to Con-
gress the U.S. Uranium Enrichment Ca-
pacity Annual Report.
This Report has been prepared by the
Department of Energy in conjunction
with the Department of State, the Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency and
the Office of Management and Budget
and submitted to me as required by law.
The Report discusses the need for addi-
tional U.S. uranium enrichment capacity
and addresses the desirability of and op-
tions for foreign participation in new U.S.
uranium enrichment facilities.
The White House,
October 5, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
richment Facilities."
Treaty on the Limitation of
Strategic Offensive Arms
White House Statement on a Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence Report.
October 5, 1979
The principal findings of the Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence speak
for themselves. They confirm that the
SALT II treaty can be monitored to a de-
gree that justifies the administration's con-
clusion that the treaty is adequately veri-
fiable.
The committee expressly finds that the
SALT II treaty enhances the ability of
the United States to monitor those com-
ponents of Soviet strategic weapons forces
which are subject to the limitations of the
treaty. Additionally, the committee has
found that in the absence of the SALT II
treaty, the Soviets would be free to take
more sweeping concealment and decep-
tion measures, which could make monitor-
ing of Soviet strategic forces even more
difficult.
Thus, we believe the Senate can pro-
ceed to vote on the SALT II treaty with
the full confidence that the issue of verifi-
cation has been satisfactorily resolved.
We welcome this Intelligence Commit-
tee report and look forward to the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee testimony
of Chairman Bayh and Senator Goldwater
next week. In addition, the President in-
tends to meet personally with both Sena-
tors Bayh and Goldwater to discuss the
report in more detail.
1822
