Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Miss Miles, I'm as concerned as you are
about the high rate of inflation. But one
of the things that we have to remember
is that inflation at a high level and unem-
ployment at a high level are directly re-
lated. And one of the reasons that we
have the prospect of higher unemploy-
ment in the future is because we have
not been able to control the inflation rate.
Most of the cause of that has been be-
cause of uncontrollable OPEC prices.
But there has to be some dealing with in-
flation and its root causes.
Every poor person, whether employed
or not, is robbed much more severely by
inflation even than those who are more
wealthy and more able to accommodate
their basic needs and may have to do away
with some of the luxuries because infla-
tion strikes their family.
We are trying to maintain employment
levels high, to target programs. We now
have two programs before the Congress:
one that would provide additional aid to
a locality, perhaps where you live, if the
unemployment rate gets above 6½ per-
cent. There's another triggering device,
separate program, that would give jobs,
above and beyond the ones we have now,
on a nationwide basis, if the unemploy-
ment rate gets above 62 percent. That's
a kind of an insurance policy for the fu-
ture. But in the meantime, I'm deter-
mined that we will not waste money.
I have been able, since I've been in of-
fice, to cut the Federal deficit more than
50 percent. I think this is important.
We've increased services. For instance,
since I've been in office, we've increased
the amount of money given to education,
primarily for the poor, by 60 percent.
We've never had that increase before.
We've given aid to New York City, $700
million increase, since I've been in office.
We've still cut the budget deficit down by
60 percent. At the end of next year, we'll
have 20,000 fewer Federal employees, do-
ing a much better job, I think, of admin-
istering what we've got.
So, there has to be a combination of
restraint on inflation, and it has to be con-
sistent, at the same time more narrowly
focusing job opportunities on those who
need them most. And I gather from what
you say that you represent those who are
poor, perhaps minority groups, perhaps
even the young, who are most heavily
afflicted by unemployment.
We are not ignoring them, and we've
made some progress. We still have a long
way to go. I will not ever use inflation as
a means to wring out our economy and
make the poor or the unemployed suffer.
LEADERSHIP QUALITIES
Q. Mr. President, I appreciate the op-
portunity to ask you this question. My
name is Elizabeth Howie. I'm a social
studies teacher in Jamaica, Queens,
Dominican Commercial High School.
My question is, I believe both you and
Senator Kennedy are in essential agree-
ment on most of the basic issues confront-
ing our country today. Many believe the
nomination and election will be decided
on the question of leadership. And in
view of our apparent, as you call it, crisis
of confidence, how do you intend to lead,
how do you define leadership, how do you
intend to inspire us?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. First of all, I
want to say that neither Senator Kennedy
nor I are announced candidates. We will
have [laughter-I will have plans to
announce later on this fall. I think on
October 13, there will be a preliminary
political skirmish between myself and
Senator Kennedy in Florida, and we
look forward with great anticipation to
that encounter. I have no way to know
how it's going to come out.
1750
