Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 20
tive agencies. In order to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of those func-
tions, the Director shall recommend to
the President alternative methods of pro-
viding Federal planning, management,
mitigation, and assistance.
2-103. The Director shall be responsi-
ble for the coordination of efforts to pro-
mote dam safety, for the coordination of
natural and nuclear disaster warning sys-
tems, and for the coordination of pre-
paredness and planning to reduce the con-
sequences of major terrorist incidents.
2-104. The Director shall represent the
President in working with State and local
governments and private sector to stimu-
late vigorous participation in civil emer-
gency preparedness, mitigation, response,
and recovery programs.
2-105. The Director shall provide an
annual report to the President for subse-
quent transmittal to the Congress on the
functions of the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency. The report shall assess
the current overall state of effectiveness
of Federal civil defense and civil emer-
gency functions, organizations, resources,
and systems and recommend measures to
be taken to improve planning, manage-
ment, assistance, and relief by all levels
of government, the private sector, and
volunteer organizations.
2-2. Implementation.
2-201. In executing the functions
under this Order, the Director shall de-
velop policies which provide that all civil
defense and civil emergency functions, re-
sources, and systems of Executive agencies
are:
(a) founded on the use of existing or-
ganizations, resources, and systems to the
maximum extent practicable;
(b) integrated effectively with organi-
zations, resources, and programs of State
and local governments, the private sector
and volunteer organizations; and
(c) developed, tested and utilized to
prepare for, mitigate, respond to and re-
cover from the effects on the population
of all forms of emergencies.
2-202. Assignments of civil emergency
functions shall, whenever possible, be
based on extensions (under emergency
conditions) of the regular missions of the
Executive agencies.
2-203. For purposes of this Order,
"civil emergency" means any accidental,
natural, man-caused, or wartime emer-
gency or threat thereof, which causes or
may cause substantial injury or harm to
the population or substantial damage to
or loss of property.
2-204. In order that civil defense plan-
ning continues to be fully compatible with
the Nation's overall strategic policy, and
in order to maintain an effective link be-
tween strategic nuclear planning and nu-
clear attack preparedness planning, the
development of civil defense policies and
programs by the Director of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency shall be
subject to oversight by the Secretary of
Defense and the National Security
Council.
2-205. To the extent authorized by law
and within available resources, the Secre-
tary of Defense shall provide the Director
of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with support for civil defense pro-
grams in the areas of program develop-
ment and administration, technical sup-
port, research, communications, trans-
portation, intelligence, and emergency
operations.
2-206. All Executive agencies shall co-
operate with and assist the Director in
the performance of his functions.
2-3. Transition Provisions.
2-301. The functions which have been
transferred, reassigned, or redelegated by
1279
