Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 7
American Hostages in Iran
Remarks to State Department Employees.
December 7, 1979
in the last 30 days has been not
only the support and understanding and
patience of the American people and the
strength of the hostages' families but also
the superb work of the State Department
and all of you, who I know have put in
many extra hours, prayers, and extra
commitments to help protect the lives
and the safety of our hostages.
The most important single message that
I can give to you is this: As far as I am
concerned, as far as the State Department
is concerned, as far as our Nation is con-
cerned, there is one issue, and that is the
early and the safe release of the American
hostages from their captors in Tehran.
And it's important for us to realize that
from the very first hour of the capitivity
of our hostages by a mob, who is indis-
tinguishable from the Government itself,
that has been our purpose. And we have
tried to restrain every other nation and
the United Nations and the people in
our own country from confusing the issues.
At this time, I am not interested in try-
ing to resolve whether or not the Shah was
a good or bad leader or the history of Iran.
I'm not trying to interfere in the Govern-
ment of Iran or the inclination of the peo-
ple there, and we do not want to confuse
the issue by injecting these extraneous
questions or debates into the present situa-
tion. When that does happen, in my opin-
ion, it delays the day when we will see
the American hostages come home.
I am not going to take any military
action that would cause bloodshed or
arouse the unstable captors of our hos-
tages to attack them or to punish them.
I'm going to be very moderate, very
cautious, guided and supported and ad-
vised by Secretary Vance. Our purpose
is to get the hostages home and get them
safe. That's my total commitment, and
I know you join with me as full partners
in this effort.
Just one other comment: I'm not trying
to be presumptuous in speaking for them,
but there's no doubt in my mind that
every hostage and every person who loves
those hostages, not just the families but
220 million American people, thank you-
working with Secretary Vance and all
those in this Department-for the superb
work that you have done in ensuring, so
far, the safety in which I am confident and
which I pray every moment of my life will
be successful in getting our hostages home
where they belong.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 p.m. in the
lobby at the State Department. Prior to his
remarks, the President and Secretary of State
Cyrus R. Vance met with members of the fami-
lies of the hostages in the Benjamin Franklin
Room.
The press release does not include the Presi-
dent's opening remarks.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's public schedule and other
items of general interest announced by
the White House Press Office and not in-
cluded elsewhere in this issue.
December 1
The President declared a major disaster
for the Marshall Islands of the Trust Ter-
ritory of the Pacific Islands as a result of
sea wave action and flooding, beginning
on or about November 26, which caused
extensive public and private property
damage.
2205
