Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 6
their names, but people like Toby and Phil
and Bill and Bud and Jim Broyhill and a
number of my colleagues who are not here
and our distinguished colleagues in the
Senate, who are well known to you,
worked very hard on this, and we think
we gave you a good bill.
You are working hard on the energy
program of the Nation, and I think you
provided very real leadership. And this is
just one more evidence of what you have
accomplished. And although it is a major
stride forward, many very large strides re-
main, and we all look forward to working
with you, because the country needs it.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
John.
Mr. Domenici?
SECRETARY DUNCAN. One part of the
rationing bill that's very important, in my
judgment, is the conservation portion of it
and the State plans. It's a national prob-
lem that lends itself to local initiatives, and
I think we've built that into this legisla-
tion, and that's a very appropriate thing
to do.
THE PRESIDENT. I apologize for not
mentioning that myself. I think the crux
of this bill is that the first opportunity for
conservation programs to be evolved, as
wisely decided by the Congress, is at the
State level. And the Federal program
would only go into effect if it was consid-
ered necessary in the absence of an ade-
quate authority or action on the part of
the States. I thank you, Charlie, for point-
SENATOR DOMENICI. Thank you, Mr. ing that out.
President.
When I first came to the Senate
7 years ago, if you'd told me that gasoline
rationing was as critically important to
have as a standby program as this bill is, I
would have said it's impossible. But in-
deed it is.
If you'd also have told me 7 months ago
that it was possible to get unanimous ac-
tion of the House and Senate, Republicans
and Democrats, House and Senate, all to-
gether with one bill that pleases the White
House, I would have said that's totally
fanciful. [Laughter] But here it is. And it's
a real indication of teamwork, Mr. Presi-
dent, not only with the White House but
with the House and both parties and the
recognition of the very serious situation
we're in in the country. It's going to take
this kind of teamwork to get out of the
problem we're in, and I expect to be part
of that team.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you've proven
that already, Senator.
Charlie Duncan, would you like to
come forward and say a word? Charlie's
the one that's got to do all the work.
[Laughter]
Well, my gratitude to all of you. I think
we've done the Nation a great service.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. at the
ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the White
House.
As enacted, S. 1030 is Public Law 96-102,
approved November 5.
Indochinese Refugees in the
United States
Announcement of Federal Emergency
Assistance to Affected School Districts.
November 6, 1979
The administration has asked the Con-
gress to approve the reprograming of $6
million in FY 1980 funds for the Office of
Education in order to provide emergency
assistance to school districts which have
been most affected by the influx of Indo-
chinese refugee children.
In letters to the chairmen of the Senate
and House Appropriations Committees'
Subcommittees on Labor, Health, Educa-
2087
