Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
So, I don't see the upcoming political
campaign as a negative thing at all or one
to be feared or one to be dreaded. As I
said earlier, I look forward to it with great
anticipation and confidence.
MR. FOELL. Chris Lydon.
SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY
MR. LYDON. Mr. President, I have a
question about the Kennedy legacy. You
spoke at the library dedication of John
Kennedy's inspiration in your own life.
Some people have always thought you re-
semble him. I caught a suggestion in your
speech that John Kennedy, were he alive,
might be closer to the restraint in your
own politics than to the expansiveness of
his brother Ted.
My question is, is Senator Kennedy, by
his name, any more worthy of the Ken-
nedy legacy than you are?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so. The
family of Presidents is very small. And I
have read a lot of history before I became
President, certainly during the time I was
planning to be President. Since I've been
in the White House, I've become a much
more avid history student, and I've seen
and studied about the decisions that Pres-
ident Kennedy made under the most try-
ing and difficult circumstances when
you're alone, when you have no one to
turn to, and that ultimately the question
comes to you in the Oval Office on that
desk and you have to make a decision,
quite often late at night when nobody's
there to advise you.
I've also seen, as a President-he was
the 35th President; I'm the 39th Presi-
dent-that some of the decisions he made
have affected my life as a President very
profoundly. I mentioned a few of those
in the speech I made today.
So, I feel a political kinship with Pres-
ident Kennedy that's very intense and also
very personal. And obviously the name
and the family relationship-blood kin—
is a very strong and powerful force in the
minds of American people and also cer-
tainly in the minds of those who are in-
terested in politics and who will vote in
1980.
But I think as far as political alignment
and relationship and the sharing of re-
sponsibility for having governed this coun-
try in the highest elected office in the land,
I feel a very close kinship with President
Kennedy also.
MR. LYDON. If I may follow. The point
was bluntly stated in Massachusetts poli-
tics some years ago to the effect that if his
name were Edward Moore, not Edward
Moore Kennedy, his candidacy would be
a joke. How far would you go in embrac-
ing that line with respect to the forthcom-
ing Presidential contest?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't go along
with that at all. That was his first political
race and he was untested then. My assess-
ment of Senator Kennedy's accomplish-
ments and his ability as a leader is that
he's excellent, and this is based not on his
relatives or his family position, but on his
own record.
I think he's done a good job as a Sen-
ator, and he's espoused programs with
which I agree. And in most instances, the
programs that I have put forward to the
Senate for decision, those that were highly
publicized, those that were controversial,
those that were difficult and on which I
took a public position, Senator Kennedy
has supported almost without exception.
So, in my own relationship with him
and the sharing of opinion on controver-
sial issues and in his performance as a Sen-
ator, I think he's built a record that's very
good.
There have been some areas where we
disagree. I think as far as fiscal prudence
is concerned, balancing the budget, hold-
1987
