Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
What we don't see on the news, but
what we ought to remember, is the bless-
ings that we have in this country. I think
we ought to be sure to inventory for our
own reassurance and then just comment
every now and then to people that listen
to your voice about what God's given us
in this Nation.
We're a nation of freedom. Our people
can stand on our own feet, make our own
decisions, be different, be individuals, be
innovative, be hard-working, be lazy if
we want to, get a good education, choose
our own jobs, choose a place to live,
choose our own officials, criticize the
government, make comments, make sug-
gestions, influence our neighbors. We
have a country that lets each person take
whatever talent we have and express that
talent and let that talent grow to a maxi-
mum degree.
We also have a nation that's strong.
We're the strongest nation on Earth.
Militarily, we're the strongest; economi-
cally, we're the strongest; politically,
we're the strongest; morally, ethically.
Deep religious beliefs all exist with-
in us. We've got our faults; we
make our mistakes; we're not per-
fect. And as I mentioned to the
Pope on the South Lawn of the White
House the Saturday before last, we're re-
sponsible for our own actions. But let's
don't ever forget that the United States
of America is the best place on Earth to
live. It's the greatest nation on Earth, and
I believe that you and I together can
make it even greater.
Thank you very much. God bless you
all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. at
Thornridge High School gymnasium.
Following the town meeting, the President
attended a private reception for Democratic
State representatives and officials of the State
Democratic Party at the Holiday Inn in Har-
vey, Ill.
Pay Advisory Committee
Appointment of Chairman and 17 Members.
October 16, 1979
President Carter today announced se-
lection of 17 prominent business, labor,
and public figures to serve as members
of the anti-inflation program's Pay Ad-
visory Committee. They will serve with
John Thomas Dunlop, a Harvard eco-
nomics professor and former Secretary of
Labor, who has accepted the Chairman-
ship of the Committee.
The President said on September 28
that he would name a committee to
broaden public participation in the devel-
opment and administration of the volun-
tary pay standard for the second year
of the anti-inflation program. It was en-
larged from 15 to 18 to provide for wider
participation.
The Pay Advisory Committee will ad-
vise the Council on Wage and Price
Stability on developing policies that en-
courage anti-inflationary pay behavior by
employers and labor, in order to deceler-
ate the rate of inflation and provide for
fair and equitable distribution of the bur-
den of restraint.
The Committee will recommend any
modifications to the pay standard it con-
siders necessary and to pay exception and
noncompliance decisions of the Council.
It will also recommend new or revised
interpretations of the pay standard.
Members of the Committee were
chosen after wide consultation with rep-
resentatives of labor, business, and the
general public.
The Committee will hold its first meet-
ing at 10 a.m., Wednesday, October 17,
in Room 2008 of the New Executive Of-
fice Building.
Following are names of the Committee
members and the sectors which they
represent:
1953
