Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
must save energy, stop wasting energy, to
hold down the total amount we use and to
minimize competition for available sup-
plies and, therefore, hold down the price.
Tax credits are now available to every
family in our country for insulating of
homes. And we have seen through obser-
vation that the simple matter of spending
a few hundred dollars on better insula-
tion of homes will cut consumption of
fuel by as much as 50 percent. And, ob-
viously, everyone can set your own ther-
mostats to either save energy or to waste
energy. We must, however, in addition to
this, give special help to the elderly and
others who live on low incomes.
I'm today asking the Congress to pro-
vide $1.6 billion this winter and $2.4 bil-
lion next year and thereafter to ease the
burden of rising energy costs on people
who most need assistance. This financial
help will be for everyone in our country
who's the most needy. I know you'll ap-
preciate that. The Congress must act, and
you must help me induce the Congress
to act.
The program has two basic proposi-
tions, and I'll be very brief.
First, a special program which will
make cash assistance available to all low-
income households. The average benefits
nationwide will be about $200, but, of
course, there will be higher payments for
parts of the country like New England,
where the coldest weather prevails. And
there will be a second crisis assistance pro-
gram, that we've had in the last 2
years
since I've been in office, that will be
greatly expanded to help the States give
needy households, in energy emergencies
that are dangerous to health, extra help.
I'm asking the Congress to take $400
million for the crisis assistance program
this winter out of general revenues-that's
out of existing tax programs now-to pre-
vent tragedies and to avoid delays.
The Congress must also act quickly on
the windfall profits tax on the oil compa-
nies' unearned profits to pay for the spe-
cial program for over 7 million needy
households in our country.
In structuring this program, we've done
several things to ensure that the elderly
benefit as much as possible. For example,
States will be required to take special
steps, which Governor Grasso is already
taking, to ensure help for the nearly 2 mil-
lion elderly who are expected to partici-
pate in the special program this winter.
The price rise of heating oil is a per-
fect example of why this Nation must have
a windfall profits tax now. Once we have
it-and I predict that we will have it this
year-then 50 percent of any increase in
the price of oil will be recaptured for low-
income assistance, for conservation, for
mass transportation, and for developing
alternative fuels to reduce our depend-
ence on uncertain crude oil supplies from
overseas.
I'll be working also with the Congress
to explore every additional way possible
to help Americans meet this energy chal-
lenge.
The simple truth is that this country
is going through a hard transition-from
energy so cheap that we didn't even have
to think about it, to fuel so dear that it's
hard to think about anything else.
Year after year, we have put off the
tough decisions on energy. This summer,
it became clear to many Americans, who
were previously doubtful, that we no
longer have a choice, that we have a real
energy problem. This winter we must be
prepared to face this truth together.
To summarize, we've built up our fuel
stocks; we're preparing for emergency
distribution of available fuel supplies; we
have assistance for needy families; we
1632
