June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
memory do you have and what sort of
dream did you have in those days?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not only been
scolded by my teacher, I have been se-
verely punished by my teacher with a
paddle, which did not hurt me perma-
nently. Perhaps one of the reasons that
I ultimately became President was be-
cause my teachers were very strict and
encouraged me to abide by the rules of
the school and also inspired me to study
harder.
I think the primary goal that I had in
mind when I was a ninth grader was to
be a student at the United States Naval
Academy and to be a naval officer. My
own family has been in the United States
for more than 300 years, and neither my
father nor his father nor any of his an-
cestors had ever finished high school and
gone to college. And I felt that because
of the Government opportunity at the
military school, the Naval Academy, that
I would have a chance for the first time
to get a college education and also to
serve in the U.S. Navy.
I did finally go to the Naval Academy,
was in the Navy for 11 years, was a sub-
marine officer, then resigned to go into
public service, eventually, and became
President. So, I think the ambition to get
a better education was my major one as
a ninth grader.
I received scolding and punishment
when I was not a good young boy. I don't
think the scolding and the punishment
and the discipline hurt me at all.
U.S.-JAPANESE RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, in this city where
Commodore Perry and Harris, who
opened up the friendly relations between
the two countries, you visited this town
on account of that historic background.
At the same time in this city of Shimoda,
at that time those two distinguished
American citizens, Perry and Harris, we
learned what was happening in the world
from these two distinguished Americans.
And as a result, we decided to open our
country and conclude relations, friend-
ship with the United States, even during
the ban put on by the then Bakufu Sho-
gunate.
Do you know of this particular
incident?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I've studied this
when I was a student, and in preparation
for coming to Shimoda, I have studied
even more.
Q. So, today you are visiting Gyokusen-
Ji Temple at the entrance of that. We
always think about those two distin-
guished American citizens, as well as
Shoin Yoshida, who also made a great
contribution to the opening of our coun-
try at that particular time.
If circumstances permit, I hope you
will slow down your car and pay respects
to the great Shoin Yoshida. If you are
kind enough to do that, Dr. Yoshida and
other distinguished ancestors of ours will
feel very happy thinking about the even
closer relations we enjoy with the Ameri-
cans, I think they will enjoy beneath their
graveyard.
I sincerely hope that you do that and
pay respect to those great ancestors as
well.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. The point
you've made is very good. It would be a
mistake for Americans to forget about the
reception given to the American officials,
Perry and Harris, by the people of Japan.
We recognize how difficult this was 120
years or more ago, and I want to express
my thanks on behalf of the American
people for the friendship and hospitality
and openness that was offered to the
world by Japan at that time, under the
most difficult circumstances. And you're
1174
