Aug. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Organizations, members of the Interna-
tional Association of Fire Fighters, mem-
bers of the International Association of
Fire Chiefs, the National Fire Protection
Association, all other organizations con-
cerned with fire safety, and the United
States Fire Administration to provide
leadership and innovation to protect the
lives of America's volunteer and profes-
sional firefighters.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fifteenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:20 a.m., August 16, 1979]
Fire Prevention Week, 1979
Proclamation 4672. August 15, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Fire causes more loss of life and prop-
erty in the United States than all other
natural disasters combined. Fire is the
second most frequent cause of accidental
death in the home. Volunteer and profes-
sional firefighters bear a disproportionate
burden of the human costs of fire; fire-
fighting is still America's most hazardous
profession.
Last year 8,700 Americans died, 280,-
000 were injured in fires and $5 billion in
property was lost. America's loss to fire is
among the very highest in the industrial-
ized world.
As evidence of my strong personal con-
cern about our fire problem, I have im-
plemented a Reorganization Plan that
puts the Federal government's principal
fire programs in the new Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency. This agency
now coordinates America's disaster pre-
paredness and response efforts. But the
Federal government alone cannot reduce
America's fire losses. The public and pri-
vate sector must do their part. Together
we can lessen this unnecessary, life-threat-
ening destruction.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate October 8-14,
1979, as Fire Prevention Week.
Because fire deaths most often occur in
homes, I call upon American families and
other property owners to install smoke
detectors, to practice exit drills, and to be
especially vigilant in guarding against
fires.
I encourage the fire service, police,
prosecutors, the insurance industry, and
government to work together to improve
arson detection and prosecution so that
we can begin to eliminate this costly, of-
ten murderous crime.
I call upon every fire department in the
country to teach citizens the fundamen-
tals of basic life support, cardiopulmonary
resuscitation, and to improve the delivery
of emergency medical services.
I urge the fire service to fully open
their profession to women, and I offer my
support to the growing number of profes-
sional and volunteer women firefighters.
I encourage the fire service to take full
advantage of the National Fire Academy
that became a reality this year. The
Academy will be an effective tool in pro-
viding training and education for the Na-
tion's firefighters.
I support and encourage the coopera-
tive efforts of private enterprise and gov-
1438
