Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
an even contest in the Congress, in Wash-
ington, between the oil companies' influ-
ence and the influence of the rest of the
country. I'm not particularly trying to
criticize the oil companies, but the fact is
that the Congress has not yet acted on the
energy proposal that I described Monday
morning in Kansas City after my Sunday
night address. As soon as the Congress
acts, we'll have all the benefits that I
described then for the increased use of
coal.
In the meantime, we've got to depend
on two things-conservation and shifting
away from fuel oil use onto the use of coal.
That will help a great deal. The Presi-
dent's Coal Commission had some good
recommendations. One, which has already
been approved by EPA, by the way, is to
transform a hundred electric utility com-
panies away from using oil to the use of
coal. And every time in our whole Nation
you start using more and more coal, you
create more and more jobs for United
Mine Workers, and I believe we make that
progress. But this cannot be done instan-
taneously, because it's been too long in
getting America aroused about energy.
I made that speech about the moral
equivalent of war in April of 1977, and
as you probably noticed, the news media
mostly made fun of it-there was a lot
of fun made of it—and said that it's too
serious, we're just not going to get seri-
ous. It was really this summer, when the
gas lines started developing in California
and on the east coast, that the people got
aroused. You, as a coal miner, have been
aroused for a long time.
I think the settlement that was made
between UMW and the coal operators is
a very major step forward. I'm not trying
to predict what's going to happen in the
future. I'll knock on wood. But the shut-
down and the uncertainty of delivery of
coal has now been substantially alleviated,
and people who want to depend on coal
permanently don't have to worry about
frequent interruptions of production. I
think it's a much more stable industry.
That's been accomplished in the last 2
years.
We are making progress, got a long
way to go, but I feel like you and I are
partners in making that progress. I'll help
you if you'll help me.
Q. You have my help, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a deal.
RENEWABLE ENERGY SUPPLIES
Q. Hello, Mr. President. I'm Peter Mc-
Gee from Steubenville, Ohio. I'm a social
studies instructor at the Jefferson County
Joint Vocational School, and I asked my
students to submit to me some questions
that they would ask you of energy. And I
picked one from here to ask you.
This is from a student named David
Ramsey. He would like to know, why isn't
gasohol and other agricultural fuels being
researched and used more extensively?
THE PRESIDENT. It is being researched,
and it is being used more extensively than
it was 3 months ago or 6 months ago or
12 months ago or 2 years ago. There's a
great deal of interest in gasohol and other
energy from so-called biomass, replenish-
able supplies.
Biomass is a resource in our country
that's not yet been tapped, except to a
very minor degree. It consists of growing
things and what energy you can get from
those products.
I'll give you one example. Georgia has
about 65 percent of its area covered with
trees. We produce in Georgia just with
growing trees three times as much energy
as we use, all put together. And when
we harvest pine trees to make lumber and
paper pulp, and so forth, we presently
waste in some plots of timberland one-
1650
