Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 12
Americans, by our allies, and by any be strong. What will be our defense re-
potential adversary.
Twice in this century, each time in the
aftermath of a global war, we were
tempted in this country by isolationism.
The first time, we succumbed to that
temptation, withdrawing from our global
responsibilities, and you know what the
result was. A generation later the world
was again engulfed by war. But after the
Second World War, we built a national
consensus, based on our own moral and
political values, around the concept of
an active role for America in preserving
peace and security for ourselves and for
others.
Despite all the changes that have swept
across this world in the last 30 years, that
basic consensus has endured. We've
learned the mistake of military interven-
tion in the internal affairs of another
country when our own American security
was not directly involved. But we must
understand that not every instance of the
firm application of the power of the
United States is a potential Vietnam. The
consensus for national strength and inter-
national involvement, already shaken and
threatened, survived that divisive and
tragic war.
Recent events in Iran have been a vivid
reminder of the need for a strong and
united America, a nation which is sup-
ported by its allies and which need not
bluff or posture in the quiet exercise of
our strength and in our continued com-
mitment to international law and the pres-
ervation of peace. Today, regardless of
other disagreements among ourselves, we
are united in the belief that we must have
a strong defense and that military weak-
ness would inevitably make war more
likely.
So, the issue we face is not whether we
should be strong; the issue is how we will
sponsibilities for the 1980's and beyond?
What challenges must we confront in
meeting those responsibilities? What de-
fense programs do we need, and how
much will we spend to meet them? How
can we correlate most successfully our
military readiness and our arms control
efforts? To begin with, our defense pro-
gram must be tailored to match our
responsibilities.
In Europe our military forces have pro-
vided the foundation for one of the long-
est periods of peace and prosperity that
continent has ever enjoyed. Our strength,
both conventional and nuclear, helps to
maintain peace while our allies work to-
gether and build together through the
European Community and also nurture
their historical ties to the countries of
Eastern Europe. Our mutual commit-
ments within the Atlantic Alliance are
vital to us all, and those commitments are
permanent and unshakable.
American military strength provides
the framework within which our mature
friendships with Japan, Korea, Australia,
New Zealand, the Philippines, and Thai-
land all contribute to stability in the
Pacific basin and throughout the world.
The prospects for peace in the Middle
East have been enhanced by a strong
America and by confidence in us among
our friends in Egypt and in Israel. We
are determined to continue the progress
which has been made in the Middle East.
We must and we will continue to meet
these and our other responsibilities. But
there are reasons for concern about our
ability to sustain our beneficial and our
peaceful influence throughout
world-real reasons for concern.
the
For nearly 20 years now, the Soviet
Union has been increasing its real de-
fense spending by 3 or 4 percent each
2233
