Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 19
Regulation of Small Businesses
and Organizations
Letter to the Heads of the Independent
Regulatory Agencies. November 16, 1979
Dear Mr. Chairman:
This Administration has made a firm
commitment to strengthen the small busi-
ness sector of our economy. Today I have
directed the Heads of Executive Depart-
ments and Agencies to take a series of
steps to ensure that federal regulatory pro-
grams do not place unnecessary burdens
on small businesses and organizations. I
believe it is essential that we minimize the
regulatory burden on small businesses and
organizations where it is possible to do so
without undermining the goals of our so-
cial and economic programs.
With the cooperation of the independ-
ent regulatory commissions in this effort
to bring relief to small businesses, we can
effectively respond to public concerns by
showing flexibility in our regulatory policy
where it is warranted and possible. I,
therefore, am asking you, as Chairman of
your agency, to consider taking actions
similar to those contained in my memo-
randum of November 16 on this subject to
the Heads of Executive Departments and
Agencies.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the letter was released on
November 19.
Regulation of Small Businesses
and Organizations
Announcement on the President's Directive to
Executive Departments and Agencies.
November 19, 1979
The President has directed executive
departments and agencies to ensure that
their regulatory programs, while achiev-
ing their goals, do not place unnecessary
burdens on small businesses and organiza-
tions. This action followed his decision on
October 31 to add the Small Business Ad-
ministration to the Regulatory Council in
order to strengthen that Council's capac-
ity to meet the concerns of small business.
The President expressed his apprecia-
tion to Senators John Culver and Gaylord
Nelson and Congressmen Andy Ireland,
Marty Russo, and Neal Smith, sponsors
of specific small business legislation now
before Congress, for their leadership in
helping America's small business men and
women.
The President's memorandum to de-
partment and agency heads today directs
them to take the following steps:
-Ensure that new regulations take into
account the size and nature of the regu-
lated businesses while achieving intended
social and economic goals of regulations.
-Determine where existing regulatory
lored to fit the size and nature of the busi-
and reporting requirements can be tai-
nesses and organizations subject to them.
-Identify those rules and regulations
in the semiannual agenda required by Ex-
ecutive Order 12044 and in the Regula-
tory Council's Calendar of Federal Reg-
ulations for which flexible alternatives are
being considered.
-Report the results of this process to
the Office of Advocacy of the Small Busi-
ness Administration by December 15.
The review of existing rules and devel-
opment of implementation plans will be
undertaken with the assistance of the Reg-
ulatory Council and the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. All actions under
the directive must be consistent with the
laws under which the agencies operate.
The President also sent a letter to the
heads of independent agencies today re-
questing that they consider a similar re-
view of existing and new regulations
within their agencies.
2143
