Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
up above 9 or 10 percent, the homebuild-
ing industry took a nosedive, because it
was almost impossible to get financing.
That has not happened. I can't say that
in the next few months it may not hap-
pen, but so far we have sustained a re-
markable record of home construction.
We've averaged about 1.8 million homes
per year in this country so far, in spite of
high interest rates, because we've made
available to homebuilders and to families
new sources of financing for homes.
I don't know what will happen in the
future. I can't guarantee that there won't
be some dropoff in that level, but it set
records for the first 2 years, even in spite
of high interest rates. In my opinion, the
purchase of a home is still a good invest-
ment for a young couple that can afford
the monthly payments.
I think real estate, including land,
homes, and other things, will continue to
go up at least a moderate rate, and I
believe that when we get inflation under
control with the policies that I've de-
scribed, we'll alleviate that pressure. But
we are doing everything we can with sav-
ings and loan bankers, the people who
help us with finances, Government pro-
grams for low- and middle-income fami-
lies, FHA, Farm Home Administration
loans, to make sure that there is no drop-
off in home construction or availability of
homes. There may be local problems. I'm
not trying to mislead you, but we have
really held down the historic dropoff in
home construction.
I might say, as another indication of
that I spoke to the building and con-
struction workers union meeting in San
Diego this past week-and since I've been
in office, we've put an extra million con-
struction workers on the job; we've cut
the unemployment rate in that industry
down by 40 percent. That's another indi-
cation that homebuilding and other con-
struction is still a very strong element in
our society.
I hope it will stay the way it has been.
So far, we've got a good record. I just
pray it'll hold.
ENERGY
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
Q. My name is Christopher Stevo.
Could you please tell me how we are
progressing in developing new energy
sources?
THE PRESIDENT. I couldn't hear you.
Come up here a minute. [Laughter]
When I get supporters and allies his
age trying to help me resolve the energy
question, I think we're on sound ground
and we've got the right road filled out for
us.
We're doing several things at one time.
First of all, the Congress has very wisely
required that all the automobiles pro-
duced now and in the future would have
to be much more efficient, get a lot more
miles for every gallon. That's the first step.
By 1985 all the automobiles produced in
our country would have to average 272
miles per gallon, a big improvement over
what we have had in the past.
Secondly, automobile buyers, with the
gasoline lines that took place this summer,
high gasoline prices and with the few
have rapidly shifted toward the smaller
and the more efficient automobiles.
All of you can help. I said earlier that
I hope the families would have a consulta-
tion about how you can save energy.
When you go home from this meeting,
look at how many cars you meet on the
road that only have one passenger-some-
times two, very rarely three or four. And
if
you would change your driving habits,
and five people could ride in your car to
and from work, instead of five automo-
biles going to and from work, that saves a
tremendous amount of fuel.
1949
