Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
a President, and I feel a partnership with
every one of you here.
Thank you for letting me be with you.
God bless every one in this room.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8 a.m. in the Rio Grande Room at the Sheraton
Old Town Hotel.
San Diego, California
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the
Building and Construction Trades
Department, AFL-CIO. October 11, 1979
President Bob Georgine and my good
friends in the building and construction
trades:
It's good to be here with you, the men
and women who are building America's
future.
It's an honor and a pleasure, and I'm
grateful that yesterday one of the finest
Secretaries of Labor who ever served was
able to address you. I understand he made
my speech for me, and I wonder if he did
all right. Did he do okay? [Applause]
Thank you very much.
It must be very reassuring to you, as it
is to me, to have a man as Secretary of
Labor who understands what it means to
work for a living. Yesterday, I understand
Ray said it would make us feel more at
home if you had sawdust on the floor-
[laughter] but we understand you and
believe that our Nation will be better in
the future because of you.
I'm going to violate protocol, too, and
repeat something that my introducer has
already said. I don't want to change the
text of my speech. It shows that great
minds move in the same direction.
[Laughter] As a matter of fact, I want to
tell you three brief stories.
Back in 1976, at the Democratic Na-
tional Convention, as Bob Georgine said,
I had a long private talk with him, as the
new Democratic nominee for President.
As he said, I asked him, "What can I do,
Bob, for the building trades?" And I
never forgot his quick answer. He was
clear, to the point; he didn't equivocate.
He said, "Governor, my people need
jobs." I've not forgotten it. We were in
the midst of what was nothing less than
a depression for the construction industry.
When I took office, unemployment
among the building and construction
trades was averaging 15 percent, in
some areas 25 or 30 percent. It had been
that way for a long time. I felt then and
I feel now that we formed a partnership.
With your help, I was elected President,
and working with a Democratic Congress
and with you, we have created, since
January 1977, a net increase of 8½ mil-
lion jobs in the United States, an un-
precedented achievement in the history
of our country. I thank you for it. That
partnership has really paid off.
For all American workers, we've cut
the unemployment rate about 25 percent,
and I'm proud of that. But I'm even
prouder of the remarkable achievement
among those who look to you for leader-
ship, for the total unemployment rate
has dropped more than 40 percent. As a
matter of fact, among those 82 million
jobs, 1 million-more than a million have
been new construction jobs in just 30
months. There are more construction
workers on the job today than ever before
in history. Bob, we have delivered to-
gether, and we're not through yet.
In spite of some economic obstacles
which you and I recognize together, I in-
tend to preserve those construction jobs
and to get some more. That's the first
story I wanted to tell you about.
The second story involves another
labor leader who also happens to be here
with us today, and he was with me at
1866
