Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 8
We think that in Ireland we have a
special role to play in symbolizing the
common interests between the United
States and Europe, as well as the great
potential still to be tapped in an even
closer cooperation between the two con-
tinents.
Our island is roughly 200 miles wide,
300 miles long. We're close to the Euro-
pean mainland. We're the closest Euro-
pean country to the United States of
America. In fact, there are so many
parishes on the west coast of Ireland that
describe themselves as the nearest parish
to the United States-[laughter]—that
one outbids the other-I don't know yet
which is. But I think in my part of the
country, in the southwest of Cork, we can
claim that we really are the closest parish
to the United States. [Laughter]
Mr. President, your having spoken
from the back of an envelope, as I said,
I'd better not have any more recourse to
my script, except to say that we are glad
we have this opportunity of being here,
of being your official guests, glad of the
opportunity of representing the European
Economic Community here in Washing-
ton on this occasion.
Back at home we have some progress
to report; we have difficulties. We went
into these difficulties today with the Presi-
dent, with the Secretary of State, with the
Foreign Relations Committee of the
House and of the Senate. I believe one is
Foreign Relations and the other is Foreign
Affairs; I forget which is which.
But I was glad to see my old friend Tip
O'Neill there this afternoon, a man who
has given a great lead as far as insight
and understanding of the Irish situation
is concerned. We welcome that. You, Mr.
President, in August 1977, similarly
showed the same interest and the same
concern.
We're doing fairly well in Ireland. We
are proceeding economically. Our popula-
tion is increasing-which is unusual in
Europe at the present time—perhaps not
as much as we would like, as there's a
story about a lady who, having had six
children, people were wondering why she
didn't have the seventh. Somebody said
to her, "Well, you've produced six beau-
tiful children, terrific assets, a compliment
to the nation, and why don't you go
ahead?" She said, "No, nothing doing as
far as I'm concerned. I read the other
day that every seventh child born into
the world is a Chinese." [Laughter]
Notwithstanding that admonition, our
population is, happily, growing. And
more and more of our population are
staying at home, with the result that there
will be less Hobans, less O'Neills, perhaps
even Carters. I think there are about 120
Carters in the Irish telephone directory.
There are a few Lynchs. There was a
Lynch who in some way contributed to
the Declaration of Independence. But
there will be less Lynchs coming to the
United States in the future. We thank
God for that. We thank our association
with Europe, and as well, we thank Amer-
ican investment in our country.
Mr. President, I am delighted to be
with you. I'm delighted to be your guest.
I'm delighted that your mother has come
along to join us, because she proved so
popular in Ireland that people like me
who-[laughter]—we were getting wor-
ried about our own particular position,
vis-a-vis the electorate. In fact, your son
told us today, Miss Lillian, that you want
to go back there sometime soon and for a
longer period. We hope you do. And the
next time you come, will you please bring
your son? We'd like to have him as well.
[Laughter]
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,
I'd like you to join me now in a toast, a
toast to the President, Mrs. Carter, and
the people of this great nation, the
United States of America. As I said on
the White House lawn today, “Bail ó
Dhia ort féin agus ar do chuid oibre,"
2101
