Nov. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
From 1955 to 1957, Green was program
manager for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft.
From 1957 to 1961, he was supervisor of
nuclear and aerospace lubricants develop-
ment for Mobil Oil Company. From 1961
to 1962, he was chief of aircraft main-
tenance and armament for the U.S. Air
Force.
From 1963 to 1966, Green was an ex-
ecutive assistant at the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration, where
he worked on joint NASA-Defense De-
partment matters in the Office of the Ad-
ministrator. From 1966 to 1970, he was
manager of the Apollo Lunar Surface
Experiments program for NASA.
From 1970 to 1972, Green was opera-
tions deputy at the National Science
Foundation. Since 1972 he has been
Deputy Assistant Director of NSF, where
he has planned and directed the National
Solar and Geothermal Energy Research
and Development programs and managed
the Research Applied to National Needs
program.
Energy Security Corporation
and Synthetic Fuels Program
White House Statement on Senate
Action on Legislation.
November 7, 1979
The President this afternoon expressed
his pleasure at the Senate's actions in ap-
proving the initiation of a strong synthetic
fuels program and the establishment of an
energy security corporation.
"While there is much more work to be
done and further action in the House to
be completed," the President said, "the
Senate's actions ensure that there will be
a strong synthetic fuels program and a
significant institution to carry it out. I
congratulate Chairman Jackson, Senator
Johnston, and Senator Domenici for their
able and dedicated work.
"The critical conservation and gasohol
titles of the Senate Energy Committee
bill remain to be passed, and the adminis-
tration will continue its close cooperation
with congressional leaders in support of
this important legislation. The uncertain
nature of our energy supplies does not
need to be reemphasized; but today's
action, together with the continued steady
progress of the energy mobilization board
and the windfall profits tax, is a step
toward regaining control of our Nation's
future."
Welfare Cash Assistance Reform
Legislation
Statement on House of Representatives
Approval of the Legislation.
November 7, 1979
I want to commend Speaker Tip
O'Neill, Congressmen James Corman and
Charles Rangel, and the other Members
of the House of Representatives for the
passage this evening of my cash assistance
reform proposal.
This is a crucial step forward in the
Nation's 10-year effort to provide vitally
needed reform of the welfare system.
When enacted, this proposal will
-lift 2 million families above the pov-
erty line,
-provide added income for 1.6 million
elderly Americans by providing cash
payments instead of food stamp
eligibility,
-tighten and streamline administra-
tive requirements resulting in sav-
ings of hundreds of millions of dol-
lars, and,
-provide fiscal relief for States with
the heaviest welfare costs.
I look forward to speedy House con-
sideration of the companion jobs legisla-
tion, which is critically important to our
2092
