Sept. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The WTC Protocol extends that Con-
vention until June 30, 1981, maintains
the framework for international coopera-
tion in wheat trade matters, and con-
tinues the existence of the International
Wheat Council.
The FAC Protocol extends until
June 30, 1981, the parties' commitments
to provide minimum annual quantities of
food aid to developing countries.
Declarations of Provisional Applica-
tion of both Protocols were deposited by
the United States on July 15, 1979, thus
permitting the United States to continue
full and active participation in the Inter-
national Wheat Council and Food Aid
Committee. This step was necessary to
reduce the risk of expiration of the Inter-
national Wheat Agreement. The WTC
Protocol requires deposit of instruments
of ratification or declarations of provi-
sional application by June 22, 1979, on
behalf of governments of wheat-exporting
member nations holding at least 60 per-
cent of the exporter votes and on behalf
of importing member nations holding at
least 50 percent of importer votes for the
extension to enter into force on July 1,
1979. The FAC Protocol requires entry
into force of the WTC Protocol and de-
posit of instruments of ratification or pro-
visional application by all Parties by
June 22.
I hope that the Senate will give early
and favorable consideration to the two
Protocols so that ratification by the
United States can be effected at an early
date. Doing so will demonstrate our con-
tinued commitment to cooperation on
international wheat trade matters and to
providing food aid to needy developing
nations.
The White House,
September 11, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
National Hunting and
Fishing Day, 1979
Proclamation 4682. September 11, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The millions of hunting and fishing li-
censes issued each year reflect a wide-
spread appreciation of the healthy recrea-
tion, peaceful solitude and closeness to
nature these pursuits offer.
America's hunters and fishermen have
long been leaders in the conservation
movement. They understand the impor-
tance of clean air, good water and ade-
quate habitat for wildlife. They support
those goals through the purchase of li-
censes and the payment of taxes on hunt-
ing and fishing equipment. They and the
organizations that represent them are also
effective leaders in the promotion of fire-
arm and boating safety.
It is appropriate that we recognize all
of these contributions by the observance
of a National Hunting and Fishing Day.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Ameri-
ca, do hereby designate Saturday, Sep-
tember 22, 1979, and the fourth Saturday
of September in each succeeding year, as
National Hunting and Fishing Day.
I urge all of our citizens to join with
outdoor sportsmen in the wise use and
management of our natural resources.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:40 p.m., September 11, 1979]
1626
