Oct. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
many fond memories. Your friendship and
support through the years has made it
possible for me to stand here today. More
important, your hard work and your loy-
alty to the dreams we've shared together
have led to many accomplishments and
have made it possible for me to dream
now of still greater accomplishments in
the service of this Nation we all love so
much.
I'm grateful also to my family-to my
mother and mother-in-law, who were not
able to be here today, to my brother and
sisters, to my children, Angela and Kevin,
but most of all to my wife, Donna Lou,
who knows only too well the many sacri-
fices that a life of public service demands,
for this is an area that I have in common
with you, Mr. President, for we're both in-
deed fortunate to be given the privilege to
share our lives with two people like Rosa-
lynn and Donna Lou.
And above all I'm grateful to my Cre-
ator for favoring me with such friends
and such a family, and the privilege to live
in such a nation, and with this and all the
many opportunities I've had to help my
fellow man. And I pray for His continued
guidance in fulfilling the responsibilities I
assume today.
Those responsibilities are not small by
any means. More and more we are coming
to realize the crucial importance of inter-
national trade to the economy and to the
future of the United States and, yes, to
the world.
With the personal leadership of Presi-
dent Carter and despite imposing obsta-
cles-for when he says that the MTN was
all but considered dead when he took over
as President, I'm telling you he is exactly
right. Bob Strauss knows he's right. Bob
Strauss and his group visited seven capi-
tals in 2 days, even to the point of getting
Prime Ministers to come to airports, try-
ing to emphasize the importance of doing
this, and doing this in a meaningful way,
and of the personal commitment of the
President of the United States.
And when he talked to me about as-
suming this responsibility, it was a high
priority that he placed in this area, for he
stated time and time again that one
of his highest legislative priorities was
the passage of the trade agreements. And
frankly, it was a foresight initiative of the
Congress of the United States and pre-
paring it in such a way that it could take
place like it did.
So, I feel that I have the privilege to
come here in a success story. And I really
do, frankly, get a little disturbed that
it's not better understood of what exactly
this success story can mean and will mean
to the United States. And without the te-
nacity of Jimmy Carter and Robert
Strauss it simply would not have hap-
pened.
This accomplishment is a tribute to this
country, for what you have seen-you
have seen a Congress that, over the years,
has worked so hard in this area. You saw
a legislative branch of government and an
executive branch of government come to-
gether, joining the private sector in what
I believe is really an example of how this
country should and can work. For as I
told the Trade Advisory Committee a few
moments ago, the single biggest thing that
sticks out in my mind, over this whole
effort, has been the meaningful input of
the private sector of this country. And so,
I want to commit myself, not only to the
Congress but to the private sector of this
country, that we're going to continue this
relationship. And as the President's Trade
1810
