Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
be talking about issues of peace, control-
ling nuclear weapons. We'll be talking
about the strength of our country, the
unity which, when it binds us together,
has always been enough to meet any
chal-
lenge or to overcome any problem or to
answer any question.
and together we can make it even greater
in the future.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:55 a.m. from
the deck of the Delta Queen.
In the past when our country has been
challenged, almost always it's been obvi- Burlington, Iowa
ous to everyone. We could understand the
First World War or the Second World
War or the Great Depression, and we rec-
ognized that our country was in trouble,
in danger, and we all worked together-
our families, our communities, our Na-
tion was unified.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Town Meeting. August 22, 1979
Now we have a serious problem because
we rely too much on foreign oil. We im-
port about half of all the oil we use. We
need to become more energy-secure, be-
cause our Nation's security is threatened.
Everyone can help. We have to do two
things: One is, save energy, don't waste
energy. Every American can decide how
to accomplish this goal in your driving, at
your home, at your job-how to save
energy.
And the other, of course, is to produce
more energy in our own country—oil, gas,
coal, geothermal supplies, gasohol in
Iowa. We can also use more solar energy.
These are the kind of things we can all do.
Farmers have a great opportunity to
help with the energy problem, and, of
course, no one can come to Iowa without
realizing that you have the most wonder-
fully productive land on Earth and one
of our greatest blessings that God's given
us in this Nation, this beautiful land to
produce food and fiber for ourselves and
for all the world. I'm very happy to be
back. I'm very happy to be back at Bur-
lington.
Thank all of you for coming out. We
love every one of you.
We have the greatest country on Earth,
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
thank my good friend, Senator John Cul-
ver, one of the greatest representatives in
the Senate, and a man who, every day,
every minute of his life, is concerned about
carving out a better life for the people
whom he represents here in Iowa. John
Culver, thank you very much.
I also want to recognize a man whom I
believe to be the finest Secretary of Agri-
culture this country has ever known, Bob
Bergland. Bob, thank you for coming.
And this will be a surprise to him, but
I have to say that Burlington, Iowa, is es-
pecially blessed to have one of the finest
newspapers in the United States, and one
of the greatest editors, John McCormally,
with the Hawk Eye.
This last 3 or 4 days has been a period
in
my life and in the life of Rosalynn and
Amy which we will obviously never for-
get. It's been an inspiration to us, not only
to see the beauty of the Midwest and the
majesty of the Mississippi River, but also
the friendship and the commitment and
the interest and the unity and the dedica-
tion of the people who've come to the
banks of this great river to make us feel
welcome, and to express your apprecia-
tion for the Government of our country.
We do, indeed, have a great nation, the
greatest nation on Earth. I hope you agree
with that statement. [Applause]
1494
