Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 25
dicted that he would be the next Presi-
dent, beginning in 1977. His judgment
was not very good then.
And now I'm ready for the next ques-
tion. [Laughter]
PRESIDENT'S HEALTH; SECRETARY OF
ENERGY
Q. Sir, could you please tell me about
your pick of Mr. Duncan as the new
Energy Secretary?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. That's the second in a line of En-
ergy Secretaries from the Defense Depart-
ment. Is this a signal to the American peo-
ple that the White House is going to be
taking control of energy decisions, sir, and
that in fact the Energy Department is go-
ing to be taking a second place? And also,
sir, there has been some concern on your
health in the recent months? Could you
please comment on that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. I feel perfectly
healthy.
The President is the one who makes the
basic decisions on policy of the adminis-
tration, whether it be in health, education,
welfare, transportation, housing, energy,
defense, foreign affairs. The President,
and all my predecessors seek-all of us
seek the widest possible area of consulta-
tion and advice, because we desperately
want to make the right decisions for our
country. That's my motivation.
Jim Schlesinger, the present Secretary
of Energy, has done an excellent job in
putting together a new department under
the most difficult circumstances and put-
ting through Congress the major parts of
an energy program that he and I shaped
along with the help of many others early
in 1977, more than 2 years ago. About 65
percent of that package was passed in No-
vember of 1978. At that time, Secretary
Schlesinger asked that he be permitted to
step down. I asked him to stay on, to help
me during this session of the Congress. In
February he asked again that he be per-
mitted to step down. Since we had not
passed any legislation at that time, because
of the efforts of the oil lobby concerning
oil, I wanted Jim Schlesinger to stay and
help me evolve and present to the Con-
gress the program that I have just outlined
to the American people.
Now I've decided to let Jim Schlesinger
step down as Secretary of Energy. The
change will be made in an orderly fashion.
The transition will be done methodically
and properly, as soon as Charles Duncan
is confirmed.
Charles Duncan is an outstanding man-
ager. He has done an absolutely superb job
as [Deputy] ¹ Secretary of Defense. I con-
sider him to be qualified to be Secretary of
any department in the Government,´ in-
cluding that of Defense. I asked him to
take the Energy Department, because I
think at this point it does need to begin to
implement the programs that Congress
has already passed and will be passing this
year. He's a tough, competent manager.
In addition to doing a good job in De-
fense, he's also had a superb career, edu-
cational background, and experience in
the management of some of the largest
responsibilities in the free enterprise sys-
tem of our country. I have no doubt that
he will do an equally good job as Secretary
of Energy.
HAMILTON JORDAN
Q. Mr. President, sir, what qualifica-
tions does Hamilton Jordan have, aside
from the loyalty to you, to be chief of
staff in the White House, and to what
extent will he be making decisions at a
level below your level?
¹ Printed in the transcript.
1305
