Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
this country, and I owe that debt to
myself.
As a Democrat and as President, I'm
not afraid; in fact, I look forward to
tough political fights and with your
help, we will not lose those fights ahead.
This has been the approach of the Demo-
cratic Party, and this has been the ap-
proach of our country to major challenges
in the past.
Whenever our Nation has been in dan-
ger, whenever we have seen our Nation
being tested, Americans have put aside
differences, have put aside trepidation
and fear, have reached our hands out to
one another, have joined in together and
have approached the future with deter-
mination and with confidence. That must
always be our commitment, as it must be
in times like these.
The energy crisis, the inflation crisis, is
not as easy to see as the First World War
or the Second World War or the Great
Depression. But at the same time, our
Nation's security is in danger.
At times serving as President can be a
lonely job, but a President, particularly a
Democratic President, does not stay lonely
on a trip to Chicago, especially when
you're with Jane Byrne and 12,000 friends
of hers and great leaders on your own.
I'll still be with you when I'm back in
Washington. I'll still be working with
Mayor Byrne, with George Dunne, with
Frank Annunzio, Danny Rostenkowski,
and all the other good Democrats and
Republicans who are here representing
Chicago.
We'll be working together to tap that
great reservoir of strength in America-
the same spirit that's brought us together
in time of war and depression, that can
reunite us again to meet any challenge and
to prevail.
When Pope John Paul spoke to a mil-
lion and a half Chicagoans in Grant Park,
he saw in you a picture of America-a
nation formed of many people, each with
a different history, but together creating
something new each day. I share that
beautiful vision of Chicago and of
America. And our common prayer will
be that we will return to the basic and
unchanging values that have made this
country great.
I pledge to you as President to lead this
Nation-all of our people—to realize that
vision so that our most fervent prayers for
each other and for our great country will
be answered as God has answered them
in the past.
Thank you very much. God bless all of
you.
NOTE: The following morning, the President
attended a private reception at the residence of
Mayor Byrne.
Commissioner of Patents and
Trademarks
Nomination of Sidney A. Diamond.
October 15, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Sidney A. Diamond,
of Tucson, Ariz., to be Commissioner of
Patents and Trademarks. He would re-
place Donald Banner, who has resigned
from the Commission.
Diamond, 64, is currently counsel to
the New York City firm of Kaye, Scholer,
Fierman, Hays & Handler and vice presi-
dent of the International Patent and
Trademark Association, the American
group of the International Association for
the Protection of Industrial Property.
He was born October 17, 1914, in New
York City. He received an A.B. from
Dartmouth College in 1935 and an LL.B.
from Harvard Law School in 1938.
Diamond practiced law in New York
1938
