Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 24
produce synthetic fuels. The Government
would just provide a reservoir of guar-
anteed purchases at a guaranteed price
so that the private enterprise system,
without interference from the Govern-
ment, could go ahead and begin the pro-
duction of synthetic fuels, knowing that
they would have a market when their
product was finally produced.
And, of course, the basis for all this is
the windfall profits tax, a well-balanced
tax. The House has already passed it. The
Senate is now considering what form it
should take. We cannot afford to see this
tax decimated or aborted or changed in
nature.
This comprehensive approach will give
us an energy package which will reward
the private enterprise system, reduce gov-
ernment intrusion, give the oil companies
and other energy companies a chance to
increase production of available United
States supplies, cut down on our torrent
of foreign oil coming into this country,
give us jobs in our Nation, instead of
overseas, and give us energy security.
That's a package that we need. That's a
package that we're going to have, pro-
vided I can get some good partners who
have the courage and the dedication
and a patriotic motivation to fight with
me.
My question to you is: Will you join
me as partners in getting a comprehen-
sive energy policy for our country that
will guard our Nation's security and give
us a greater America, even than the one
we've already got, which is already the
greatest nation on Earth? Will you do
that for me? [Applause]
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:13 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Terryl Bechtol,
national president of the Jaycees.
United Nations
Nomination of William J. vanden Heuvel To
Be Deputy U.S. Representative.
September 24, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate William J. vanden
Heuvel, of New York City, to be Deputy
Representative of the United States to the
United Nations with the rank of Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
He would replace James F. Leonard, who
has been appointed Chief of the U.S. Mis-
sion to the Middle East Peace Negotia-
tions and Deputy to Ambassador Robert
Strauss.
Vanden Heuvel has been Representa-
tive of the United States to the European
Office of the United Nations since 1977.
He was born April 14, 1930, in Roches-
ter, N.Y. He received a B.A. in 1950 from
Cornell University and an LL.B. in 1952
from Cornell Law School.
From 1952 to 1957, vanden Heuvel was
an associate in the law firm of Leisure,
Newton and Irvin. In 1953 and 1954, he
was executive assistant to Ambassador to
Thailand William J. Donovan. In 1958
he served as special counsel to Gov.
Averell Harriman.
From 1959 to 1961, vanden Heuvel was
an associate in the law firm of Javits,
Moore and Trubin. In 1963 and 1964, he
was special assistant to Attorney General
Robert F. Kennedy. He served as Acting
Regional Administrator for the Office of
Economic Opportunity in 1964 and 1965.
Vanden Heuvel was with the New York
law firm of Stroock and Stroock and
Lavan from 1965 to 1977. In 1967 he was
vice president of the New York State Con-
stitutional Convention. He served as
chairman of the New York City Board of
1725
