June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
try in our own individual lives and our
own individual achievements.
Although many things change in a mod-
ern world with jet airplanes and televi-
sion, the most important things do not
change-love in a family, honesty, friend-
ship among people, a desire for peace, a
respect for one another, the beauty of na-
ture, the reaching for a better life for
children than parents had-those kinds
of things never change. And I'm very
glad to be part of Shimoda today and to
have your questions covering such a wide
range of interest.
I hope that through television, the peo-
ple of Japan will see that what started
here 125 years ago as the first little tiny
seed of friendship between our two coun-
tries has now grown into an enormous
tree of very wonderful friendship that can
be an inspiration to our own people and
an inspiration to peace-loving and free-
dom-loving people around the world.
I'm very proud and thankful to be with
you, and I thank you for a chance to let
me hear from you and to let you hear my
voice as a leader of a great nation visiting
the people of another great nation.
And now I would like to make a pres-
entation to your community, and I'd like
for the mayor and other officials to come
to the stage, if they will.
While I'm here at the microphone, I
would like to say that this is a plaque
I wrote some words very carefully on the
plane coming over to Japan, and they've
now been inscribed on this plaque—and
I hope it will remind you of my visit with
you. And now I'd like to go over and un-
veil the plaque, which you might keep in
your own community.
I might read it. It says, "Here in Shi-
moda, friendship between the Japanese
and the American people first took root
and flowered. We have built together a
lasting friendship based on trust and un-
derstanding. Our partnership offers hope
that all peoples will one day learn to live
together in brotherhood, prosperity and
peace." And it's signed Jimmy Carter.
Thank you very much.
MAYOR AOKI. We have just received
this message commemorating the Presi-
dent's visit to Shimoda, and also this is a
replica that shall be kept in our minds
forever. And I would like to thank you
from the bottom of my heart, Mr.
President.
I would also like to take this opportu-
nity to say a few words of thanks.
Commodore Perry led the flagship fleet
and surprised the citizens of Shimoda.
Thanks to that, the doors to Japan were
opened and the foundation for modern
Japan was established.
President Jimmy Carter of the United
States of America has led the fleet of Mrs.
Carter and Amy, your most loved child, to
come to Shimoda. On the 27th of June
1979, a new bridge of friendship starts
in this small town of Shimoda, and in
front of us, President Carter stands with
us, sharing the same feeling and breathing
the same air with us.
The United States of America and
Japan have come so close together, so
friendly, and we have established such
great mutual understanding, and I would
like to thank you for this wonderful town
meeting. The great honor bestowed on us
today will be handed down for posterity
forever.
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy,
let us meet each other again once more in
Shimoda.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 a.m. in the
Shimoda Middle School gymnasium, following
an introduction by Mayor Yoshio Aoki. The
participants in the town meeting spoke in
Japanese, and their remarks were translated by
an interpreter.
Following his tour of Gyokusen-Ji Temple,
the President returned to Tokyo.
1180
