Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 29
tage in a time of transient shortage or
transient inconvenience.
We've been blessed not only with re-
serve supplies of energy; we've been
blessed with a form of government that
makes us quickly sensitive to the needs
and demands of the American people; and
we've been blessed with the free enter-
prise system, which encourages innovation,
dynamism, competition, and flexibility.
So, we have everything on our side.
And with the passage of the proposals
that I submitted to the Congress in April
of 1977 and again in July of this year, our
country will have the framework, with a
comprehensive energy policy based on fi-
nancing with the windfall profits tax, to
meet this challenge successfully.
There is no reason for us to fear. We're
going through a temporary time of incon-
venience and rapid change. We were not
adequately prepared for it by past action,
but now we understand the problem much
better.
are,
in
My only plea to you in closing is this:
that we not be divided one from another,
that we not be confused or deluded, that
we not dream of the restoration of past
times when oil was plentiful and cheap.
It'll never come back. The chances
the future, that oil will be less plentiful,
and it's certain that oil will be more ex-
pensive. But we can accommodate this
change, because God has given us such
tremendous blessings in our free Nation,
an opportunity to cooperate. And we
should not be distracted by allegations of
impropriety among those who occupy
positions of leadership.
We all have the same motivations: to
have a nation strong, competent, united,
determined, concerned about those who
are less fortunate than we, recognizing
that we are a world leader, and recogniz-
ing that our Nation must be secure. All
these goals can be achieved if we work to-
gether, and I have no doubt that you and
I together and other Americans who share
our common purpose can assure, without
further delay, that we will make the great-
est nation on Earth even greater in the
future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:20 a.m. in
the Grand Ballroom at the Biltmore Plaza
Hotel.
The summit was sponsored by the Coalition
of Northeastern Governors.
Cranston, Rhode Island
Remarks at a Governor's Reception for Civic
and Community Leaders. October 29, 1979
Governor Garrahy, Senator Pell, Senator
Chafee, Congressman St Germain, my
good friend John Pastore, ladies and gen-
tlemen:
It's an honor for me to be here.
I think that one of the best things we
can do is to learn. Senator Pastore is a
man-a son of Cranston, a statesman
from Rhode Island-who was elected
Governor twice, elected to the U.S. Sen-
ate four times. He gave reelection a good
name. [Laughter] He's truly an inspira-
tion to me. [Laughter] And I want to
thank him for being here, and all of you.
Harry Truman also said that anyone
who pays too much to personal popularity
or who makes decisions that affect the
well-being of our Nation on the basis of
public opinion polls is not worthy to be
President of this country. It's nice to have
both-[laughter]—to do what's right, to
do what's correct, just, and also to be
popular. He couldn't do it, and I've not
found it possible either.
In April of 1977, when I went to you
on television and to the Congress in a
Joint Session, I pointed out in my evening
television address that to present a com-
prehensive energy policy to the Congress
for adoption would undoubtedly cost me
15 percentage points in the public opinion
2059
