Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
To make these programs happen, the
public and private sectors are cooperat-
ing to provide special aims-parking and
cost incentives for van- and carpoolers;
properly spec'd, long-lasting equipment
designed for low-speed, continuing shuttle,
to reduce maintenance and operating
costs; variable work hours, flex-time, to
reduce peak pressure on transit facilities;
encouragement for appropriate bicycle
use; and rediscovering how to walk down
our new pedestrian malls.
For the future, we are looking to help
St. Paulites with areawide matchups for
carpools, shared-ride taxis, dial-a-ride for
the handicapped, additional shelters at
fringe parking lots, and extensive infor-
mation programs.
Our public and private cooperation
comes from our common desire to build
the St. Paul of tomorrow, through the best
and most economical use of public and pri-
vate funds and people time.
Looking further into the future, we
have been considering a peoplemover;
light-rail transit; computer-controlled
traffic management; expanded use of
buses, jitney, small bus, and schoolbus to
replace car use during the middle of the
day.
Mr. President, all of us have benefited
from public support at the local, State,
and Federal level, both in funding and in
personal commitment. We look forward
to continued cooperation. The private
sector of business and labor here in St.
Paul wants to show through all of these
efforts what we can do for ourselves.
Thank you, Mr. President.
ST. PAUL ENERGY PARK
MAYOR LATIMER. Next is Allen Boyce,
who is the president of the Citizens
League, which, Mr. President, is an ex-
traordinary, not-for-profit group of citi-
zens who research every level of govern-
ment in the major issues, as well as being
an employee of the Burlington-Northern
Railroad. Allen will talk to us about the
potential of the energy park in St. Paul.
Mr. Boyce.
MR. BOYCE. Mr. President, I'm very
glad that you decided to begin your trip
here in St. Paul. I think it's particularly
appropriate on a trip revolving around
the energy issue that you begin in a cen-
tral city like St. Paul, which is inherently
energy-efficient. This is because of the
proximity within our city of our facili-
ties for shopping and work, recreation,
and housing.
And I think here in St. Paul we have
the opportunity to take this inherent ad-
vantage one step further. What we have--
and I think this is rather unique—is a site
of approximately 250 acres of land right
in the heart of our metropolitan area,
halfway between the downtowns of Min-
neapolis and St. Paul, which is available
for development. This area presently con-
tains a coke plant, which has recently shut
down, an under-used stadium, and a
great deal of vacant land. What we see
here is the potential for the development
of what we call an energy park. This
would be an area which would demon-
strate new techniques for combining
energy-efficient light industry, housing,
transportation, and the production of
energy itself.
We foresee a public-private corporation
which would be established to develop
the following types of facilities, all in one
complex: high-density, energy-efficient
housing; an office industrial park for
energy-related industries; an energy re-
search and development center in connec-
tion with the University of Minnesota; a
solid waste recovery plant to make use of
some of the wastes generated in the com-
plex; a hot water district heating system
which could potentially produce both
electricity and then, through cogenera-
1460
