Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 20
94,000 schools across the country. They
determine whether the cafeteria is a
pleasant and welcoming place, whether
the food served is actually eaten, whether
children come to think of good nutrition
as punishment or pleasure.
In recognition of the School Lunch
Program's contribution to America's
youth, the Congress, by a joint resolution
of October 9, 1962 (76 Stat. 779; 36
U.S.C. 168), has designated the week be-
ginning the second Sunday of October in
each year as National School Lunch
Week, and has requested the President
to issue annually a proclamation calling
for its appropriate observance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby urge the people of the United
States to observe the week of October 14,
1979, as National School Lunch Week
and give special attention to activities that
will promote good nutrition for America's
youth.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:29 p.m., September 20, 1979]
Emergency Board To Investigate
a Railway Labor Dispute
Remarks Announcing Establishment of
the Board. September 20, 1979
I have an announcement to make about
the Rock Island Railroad.
I'm today appointing an emergency
board, under the Railway Labor Act, to
intervene in the labor dispute that has
crippled the Rock Island Railroad since
August 27.
This strike is having a severe, adverse
economic effect on farmers throughout
the Central United States. Processing
mills for grain are already shutting down,
and within 2 weeks the marketing of what
promises to be a record grain crop could
be genuinely threatened. If the grain does
not begin to move on schedule with the
harvest, not only would there be economic
loss to the farmers and an employment
loss in the grain-processing industry, but
ultimately the consumers would be
affected by higher food prices as well.
The purpose of this action is to get the
trains rolling again in a matter of days
and to start moving grain that has already
been piling up in the large areas of the
Midwest served by the Rock Island Rail-
road line.
Because the Rock Island is critically
short of cash, it's probable that the rail-
road will not be able to restore service on
its own, even with this action. To meet
that difficulty, I'm asking the Interstate
Commerce Commission to take the steps
needed to permit other railroads to employ
Rock Island employees and workers to
maintain service.
I'm taking these strong actions, because
we absolutely must mobilize all our trans-
portation resources for the movement of
grain during this period of record-break-
ing grain harvests and also record-break-
ing demands for grain exports. Not only
our farmers but also the consumers of
grain-both here within our own country
and, indeed, throughout the world-
simply must be protected.
I've acted because the normal process
for settling labor disputes has broken
down, primarily as a result of the likeli-
hood that Rock Island will not be able to
reorient its services because of financial
difficulties. And we must restore this serv-
1695
