Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 7
country has already committed a major
share of the total international effort. We
are ready to do more. We have no political
motives. We have one single commitment,
and that is to stop the suffering and the
starvation among these unfortunate
people. This trip, we hope, will increase
both the public and private commitment
to alleviate suffering there.
Rosalynn and Jean and Dr. Richmond,
our hearts and our prayers go with you.
And we look forward to this weekend,
when you return, for a means by which
our Nation can be reinspired to assist
in every possible way the people who are
suffering so deeply.
Would you like to say just a word?
MRS. CARTER. This is a tragic situation,
and our whole country is concerned. I
want to go also to see what every Ameri-
can can do to help.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:26 a.m. on the
South Lawn of the White House.
Indochinese Refugees in the
United States
Announcement of Improved Health Screening
and Medical Care for U.S.-Bound Refugees.
November 7, 1979
The Public Health Service (PHS) has
assigned 11 public health professionals to
Southeast Asia to improve health screen-
ing and medical care for U.S.-bound ref-
ugees.
The professionals, six of whom are phy-
sicians, are assisting the Intergovern-
mental Committee for European Migra-
tion with screening and the World Health
Organization with providing medical
care. They have been sent within the past
month to locations in Thailand, Indone-
sia, Malaysia, Hong Kong, and Singapore.
Earlier this year, the President an-
nounced that the United States would
double to 14,000 the number of Indo-
chinese refugees allowed to enter the
country each month. Assignment of the
public health professionals will help as-
sure continued success in avoiding any
significant outbreak of communicable dis-
ease among resettled refugees in this
country.
The Public Health Service, in coopera-
tion with the Immigration and Natural-
ization Service, the Department of State,
and voluntary refugee resettlement agency
representatives abroad, is also taking steps
to assure that adequate records are kept
for all medical screening procedures, find-
ings, and treatments, and establish a sys-
tem for collecting and analyzing data to
measure the incidence of disease and
health and immunization status.
In addition, PHS has increased its staff
at affected U.S. ports of entry and has in-
stituted systems for forwarding medical
records to the refugees' destinations. In
this country PHS is assessing the health
status of refugees and helping them find
a continuing source of health care in their
new communities.
Federal Emergency Management
Agency
Nomination of Richard J. Green To Be an
Associate Director. November 7, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Richard J. Green, of Brick-
town, N.J., to be an Associate Director
of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, a new position. Green has been
Deputy Assistant Director of the National
Science Foundation since 1972.
He was born April 15, 1928, in Newark,
N.J. He received a B.S. in biology from
Holy Cross College in 1949 and an M.S.
in physics from Fordham University in
1955.
2091
