Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
paid for out of the windfall profits tax,
which Congress is already considering.
In addition, we'll be expanding the
weatherization program to improve homes
and to make them more efficient in con-
serving energy.
I want to explain one thing very clearly,
because misinformation is being spread
among the American people. And I want
you to listen to this.
We are working very closely with Mex-
ico and Canada. The total quantity of
production and export of oil and gas from
Mexico is obviously a decision to be made
by the people and the Government of
Mexico. But we now purchase more than
80 percent of all the oil exported by Mex-
ico-more than 80 percent. We are now
negotiating a new agreement to purchase
the natural gas which Mexico will be
willing to export.
Although Canada's oil production will
be steadily dropping during the next few
years, we will continue to share hydro-
electric power and other energy sources
with our neighbor to the north. One major
project will be the new pipeline to be
built from Alaska through Canada to
bring natural gas to the lower 48 States.
By 1985 Alaskan and Canadian natural
gas can displace almost 700,000 barrels
of imported oil per day. The North Slope
producers have dragged their feet in help-
ing to finance a pipeline needed to bring
that gas to market. I've instructed the
Secretary of Energy to call them in and
get them going, and I will insist person-
ally that this gas pipeline be built without
further delay.
We are and we will continue to be a
good customer, a good neighbor, and a
good trading partner with both Mexico
and with Canada.
This Nation will need to rely on a
broad range of energy sources. The hard
fact is that we depend on nuclear power
now for 13 percent of all the electricity
consumed in the United States.
A few communities-for instance, Chi-
cago-derive more than 50 percent of all
their electricity from nuclear power-
plants. The recommendations of Ke-
meny Commission
Commission investigating the
Three Mile Island incident will help us
to ensure safety, but nuclear power must
play an important role in the United
States to ensure our energy future.
In June I set an ambitious but impor-
tant goal for meeting 20 percent of the
Nation's energy needs from the Sun by
the year 2000. With steeply rising OPEC
prices and greater supply uncertainties,
attainment of this goal is more important
than it ever was. No cartel can control
the price of solar power. No country can
embargo solar power.
We've already tripled our Federal in-
vestment in solar energy, and the new
solar bank that I have proposed will per-
mit all Americans to join in making wide-
spread solar power use a reality.
The actions that I've already taken
with Congress the last 2 years will reduce
our projected imports of foreign oil by
4 million barrels per day. The new ac-
tions I've described for you last night and
today will save us an additional 4½ mil-
lion barrels of oil, foreign oil, a day below
what we are presently consuming, by the
year 1990. I'm going to keep these initia-
tives moving, and every one of us, public
official and private citizen, must keep up
this pressure for progress.
Our basic strategy is as clear as it can
be. Together you and I and every Ameri-
can are simply going to change the way
this society creates and uses its energy.
And as we do, we're going to find our-
selves growing stronger, more free, and
more confident at home and around the
world.
1245
