Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
would like to point out that this is really
and genuinely a bipartisan program, and
I'm grateful for it.
Pete Williams, the Senator from New
Jersey, is chairman of the Subcommittee
on Housing and Urban Development.
He's been one of those who has helped
to initiate the UDAG program and has
been in the forefront of housing, urban
development long before I became Presi-
dent. I'm very grateful to Pete for not
only his help with proposals that I made
but also the initiative that he has shown
in channeling his own ideas into the ad-
ministrative process and through Con-
gress, in legislation passed.
I'd like to introduce now, Senator Pete
Williams.
SENATOR WILLIAMS. Thank you very
much, Mr. President and Secretary Harris,
Secretary Landrieu, Mayor Maier, and
my colleague here on the platform, Lud
Ashley, and colleagues in the room, ladies
and gentlemen:
Everybody here can be called an ally in
urban revitalization. It's, of course, a very,
very happy anniversary-second anniver-
sary of UDAG―celebration for all of us.
We remember 2 years ago this week
that UDAG became law, signaling a new
and exciting initiative in urban revitaliza-
tion, a new partnership between private
enterprise and government, designed to
deal with one of the most complex prob-
lems our society faces, this kind of partner-
ship, which you, Mr. President, have
articulated so well in the urban policy
initiatives you have presented to Congress
that represents the best hope for our dis-
tressed cities. And by cities, we don't mean
monolithic institutions; we're talking
about people.
Mr. President, I can tell you firsthand
how much UDAG does mean to people.
Earlier this year, I toured Newark's
neighborhood improvement program, a
UDAG project-by the end of next year,
will result in the rehabilitation of 1,500
homes.
Newark had become a classic example
of the decline-physical and spiritual-of
a major city. But my most vivid recollec-
tion very recently in Newark is not of
rebuilt buildings and we have a lot of
them but the vividness that comes back
to me is being there to observe and to feel,
to sense the rebuilding of lives. Resident
after resident came to me truly expressing
joy. It was an outpouring of gratitude for
the help that they have received. And over
and over they said that this program
meant the difference between continued
wretched living or a life in a wholesome,
decent, and, to say it again, joyful en-
vironment.
So, Mr. President, I extend to you their
thanks. They are representative of people
throughout our country that have had this
opportunity under UDAG, in cities large
and small.
So, there is a new sense of revival and
progress for communities that have been
plagued by economic decline. Mr. Pres-
ident, as you and Secretary Harris worked
so hard to get this program underway,
your leadership brought us all together.
You can be so very proud of its achieve-
ments.
And I want to say, looking ahead, when
UDAG comes up for reauthorization next
year, I look forward to working with you,
with Secretary Landrieu, Lud Ashley, to
ensure that this vitally important tool re-
mains available to our communities that
need it so much.
THE PRESIDENT. I wish everybody
could see the expression on Tom Mar-
saro's face. Tom, raise your hand. Raise
your hand, keep it up.
Tom happens to be the young, very
competent man who's in charge of the
particular project in Newark-and others,
1972
