Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 24
who are mayors, and the staffs who have
supported us and worked so hard-it's a
pleasure to be here on all of their behalfs.
I did not travel a particularly long
road to come here. My age, I think, is wit-
ness to that fact. But I come through a
very, I guess, traditional route. I am a
graduate of public education in the
United States, a public education af-
forded by the taxpayers of my communi-
ties and the communities all over our
land. To a Congress which has, for so
long, appropriated the funds to make it
possible for people like myself to go to
school and to aspire to high office and to
serve my country, you have my deep
thanks. To my family, which has come
with me today and to whom I owe so
much, I guess they already understand
how I feel.
I hope that the promise of these years
can be fulfilled. And I have given the
President my pledge, and I will give it to
all of you-friends and those that I hope
to meet as I travel and move about the
United States on the President's behalf-
that I will do everything in my power to
make life in the United States a good one
for all of those to whom I owe a best
effort.
There has been much written about
how difficult these times are. And for
those of us who got our education not on
the battlefields of Europe, but on the bat-
tlefields of Mississippi, those of us who
got our understanding of higher educa-
tion in the free speech movement in Cali-
fornia, and for those of us who have had
our beliefs challenged by Vietnam, every-
thing in the future looks bright, looks
hopeful, and looks possible.
And I look forward to working with
everybody in this country who feels as I
do-and I think that's just about every-
body—that they wouldn't live anyplace
on the Earth before they'd live in Amer-
ica, to keep building, to keep growing,
and keep loving.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. And now the Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
SECRETARY LANDRIEU. Thank you, Mr.
President, Mrs. Carter, Mr. Vice Presi-
dent.
Neil Goldschmidt has always had a
great capacity for brevity and for express-
ing precisely what's on his mind. I've
never had that particular talent.
[Laughter]
Mr. President, first I want to thank
you for giving me the opportunity to serve
once again. It's a great privilege to be
back in the Government and to be work-
ing with those who are laboring to rebuild
urban America. And I couldn't be more
honored myself than to be sworn in with
a man such as Neil Goldschmidt, a man
whom I admired from the first moment
that I met him. He bristles with energy
and intelligence and with commitment.
It always struck me as a marvelous
thing that Neil Goldschmidt, as a young
man far removed from the South, took
time out from his duties to go into the
freedom marches during the great civil
rights crusades. We've been very, very
warm friends, and I'm honored to be serv-
ing with you, Neil. As a matter of fact, he's
probably the outstanding mayor in the
country, unless you walked in the audi-
ence and shook hands with John Rousakis
or with John Olivier from Sunset-
[laughter] or with the 50 or so other
mayors who are out there.
Just one word about urban America. I
read the other day on a plaque that Sec-
retary Weaver had placed on the HUD
building when it was dedicated, and this
is what he said, and I think it's important
to recollect this. He said, "Today we're
engaged in rebuilding the urban areas of
1721
