Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 8
Visit of Prime Minister Lynch
of Ireland
Press Statement. November 8, 1979
The President met today with Prime
Minister Jack Lynch of Ireland. Prime
Minister Lynch, in addition to being the
Head of Government of Ireland, is for the
last half of 1979 also the President of the
European Council of Heads of State or of
Government of the Nine countries of the
European Community.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed the close relations between their
two countries and discussed a number of
key world issues which are of particular
concern to the European Community,
with which the United States enjoys close
cooperation, based on common interests
and values.
The President and the Prime Minister
also discussed at length the tragic com-
munal problems in Northern Ireland.
They condemned support for organiza-
tions engaged directly or indirectly in
campaigns of violence which only delays
the day when peace and reconciliation can
come to Northern Ireland. They noted
with interest the proposal of the British
Government to convene a Conference of
the principal political parties in Northern
Ireland and shared the hope that progress
could be made towards a form of admin-
istration acceptable to both parts of the
community there. The President re-
affirmed his statement of August, 1977
looking to support for American invest-
ment in Northern Ireland when the vio-
lence is ended.
The official visit of Prime Minister and
Mrs. Lynch to Washington and to several
other American cities demonstrates the
great friendship between the two nations,
and also the great respect of the Ameri-
can Government and people for a country
which in recent years has enjoyed rapid
economic growth and taken its place
among the industrialized nations of the
world. The Prime Minister spoke of the
contribution of American investment to
this growth and reiterated his Govern-
ment's continuing support for such
investment.
The Prime Minister invited the Presi-
dent to visit Ireland at a mutually agree-
able date and the President accepted the
invitation with pleasure.
United States Ambassador to
Sri Lanka and the Republic
of Maldives
Nomination of Donald R. Toussaint.
November 8, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Donald R. Toussaint, of
McLean, Va., to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the United
States to the Democratic Socialist Re-
public of Sri Lanka and to serve con-
currently as Ambassador to the Republic
of Maldives. He would replace W. How-
ard Wriggins, who is retiring. Toussaint
has been Deputy Chief of Mission in Ma-
nila since 1978.
He was born May 21, 1927, in Oakland,
Calif. He received a B.A. (1947) and
Ph. D. (1956) from Stanford University,
an M.A. from Yenching University in
Peking in 1949, and a graduate diploma
from the Institut d'Études Politiques in
Paris in 1952. He served in the U.S.
Navy from 1945 to 1946.
From 1947 to 1949, Toussaint was a
teacher at Yenching University, and in
1950-51 he was a teaching assistant at
Stanford. From 1952 to 1953, he was di-
rector of the overseas development pro-
gram of Stanford's Hoover Institute, and
in 1953-54 he was an instructor with the
University of Maryland overseas program.
Toussaint joined the Foreign Service in
2097
