Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 18
still I'm absolutely convinced that what
I said that Sunday night in July is ac-
curate, that our Nation is on the verge of
a very serious problem. We have tended
to lose confidence in ourselves, to lose con-
fidence in one another, to come alien-
ated or even antagonistic toward our own
Government, and to fail to recognize the
blessings that we have.
God's given us every possible natural
and human advantage-freedom where
individuality and initiative and innova-
tion can be nourished and used to over-
come any challenge, which has always
been proven in the past. We've got five
times more energy reserves in our country
than all the OPEC nations combined.
We're the strongest nation on Earth
militarily, the strongest nation on Earth
economically, the strongest nation on
Earth politically. We're a democracy.
Our free enterprise system encourages
challenge and competition and dynamism
and flexibility to meet any possible ob-
stacles that might stand in the way of
American people having a better life. And
I want to see the wounds that exist and
the discouragement that exists healed,
and I want to see the challenges that arise
overcome. And I want to see the problems
that present themselves solved and the
questions answered. And nobody claims-
certainly I don't that all those answers
and all those solutions and all those chal-
lenges can be met from Washington.
St. Paul has the kind of spirit that can
make us all proud of our country. And
they can bind us together in a spirit of
brotherhood and sisterhood and unity that
must be the basis for future progress.
I'm thankful to you. And my visit here
has made me even prouder to be the
President of the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:03 p.m. in
the lobby of Landmark Center.
Following the energy briefing, the President
went to the Lambert Landing in St. Paul,
where he boarded the riverboat Delta Queen to
begin his trip down the Mississippi River.
Labor Dispute in the Grain
Industry
Telegram to Industry and Union Leaders.
August 18, 1979
It is apparent that the current work
stoppage between the American Federa-
tion of Grain Millers and the eight grain
facilities in Duluth, Minn., and Superior,
Wis., is having an increasingly severe im-
pact upon the general economy and public
welfare of this geographical area as well
as seriously threatening the many thou-
sands of farmers who are now into their
annual harvest with no means to ship
their grain.
It is my deep concern therefore that
every effort be made to bring an immedi-
ate end to this dispute.
In this regard, I am directing Wayne
L. Horvitz, the national director of the
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Serv-
ice, to become personally involved and to
provide whatever assistance he deems
necessary.
In this endeavor, a meeting has been
scheduled for Tuesday, August 21, 1979,
commencing at 2 p.m. at the offices of the
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Serv-
ice in Minneapolis, Minn.
I am confident that you will participate
in these meetings recognizing not only
your own personal concerns, but also your
responsibility to the interests of those be-
ing adversely affected by this unfortunate
dispute.
1467
