Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Lori, okay. It's very
difficult for me to answer your question,
because there's a limit to what I can do.
Throughout the entire world, Lori, the
price of oil is going up. It's increased 65
or 70 percent, almost doubled, in the last
8 months. In the last 5 years, the price of
oil has gone from $2 a barrel to almost
$30 a barrel. It costs 15 times as much as
it did in 1973. And as the price of oil goes
up, which everybody has to pay, then the
price of gasoline and diesel oil and home
heating oil and kerosene also go up.
What we are trying to do now is to cut
down or reduce the amount of oil that we
buy from overseas. We buy about half our
oil from foreign countries. This is what we
are trying to correct with our new energy
policy.
Next year we'll send about 70 billion
American dollars overseas to pay for for-
eign oil. And we import, with the oil, high
inflation-which is what bothers your
mother and also unemployment.
We have made some progress. Earlier
this
year, we thought that there would be
a shortage of home heating oil this winter.
I think we've now got the oil companies
to produce enough oil to take care of the
needs of people who live in New York
and the States further north.
One thing that you and your family
can do is-since the oil companies now
have enough oil for the winter—is to cut
down on the amount that you use. The
less oil people use, the more we save; the
less we waste, then the cheaper the price is
going to be, because you have a certain
amount of oil, and if people don't buy as
much as you have in the past, then there
will be more competition and people will
have to sell their oil at a lower price.
We've also gotten a few of the oil com-
panies-Texaco and seven or eight
more—to agree not to raise their prices
any more in the next number of weeks, as
the winter comes on us. The prices have
already gone up too much. We want to
make sure they don't go up any more.
And the other thing that we are doing
is providing help for poor families, who
are the first ones to suffer when the price
of energy goes up, particularly oil. We will
have the Congress pass this year $400 mil-
lion worth of aid for families that are poor
to help them pay their heating bills. And
we've asked, in the windfall profits tax,
which I hope the Congress will pass with-
out delay, a tax on the oil companies, an-
other $1.6 billion to take care of tax cred-
its for poor families as well.
So, we're trying to get the oil companies
to hold down the price. We're asking peo-
ple to save oil and not waste it, to hold
down the price. And we're going to pro-
vide financial help, direct grants, that the
Governor will administer, for families
that are poor and who cannot afford to
pay for oil.
But I don't think there's any need to
I don't want to mislead you, Lori-the
price of oil is going to continue to go up in
the future no matter what I do or what
anybody else does, because all over the
world it's getting scarcer and people are
demanding more. We're going to move
toward solar energy. We're going to move
toward a greater use of coal, and we're
going to move toward a greater develop-
ment of our own energy supplies. And I
think that will help us a great deal in the
future.
But our country waited too long to start
acting to get an energy policy. Now we
are moving. And as I predicted earlier,
by the end of this year we will have a good
energy policy passed into law by our Con-
gress, which will help you and your family
in the future.
That's a great question and I thank you
for it.
1758
