Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
fall profits tax. I'll be very quick to de-
scribe what it means.
The price of energy-I don't want to
mislead you—the price of energy is going
to go up, because the world is demanding
more and more, and the world is produc-
ing not much more or even less. We have
very little control over the price of energy,
and as it goes up, enormous profits are go-
ing to be realized. The question is, should
those unearned profits stay in the hands of
the American oil companies, or should we
have a windfall profits tax and let those
profits be used to produce more oil and
gas, yes, but also to insulate homes, to
provide solar power, to have new kinds of
energy, to help poor people and low- and
middle-income families bear the increased
cost of energy, to give us a better rapid
transit system and transportation system?
That's the basic question.
And I want to ask all of you to join in
with me and encourage the United States
Congress to pass a windfall profits tax to
give our Nation energy security in the
future. Will you help me do that? [Ap-
plause] Very good.
I want to say two other things very
quickly. The first thing is this: We're all
in it together—Democrats, Republicans,
southerners, Yankees. I don't care who it
is, we're in it together.
And the second thing is that no matter
how difficult the problem, our Nation is
strong enough and great enough and
great enough and
courageous enough and blessed by God
enough to meet the energy challenge suc-
cessfully if we unite and if we work to-
gether. And I have no doubt about the
future of this country if we tap the tre-
mendous strength that we have within us
now.
I came here because you've already
done a good job on energy conservation.
The Thomas Jefferson High School has
saved, just since last October, $40,000 in
energy bills because of effective conserva-
tion programs; and Hillsborough County,
I understand, has cut energy consumption
by 15 percent. If everybody in the United
States would do as well as you have done,
we would have a great blessing for all of us
in this country.
Now I want to answer your questions. I
had the pleasure of reading the front page
of, I think, the Tampa Tribune today, and
the editorial page, and they said that I was
welcome-almost welcome [laughter]—
and that the questions ought to be tough.
And I'm ready for some tough questions.
And I'll start with you.
Thank you very much.
QUESTIONS
KEROSENE SALE TO IRAN
Q. Hello. My question pertains to Iran.
THE PRESIDENT. Good.
Q. Thank you. The Iranian officials say
that they don't need the oil that we sell
them. Do you think that they'll sell the
same stuff back to us at a higher price, or
by doing this gesture of friendship, will
they lower the prices of oil in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good ques-
tion, and it's one that's been highly pub-
licized around the country. Let me give
you the facts.
We buy from Iran about 750,000
barrels of oil every day. We're heavily de-
pendent on Iranian oil. The reason for
the gas lines in California and on the east
coast earlier this year were because the
revolution in Iran interrupted supplies,
and we lost about 100 million barrels of
oil that ordinarily we would have bought
from Iran. So, we have a good relation-
ship with Iran as far as buying oil is
concerned.
About 2 months ago—I don't remember
the exact date-the Iranian officials sent
word to our Government, and it eventu-
ally got to me, that they had had sabotage
1567
