Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 7, 1979
Shah of Iran
White House Statement. December 2, 1979
The doctors at Cornell medical facility
have told the Shah that he is able to leave
the hospital in New York. They have in-
dicated the Shah should not undertake a
prolonged trip and that he needs a period
of recuperation under medical supervi-
sion.
The United States Government has
agreed for humanitarian reasons to pro-
vide a secure convalescent facility where
he can recuperate pending further travel
plans. The Shah is en route to Wilford
Hall Air Force Hospital near San
Antonio, Tex. At the Shah's request, the
United States is continuing to assist in
making arrangements for a permanent
place of residence.
Architectural and Transportation
Barriers Compliance Board
Appointment of 11 Members and Designation
of Chairman. December 4, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of 11 persons as members of
the Architectural and Transportation
Barriers Compliance Board. They are:
PATRICK C. CASEY, of Taylor, Mich., a self-
employed attorney;
DAVID F. CRUZ VELEZ, of Santurce, P.R., direc-
tor of the Office of the Advisor of the
Governor on the Comprehensive Develop-
ment of the Handicapped;
CAROL A. GRANT, a rehabilitation counselor
with the North Carolina Division of Voca-
tional Rehabilitation and a former member
of the North Carolina Governor's Study
Committee on Architectural Barriers;
PAUL MULDAWER, of Atlanta, Ga., an award-
winning architect and urban designer and
member of HEW's National Advisory Com-
mittee on an Accessible Environment of the
Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Board;
KAY E. NEIL, of Omaha, Nebr., a retired busi-
nesswoman, former chairman of the Omaha
Mayor's Advisory Committee on the Handi-
capped and the Nebraska Governor's Com-
mittee on the Employment of the Handi-
capped, now a member of the statewide
Health Coordinating Council and honor-
ary chairman of the Employment Advisory
Council for the Handicapped;
WILLIAM A. PASSMORE, of Chicago, Ill., a job
developer with the East Chicago Federal
Programs Office, who was named Handi-
capped American of the Year in 1968 and
is active in community affairs;
WILLIAM R. RALLS, of Okemos, Mich., an at-
torney and former chairman of the Michigan
Rail Action Association;
WALTER H. RICHTER, director of government
relations for Texas Electric Cooperatives,
a former Texas State senator, and active in
civic affairs;
2191
