Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 28
American Hostages in Iran and
Soviet Intervention in
Afghanistan
Remarks to Reporters. December 28, 1979
Secretary of State Vance will proceed
to the United Nations tomorrow to press
the world's case against Iran in order to
obtain the speediest possible release of
American hostages, in accordance with
the demands which have already been
made earlier by the United Nations Secu-
rity Council and the International Court
of Justice.
The United States reserves the right to
protect our citizens and our vital interests
in whatever way we consider appropriate
in keeping with principles of international
law and the Charter of the United Na-
tions. But our clear preference is now, and
has been from the beginning of this crisis,
for a quick and a peaceful solution of this
problem through concerted international
action.
We must never lose sight of our basic
goals in this crisis-the safety of our fel-
low citizens and the protection of the
long-term interests of the United States.
A thoughtful and determined policy,
which makes clear that Iran will continue
to pay an increasingly higher price for the
illegal detention of our people, is the best
policy to achieve those goals, and it is the
policy that I will continue to pursue.
Another serious development which
has caused increased concern about peace
and stability in the same region of the
world is the recent Soviet military inter-
vention in Afghanistan, which has now
resulted in the overthrow of the estab-
lished government and the execution of
the President of that country. Such gross
interference in the internal affairs of
Afghanistan is in blatant violation of ac-
cepted international rules of behavior.
This is the third occasion since World
War II that the Soviet Union has moved
militarily to assert control over one of its
neighbors, and this is the first such ven-
ture into a Muslim country by the Soviet
Union since the Soviet occupation of
Iranian Azerbaijan in the 1940's.
The Soviet action is a major mat-
ter of concern to the entire international
community. Soviet efforts to justify this
action on the basis of the United Nations
Charter are a perversion of the United
Nations that should be rejected im-
mediately by all its members.
I have discussed this serious matter
personally today with several other heads
of government, all of whom agree that
the Soviet action is a grave threat to
peace. I will be sending the Deputy Secre-
tary of State to Europe this weekend to
meet with representatives of several other
nations to discuss how the world com-
munity might respond to this unwar-
ranted Soviet behavior. Soviet military ac-
tion beyond its own borders gives rise to
the most fundamental questions pertain-
ing to international stability, and such
close and extensive consultation between
ourselves and with our allies are urgently
needed.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Mr. President, do we have
the votes in the U.N. Security Council,
and do we have the Russians' promise
they won't veto our resolution?
THE PRESIDENT. I expect we will see
adequate support in the United Nations
Security Council for our position.
Q. Have you gotten in touch with
Brezhnev?
THE PRESIDENT. I have sent him a mes-
sage.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House.
2287
