July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ing synthetic fuels in the future from coal,
gas and oil from coal.
These kinds of things cost a lot of
money. I don't want to be responsible for
putting another tax on the American peo-
ple to pay for it. What I want to do is to
see the Congress pass a windfall profits
tax on the oil companies to make sure
that all we take from them are taxes,
through taxes of profits that they have not
earned. In the process, we're going to
leave the oil companies with additional
income which they can use to produce
more oil and more gas within our coun-
try. That's a real fair proposition for the
oil companies.
As I say, this bill's already passed
through the House of Representatives,
and now it's in the Senate. And the oil
lobby is letting its voice be heard very
quietly, very effectively in the halls of the
U.S. Congress. There's only one way to
meet that competition. Does anybody
know what it is? Right with you-right?
If you will let your voices be heard, we
can prevail.
Now, I would hasten to add that your
United States Senators, Dee Huddleston
and Wendell Ford, are on my side and
they're on your side. But I hope that you
will write the other leaders in the Senate,
the members of the Finance Committee,
and let them know that you believe in the
future of our Nation, that you're willing
to do your share, and that the passage of
the windfall profits tax is an integral part
of reaching our energy security that we all
want. And if you'll join in with me and
with Wendell Ford and with Dee Hud-
dleston, we will prevail, we'll pass the
windfall profits tax, we'll have a secure
nation and a better life for all Americans
in the future.
Now I want to answer your questions.
I'm ready for the first question.
QUESTIONS
WELFARE REFORM
Q. Good evening, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening.
Q. My name is Catherine Roberts of
Shepherdsville, Kentucky. Yesterday
morning I heard on the news there were
over 6,000 illegitimate children born last
year alone. As a taxpayer, I would like to
know if there would be job openings for
mothers after the first child whereas the
taxpayer would not have to support them,
buy them homes-I mean, you know, help
give them homes and steaks and cars to
ride around in.
THE PRESIDENT. I think one of the
most important things that we can do in
our Nation is to strengthen American
families; to cut down on the birth of un-
wanted children, particularly those who
are illegitimate. But once they are born,
I don't want to see the child branded for
life and deprived of an opportunity to be
a healthy and a strong and a prosperous
and a happy American.
Now, one thing that we have proposed
to the Congress is to reform the welfare
laws, to take what money we do collect
for welfare payments and not just per-
petuate people who are able to work on
the welfare rolls. Many people now, be-
better off not working than they are to
cause of the confused welfare laws, are
work, even if they're able to work.
So, I think your question's a very good
one, and this is what we're trying to do,
to give people who really need welfare
payments and who cannot work an op-
portunity to live a decent life, to provide
mothers who want to work a chance to
keep their children in a good day care
center and get jobs. And people who are
able-bodied and don't have children, I
1342
