Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 10
that can help the rest of us enjoy a better
life, even before the retirement age.
So, I'm very grateful to Nelson Cruik-
shank and this group, who will now be
sworn in. And I'd like to thank all of
those who are present here for their will-
ingness to serve along with me in making
us have a better nation for the aging. And
I'd like now to call on the Secretary, Pat
Harris, who will administer the oath of
office. All of you have my congratulations
and thanks.
my
And now, Secretary Harris.
SECRETARY HARRIS. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you, Pat.
Thank you very much. Thank you, every-
body.
[At this point, the President left the Cabinet
Room, and Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare Patricia R. Harris administered
the oath of office to the five members of the
Council.]
SECRETARY HARRIS. Congratulations to
you. The five people I've just sworn in are
taking up their responsibilities at a critical
time in the development of Federal policy
for the aging. That point was reempha-
sized for me in a recent book entitled "The
View in Winter." A key element in this
book is the recognition that for the first
time in our history old age has come to be
the expected, not the exceptional, condi-
tion.
Happily, all of us in this room can
reasonably expect to live what used to be
called a ripe old age; some of us, of
course, sooner than later. That fact is a
triumph of our health and social service
systems, but it also has fundamental impli-
cations for future policy. Today, 11 per-
cent of our population is age 65 or older;
by the year 2020, which isn't very far
away, older people will make up almost
16 percent of our population. That's about
one in every seven people.
We cannot continue a public policy that
views old age as the exception rather than
the rule. Public policy toward older Amer-
icans must focus on helping them main-
tain their economic, physical, and social
independence. That will not be an easy
task, but it is one that we must accom-
plish.
What is needed is a national policy that
emphasizes the strengths, rather than the
weakness or problems of older Americans.
As members of the Federal Council on
Aging, the five people I have just sworn
in will play an important part in shaping
that policy. Each brings a special ex-
pertise to the deliberations of the Council.
Mary Mulvey has broad experience in
education and research. Jean Perdue has
spent years providing health care to the
elderly. Cy Carpenter has firsthand ex-
perience with the employment problems
of older Americans. Aaron Henry under-
stands the problems of aging blacks, par-
ticularly those in rural areas. And John
Martin, who is back for a second term
on the Council, brings with him the prac-
tical experience of administering Federal
programs for the aging.
But perhaps the most difficult task has
been left to the leadership of the 1981
White House Conference on Aging-
difficult because they have such a short
time within which to reach their objec-
tives.
Let me briefly outline the concerns of
older Americans that this conference
must address: the need for improved eco-
nomic well-being, the need for suitable
housing at a reasonable price, the need
for comprehensive quality health care
that is readily accessible to the aging, the
need for a more comprehensive system for
delivering social services, the need for a
Federal policy on long-term care, the need
for greater employment opportunities for
those who want or need to work, the need
2215
