Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
gress has reduced those recommenda-
tions by a total of $5 billion.
The Soviets are tough negotiators, but
so are we. And there is no doubt in my
mind that no matter what level of de-
fense spending we have, whether it's ex-
actly right, $5 billion too low, $5 billion
too high, we need the SALT II agree-
ment, the treaty ratified. But what I'm
going to do as President is work with the
United States Senate and the Congress
to have the SALT II agreement, which
will give us peace; cut down on the nu-
clear arms race; let us monitor what the
Soviets are doing, control the prolifera-
tion of nuclear weapons throughout all
the rest of the world; stop the Soviets'
buildup, which has been faster than ours
in the past-all that will come with
SALT II. And in addition to that, have
a strong defense to make sure our Nation
is always as strong as or stronger than the
Soviet Union no matter what happens.
That's what I promise you.
One more, one more question.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is Frank Smith, State representa-
tive from Shepherdsville, Kentucky. I'd
like to request that on your return flight
to Louisville, that you make a pass over
the Valley of the Drums.
My question is, what are your feelings
on a super fund for dealing with hazard-
ous waste materials?
THE PRESIDENT. For dealing with
atomic waste materials?
Q. Hazardous wastes.
THE PRESIDENT. Hazardous wastes.
We've had nuclear wastes, as you know,
for 35 years, and we are now approaching
the first recommendation to the Congress
on how to deal with nuclear wastes. In ad-
dition, we have proposed to the Congress
within the last few weeks, after a couple
of years of preparation and hard work, a
kind of an insurance program for deal-
ing with chemical wastes and poisonous
wastes of all kinds.
When a certain quantity of those chemi-
cal wastes are sold, there will be an in-
surance fund built up with a small pre-
mium. And then when there comes a time
later on that those chemical wastes become
a problem, the people who are threatened
either with past uncontrolled dumping of
wastes or with later deposits of wastes,
they will be prevented from suffering, out
of that insurance fund-with additional
fill, the moving of the leaking barrels, and
so forth.
I believe the Congress will act favor-
ably on this, and I think your voice can
be a very influential one and get them to
do so.
So, in the control of nuclear wastes,
which will be proposed to the Congress
very shortly, and the chemical and poi-
sonous wastes, which has already been
presented to the Congress, I think, for the
first time, our Government is moving to
deal with the problem that is very serious
and which you've pointed out so well.
Let me say this in closing to all of you:
I'm very grateful for a chance to be with
you. My listening to your questions, my
receiving your comments, my shaking
hands and having brief conversations with
many of you, my coming to Kentucky, my
visiting a coal-burning powerplant, my
meeting with the coal industry people,
my riding with your Congressmen, your
Senators, your Governor, candidates for
the future-all have given me a much
clearer sense of what our Nation is, what
its problems are, how to overcome those
problems, what our opportunities are,
and how we can take advantage of those
opportunities.
1351
