Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 17
control, and to that end we should begin
these meetings at an early date. I am con-
fident we can find the common ground on
which the prompt ratification of this
treaty, so important to our own national
security and the peace of the world, will
of the world, will
be achieved.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Senators Henry Bellmon of Okla-
homa, Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, David L. Boren
of Oklahoma, Rudolph E. Boschwitz of Min-
nesota, Lawton Chiles of Florida, John C. Dan-
forth of Missouri, Dennis DeConcini of Ari-
zona, Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, David
Durenberger of Minnesota, J. James Exon of
Nebraska, S. I. Hayakawa of California, H.
John Heinz III of Pennsylvania, Sam Nunn of
Georgia, Larry Pressler of South Dakota, Har-
rison Schmitt of New Mexico, Alan K. Simp-
son of Wyoming, Richard Stone of Florida,
John W. Warner of Virginia, and Edward
Zorinsky of Nebraska.
Visit of Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher of the United Kingdom
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
December 17, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. It's indeed an honor for
me, on behalf of the people of our Nation,
to welcome to the United States the
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom,
Margaret Thatcher.
Our country has in its ancestry people
from almost every nation on Earth. We
are, Madame Prime Minister, indeed a
commonwealth of almost every nation,
located within the boundaries of one
country. But there is no doubt that from
your own country has come the heritage
and the political faith and the civilization
of our country, as the preeminent and the
prime source.
We share a lot in common. Although
our cars, or our automobiles, may drive
on opposite sides of the highway, our peo-
ple generally move in the same direction.
And we share, or at least we attempt to
share, a common language. Sometimes
we don't succeed. But in the most im-
portant things, we do see issues and ideas,
challenges, hopes, and expectations in
the same way.
We're bound together with a common
belief that our national security is inter-
twined with yours. When we deal with
important issues of the present and future
years, like energy, our consultations are
very close. We are bound together through
trade and through culture, through
tourism and through blood kin. Perhaps
the most important things, however,
which bind us together are a common be-
lief in freedom and democracy, the right
of people to speak their own minds with-
out interference, and the belief in equal
justice for all.
human beings, in the importance of it,
We believe in the dignity of individual
and the enhancement of human rights
throughout the world. We also set a
benchmark for other nations to study and
perhaps to emulate on how great and
sovereign nations can deal with one an-
other in a constructive and harmonious
way, even when at times there are dif-
ferences between us.
As another strong Prime Minister of
the United Kingdom has said Winston
Churchill "The price of greatness is re-
sponsibility." It's obvious to all Americans
that in the last 7 months, Madame Prime
Minister, you've exhibited greatness in the
form of assuming responsibility; not only
to deal with important and difficult do-
mestic issues, which we also have in our
own country, but in searching for ways in
which you can meet the challenges of the
international world.
2257
