Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 25
And that's not the only reason I'm glad
to come back to New Jersey. Somebody
told me that Brendan Byrne was passing
through this country, and I wanted to be
here to meet him-[laughter]-because
he's one of the strongest, best leaders I
know.
I'd like to remind you of something
tonight. I had a prepared speech, but I
don't want to make it, because you need
to be reminded of a fact. When I first be-
gan moving around this country in my
campaign for President, I came to New
Jersey. I was a lonely candidate; nobody
cared about me; nobody thought I had
a chance. I traveled in a car with one
driver, and I had a chance to learn a lot
about this Nation.
At that time and you think back-
New Jersey was a drastically different
State. There was a great deal of discour-
agement in your State. There was a very
high unemployment rate. There was very
little confidence in government at any
level. There was not a spirit of anticipa-
tion about the future.
Now it is absolutely different. I have
never seen such a startling transition in
the tone and quality and the vitality of a
State anywhere in this Nation. And I
think you all know why-it's because you
have a great Democratic Governor in
Brendan Byrne, and you have a great
Democratic legislature that has backed
him to the hilt and taken some very cour-
ageous stands.
It has not been easy for him or for the
courageous Democratic leaders in the
legislature. I came here fairly early in
1977, when Brendan Byrne was running
for reelection. Everybody was calling him
"One-Term Byrne"-you remember that.
But as the people went through that cam-
'paign and assessed what had been done
and the difficulty and the political conse-
quences of some of his courageous stands,
you made the right judgment.
I believe in this country-we have the
greatest nation on Earth. And I believe
in the Democratic Party, and I'd like to
tell you, in a few minutes, why.
The Democratic Party is a party of
compassion. We care about people. We
don't believe in keeping someone down.
We don't believe in giving him a constant
hand of help. We believe in helping them
to stand on their own feet, to meet their
own needs, to live their own life, and to
live a life of dignity.
The Democratic Party believes in hard
work. I grew up on a farm. I know what
it means to work from before sunup till
after sundown, day after day, to make a
crop during the depression years. And I
believe that every American ought to have
a right to a job, and the Democratic
Party has this commitment, and always
has.
You remember the mess that Franklin
Roosevelt inherited in the early thirties.
He put America back to work. Since I've
been in office, in the last 3-almost
3 years, we have added a net increase of
82 million new jobs in this country, be-
cause we believe in work.
It's good for our country to have its
people at work, that's true. But it's par-
ticularly important to a person, a human
being, to be able to do something useful
with a precious life, to take whatever
talent or ability God might have given
that person and use it with pride and with
self-confidence and a realization that
you're making a contribution to your own
family, to your community, and to your
Nation.
The Democrats believe in work and the
remember that. right of Americans to have jobs. The
Democrats are concerned about the older
people. We believe that they ought to
live in dignity and have security in their
2025
