Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 17
in the last administration. In cooperation
with the British we intensified that effort,
and, since last summer, have given our
full support to the British negotiations.
The settlement which has been at-
tained can lead to an enduring peace in
Zimbabwe and promote tranquillity in
the region. It is founded upon majority
rule with protection of minority rights
and reflects the interest of all of the
parties.
As the process leading to an indepen-
dent Zimbabwe unfolds, it will be incum-
bent upon the international community,
and especially the surrounding states, to
support and respect the electoral process
and its outcome.
For its part, the United States looks for-
ward to the day when an independent
Zimbabwe can be welcomed to the family
of nations.
Chanukah
Remarks at the Lighting of the National
Menorah. December 17, 1979
It's a real honor for me to come
from the White House here to this cere-
mony celebrating the commencement of
Chanukah, last night, the Feast of Lights.
As many of you know, the season of
Chanukah commemorates the victory of
religious freedom. At the commencement
of the celebration of this annual event,
this season of thanksgiving and closeness
to God, there was a miracle within which
member that hope in one's breast need
never die.
This season, religious season,
memorates the perpetuation of age-old
dreams and the hunger of men and
women down through the ages to main-
tain a spirit committed to life under the
most difficult circumstances, the most dif-
ficult persecutions, the most difficult
dangers, and under the most difficult
suffering. It also commemorates human-
kind's commitment to be free.
These commitments to live and to be
free are ever present these days in the
minds and hearts of all Americans, be-
cause we know that 50 of our fellow
human beings, our fellow citizens, are not
free and they want to live. We pray that
this will prevail, this desire to be free and
to maintain life.
The first candle that I lit, the shammes
candle, has given its light now in this glass
cage to five other candles. It has not itself
been diminished. It shows that when we
give life and love to others, the life and
love in our own hearts is not diminished.
As a matter of fact it grows the more we
share it. So, tonight we pray that our
closeness to God, our memory of these fine
commitments of human beings down
through the ages will strengthen our de-
sires to share our life and our love, not
only with the 50 American hostages, for
whom we pray constantly, but for men and
women throughout the world who don't
always have freedom and whose lives
the candle which was supposed to only might be in danger.
burn a short time burned for 8 days and
nights.
This miracle showed that God meets
our needs. If we depend on Him, He will
meet our needs. This also shows that there
is a need to celebrate courage and to re-
I'm very grateful that this beautiful
menorah has been dedicated for the com-
memoration of the season of Chanukah,
and I'm very grateful as President to be
partaking in this commemoration of a sea-
son when human beings are drawn closer
2263
