Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Iran should immediately release and en-
sure the safety of the Americans held
hostage in Tehran. In the view of the
United States, the continued detention of
the hostages is a gross violation of the basic
rules of international law and human
rights.
In light of the importance and urgency
of this case, the President has asked the
Attorney General personally to present the
position of the United States to the Court.
Roberts B. Owen, Legal Adviser to the
Department of State, will also be appear-
ing before the Court for the United States.
Dinner Honoring
Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr.
Remarks at the Fundraising Dinner for the
O'Neill Chair at Boston College.
December 9, 1979
Mr. Speaker, Millie O'Neill, sons and
daughters, who've brought grandchildren
and who have blessed this marriage of 38
years, and friends of Tip O'Neill from all
over this Nation:
Thank you, Father Monan, president
of Boston College, for your kind intro-
duction.
Many people have asked why I'm here
tonight in the midst of some very impor-
tant business in Iran. When I was pre-
sented with my schedule for this month,
my immediate and firm Presidential re-
sponse was, "I am not going to any fund-
raising events for the time being." And
Frank Moore, my congressional liaison
chief, said, "Mr. President, the Speaker
thinks you ought to be there." [Laughter]
So, it is a real pleasure for me to be—
[laughter]—it's a real pleasure for me to
be here with a thousand other close
friends [laughter of Tip O'Neill's to
honor Boston College and its most dis-
tinguished graduate.
Tip is a man of great achievement. Tip
is a man of great caution. He roomed with
[Representative] Eddie Boland here for
more than 23 years before he decided that
his seat was safe enough to bring Millie
down from Boston-[laughter]—and I
guarantee you it was a great boon to our
Nation when he finally decided to do so.
Tip, you don't need to worry. The voters
of the Eighth District of Massachusetts
know the value, which I cherish along
with you, of reelecting the incumbent.
[Laughter]
Tip O'Neill is a wonderful political
analyst, philosopher, and adviser. He told
me that the key to his own success in poli-
tics and I've made the same point re-
cently is to wait your turn. [Laughter]
We have a very serious purpose tonight.
It's to honor a man who, for 27 years, has
served his entire country with distinction
and greatness, which is good training for
an even greater career, Tip, in the future.
We are also here to support and to honor
Boston College, whose contributions to
our entire Nation have become more evi-
dent with each passing year. I understand
that this dinner has raised a record figure
of $1.2 million, and I hope that this is only
the beginning of generous, ever more gen-
erous support for Boston College of those
who love it and who honor it and who
recognize its great contribution.
By naming an endowed chair for him,
the college is indeed honoring a rare man.
I could take up the entire evening listing
for you his qualities and his accomplish-
ments. But just let me say that in this last
3 years he's become for me a great per-
sonal friend-and a President needs all
the friends he can get. [Laughter] I turn
to him constantly for advice, as he knows;
2210
