Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 13
But I will not permit this incident to
become acceptable and to be dragged out.
I'll do my utmost to prevent that. I don't
want that to be interpreted as threaten-
ing military action. I'll do everything I
can to avoid any bloodshed, provided our
hostages are not physically harmed.
Maybe one more question.
GASOLINE RATIONING
Q. Mr. President, in light of your com-
ments about the oil shortage possibility,
what is the likelihood of rationing?
THE PRESIDENT. In my opinion we
must do something about the excessive
consumption of oil products, particularly
gasoline. We made an effort in the Inter-
national Energy Agency this week, as you
may know. The Secretary of Energy went
over there, and we pointed out to the
other members-I think it's almost all the
democratic developed nations on Earth,
except France is not a member; 24 na-
tions, I believe we pointed out to them
that the prospects next year are for a re-
duction in oil exports from the OPEC
countries of about a million and a half to
2 million, maybe as high as 22 million
barrels per day, and that we needed to
form an alliance, in effect, or a commit-
ment that instead of increasing our bids
for spot market oil as the shortages did
evolve, if they do, then we would have an
arrangement ahead of time for us to lower
our demand for imported oil collectively,
so that we could share the shortages.
We are part of that process, and we will
have another meeting in March to follow
up on those tentative commitments made
at that meeting this week.
Gasoline is obviously the easiest energy
supply to curtail as far as waste is con-
cerned, because Americans do waste so
much. There are several ways that this can
be done. One is voluntary action on the
part of Governors and States-this in-
volves a gamut of things; secondly, an in-
crease in the price of gasoline through an
imposed tax. We are considering that as
one of the options. Rationing is another
option that we are considering. Either one
of those last two would require congres-
sional action, and before long-I don't
know exactly the time schedule yet—I'll
be having some meetings on it this week-
we will decide what approach to take.
An increase in the price of gasoline has
shown, in the last few months, to be much
closer related to conservation than we had
previously anticipated. There was a guess
earlier, a presumption earlier, that the
elasticity factor was one-tenth, which
means that if you increase the price of
gasoline 10 percent, you would only have
a 1-percent reduction in consumption. It's
probably twice that much, which has been
a fairly pleasant surprise, that we have
had voluntary conservation among
Americans.
This summer, for instance, we had an
average, not only in gas consumption re-
duced, but we had an average increase in
mileage derived from automobiles all over
the country of 1 mile per gallon, which
is a substantial amount of saving. This is
because of smaller cars, more careful driv-
ing, and so forth. In addition to that, there
are other factors-less use of automobiles
and, of course, more sharing of automo-
biles as they make the trip. We have ex-
perienced lately a 7- or 8-percent reduc-
tion in gasoline consumption.
So, we are exploring opportunities. I've
not yet made a decision on how to cut
gasoline consumption more. We can do it
without hurting our economy.
Al.
MR. NEUHARTH. Thank you very
much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I've enjoyed being with you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:21 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing.
2243
