Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of all-more conservation, how to stop
wasting energy.
This beautiful building has been reno-
vated so that it does become energy-effi-
cient. Every single building in St. Paul
can have the same degree of achievement.
But it can only be done with the full co-
operation and involvement of all the citi-
zens of this community.
This meeting is very important, not
only for you but for the entire State of
Minnesota and, indeed, for the entire
Nation. Because you've done such good
work before I got here, and to some de-
gree because I'm here, people will know
what you're going to do, and this is very
important to us all.
Today, in preparation for my visit here
to St. Paul, I sent a personal letter to
every senior elected official of every
county and city in the United States of
America, 6,000 personal letters, with an
enclosure saying what certain communi-
ties have already done. And it wasn't a
coincidence that one of those communi-
ties that I've used as an example was St.
Paul, because you've done a good job.
Now, I came here to listen primarily,
but I want to make two very quick points.
There are two basic errors or misconcep-
tions that permeate America. One is that
conservation can be accomplished by gov-
ernment. It cannot. It must be accom-
plished by citizens. Secondly, that con-
servation is somehow painful or incon-
venient. It does not have to be painful or
inconvenient. It can be exciting. It can be
enjoyable. And instead of dividing one
American from another, it can form a
basis for closeness within a family or
within a community or, indeed, within a
whole nation. And it saves a lot of
money-not my money, not the Govern-
ment's money, but your money. This must
be done. And if all the communities in
our Nation will do as St. Paul is planning,
then our conservation effort will be suc-
cessful. That's what I hope and pray.
And now I'm eager to listen to the
presentations that have been prepared.
And if you don't mind, I might interrupt
every now and then to ask a question if
I feel the urge.
Thank you for letting me be here. It's
a great honor and pleasure for me. It's
going to help the whole Nation, what
you're doing.
Thank you very much.
STATEMENTS
MAYOR LATIMER. Mr. President, ladies
and gentlemen:
In preparation for this our first meeting,
as you know, we have divided into five
committees. We began as a committee of
100 for a 100-day effort, and we now have
three times the number of people, and I
hope that means one-third the number of
days. But as preparation for this, Mr.
President, we have asked eight people who
had previously asked to serve on this com-
mittee to make presentations on different
subjects.
CENTRAL HEATING PROJECT
The first presenter is Cliff Olsen, who is
from the First National Bank of St. Paul.
He represents the Chamber of Commerce
in the energy committee, and he's a vice
president of the District Heating Develop-
ment Company, which is the subject which
Mr. Olsen's going to speak about.
Cliff?
MR. OLSEN. Mr. President, Mrs. Car-
ter, Amy, Mr. Mayor, honored guests:
Several years of effort were fulfilled in
June of this year when the public and pri-
vate sectors of our community joined to
form the St. Paul District Heating Devel-
opment Company. Its
Its purpose is to
demonstrate the technical and the eco-
1458
