July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
United Way, The American Red Cross,
National Health Agencies and Interna-
tional Service Agencies, by participating
in the Combined Federal Campaign is
upon us. These agencies help make our
community a better place in which to live;
they alleviate pain and suffering, and
seek cures from dreaded diseases; they
bring hope to those in overseas lands, and
reinforce a sense of security in the aged,
infirm, and handicapped.
In the spirit of neighborliness, we will
continue our tradition of generosity and
concern for others through contributions
to the Combined Federal Campaign. I
am confident of your support.
JIMMY CARTER
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
July 7-July 13
The President remained at Camp
David, Md., during the week for a series
of discussions and meetings on a broad
range of domestic issues, particularly en-
ergy and the economy. Participants in the
discussions included, at various times,
Members of Congress, current and former
Federal, State, and local government of-
ficials, members of the White House staff,
representatives of civic, religious, and
labor organizations, businessmen, civil
rights leaders, and university officials.
July 12
In the evening, the President went by
helicopter to Carnegie, Pa., and the home
of Mr. and Mrs. William Fisher to dis-
cuss a broad range of issues with about a
dozen private citizens. He then returned
to Camp David.
July 13
In the morning, the President went by
helicopter to Martinsburg, W. Va., and
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Porter-
field to discuss a broad range of issues
with a group of 17 private citizens. He
then returned to Camp David.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nomi-
nations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 12, 1979
HARVEY J. FELDMAN, of Florida, a Foreign
Service officer of Class two, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to Papua New
Guinea and to serve concurrently and with-
out additional compensation as Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to Solomon Islands.
J. JEROME FARRIS, of Washington, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
vice a new position created by P.L. 95-486,
approved October 20, 1978.
BETTY BINNS FLETCHER, of Washington, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, vice a new position created by P.L.
95-486, approved October 20, 1978.
JAMES C. PAINE, of Florida, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of
Florida, vice a new position created by P.L.
95-486, approved October 20, 1978.
BENJAMIN F. GIBSON, of Michigan, to be
United States District Judge for the Western
District of Michigan, vice a new position
created by P.L. 95-486, approved Octo-
ber 20, 1978.
DOUGLAS W. HILLMAN, of Michigan, to be
United States District Judge for the Western
District of Michigan, vice a new position
created by P.L. 95-486, approved Octo-
ber 20, 1978.
1232
