Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 6
kind words of welcome to the White
House. And also, if I could say, my con-
gratulations for your Polish language.
It is indeed a great honor for me to
meet with the President of the United
States during a visit of which the aims are
spiritual and religious in nature. May I
convey at the same time to you, and
through you to all your fellow Americans,
my profound respect for all the Federal
and State authorities of this Nation, for its
beloved people.
In the course of the last few days, I
have had the opportunity to see some of
your cities and rural areas. My only re-
gret is that the time is too short to bring
my greetings personally to all parts of
this country, but I want to assure you that
my esteem and affection go out to every
man, woman, and child without distinc-
tion.
Divine Providence in its own designs
has called me from my native Poland to
be the successor of Peter in the See of
Rome and the leader of the Catholic
Church. It gives me great joy to be the
first Pope in history to come to the Capital
of this Nation, and I thank Almighty God
for this blessing.
In accepting your courteous invitation,
Mr. President, I have also hoped that our
meeting today would serve the cause of
world peace, international understanding,
and the promotion of full respect for hu-
man rights everywhere.
Mr. Speaker and honorable Members
of Congress, distinguished members of the
Cabinet and of the judiciary, ladies and
gentlemen:
Your presence here honors me greatly,
and I deeply appreciate the expression of
respect which you thus extended to me.
My gratitude goes to each one of you per-
sonally for your kind welcome, and to all
I wish to say how profoundly I esteem
your mission as stewards of the common
good of all the people of America.
I come from a nation with a long tradi-
tion of deep Christian faith and with a
national history marked by many up-
heavals; for more than a hundred years
Poland was even erased from the political
map of Europe. But it is also a country
marked by a deep veneration for those
values without which no society can pros-
per-love of freedom, cultural creativity,
and the conviction that common en-
deavors for the good of society must be
guided by a true moral sense.
My own spiritual and religious mission
impels me to be the messenger of peace
and brotherhood and to witness to the
true greatness of every human person.
This greatness derives from the love of
God, who created us in His own likeness
and gave us an eternal destiny. It is in this
dignity of the human person that I see the
meaning of history and that I find the
principle that gives sense to the role which
every human being has to assume for his
or her own advancement and for the well-
being of the society to which he or she
belongs.
It is with these sentiments that I greet
in you the whole American people, a peo-
ple that bases its concept of life on spirit-
ual and moral values, on a deep religious
sense, on respect for duty, and on generos-
ity in the service of humanity-noble traits
which are embodied in a particular way in
the Nation's Capital, with its monuments
dedicated to such outstanding national
figures as George Washington, Abraham
Lincoln, and Thomas Jefferson.
I greet the American people in their
elected representatives, all of you who
serve in Congress to chart, through legis-
lation, the path that will lead every citizen
of this country towards the fullest devel-
opment of his or her potential, and the
Nation as a whole towards assuming its
share of the responsibility for building a
world of true freedom and justice. I greet
America in all who are vested with au-
1829
