Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
basic decisions, in addition to legislation
that would enhance the control of hos-
pital costs, give the mental health facil-
ities in our Nation a boost, improve the
relationship between the Federal Govern-
ment and local and State officials, and
deal effectively in strengthening our pri-
vate enterprise system.
On occasion, we have a major event
at the White House, both social and polit-
ical meetings, and also we expect later
on this winter to have a major White
House Conference on Small Business.
It would be impossible for me to de-
scribe all the different responsibilities that
a President has, and I think the best thing
for us to do now is to let me answer your
questions on these or other issues. I think
it would probably save you time if you
didn't repeat questions that have already
been answered by my staff members, un-
less you were dissatisfied with their
answer.
We have a very close and tight and, I
think, well-organized interrelationship
here in the White House. Dr. Brzezinski,
for instance, on foreign affairs, and my
domestic advisers can speak accurately
for me. But I'd be glad to answer any
questions.
Yes.
QUESTIONS
PUERTO RICAN NATIONALISTS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Jack Skelly of
El Nuevo Día, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Your action yesterday in commutation
of the four nationalists' prison terms was
against the recommendation of the Gov-
ernor of Puerto Rico, who had asked you
in a letter to have them sign some kind
of guarantee that they were sorry. My
question has two parts: One, did you
consult with the Governor at all before
this decision was made-I mean, re-
cently? And, two, in view of the fact that
they are part of some, what you would
call terrorist movement, or have been in
the past, do you plan to campaign in the
primary down there next year? Have you
been advised one way or another?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't decided to
announce my candidacy yet, so I won't
comment on campaigning in the primary.
[Laughter]
I have been thoroughly familiar with
the attitude of the Governor on this issue,
but also the attitude of other Puerto
Rican leaders his predecessors, the rep-
resentatives in Congress, and political
leaders in all factions and, I think, the
sentiment of the Puerto Rican people.
That was obviously assessed. And I regret
that on this particular issue, the Governor
and I don't agree. On most issues we do. I
had to make the judgment on the basis of
my best assessment of justice and the best
interests of my country and, obviously, the
best interests of the Puerto Rican people.
These persons had been adequately
punished. They've been in prison longer
than almost anyone in the Federal system.
They've never asked for clemency, but
their attorneys, with their knowledge, par-
ticipated in the proprieties of making
their views known. They have been model
prisoners. And my own assessment, based
on information derived from other sources
through the Attorney General, is that
they will not be a threat to the security
of Puerto Rico and are highly unlikely
to engage in terrorist activities there. I
can't guarantee that-for them or any
other person.
But I think the forces of justice were
honored. And that's a decision that I had
to make alone, after consulting with your
Governor and with many other people.
My decision, contrary to his inclinations,
was no indication of my lack of respect
for him or for his opinion. I had to assess
1608
