Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
nicalities of the law. We will make sure
you get your money.
And these are also not cosmetic
changes. I think that following the 1976
July Fourth great ships parade and then
followed by another great event, the
Democratic convention of 1976, I could
see a new spirit in the city [laughter]—
that I think will be mirrored again next
summer, when the Democratic convention
comes back here.
And I would like to say in closing that
we have proposals in the Congress now
I want to recognize Mayor Abe Reame,¹
who I understand is here. Stand up, Abe.
Abe's always too modest to stand up.
Thank you very much, Abe. [Laughter]
Let me say this in closing: As this but-
ton says, I love New York.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:55 p.m. in the
Trianon Room at the New York Hilton Hotel.
The reception was hosted by Mayor Edward I.
Koch of New York City.
Question-and-Answer Session at a Town
Meeting With Residents of the Borough of
Queens. September 25, 1979
that will add a great deal more in oppor- New York City, New York
tunity for your city and your State to make
even greater progress in the years to come.
Welfare reform has cleared the House
Ways and Means Committee, and Pat
Moynihan is working hard to get it
through the Senate Finance Committee.
Our proposal under the windfall profits
tax will mean a tremendous increase in
help for poor families to deal with the in-
ordinately rising costs of energy, to give a
better mass transit system, and to make
our Nation energy-secure in the future.
We have an opportunity, I think, to be
sure that there is a continued sense of
common responsibility for your city and
for your State. Every one of you in this
room is a constituent of mine, and your
well-being and the quality of life among
those who look to you for leadership I
consider to be my direct responsibility. I
was not elected President to tell New York
City to drop dead, and I will obviously
never do so.
The political and the financial health of
the greatest city on Earth is a sure sign of
the political and the financial health of
the greatest nation on Earth. And this
Nation is my responsibility. And what you
do here will have a direct effect on the
quality of life throughout the whole
Nation.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Pat Moynihan,
Mayor Ed Koch, Lieutenant Governor
Mario Cuomo, President Don Manes,
President Saul Cohen, and my friends
from Queens and from New York City:
I am very glad to be back with you.
First of all, I want to thank the Queens
Symphony Orchestra for a tremendous
reception.
I was going to make an opening state-
ment or speech. I've decided that since so
many people are here, and I know you
have a lot of questions, that I will not do
so. So, if you will not be timid with your
questions, I will not be timid with my
answers. Let's get on with the question-
and-answer period.
PRESIDENT'S JOGGING HABITS
Q. Mr. President, this is a great honor.
My name is Nicholas Gray. I live in Man-
hattan, and I own a store there called
Gray's Papaya. [Laughter] We're famous
for our better filet mignon frankfurters.
1 Abraham D. Beame, former mayor of New
York City.
1746
