Aug. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
this within our own homes, within our
own automobiles, at our own business or
workingplace, on our farms. And the sec-
ond thing we can do is to increase the
production of energy in our own coun-
try-oil, gas, coal, synthetic fuels, and
especially solar energy, which we are en-
joying today. We have tremendous op-
portunities for this.
I proposed to the Congress a compre-
hensive energy policy, long overdue, de-
pendent on the windfall profits tax on the
oil companies. It's not right for the oil
companies to take enormous profits and
keep them for themselves. Through the
windfall profits tax, those profits must be
shared with all Americans to help us with
conservation, solar power, and to become
energy independent. I need you to help
me with that. Will you do it? [Applause]
This is a time for unity.
The last thing I want to say to you is
that Iowa is blessed especially by God's
blessings-rich soil, enormous productiv-
ity, a low unemployment rate, the kind of
unity of purpose that stands our Nation
in good stead. And you're also blessed with
one of the finest public servants I have ever
known-a man who does a great job for
our country, but a man who especially has
his roots deep in Iowa and who represents
you every day, fighting for your rights,
fighting for a better life for Iowans. And
I'm especially grateful to be in the home-
town of John Culver, the man I'm talking
about. You're lucky to have him.
Let me say this in closing. Rosalynn and
Amy and I have been inspired by the
friendship shown us in this first part of our
Mississippi River voyage. We'll be going
all the way from St. Paul to St. Louis,
meeting literally thousands and thousands
and thousands of people along the river-
banks, both when the ship doesn't stop,
when we go through locks, and when we
have a brief stop like this to visit and shake
hands directly.
It's been an inspiration for us; we're
grateful for it. If you'll stick with us, stick
with each other, have confidence in your-
selves, in your neighbors, in your com-
munities, and in our Nation, and revere
the opportunities of a free nation and a
free government, the truest democracy on
Earth, then there's no doubt in my mind
that we can make the greatest nation on
Earth even greater in the future. That's
what I want; that's what we must do to-
gether.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:10 p.m. at
Triangle Park. Following his remarks, he went
to the home of Senator Culver for a private
luncheon. He then boarded the Delta Queen at
Prairie du Chien.
Dubuque, Iowa
Remarks on Arrival at the City.
August 20, 1979
Mayor Wertzburger, Congressman Tauke,
our good hosts yesterday, John and Ann
Culver:
I wish you could have been with us for
lunch. We had enough, I believe, to feed
the whole crowd, but there wasn't enough
left to feed two people. We had Iowa
corn, we had Iowa beef, we had Iowa
ham, we had Iowa apple pie, we had
some homemade ice cream made out of
Iowa milk. And just so I don't use all my
time up, I won't tell you about the rest
of the menu, but it was just great.
One of the things that has been the best
for Rosalynn and me and Amy has been
to meet the people who have come out
along the banks of the Mississippi to ex-
press your friendship toward us personally
and your respect for the office of President
of the greatest nation on Earth. I'm par-
ticularly grateful to John Culver, who saw
that we were not originally scheduled to
1474
