Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 26
strong defense. And you can depend on
it.
I'm sure you would agree with me when
I say that it's not easy these days to be a
President or to be a Governor or to be a
Member of the Congress or to be a mayor.
But through unity, we can share the re-
sponsibilities that fall so heavily on our
shoulders, and we can enjoy the honor and
the pleasure and the gratification of effec-
tive public service.
This is a time of testing, for us and for
our country. It's time to make the Ameri-
can people understand what we are doing
and understand government and, there-
fore, to trust and respect and support gov-
ernment in difficult times. How? By be-
ginning to speak to one another, to work
with one another, and to reason more
closely together, by spelling out a common
vision of and for America, a vision that
our party has always had and a vision that
we are now bringing into reality.
Our party has always represented the
best in American thoughts and ideals and
values. Our party has had the ability to
deal with change, change without timid-
ity and without fear. There are others, not
Democrats, who long for the past, who
resent the present, and who fear the
future. That's not the story of the Demo-
cratic Party. Our theme song isn't "Auld
Lang Syne" or some funeral dirge. Our
theme song is "Happy Days Are Here
Again."
Let me say in closing that it's time now
to shape the Democratic Party for the
1980's. We, the Democratic Party, have
the biggest stake of all in making govern-
ment work, because we intend to be the
majority party permanently.
The people give us their confidence,
but they also give us a great responsibility.
It's a greater responsibility than a Repub-
lican has. We must understand that unless
we make government work well, some day
it may not work at all. We must recognize
and we must understand the impatience
and the frustration with government that
is so common in our Nation. We must
fight the splintered special interest and
single issue politics that tend to dominate
our national debates.
The challenge that we face is to build
a party for the rest of this century that's
strong enough to be effective and broad
enough to be representative, a party that
speaks the meaning to the people of what
democracy is, what compassion is, what
truth is, what peace is, what harmony is,
what unity is, what freedom is, what
leadership is. That's our responsibility,
and together we can do it. But with selfish
divisions among ourselves, our voice is
fractured, and it cannot be clearly heard.
This forthcoming year will be filled with
campaigns and caucuses, conventions and
debates, and we look forward to it. There
will be disagreements, and there must be.
We will argue about the issues among our-
selves, and we ought to. But we can make
the system work. We can sharpen our
focus on the common agenda items which
pull us together, which unite us as Demo-
crats.
We must join together in the fight for
SALT II, for hospital cost containment,
for better environment, for healthy and
growing and happy cities, for a national
health plan, for welfare reform, for a
windfall profits tax on the oil companies
to finance energy security for our country.
We've got a lot to do. Let's do it together.
In my speech on July 15, a Sunday
night speech, I spoke of a crisis of confi-
dence and a lack of unity in America.
The outpouring of mail and telephone
calls to the White House after that speech
was overwhelming. The professionals that
have been there 25 or 30 years said they
have never seen so many letters or had so
many telephone calls on any single inci-
1771
