Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 19
tion of energy conservation and produc-
tion tied intimately with that of food, in
conserving energy and in finding new
ways to use it more efficiently. It has
to come from you. I cannot do it for you.
I can't go into every FFA chapter in the
Nation and create the leadership and the
inspiration and the drive and the deter-
mination and the planning and the com-
mitment and, sometimes, the courage
that will be required to make this lead-
ership felt, not only in your own organiza-
tion but among others which involve
young leaders of our country. But I will
give recognition as a kind of constant
symbol of my participation to the one
FFA chapter in the Nation chosen by you
and your leaders who does the most out-
standing job in carrying out this response
to the energy crisis.
Are you willing to accept the chal-
lenge? [Applause] Very good.
I'm going to depend upon the FFA to
take the lead in energy conservation, and
I'm going to depend upon you to pay the
personal prices in your own lives neces-
sary to guarantee the freedom of this Na-
tion through restoring our energy secu-
rity. I know you will do this, and it's a
solemn commitment between me and
you.
A quality future of our lives is built
on a strong today. We've got some weak-
nesses in our country that I tried to out-
line as best I could Sunday evening.
Many things change rapidly in our world,
and these changes upset people. New en-
ergy facts are hard to accept.
For the first time, Americans have had
to recognize the fact that there are limits,
that we don't have the right anymore to
squander the precious fuel reserves which
our Nation possesses. We've got to hus-
band those and to conserve those and to
be good stewards over what we have been
given. This is what comprises the proper
attitude of an American citizen, to assess
problems, to face them frankly, to let the
truth be known, to search our own lives,
our own hearts, our own influence, and
say, "What can I do to make my life
purer, better, stronger, more admirable,
and to let my life be felt meaningfully in
the future of a nation which has been so
good to me?"
So many changes take place; many
things don't change. The fundamentals
don't change-love within a family, hon-
esty, friendship among people, a desire
for peace, a respect for one another, the
beauty of nature, and the genuine pa-
triotism based on confidence in our coun-
try. As these unchangeable values become
deeply engrained in our lives today, the
future obviously grows even brighter.
On my recent trip to Japan, I met the
Emperor of Japan and all his family. I
learned that at the beginning of each
year, as a symbol, the Emperor of Japan
plants a tiny rice seedling-the nation
watches this simple act-as a symbol of
abundance and hope and confidence for
the year ahead. You young people who
live so close to the earth or whose fami-
lies or friends live so close to the earth are
a similar symbol of abundance and hope
for me.
Plant your lives carefully in a founda-
tion based on principles which do not
change. Work hard. Love deeply. Com-
mit your lives faithfully, let your lives
bloom and constantly grow, no matter
how many years you might spend on
Earth. With these kinds of personal traits
and beliefs in your lives, you become a
precious possession.
Our Nation desperately needs you, and
I'm sure that our Nation will not be dis-
appointed in you.
1269
