Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 21
graded the law. So therefore, when my
when my
property was acquired, I was forced into
an economic situation that I was not pre-
pared for. And I wondered if have
you
any feelings along these lines or thoughts
in the future.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Leon.
MR. KING. I can't get it across like I'd
like to, Mr. President, but I sure would
like to spend some time with you. I have a
lot I'd like to tell you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
we'll be in Burlington later on this week,
and I'll have a townhall meeting there
and be able to answer some questions for
a large audience in public, and perhaps
I will have a chance to see you there.
MR. KING. I sure hope so.
THE PRESIDENT. We have had this
problem with inflation now for 10 or 12
years. And I think most of the programs
that we've got for very poor people or for
retired people through social security
have had a compensation built in so that
as inflation goes up rapidly, the payments
for the very poor, for medical programs,
and for the elderly have gone up as well.
Another thing that should be remem-
bered about inflation, which is almost all
bad, is that if you did buy property in
the past and now are paying for it, then
the value of your property has gone up
since you bought it. And in general, the
interest rates several years ago when you
may have bought your property are per-
haps lower than the interest rates are
now.
The government, including the Presi-
dent, must be constantly aware of ways
to meet new problems. One of the new
problems is the unexpected increase in
the inflation rate brought about by the
OPEC oil nations increasing the price of
oil more than 50 percent in the last 6
months.
With the windfall profits tax that we're
trying to get the Congress to pass to put
on the oil companies, we will have a re-
serve fund adequate to make the low-
and middle-income families' pressures
from increased oil prices easier to bear.
We'll also have money derived from
the oil company profits to have a better
transportation system in our country.
And the third thing, of course, is to pro-
duce more energy for our people and also
to let us conserve energy by more efficient
automobiles, weatherization of homes,
and so forth, so that the poor family won't
be wasting heat, but on the other hand,
saving it.
A lot of people don't understand how
this would work. And so, 2 years ago, just
after I became President, we initiated an
Energy Extension Service similar to the
Home Demonstration Agent in every
county, and the Agricultural Extension
Agent. This is an Energy Extension Serv-
ice. We tried it out for 2 years in 10 dif-
ferent States around the country. And
early in 1980, this program will be insti-
tuted in all the States in the country.ยน
1
ยน On the same day, the White House released
the following information at Davenport.
The President today announced a nationwide
Energy Extension Service (EES) program that
will provide Federal grants to 57 States and
territories to help families, owners of small busi-
nesses, and local government officials take prac-
tical steps to save energy and switch to renew-
able energy sources.
The program would be administered under
the Assistant Secretary for Conservation and
Solar Applications in the Department of
Energy.
Funding for the program includes $27.7 mil-
lion in grant funds and $2 million for adminis-
trative costs, subject to final congressional ap-
proval.
State energy offices are encouraged to im-
mediately begin the 180-day planning process.
All States are expected to have their EES pro-
gram operating by early 1980.
As a result of a highly successful 2-year pilot
program in 10 States, the EES is being ex-
(Continued)
1485
