Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
June 23
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to
the President for National Security
Affairs, before departing for Japan and
the Republic of Korea.
The President declared a major dis-
aster for the State of New Mexico as a
result of severe storms, snowmelt runoff,
and flooding, beginning on or about
May 2, which caused extensive public and
private property damage.
June 28
The White House announced that the
President has decided to cancel a planned
vacation in Hawaii following his visit to
the Republic of Korea and will return to
Washington for congressional and staff
meetings on the increasingly serious do-
mestic and international energy situation.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nomi-
nations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 25, 1979
IRVING G. CHESLAW, of California, a Foreign
Service officer of Class one, to be Ambassa-
dor Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the Republic
of Trinidad and Tobago.
NOMINATIONS-Continued
Submitted June 25-Continued
LEROY D. CLARK, of New York, to be General
Counsel of the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission for a term of 4 years, vice
Abner Woodruff Sibal, resigned.
EMILY RAUH PULITZER, of Missouri, to be a
member of the National Museum Services
Board for a term expiring December 6, 1983,
vice Joan Mondale, term expired.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following listing contains releases of the
White House Press Office which are not in-
Icluded in this issue.
Released June 23, 1979
Advance text: remarks on departure for the
trip to Japan and the Republic of Korea
Released June 27, 1979
News conference: on the Weber case deci-
sion-by Eleanor Holmes Norton, Chair of
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, Robert J. Lipshutz, Counsel to the
President, Assistant Attorney General Drew
S. Days III, and Assistant Secretary of
Labor for Employment Standards Donald E.
Elisburg
Released June 29, 1979
Text: mailgram to State Governors on the in-
dependent truckers' strikes-by Jack H. Wat-
son, Jr., Chairman of the White House
Management Task Force on Energy Short-
ages
Announcement: 6-point program negotiated
by members of the White House Manage-
ment Task Force on Energy Shortages and
trucking representatives-by Mr. Watson
News conference: on the 6-point program
negotiated by members of the White House
Management Task Force on Energy Short-
ages and trucking representatives-by Mr.
Watson
ANTHONY C. E. QUAINTON, of Washington,
Director of the Department of State's Office
for Combatting Terrorism, for the rank of ACTS APPROVED BY
Ambassador.
SUSANNA B. McBEE, of California, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare, vice Eileen Shanahan,
resigned.
THE PRESIDENT
Approved June 27, 1979
S. 429___
Public Law 96-29
Department of Defense Supplemental Ap-
propriation Authorization Act, 1979.
1159
