Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Q. What about the nuclear ombudsman
program? Would you support something
like that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think that at
this moment the Kemeny Commission,
which has got full authority from me, is
looking into the entire nuclear question.
At the end of that, I will assess their
recommendations and then make a full
report to the American people about what
I will and will not do. The ombudsman
idea is a good one. But let me reserve
judgment on making that promise to you.
There will be someone in the Government
at a high and identified level who will be
responsible for answering any questions
asked about nuclear power or resolving
any problems that exist for an American
citizen concerning nuclear power, or re-
ceiving suggestions on how the use of nu-
clear power can be made more acceptable.
Whether we call it a separate ombudsman,
I can't say yet.
COAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
Q. President Carter, I'm Sondra
Downend from Orville, Ohio. I'm the wife
of a small coal mine operator, and I'm
the secretary and bookkeeper for our com-
pany. We spent 2 months without shipping
coal, and I spent a lot of sleepless nights
and sent you lots of letters. I got one back
from the Department of Energy that
spoke of Federal leases on Federal land
and spoke of western coal. But my letter
came from Ohio. And I wasn't interested
in western coal, nor federally leased lands.
You talked about how slow Ohio was
in presenting their clean air act. And I
spoke with them because I was interested
in next month what's going to happen to
our mine, because we're afraid that we
won't have any place to ship our coal.
And in talking with them, he told me
that they felt that the Federal law was
too restrictive and they didn't have proof.
So, they wanted to take their time and
not make the mistakes the Federal bureau
had made and that they had made in the
past, and go very slow and do their mod-
eling and their monitoring and measur-
ing. He told me of places that they have
in the State of Ohio where they measure
the air control. And they have measured
the air quality from utilities and other in-
dustries, and they feel that Ohio can still
burn the high-sulfur coal and still come
within the numbers required by the Fed-
eral EPA.
And, I'd like to ask, then-the Ohio
EPA that I talked to was so certain that
their plan now meets everything the Fed-
eral would require of them, I would like
to ask, why won't the Federal EPA ap-
prove Chapter 3745-18 of the Ohio Ad-
ministrative Code and allow the utilities
to burn the high-sulfur coal?
And this is something that is causing
a great deal of concern to us, a lot of
anxiety. We're trying to stay in business.
We're trying to ship the coal. We lost our
orders to Ohio Edison because of the high
sulfur in our coal. We have two customers
now. And in meeting with the Wash
plant, they tell us that next month they
don't know if they'll be able to take our
coal or not because of the Clean Air Act.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me try to answer
as best I can. [Representative] Doug
Applegate is coming to Washington
Friday morning at 10 o'clock to meet
with my staff and some members from
EPA and the Department of Energy.
Doug, could you bring her with you to
Washington?
Q. Thank you. I love ya.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the obviously
sincere way that you've described the
problem and asked the question would
be very helpful to us in Washington.
Q. I'll do everything I can. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Secondly, let me point
out to you that I'm not trying to criticize
1648
