Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 24, 1979
St. Paul, Minnesota
Remarks at an Energy Briefing by St. Paul
Citizens. August 17, 1979
ENERGY
THE PRESIDENT. Mayor Latimer and all
of those who've come here to help me deal
with one of the most important and sig-
nificant challenges that our Nation has
ever faced, let me express my thanks to
you.
I'm going to be on the beautiful Mis-
sissippi River for the next 7 days with
about 140 fine Americans, and I know
we'll make many new friends on the ship.
It'll be kind of a working vacation, be-
cause I will take every opportunity to ex-
press to the American people my deep
concern about the first development in the
rapid changing characteristics of energy
supply that have ever comprised a direct,
serious threat to the security of the Nation
that we love.
This is no exaggeration. We have be-
come overly dependent on uncertain and
very expensive imported oil. We import
not only oil, but we import unemploy-
ment and we import inflation. I've al-
ready taken action with the help of the
Congress to save 4 million barrels of oil
per day by 1990, and I propose to the
Congress savings for another 42 million
barrels of oil per day.
I can pledge to you that the most oil
that this country will ever import in a
year was imported 2 years ago in 1977.
We're going to freeze that import and
start bringing it down to make our energy
security something on which we can de-
pend. The basis for it is the windfall prof-
its tax. The basic decision there is, as oil
prices go up with decontrol to encourage
American production, who is going to
benefit? The oil companies or the Ameri-
can people? I'm determined that it will
be the American people, and it must be
as a result of the passage of the windfall
that possible.
profits tax. Only your voice can make
And out of the windfall profits tax will
come money to help the poorest Ameri-
can families bear the increased burden of
inevitable increases in the price of energy.
It will let us form much more effective
mass transit systems. It will also mean that
we can increase American production.
More coal will be used, clean-burning
coal; more solar energy; more production
of oil and natural gas. And the most im-
portant thing of all and the cheapest thing
1457
