Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Monday, December 31, 1979
Windfall Profits Tax Legislation provides the funds we need to invest in
Statement by the President.
December 22, 1979
The House and Senate conferees have
taken important steps toward reconciling
their differences on the windfall profits
tax. The basic agreement reached on reve-
nue levels brings us closer to enactment of
a windfall tax which will pay for vital in-
vestments in American alternatives to im-
ported oil.
Progress on the tax has been painfully
slow. First we were promised action by
October, then by Thanksgiving, and then
by Christmas. Although the Congress
made progress before it adjourned, we
still do not have a windfall profits tax in
law.
When I announced my decision to
phase out controls on domestic crude oil
last April, I made clear that the windfall
profits tax was an essential companion to
decontrol. The schedule was carefully set
to encourage American energy production
and to give the Congress plenty of time
to act on the tax. It is my present inten-
tion to continue the necessary general de-
control schedule, but I will postpone fur-
ther increases in the price allowed for
marginal wells until a windfall profits tax
satisfactory to me is on my desk.
It must be clear that the costs of delay
are high. I am determined that the Ameri-
can public will be protected with a wind-
fall profits tax which is fair and which
our energy future.
The conference committee and their
staff will continue work on the tax be-
tween now and the start of the new con-
gressional session to ensure that precious
time is not lost. It is also critical that the
conferees on the energy mobilization
board and the energy security corporation
complete their work without further
delay. We must not dissipate our oppor-
tunity for actions during this time of crisis.
The eyes of the world are focused on us
What Congress does over the next few
to see if we meet our energy challenges.
weeks will determine whether this country
will meet its challenge.
We can and must send a strong and
accurate signal that we, the American
people, are determined to cut our de-
pendence on imported oil. The windfall
profits tax, the energy mobilization board,
and the energy security corporation are
critical to this effort, and we will not
shirk our duty.
Pan American World Airways-
National Airlines Merger
Letter to the Chairman of the Civil
Aeronautics Board. December 22, 1979
To Chairman Marvin Cohen
I have reviewed the following orders
proposed by the Civil Aeronautics Board:
2283
