Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
[
THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
The Department of Commerce, under
this proposal, will become the focal point
of operational responsibilities in the non-
agricultural trade area. My reorganiza-
tion plan will transfer to the Commerce
Department important responsibilities for
administration of countervailing and
antidumping matters, foreign commercial
representation, and MTN implementa-
tion support. Consolidating these trade
functions in the Department of Com-
merce builds upon an agency with exten-
sive trade experience. The Department
will retain its operational responsibilities
in such areas as export controls, East-
West trade, trade adjustment assistance
to firms and communities, trade policy
analysis, and monitoring foreign compli-
ance with trade agreements. The Depart-
ment will be substantially reorganized to
consolidate and reshape its trade func-
tions under an Under Secretary for Inter-
national Trade.
With this reorganization, trade func-
tions will be strengthened within the De-
partment of Commerce, and such related
efforts in the Department as improve-
ment of industrial innovation and pro-
ductivity, encouraging local and regional
economic development, and sectoral
analysis, will be closely linked to an ag-
gressive trade program. Fostering the in-
ternational competitiveness of American
industry will become the principal mis-
sion of the Department of Commerce.
IMPORT REMEDIES
I propose to transfer to the Depart-
ment of Commerce responsibility for ad-
ministration of the countervailing duty
and antidumping statutes. This function
will be performed efficiently and effec-
tively in an organizational setting where
trade is the primary mission. This activity
will be directed by a new Assistant Secre-
tary for Trade Administration, subject to
Senate confirmation. Although the plan
permits its provisions to take effect as late
as October 1, 1980, I intend to make this
transfer effective by January 1, 1980, so
that it will occur as the new MTN codes
take effect. Commerce will continue its
supportive role in the staffing of other un-
fair trade practice issues, such as cases
arising under section 301 of the Trade Act
of 1974.
COMMERICAL REPRESENTATION
This reorganization plan will transfer
to the Department of Commerce re-
sponsibility for commercial representation
abroad. This transfer would place both
domestic and overseas export promotion
activities under a single organization,
directed by an Assistant Secretary for
Export Development, charged with ag-
gressively expanding U.S. export oppor-
tunities. Placing this Foreign Commercial
Service in the Commerce Department
will allow commercial officers to concen-
trate on the promotion of U.S. exports as
their principal activity.
Initially, the transfer of commercial
representation from State to Commerce
will involve all full-time overseas trade
promotion and commercial positions (ap-
proximately 162), responsibility for this
function in the countries (approximately
60) to which these individuals are as-
signed, and the associated foreign national
employees in those countries. Over time,
the Department of Commerce undoubt-
edly will review the deployment of com-
mercial officers in light of changing trade
circumstances and propose extensions or
alterations of coverage of the Foreign
Commercial Service.
1732
