Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
So, I think the inflation rate's going
to be down considerably by the time you
get out of school.
MISS POWELL. Okay. Thank you very
much.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
MISS POWELL. All right. Bye.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you, Kimberly.
President Carter, over the last week-
end, your administration took some dra-
matic steps to help hold down inflation.
One of those steps was raising the prime
interest rate to 142 percent. To a lot of
people, that seems like a gigantic leap of
faith. Is it going to work, and are you
going to get behind it and back it up?
Where does it go from here?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Federal Re-
serve raised, in effect, the interest rates 1
percent, which was a clear signal not only
to our country but to the rest of the world
that we do consider inflation to be the
number one economic threat to our lives
and to the quality of our life. I think that
this analysis, or this decision was ap-
plauded by both liberal and conservative
economists, and I believe there's no ques-
tion about the fact that we have got to
deal with inflation. The interest rates
really go with inflation, and the only way
to get interest rates down is to get infla-
tion down.
We must have a stable dollar. When
the dollar values go down in foreign coun-
tries, it hurts us directly. We can't ex-
port our we can't have as much trade as
we would like, to produce American
products and to sell them. In addition to
that, the reputation of our country is ex-
tremely important on a worldwide basis.
We have taken action since I've been
in office to minimize the damage to em-
ployment with high inflation. We, in the
past, have seen, whenever the interest rate
went up, an immediate nosedive in hous-
ing construction. As a matter of fact, since
I've been in office, because of energy
prices, inflation has gone up, but we've
had a 50-percent growth in the rate of
production of homes for people to live in.
And we've been maintaining this very
high rate of home construction.
Another point is that we've kept people
at work since I've been in office. Again,
working with the Congress and in spite of
inflation, which is too high, we've had a
net increase of 82 million jobs in this
country. It's never been accomplished be-
fore. And we've cut the unemployment
rate down by a full 25 percent. So, so far,
in spite of these pressures for inflation,
which have been with us more than 10
years, we have been successful in keeping
people at work.
MS. STAMBERG. Yes, but I think some
of your own advisers-Stuart Eizenstat,
William G. [G. William] Miller-have
said that they expect that unemployment
rate to go a bit higher next year, up to
6.6 or 7 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. It might go a bit
higher. Well, it was 8 percent or more
when I came in office. And we've added,
as I say, over 8 million new jobs, and the
labor force has grown in our country. An-
other factor that people forget in looking
just at the unemployment rate, which has
come down very gratifyingly, is that when
a teenager, for instance, sees a neighbor
get a job, that teenager goes and puts his
or her name on the employment rolls and
starts looking for a job. So, as people are
put to work-and we've increased teen-
age employment about 26 percent in the
last 22 years you have more people
registering for jobs, which tends to make
the unemployment rate look like it's ris-
ing.
But I think in general, that's one of the
most notable achievements of the last 22
years,
that in spite of energy costs, in
spite of high inflation, in spite of increased
1909
