Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
energy shows up much greater in our in-
flation rate than it does in other countries
around the world.
I represent and lead, really, two na-
tions, as far as energy is concerned. We
have the greatest energy-consuming na-
tion on Earth, and our Nation produces
as much energy as any nation on Earth.
So, we are a consumer and a producer.
In the past, the Congress has been in-
fluenced very heavily by the oil producers,
the oil companies, and only since I've
been in office, the last few months, have
we seen consumers having an equal voice
in the Congress. And my prediction to you
is that by the end of this year, when the
Congress adjourns, we will have on the
law books of our country a comprehensive
energy policy that will really benefit our
Nation in the future.
Ms. STAMBERG. The public sometimes
gets the feeling, though, that it's taken an
awfully long time for this to come through.
THE PRESIDENT. It has. We've never
had it before.
Ms. STAMBERG. Why is that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the longer I've
been involved in the energy question, the
more I can understand why my predeces-
sors in this office didn't try to do anything
about it. It is a losing proposition politi-
cally.
When I spoke to the country in April
of 1977 in an evening television address, I
told them that just opening up the energy
problem would probably cost me 15 points
in the public opinion polls. I underesti-
mated the problem; it's cost me a lot more
than that, because the oil-producing States
think we have hurt the oil industry, and
many consumers think we have not done
enough for them.
But just to address this problem and to
make Americans realize that we do have a
problem and start cutting down on the
unnecessary oil imports will help every
American in the future. And it also en-
hances our Nation's security, because we
are subject now to blackmail, and we are
subject to having a major portion of our
energy supplies interrupted in countries
over which we have no control. And obvi-
ously, every time they jack up prices, the
more oil we're importing, the more it costs
American consumers.
So, we'll shift toward more conserva-
tion, more use of American energy of all
kinds. That's the best approach.
MS. STAMBERG. Let's get to the next
question from a listener, although it
would be nice to continue chatting. Rob-
ert O'Connor is on the line from Elkader,
Iowa. Am I pronouncing Elkader prop-
erly, Mr. O'Connor?
MR. O'CONNOR. That's Elkader, Iowa;
that's in northeast Iowa.
MS. STAMBERG. Oh, thank you very
much.
ENERGY RESOURCES AND CONSERVATION
MR. O'CONNOR. Good morning, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning,
Robert.
MR. O'CONNOR. And I appreciate you
calling me.
Basically, I sort of want to continue a
little bit on the line of the energy pro-
gram. It seems that the part of the pro-
gram or the general trend is towards
trying to satisfy America's energy addic-
tion, rather than curbing it. It seems like
you're continuing to advocate the use of
nuclear power, contrary to the campaign
promise, and also, recently, this inefficient
and perhaps environmentally dirty syn-
thetic fuel program. And I was wonder-
ing-it all seems to try to be towards
avoiding the purchasing of foreign oil,
but it seems like the area that's still, you
know, in the end result is still being
avoided is the use of renewable fuels. And
some of these conservation measures don't
1893
