Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
building this great United States of
America and to its contribution towards
keeping world peace by having our sol-
diers serve with U.N. forces in different
parts of the world-in the Congo, in the
Middle East, in Lebanon, in Cyprus—and
indeed, such is our commitment, even
though it does impose a strain on us, we
are very glad and willing to give it.
My wife and I were very, very de-
lighted to have received earlier this year
your invitation, Mr. President, to come
and visit you formally, and we certainly
looked forward with much anticipation
to this visit today, as we do to our visits to
many of your other great American cities
in the course of the next 7 or 8 days.
I am very proud to be here as the head
of a government which has always had
warm and friendly relations with the
elected leaders of the United States. I
trust that these relations and our political
ties will be strengthened in some way as a
result of this visit.
I'm deeply aware that I represent peo-
ple, people that always have had special,
close bonds, both material and spiritual,
with the people of America. We in Ire-
land, as you know, are your closest friends
in Europe and, may I add, certainly
amongst your best friends anywhere. We
look with pride and affection on the ties
that bind our two countries together. Our
history, both histories, have many com-
mon strands. Perhaps nowhere is this bet-
ter illustrated than here in the White
House, which has served no fewer than 12
U.S. Presidents of Irish descent.
The architect of the house was one
James Hoban, who sailed to America from
Ireland in 1785. He is said to have
adapted his design for the White House
from the house called Leinster House in
Dublin, which is the seat of the Irish
Parliament. Indeed, Hoban probably in-
spired the very name of the White House,
because when, in 1814, it was demolished
by fire, he advised in the course of his
restoration that all the exterior walls be
painted white.
Another aspect of my visit to your coun-
try, as you have observed, Mr. President,
is that I am currently a President of the
European Council, that is, President of
the Council of Heads of State or Govern-
ment of the European Economic Com-
munities. As you know, this Presidency
changes every 6 months amongst the
member countries, and now there are
nine. Next year we will have 12 [10], with
the accession of Greece, and perhaps in a
few more years we will be 12, with the
accession of Spain and Portugal.
The Community is already the largest
trading bloc in the world. One of the
Community's primary aims is the advance
of economic equality throughout its mem-
ber states. As the Community strengthens
economically, its political influence in-
creases. That influence is being and will
be used to promote peace and stability
throughout the whole world.
A recent example of this type of ac-
tivity was the completion by the Irish
Presidency, on behalf of the Community,
of the second Lomé Convention, which
provides for aid for 58 developing coun-
tries in Africa, in the Caribbean, and in
the Pacific.
I recall that my last visit to the White
House was in January 1973, just after
Ireland had acceded to the European
Economic Community. And I can say that
our accession has brought prosperity to
our farms, our industries, and our busi-
nesses, and has added a whole new dimen-
sion to Ireland's role in the world.
In 1979 in the Community we have
passed two milestones along the road to
a more united Europe. One was the intro-
duction of the European monetary system,
and the second was the holding of the
world's first truly international elections,
the free elections to the new European
2094
