Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ment are certainly not unique to the
Caribbean. But these global trends have
struck the small countries of the Carib-
bean with special severity. They add a
major burden to the always imposing
challenge of the building and develop-
ment of independent nations. And eco-
nomic deprivation creates vulnerabilities
to extremism and to foreign intervention.
In facing these problems, the Carib-
bean has some significant advantages. In
addition to its beauty and climate, vigor-
ous political institutions and talented
human resources provide special oppor-
tunities. From the resurgent social
democracy of the Dominican Republic
to the established parliamentary tradi-
tions of some English-speaking peoples,
free institutions have fostered develop-
ment within a stable framework.
The awarding of this year's Nobel
Prize to the distinguished development
economist, W. Arthur Lewis from Trini-
dad,ยน exemplifies the achievements and
contributions of the island's peoples.
Citizens of the United States and the
Caribbean stand together with a common
pride in our achievement. We stand for
the rights of people to be free of oppres-
sion, free from arbitrary abuse, and free to
participate in a nation's political life.
These rights of freedom are precious.
Whatever the claimed justification, we
will not be silent when these rights are
abused. We stand with those who are
genuinely committed to economic devel-
opment. We stand with those who espouse
social justice and human rights and who
work to translate them from abstract goals
into real programs. We stand with those
who are genuinely committed to interna-
tional relations based on mutual respect.
As President, I've sought consistently
to implement these principles and to
1 Sir Arthur is a native of Saint Lucia.
strengthen relations in the nation and
in the region. We negotiated canal treaties
with Panama, in keeping with our deter-
mination to forge new and better relation-
ships with developing countries. We've
worked with 30 countries and 15 interna-
tional institutions to establish a Caribbean
group which has expanded and coordi-
nated the flow of aid to the region and
will support efforts in the future to design,
fund, and implement
fund, and implement regionally inte-
grated development activities.
My administration has increased direct
economic assistance to the Caribbean,
nearly doubling bilateral aid obligations
over the past 2 years. As actual disburse-
ments reflect these increases, we will be
contributing more than ever before to
generate employment and to help basic
human needs. This is particularly true for
the newly independent countries of the
eastern Caribbean.
We've come rapidly to the assistance of
countries like the Dominican Republic
and Dominica, friends in need of emer-
gency aid to rebound from natural dis-
asters. We've repeatedly shown our
eagerness to support political freedom
and democratic processes. But such
governmental action, no matter how im-
portant, is still not enough. And that's
why your meeting is so important.
The United States has vast untapped
resources of technology, skills, and good
will. I will use my office and my influence
to help mobilize the people of the United
States to work with the people of the
Caribbean for common goals, social and
economic development, and democracy.
In the United States, our universities,
our agricultural and labor organizations,
business and industry, churches and other
benevolent institutions, State and local
governments, and individual private
citizens can all play a vital role in estab-
2160
