Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 27
and people that are suffering. We passed
this bill, Mr. President, in the House by
185 majority, and as you know, that's
quite a feat. Ordinarily in the House,
legislation like this will pass with a vote 20
or 30 majority, but we passed it on a vote
of 185 majority.
We succeeded through the efforts of
Sid Yates, my chairman, Jamie Whitten
of Mississippi, and the appropriations
committee, permitting this legislation to
go through on the Senate Interior appro-
priation bill. This is the way it should
have happened; it expedited the legisla-
tion. And, Mr. President, we are now
down to the point where you are signing.
And I want to commend you and to say
thank you for presenting to the Congress
this legislation.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Congressman Natcher.
Perhaps more than-certainly more
than most payments that will go out to
people who are urgently in need, the
Governors of this country are deeply in-
volved. They've helped to draft the legis-
lation; they've helped to administer the
programs that are already in existence;
they've already received the $250 million
that has been disbursed; and they will be
playing a major role in the rapid disburse-
ment of these funds to the poor and the
elderly. And I've asked Governor Ella
Grasso of Connecticut to say a word for
the Governors.
GOVERNOR GRASSO. Thank you, Mr.
President.
I think that you have shown us one
more time that a majority is one who
truly believes. And I want to thank you
for your insistence and your determination
and your leadership in making the fulfill-
ment of this very real need of crisis inter-
vention moneys a reality. And I congratu-
late the Members of Congress, as well, for
moving with such dispatch to be of help:
help to needy families, help to the working
poor, and help to the elderly.
The enactment of this legislation, in a
very real sense, changes a season of con-
cern into a winter of new hope, and for
that, Mr. President, we are most grateful.
And we join with you in a continuing
pledge of conservation, so that our re-
sources may be fully and properly utilized
and we may reach that day, under your
leadership, of true energy independence.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
If anyone has the uncontrollable urge
to speak-[laughter]-otherwise, I will
proceed to sign the bill.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Thank you very much, everyone.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
As enacted, H.R. 4930 is Public Law 96-
126, approved November 27.
Jobs for the Hardcore
Unemployed
Announcement of Administration Programs.
November 27, 1979
The White House announced today
that, for the first time, five Federal agen-
cies and departments have agreed to fill
a specific percentage of the jobs created
by their economic development programs
with the hardcore unemployed. Under
these agreements reached through the
White House Interagency Coordinating
Council, headed by Presidential Assistant
Jack Watson, approximately 80,000 per-
manent, private sector jobs will be made
available to the unemployed through eco-
nomic development projects funded in
FY 1980.
2157
