Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in the ground, is shorter than any program
of any government on the face of the
Earth. It's absolutely astounding. That
was certainly true in Toledo, I'll say that.
[Laughter]
But finally—and here again, Pete Wil-
liams touched on this-revitalization is
something that we all have our ideas
about, and that's important. But more im-
portant if possible-more important
than the actual rebuilding of a community
is the spirit of revitalization—the spirit of
revitalization-because that goes on, that's
got to live with us day in and day out.
When applications are turned down, when
they come back the second time, it's got
to be the spirit of revitalization and a little
knocking on doors and what have you.
[Laughter] But it's that spirit of revital-
ization that I think is absolutely funda-
mental.
And I say to my people in Toledo,
progress doesn't come in quantum leaps.
You know, it's got to be regular, it's got to
be constant, and, I think, on that basis.
And that's why I applaud your adminis-
tration, because you've given us hope, Mr.
President, that we can count on a commit-
ment from the Federal Government, that
it won't necessarily come in quantum
leaps, but it's going to be there. We can
count on it. We can tell our constituents,
we can tell our mayors, we can say this
Government is committed to the con-
tinued progress and revitalization of our
cities.
So, thank you, Mr. President. I ap-
preciate it.
MR. WATSON. Thank you. Be seated for
just one more moment, please. The Presi-
dent asked me to do something richly
you
deserved, actually two things. I told
this was going to be a celebration. Thank
you, Lud Ashley.
I would like for the folks who work in
HUD and who specifically comprise the
UDAG staff please to stand in your place
so that we can applaud you. [Applause]
I'm also pleased to say that the persons
that you just saw stand comprise the total
UDAG staff. [Laughter] Believe it or not,
it's true.
The other point that the President
suggested to me that I make is one also
worthy of note. Though we're here really
to applaud and to congratulate the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, and particular staff within that
Department for the program we've here
been discussing, the fact of the matter is
that, as a result of the President's urban
policy announced now a year and a half
ago, the administration and the Govern-
ment at large are engaged in a way un-
precedented in assessing the direct and
indirect impacts and effects of Govern-
ment actions on cities and towns all over
the country.
There are some people in the room
whom I simply want to note by name,
because they represent, with respect to
their departments, people who are en-
gaged with HUD in this whole urban
revitalization, small town economic de-
velopment effort that we're here to
celebrate.
I'm talking about people, in addition
Simons, the Assistant Secretary for Hous-
to Bob Embry and his staff, such as Larry
ing in HUD, Ernie Green, the Assistant
Secretary of Labor, Bob Hall, the As-
sistant Secretary for Economic Develop-
ment in the Department of Commerce,
Barbara Blum, the Deputy Administra-
tor of EPA, Mort Downey, Assistant
Secretary at DOT, Alex Mercure, As-
sistant Secretary of Agriculture for Rural
Development, and others. The Depart-
ment of the Interior, virtually every do-
mestic agency in this
this Government,
through the Interagency Coordinating
1974
