July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The policies you have helped me mold
and implement, to orient our efforts to-
ward the fight against inflation, to main-
tain the strength and stability of the dol-
lar, to assure the economic strength of our
nation, to protect the integrity of the
budget-have all been right and necessary
for the wellbeing of the United States and
our place in the world economy. These
policies will be pursued with consistency
and vigor.
You have served the nation well during
a difficult period. I admire the strength
and steadfastness with which you have
presented your views, and I look forward
to your continuing help and counsel. Your
willingness to serve until your successor
takes office will help to assure the smooth
continuity in the making of economic
decisions.
Mike, you have been a leading example
of the readiness of prominent Americans
from the private sector to render service
in the public interest. As you return to pri-
vate life, you have my personal best wishes
for the future and my thanks for your
distinguished service.
Sincerely,
Dear Mr. President:
JIMMY CARTER
This is to confirm to you that I have
decided to resign as Secretary of the
Treasury. I would like this resignation to
be effective as early as possible and, in
any case, as soon as my successor is avail-
able. I hope that this can be accom-
plished by the time Congress leaves for
the August recess, thus ensuring a smooth
transition.
As we discussed, I feel strongly that
the time has come for me to return to
private life and that someone else should
carry on as Secretary of the Treasury in
my place. I appreciate your agreeing with
this assessment and am delighted to learn
that you intend to nominate Bill Miller,
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board,
to succeed me. You have made an excel-
lent choice and I am fully confident that
Bill Miller will serve you and the country
well.
Most importantly, I am certain that he
will give you maximum and effective sup-
port in your continuing fight for sound
economic policies in general and in the
pursuit of your anti-inflationary policies
in particular. I am convinced that Bill is
as dedicated as you and I have been in
our efforts to maintain a strong dollar
and responsible fiscal and monetary pol-
icies.
It has been a privilege to serve as your
Secretary of the Treasury for the last 2½
years. I am proud to have had that op-
portunity and appreciate your offering
me the chance to serve.
The assignment has not always been
easy. The national and international eco-
nomic scene has been beset by difficulties
for which there is no quick solution. As
you know, I think it is vital that you con-
tinue to pursue economic policies designed
to deal with these problems over the
longer run. First and foremost is the issue
of inflation, which I hope will remain
the major preoccupation of your eco-
nomic policy. A tight fiscal policy, strict
controls on Government spending, efforts
to bring the Federal budget under better
control, and to reduce Government regu-
lations wherever possible will be the key
to success-as will continuing policies to
expand the enormous productive poten-
tial of the American free enterprise sys-
tem. At the same time, we must continue
to defend the integrity and strength of
the dollar and to play a constructive
leadership role for a free and open inter-
national economic system.
I have every confidence that, with the
help of your new Secretary of the Treas-
ury, you will continue to pursue these
policies. They are the best guarantees that
1274
