Oct. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
White, 39, is executive director of pub-
lic housing in Tampa and a former ad-
ministrative assistant to the mayor. He is a
former high school health and physical
education teacher and is active in sports.
He is a member of the board of directors
of the Boy Scouts of America in Tampa
and a former member of the Florida
Committee on Athletics.
Country Music Gala
Remarks at the Fundraising Performance
for Ford's Theatre. October 2, 1979
I am really glad to be here tonight to
enjoy with you and to celebrate country
music. Some people call it, some experts
call it indigenous American music, but
when I grew up in Plains, Georgia, when
we asked for music, we got country music.
Musicians coming out of the South, like
the late Mother Maybelle Carter, brought
with them songs that had been sung and
played for centuries. These were songs
that were played for entertainment by
people who had to sing them themselves.
They were songs that came out of the
people's own hearts. Some of those tunes,
even some of the words, had been with
them since medieval times; others were
composed in this country as people walked
through the southern mountains or rode
a horse or in the back of a mulewagon or
sat beside a campfire in the western plains.
The good songs were passed down from
generation to generation, because they told
stories of how ordinary people lived and
felt and loved. As people moved to the
cities, they wrote different songs about
their own new feelings and new experi-
ences, but even in our day country music
has remained people music. Now it's
sometimes composed on kitchen tables or
in a hotel room or even riding along in a
pickup truck or on Greyhound buses or
in an 18-wheeler.
Today all kinds of people listen and love
country music. Country music is about all
kinds of experiences-sad times and bad
times, wasted lives, dashed dreams, the
dirty dog that took advantage of you. But
it also celebrates the good and the per-
manent times, home and family, faith and
trust, love that lasts for a lifetime and
sometimes, I admit, love that lasts just
for one good time. [Laughter] It's as uni-
versal as tears and as personal as a baby's
smile.
The country in country music is Amer-
ica. Like jazz and the blues, country music
has become a bridge of understanding and
good will and friendship from our country
to other nations, and so have many of its
top talent and top artists.
I want to thank the great performers
who've come here tonight to benefit Ford's
Theatre. Many of these performers come
from cities and towns that are large and
as cosmopolitan as Plains, Georgia.
[Laughter] And right now I'm going to
turn over the program to one of those—
from Sevierville, Tennessee, Miss Dorothy
Parton.¹
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:21 p.m. at
Ford's Theatre.
15th Anniversary of the Service
Corps of Retired Executives
Message of the President. October 2, 1979
On the fifteenth anniversary of the
Service Corps of Retired Executives, I
want to congratulate the 8,000 SCORE
volunteers who provide valuable assistance
to small businesses all over the country.
1
As a former small businessman, I know
'Popularly known as Dolly Parton.
1816
