Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
conservation, to job opportunities and
employment.
First slide, please.
Any material—wood, grass, grain—can
be converted to energy and generally can
be converted fairly efficiently. So, biomass
is energy
stored in living organisms that
then die, and can be used. And it's a very
distributed source; it's not like certain
highly localized sources where you have to
drill or mine the material. It's generally
distributed across the country and is simi-
larly correlated with agricultural produc-
tion opportunities or forestry production
opportunities.
Next slide.
Typical examples are agricultural
residues. In the harvesting of grain, the
straw or the stalks and leaves are potential
biomass energy sources. Forest residues are
particularly fruitful opportunities, because
in typical harvesting in a forest, about
one-half of the material is left as residue
on the forest floor.
There can also be developed specialized
energy crops, woody materials, that have
particularly good and desirable energy
characteristics. And specific crops can be
developed for specific types of energy
products, just like specific crops are devel-
oped for specific grains.
The opportunities for research and sci-
ence and technology here are enormous,
because there are great unknowns.
Next slide.
This is what I'm talking about with
respect to residues. Many people imme-
diately assume when you talk about bio-
mass that the Earth is going to be com-
pletely denuded, and particularly they
might fear a similar occurrence to what
has happened in the sub-Sahara area. But,
for example, in the State of Georgia, where
there is fairly good data, we grow here
about 6 quads of biomass per year. The
State uses in all forms of energy-coal,
natural gas, hydrofuel oil, and wood-
about 1 quad of energy a year.
Our goal in the near term in this State
is to develop about one-quarter of a quad
from biological materials or biomass. This
would only be about 4 percent of what's
grown. So, it would be a very small por-
tion of the total growth.
Next slide.
There are very good near-term possi-
bilities. Probably the best is forest residue,
and that is where the greatest success has
been achieved so far. The agricultural
wastes are also a very good opportunity,
and particularly damaged material-
spoiled grain, grain that is damaged in
any form by vermin or by chemicals—is
essentially the same as a feedstock for
energy.
So, there is a national estimate that
about 20 percent of all grain is damaged
to the point where its use is reduced, and
this is a great opportunity for utilization.
Next slide.
One of the characteristics of biomass
is just like agriculture and forestry. It's
very regional, and the solution for one sec-
tion of the United States is probably not
going to be a good solution for another
section. Thus, national programs that
would be uniformly applied across the
country probably aren't useful.
There is a great need for fine-scale
technological development that accom-
modates the peculiarities of each region.
Next slide.
To illustrate the two-the secure and
the labor-intensive characteristics of bio-
mass, the State of Georgia again, where
we have fairly good data, imports about
$3 billion of energy a year. By "import" I
mean across State boundaries-coal, oil,
natural gas. If we could displace within
5 years about one-quarter of this with bio-
mass, this would be a new industry in this
1542
