Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
20 percent the amount of energy that they
use to produce 1 pound of chemicals, and
that means, in effect, 19 percent of their
energy savings is going in to increase
profits for them.
So, I think that a proper conservation
effort, either in the proper design of a
building, driving habits, habits around the
home or around your job, is not a sacrifice.
It can be a very pleasant thing to do, and
it saves you money, because wasting
energy costs money.
The cumulative effect of American
savings can be a tremendous benefit to us
all. In California, for instance, when they
had the very serious gas lines, in just a few
weeks the Californians changed their driv-
ing habits. And I would like to ask you
when you drive home from this meeting
today if you're in a car, see how many cars
you meet only has one person or, at the
most, two people. And, you know, for peo-
ple to join together in going to work 5
days a week, 50 weeks a year, obviously
saves money if you share an automobile.
So, I think it's something that everyone
has got to do. This problem is not going to
go away. And for everybody to sit back
and say, "I'll wait for my neighbor to do
it," is not only improper for your own life
and costs you money, but it's unpatriotic.
And this is the cheapest and easiest and
most pleasant way to be a patriotic Amer-
ican I can think of. I hope everyone here
will help me.
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
Q. Mr. President, recently Florida
Power and Light was allowed to begin the
use of high-sulfur fuel at the Parish
plant in Manatee County with the per-
mission of our Governor and the White
House, over objections from residents and
governments of Sarasota County. Florida
Power and Light was trying to threaten us
with blackouts, and I think with the
recent fuel adjustments that we may have
already had our blackout in a way, be-
cause fuel bills for many of our retired
citizens are so high.
Also soon to be considered by the Sen-
ate, of course, is your energy and water
development bill, H.R. 4388, which would
exempt certain energy projects from en-
vironmental regulations and the Tellico
Dam, which will, of course, undermine
our Endangered Species Act.
In light of these, do you think we really
need an energy mobilization board to fur-
ther exempt energy projects and projects
such as the Tellico Dam? How can we
really preserve high environmental quality
with the development of oil shale and syn-
thetic fuels when we can't even preserve
the present environmental standards with
the present use of nuclear power, oil, and
coal?
THE PRESIDENT. The Environmental
Protection Agency has not lowered air
pollution standards for Florida Power and
Light, to my knowledge. They would be
violating the law if they did. They have
now set standards of 1.2 pounds of sulfur
emissions per million Btu's, which is a very
strict standard. Florida, when I was Gov-
ernor-Florida derived about 85 percent,
I think, of your electricity from oil.
Georgia, which went to coal much earlier,
derived about 85 percent of our electricity
from coal.
It's important now that there be a shift
away from oil toward natural gas in some
instances and we're trying to negotiate
with Mexico to get more natural gas from
them and coal, providing it is burned un-
der circumstances that it can meet en-
vironmental standards set by law and
rigidly enforced.
I do not approve of an energy produc-
tion board law that would let that pro-
duction board violate or change the pro-
1569
