Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cago. I'm going to address myself to con-
servation of energy. I know it's a very
good subject of yours.
Four-and-a-half years ago, I was picked
by the late Mayor Daley to run for Cook
County commissioner, and Mayor Jane
Byrne, at that time, was our chairman of
the nominating committee. And I ran. But
during the campaign, I made a study on
where are we wasting energy or where can
we save energy, and I found out that we-
I addressed myself to the 1,200,000
cars, automobiles that are in use today on
a day-by-day basis, 110,000 trucks that
are running around every day, mostly 8
hours a day, and I addressed myself to
kinetic energy, which is energy of motion.
And when you see these automobiles
with a 2-ton vehicle coming to a stop sign,
an unnecessary stop sign, and stopping, to
get that car going 30 miles again requires
an awful lot of energy, not to mention a
78,000-pound truck, approximately 40
pounds [tons] fully loaded, 40 miles an
hour coming to a stop light, an unneces-
sary stop light, or a stop sign, and then to
get that car or that truck going again, 40
tons, 40 miles an hour, you eat gasoline or
fuel up by the gallons. And this is where
we are losing or wasting fuel.
I also make these statements, and I
have calculations to prove it. Four-and-
a-half years ago, during that campaign, I
calculated it. And would you believe, by
the time I
THE PRESIDENT. I think the people are
going to want you to ask a question.
Q. All right, fine. I took kinetic energy,
I converted it to Btu's; Btu's to gallons of
gas; gallons of gas to crude oils; crude oils
to number of barrels. And it came out to
be we could conserve 7 million barrels a
day-fantastic-exactly what we were im-
porting 42 years ago. Today it's 8.3 mil-
lion or more barrels.
All right, my question is: Do you think
that system of reducing or eliminating
one-third of the stop signs has merit across
the country?
THE PRESIDENT. Good question. It was
a long question, but I think it's worth-
while, because this is one of the few ques-
tions that I get for which I'm not responsi-
ble. [Laughter] Nobody can accuse me of
putting in those extra stop signs, right?
[Laughter]
You know, I believe that this is one
area that we have not adequately ad-
dressed. And I will relay your question to
the Secretary of Transportation, Neil
Goldschmidt, and tell him, in working
with local people and also in the Federal
highway system, to see if we can't reduce
the number of unnecessary stop signs. And
I think that that is a very worthy sug-
gestion.
We get a lot of good thoughts and a lot
of good ideas from coming out to meet
with people like you, and I think the
sense that I get is that we are all partners.
Every one of your constituents, as a local
official, is also my constituent, and every
one of Marty Russo's constituents in this
district is my constituent. We represent
the same people. And what I do as Presi-
dent that benefits our Nation is exactly
what you want, whether you're a Demo-
crat or a Republican. You want the Presi-
dent to do a good job.
I don't have time for another question,
I'm sorry. But I would like to say this in
closing.
When we read the local newspapers or
see the evening television or listen to the
radio, what we get at that moment of that
day is a picture, most often an accurate
picture, of the problems of our society.
The inconveniences are multiplied in their
importance, and the debates that take
place on controversial issues, like taxes or
housing or interest rates or inflation or
legislation concerning education-we see
and we think about the difficulties and the
arguments and the temporary failures.
1952
