Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in an unwarranted fashion, but to let the
Israeli leaders and to let the Egyptian
leaders get to know each other and feel
the responsibility on their own shoulders,
which they do.
And I really enjoy getting a telephone
call from Anwar Sadat after Begin leaves
Egypt, and he says, "Mr. President, we got
along just fine. You know that Prime
Minister has really changed." It's the
greatest feeling.
And I think here in our own hemi-
sphere, we've enhanced the spirit of mu-
tual respect and national dignity by im-
plementing the Panama Canal treaties.
This was my life's most difficult political
effort, with absolutely no immediate polit-
ical benefit, and there's not a single
United States Senator who voted for the
Panama Canal treaties who could possi-
bly have expected accolades or one extra
vote because of that courageous action.
And I've never witnessed in my own life-
time a demonstration of greater political
courage than the U.S. Senate showed in
the ratification of the Panama Canal trea-
ties and the House recent action in im-
plementing legislation.
It made me proud, because it was a
right thing to do, it was a decent thing to
do, it was a fair thing to do. And it wasn't
entirely an unselfish gesture, because I say
flatly to you that the United States will
reap rich dividends from this action in the
years ahead. We're already doing it. These
treaties were, indeed, worthy of the Dem-
ocratic Party and all it stands for. We
really honored the Democratic Party's fin-
est principles.
In Africa, for the first time in the his-
tory of our Nation, after 200 years the
United States stands boldly and clearly on
the side of justice for majority rule, for
democracy, for the end of apartheid.
There's absolutely no equivocation about
where we stand. We don't talk out of both
sides of our mouths. We can be proud of
this; we can be proud of this together.
As has been mentioned several times
throughout the world, we are now known
as the champion of human rights. This is
good for others, and it's also good for us.
In our battle for basic human rights, we
will never yield, and you can depend on
that.
And I might add that we've not
achieved full human rights here at home.
It took us a long time to abolish slavery
in this country. It took us even longer to
find the generosity in our political system
to let women have the right to vote. I
think it's time to give women equal rights
by ratifying the equal rights amendment,
and I hope you'll all help me with that.
We can be proud, too, of the great
struggle for SALT II, which will control
nuclear weapons, it will enhance our Na-
tion's security, it will contribute to world
peace. It took 7 years to negotiate it. This
is a goal: nuclear weapons control, strong
national security, world peace. It's obvi-
ously in the tradition of the Democratic
Party.
And I want to make another thing
clear. I'm a Navy man, come from Geor-
gia, and I am for a strong defense. My
position is clear, and I don't want to make
any apology for it. And there may be those
who say, "I wish you weren't so strongly
for a powerful nation, militarily." I'm just
going to take one aside to comment on
why. We only spend about 5 percent of
our gross national product for defense. In
the past we spent much more than that.
We do it more efficiently now, more effec-
tively, better coordinated, better spirit.
The Soviets spend 13 percent, 14, maybe
15 percent of their gross national product
on defense.
We have been at peace. We've men-
tioned that several times. The only reason
that we are at peace is because we have a
2018
