Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
change that's made in that. That is a
turbocharged engine, and it's down-sized.
As a result, it will get somewhat better
fuel economy than this. I might just add,
though, that in our studies and as reported
by the EPA, we have been unable to meet
the emission standards with that type of
vehicle. We call it the 3,000-pound ve-
hicle, and we have not been able to re-
duce the emissions to the level that it
could be certified.
THE PRESIDENT. Is that apparently an
insurmountable obstacle or something
that-
DR. COMPTON. We continue to work on
it. It is not clear to us, though, that it is
possible within the current levels, within
the current restrictions imposed by the
certification process.
Now, beyond these versions of the pis-
ton engine, several alternative power-
plants are under development. The near-
est term prospect appears to be the elec-
tric. While currently available batteries
severely limit the size and range of such
vehicles, extensive research programs are
underway that have the prospect of pro-
viding a much improved range under rea-
sonable driving conditions. Vehicles with
a range between 70 and 100 miles may be
available by the late 1980's. Cost, dura-
bility, and safety of electric vehicles are all
issues that must be resolved.
Other alternatives include the high-
temperature gas turbine and the Sterling.
And both are currently under develop-
ment with the assistance of funds from the
Department of Energy.
This is a slide of the Chrysler automo-
tive turbine engine that's been jointly de-
veloped with the Government—and while
we have a model, it's very difficult to carry
that to you for you to examine, but you
can see the principal elements of it, there's
a compressor, there are turbine wheels,
there are diffusers.
The next generation of such turbines,
if they are to find extensive usage in
automobiles, will require ceramic com-
ponents. We have a couple examples of
those. These are the stator turbine wheel,
made from ceramics. Of course these are
in the very early stages of development
and are far from ready for consideration
for production. While progress is being
made on both of these engines, it appears
unlikely that either can be in large-scale
production before the late 1990's or the
early 2000's.
But we recognize that vehicle weight
is as important to fuel economy as is
power-train efficiency. This is the trend
that can be expected to occur in the use
of materials. Note the increases expected
in plastics, aluminum, and high-strength
steel. This, coupled with some further
vehicle down-sizing, will probably reduce
average vehicle weights by another 500
pounds by 1985 for a further increase in
fuel economies of about 10 percent. We
believe that weight reductions beyond
this level, beyond the 1985 level, will not
be possible using conventional materials
unless the utility of the vehicle is very
seriously reduced. Therefore, space age
materials are being investigated that may
allow further reductions without a change
in utility.
Prominent in this research is the study
of graphite fiber reinforced plastics, and
here are two examples. The first exam-
ple-I'll show you another in a mo-
ment demonstrates the potential weight
savings of these compounds, 73 percent
in this one case. Presently the cost of these
materials is prohibitive, and the available
supply is insufficient to allow considera-
tion for large-scale use. But if these and
other problems can be solved, the use of
this material could allow several hundred
pounds more weight to be removed from
a vehicle, thus allowing further weight
1552
