Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 17
Department of Labor
Nomination of William P. Hobgood To Be an
Assistant Secretary. July 17, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate William P. Hobgood, of
Springfield, Va., to be Assistant Secretary
of Labor for labor-management relations.
Hobgood was born February 19, 1939,
in Atlanta, Ga. He received a B.S. from.
Florida State University in 1961, an M.A.
from George Washington University in
1965, and a J.D. from the University of
Louisville in 1972. He served in the U.S.
Navy from 1961 to 1965.
He has been active in labor relations
since 1965. He has served as a mediator
in Louisville, Ky.; Charlotte, N.C.; and
Washington, D.C. Hobgood has worked
with the Federal Mediation and Concilia-
tion Service since 1965 and has been Di-
rector of Mediation Services since 1977.
table milestone in the history of explora-
tion. Whatever else historians of the
future may say about this century, they
will surely describe our nation as dynamic
and resourceful. Not only did we fulfill
mankind's age-old dream of human
flight, but we also successfully ventured
into space.
At this moment, automated extensions
of human intelligence-Viking, Pioneer
and Voyager spacecraft-are exploring
the solar system. While orbital observa-
tories search the distant universe, satel-
lites are providing data which may some-
day help us better to preserve and man-
age our earth. We look forward, as early
as next year, to even greater knowledge
when the Space Shuttle brings us easier,
more economical and more regular access
to space.
Today, as we observe the tenth anni-
versary of the lunar landings, our de-
termination must be to ensure that the
possibilities we have glimpsed from our
He is also Coordinator of Labor Rela- Apollo missions will be developed for the
tions for the President's Commission on
the Coal Industry and has been adjunct
professor at Georgetown University Law
Center since 1974.
Apollo 11 Anniversary
Message of the President. July 17, 1979
On July 20, 1969, man first reached
out and touched an extraterrestrial body
in the solar system. That touch, those first
footsteps on the moon, greatly enlarged
our thinking about our future on earth
and beyond. The moon was no longer
simply our visitor, to recall Shakespeare's
phrase, for we had visited the moon.
The touchdown of the Apollo 11 Eagle
in the Sea of Tranquility is an unforget-
benefit of all mankind.
JIMMY CARTER
Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission
Nomination of Daniel E. Leach To Be a
Member, and Redesignation as Vice Chairman.
July 17, 1979
The President today announced that he
has nominated Daniel E. Leach for reap-
pointment as a member of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC) for a 5-year term. Leach would
be redesignated Vice Chairman of the
Commission on confirmation.
Leach has been a member of the EEOC
since 1976 and has served as Vice Chair-
man since 1977.
1259
