Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to the vision and courage of President
Sadat, Prime Minister Begin, and the
people of their two great nations.
Over the coming months it will be our
common task to continue demonstrating
that peace does work and, by the evi-
dence of our deeds, to convince other na-
tions and leaders to join with us in this
quest for lasting peace, security, and the
opportunity for productive lives for all
the people of the Middle East.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House an-
nounced that the President had received mes-
sages from Prime Minister Begin and President
Sadat. As printed below, the messages follow
the texts made available by the White House
Press Office.
On this the first anniversary of the Camp
David agreement signed in Washington on Sep-
tember 17th I vividly recall the wonderful
hospitality which you and your gracious lady
accorded to my wife, my colleagues and myself
during those 13 days of the momentous confer-
ence. I remember well the sessions, the strong
debates, the mutual convincing, the difficulties
we all had to overcome, the weighing of every
sentence and word and ultimately the joy of
ment, but many millions of women and men of
goodwill will rejoice together with us in this
accomplishment. Their blessings are our joy
and the source of satisfaction.
Accept, Mr. President, my deepest gratitude
for all you have done with such great devotion
in the service of peace.
Yours respectfully and sincerely,
MENACHEM BEGIN
This afternoon I have issued a presidential
statement expressing my views on the first an-
niversary of the signature of the Camp David
agreements. On this occasion I wish to express
my deep feelings and thanks for your personal
contribution to this historical event. I am confi-
dent that these agreements, which have been
the first steps toward a comprehensive peace,
will help bring a solution to the Palestinian
question in all its aspects. The role of the
U.S. as a full partner in the peace process will
remain a key element in our mutual efforts to
achieve a just and lasting peace in the Middle
East.
Sincerely,
ANWAR EL-SADAT
achieving the understanding which became the Federal Council on the Aging
basis of an historic agreement. Out of it the
treaty of peace between Egypt and Israel, cer-
tainly a turning point in the annals of the
Middle East emerged and the positive concept
of full autonomy for the Palestinian Arabs, in-
habitants of Judea, Samaria and Gaza District
was brought forth.
You, Mr. President did your utmost by your
own hard work to make these agreements pos-
sible, allow me, therefore, on this memorable
anniversary to thank you from the heart for
the great assistance rendered to both Egypt
and Israel in achieving a rapprochement be-
tween two countries which for thirty one years,
were in a state of war, and which have now
concluded peace, the first step towards a gen-
eral and comprehensive settlement in the
Middle East.
There are people who do not yet appreciate
the value of this moral international achieve-
Nomination of Five Members.
September 17, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate five persons as members
of the Federal Council on the Aging.
They are:
AARON E. HENRY, president of the Mississippi
State Conference of the NAACP and chair-
man of the National Black Caucus on the
Aging;
CYRIL HILARY CARPENTER, president of the
Minnesota Farmers Union;
JOHN B. MARTIN, legislative consultant to the
American Association of Retired Persons
and the National Retired Teachers Associa-
tion and former Special Assistant for the
Aging to President Nixon (reappointment);
1682
