Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 3
Remarks at a White House Picnic.
September 3, 1979
Rosalynn and I just came back from
Georgia. We escaped from all the killer
rabbits down there [laughter]—just in
time to join you for a delightful picnic
and some wonderful entertainment.
without any difficulty, and he was appar- Labor Day
ently disturbed by some predator, maybe
dogs or a fox. And he jumped in the far
side of the pond. I didn't know what kind
of animal it was at first. I thought it was
probably a beaver or an otter. We have
seen beaver and otter in that particular
pond. But as he got closer to me I saw that
it was not either one of those kinds of
animals. So, I had a paddle in the boat,
and when the rabbit got close enough to
the boat for me to recognize it and I saw
that it was going to attempt to climb in
the boat with me, I thought that that
would be an unpleasant situation for me
and the rabbit.
Q. One of you would have to get out.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. [Laugh-
ter]
Q. Did you do him in?
THE PRESIDENT. NO, I never did hit
the rabbit. I just splashed water toward
him, and he finally veered his course and
went over to the bank and climbed up on
the bank.
Q. We have a Freedom of Information
Act going to get that picture, by the way.
We have filed a suit. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. This picture is very
clear. A lot of people doubted my veracity
when I came back from the pond that a
rabbit was swimming. But rabbits swim,
and that one was swimming without any
difficulty at all. I could certify to that.
[Laughter]
Q. Thank you.
Q. Well, will you catch more fish than
rabbits the next time?
Q. I think being able to swim in ponds
is a fine thing, don't you think?
We've had a good vacation. We have
been down the Mississippi River. We had
a few days at Camp David. We went down
to Atlanta, to Tampa, to Plains. And ev-
erywhere I went, my confidence in this
Nation was strengthened. I began to see
more and more clearly that my basic be-
justified-not only our military and eco-
lief in the strength of our country is well
nomic strength and political strength
but our ethical and moral strength. The
spirit of our country is still intact.
Every time we had a chance to talk to
a few people, even some tonight as I came
through the crowd, there was a hope that
our Nation might be more unified. Some-
times when a country or a community or
a family experiences a difficulty or an in-
convenience, people try to grasp for some
special advantage for themselves just to
make sure they don't get left out. And in
the process, we lose sight of the overall
benefit to us if we work together, if we are
just a little more unselfish during a time
of trial or tribulation or test or doubt, as
we are today.
We've got a great country, and part
of that greatness has been that every
time we've been tested in the past, we've
been drawn closer together. And I can
say that the working people of our coun-
try, the labor movement, the trade unions,
have always been in the forefront when
there was a dynamic struggle to make our
NOTE: The exchange began at approximately Nation greater in time of peace, especially
THE PRESIDENT. I think so, yes.
Q. And on that note-we'll not cross
that bridge today.
11:15 a.m. during the President's walking tour
of the town.
in time of war.
1593
