Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
82 percent of your votes for the Carter-
Mondale ticket, and I thank you for it.
And I hope that you all do even better in
1980-[laughter]-for all the Democrats
who run.
You yourselves have produced out-
standing political leaders: your able rep-
resentative to the United States Con-
gress, Walter Fauntroy; your dynamic
and nationally admired young mayor,
Marion Barry; the effective leader of your
local Democratic Party, Bob Washing-
ton; your distinguished national commit-
teeman and committeewoman, John
Hechinger and Sharon Dixon.
And, in addition, this great city has pro-
vided many outstanding people to serve
with me in the administration of the af-
fairs of the United States of America:
people like Pat Harris, Cliff Alexander,
Geno Baroni, Sterling Tucker; Tyrone
Brown, the FCC; Emmett Rice, the Fed-
eral Reserve; Senator Joe Tydings, Ruth
Prokop, the Merit Systems Protection
Board; Edith Barksdale Sloan, the Con-
Product Safety Commissioner;
Bunny Mitchell; Wiley Branton at Con-
rail; Marjorie Lawson, Kennedy Cen-
ter; Jim Dyke; Pauline Schneider, and
many others—I don't have time to name
them all. But this forces the Federal Gov-
ernment to recognize you, to recognize
your hopes and your dreams and your
problems and your aspirations. And it also
gives the District, which has a highly
motivated and consummately, politically
educated electorate, to have a great and
beneficial effect on the rest of our country.
The party that produced this tremen-
dous array of talent also nurtured the
District's image as a vigorous local en-
tity, separate and apart from the seat of
our Federal Government. As a matter of
fact, as you well know, there are really two
Washingtons: one, of the Federal city,
which is a national and an international
center; and hometown Washington,
where 700,000 local people live and work
and make a good city function. When I
campaigned, I often mentioned the mis-
takes of the Federal Government, and I
have even had a few things to say about
that since I have been living here. But
I have never confused the two cities, and
I have only had good things to say about
hometown Washington.
This city enjoys the special beauty and
the cultural advantages of being the Na-
tion's Capital. And you've coped well with
the special responsibilities of being an
international center. But hometown
Washington must also correct or prevent
problems that you share with other cities
throughout this country-such as urban
decay, poverty, crime, and unemploy-
ment. You manage this and you manage
it well, because you have a special kind of
determination which has sustained this
community despite generations of depri-
vation of basic human rights.
As far as hometown Washington is
concerned, I have the same commitments
tonight that I had when I was a candi-
date for President.
More than 2 years ago, I asked Vice
President Walter Mondale to bring to-
gether a group, a high-level task force of
local officials, officers from our own ad-
ministration, Members of Congress, and
to work with me and to work with you
to carry out those campaign commit-
ments and make sure that the basic prob-
lems of the District were not only identi-
fied but resolved.
First, I'm determined to reduce Fed-
eral intrusion into the local affairs of the
District of Columbia. I've already ended
Presidential review of local decisions
where there is no significant Federal in-
terest involved, and I support similar
elimination of congressional review of
such local matters. I will never treat the
1921
