Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 20
Watson was born January 8, 1914, in
Dayton, Ohio. He received his B.A. in
1937 from Brown University. He served
in the U.S. Army Air Corps as lieutenant
colonel from 1940 to 1945.
He has been with International Busi-
ness Machines Corp. since 1937, succes-
sively as vice president, executive vice
president, president, chairman of the
board, and presently as chairman of the
executive committee.
Since 1978 he has been Chairman of
the General Advisory Committee of the
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
He has served on the President's Ad-
visory Committee on Labor-Management
Policy; as director of Bankers Trust Co.,
Pan American World Airways, Time,
Inc.; and as trustee of the American
Museum of Natural History, Brown Uni-
versity, and Rockefeller Foundation.
Department of Transportation
Resignation of Brock Adams and Appointment
of W. Graham Claytor, Jr., as Acting
Secretary. July 20, 1979
The President has accepted the resigna-
tion of Secretary of Transportation Brock
Adams. Secretary Adams has expressed a
desire for an early transition.
Secretary of the Navy Graham Claytor
will serve as Acting Secretary of the De-
partment of Transportation for a period
up to 30 days until a permanent succes-
sor has been confirmed and sworn into
office.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 1:37 p.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
The press release also includes a transcript
of the question-and-answer session which fol-
lowed the announcement.
Department of Transportation
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Brock Adams as Secretary. July 20, 1979
To Secretary Brock Adams
I accept your resignation with friend-
ship, respect and appreciation for the ac-
complishments of our nation during your
service as Secretary of Transportation. I
share your belief that our country's sys-
tem of transportation can and must be
greatly improved in the future. Your con-
tinuing advice and support as we make
this progress will be very valuable.
You and Betty have my best wishes, and
my thanks on behalf of a nation which
has benefited from your service.
Sincerely,
My dear Mr. President:
JIMMY CARTER
I hereby tender my resignation as
United States Secretary of Transporta-
tion.
I have appreciated your courtesy and
the personal kindness you and your wife
have extended to Betty and me during the
period I have served as a member of your
Cabinet.
I particularly appreciated the position
you stated in your Sunday night speech
regarding public transportation and the
need for a more fuel-efficient automobile.
I hope these programs will be fully imple-
mented soon. As you know, during the last
two years I have repeatedly urged that
more attention be focused on these areas
because maintaining American mobility
through alternatives to and more efficient
use of the motor vehicle are essential to
maintaining the American economy and a
quality standard of living as we go
through the difficult period of the future.
I believe the American public shares this
1285
