July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sociations, River Basin Commissions,
Regional Councils of Government, and
other similar organizations in the Region.
1-307. Executive Order No. 11647, as
amended, is revoked.
The White House,
July 20, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:26 p.m., July 20, 1979]
Government service, he had extensive
experience in managing some of the larg-
est public and private enterprises in the
world. The President feels that Mr. Dun-
can will provide the sort of leadership
that is needed in our continuing efforts to
deal with our energy problems.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 3:45 p.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
The press release also includes a transcript
of the question-and-answer session which fol-
lowed the announcement.
Departments of Energy
and Defense
Resignation of James R. Schlesinger and
Nominations of Charles W. Duncan, Jr.,
To Be Secretary of Energy and W. Graham
Claytor, Jr., To Be Deputy Secretary of
Defense. July 20, 1979
As you know, Secretary of Energy
Schlesinger has twice asked the President
to accept his resignation. As you also
know, Secretary Schlesinger has previous-
ly stated his intention to leave the Depart-
ment of Energy by the fall of this year.
The President will nominate Deputy Sec-
retary of Defense Charles William Dun-
can, Jr., to succeed Secretary Schlesinger.
Additionally, the President will nominate
W. Graham Claytor, Jr., Secretary of the
Navy, to succeed Mr. Duncan as Deputy
Secretary of Defense.
The exact date of Secretary Schles-
inger's departure will be determined by
the President and Secretary Schlesinger,
consistent with the mutual desire for a
smooth transition. Until that time the
Secretary will continue to have the Presi-
dent's full confidence and support.
Mr. Duncan, who has served as Deputy
Secretary of Defense since the beginning
of this administration, has proven to be a
manager of exceptional skill at the De-
partment of Defense. Prior to entering
Department of Energy
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
James R. Schlesinger as Secretary.
July 20, 1979
To Secretary James Schlesinger
With regret but with great appreciation
I accept your resignation as Secretary of
Energy. Under the most difficult of cir-
cumstances you have performed your
many duties superbly.
The progress you have described in your
letter of resignation has been the product
of a team effort, and you have headed the
team. It may be many years before the
people of our nation can realize the bene-
fits which have already been brought to
them by your accomplishments.
During the months ahead, with your
advice and support, we will implement the
program we have evolved together. An
aroused and united country can then
guarantee our vital energy security.
You have my best wishes and thanks.
Sincerely,
Dear Mr. President:
JIMMY CARTER
It is now two and one-half years since
you assigned to me the onerous and mis-
1290
