Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
drawn strength and support and encour- San Diego, California
agement from the labor movement.
You're always with me when peace or
freedom are at stake. I know I can count
on you; I have never been disappointed.
In wartime, during the struggle for civil
rights in our own country, in meeting our
economic challenges, no matter how se-
vere they may have been, whenever our
well-being or our basic values are at stake,
labor is in the front line.
The visit of Pope John Paul has given
us a chance to reflect on our basic values
and the challenges to them. We cannot
permit this chance to slip away. Let's
seize this opportunity and make the most
of it.
Perhaps the greatest gift the Pope gave
us in his brief visit to our country was a
chance to rethink what these four words
mean, "One nation, under God." He
lifted our eyes from petty concerns, some-
times selfish concerns, from the cynicism
and the indifference that sometimes di-
vides Americans one from another, to
show us that we can unite for common
purposes, as Americans, as children of
God, or as citizens of a fragile world.
Now let us rededicate ourselves to a
simple truth that together we can shape
a bright future, together we can improve
our own lives, that as a strong nation
together, we can build a community of
nations at peace.
We have within us the ability to make
these dreams a reality. And I ask you, the
building and construction workers of
America, to help me make these wonder-
ful dreams come true.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:08 a.m. in
the Convention Tent at the Islandia Hyatt
House.
Remarks at a Reception Hosted by the San
Diego County Board of Supervisors.
October 11, 1979
Congressman Van Deerlin and his beau-
tiful and very wise, dedicated, competent,
friendly constituents:
I'm glad to be with you. As a matter
of fact, it's nice for me to come back
home. As some of you may know, during
the time of the Korean war, my wife,
Rosalynn, and I and my older son, Jack,
and Chip lived here in San Diego. Coro-
nado was looked on as the retired naval
officers' heaven, and I never quite
reached that high and exalted position.
I had to take second best, President of
the United States-[laughter]-but it's
not too late. It's not too late.
I was serving on the U.S.S. Pomfret,
Submarine SS 391, and we tied up not
at a dock, but at a submarine tender. And
the only bad thing about where I lived
was that I had to get up at a quarter to
four every morning to catch a ride down
to the pier to get a boat that didn't travel
on a regular schedule out to the Navy
tender and then get on a submarine to be
there on time. And that's almost my most
vivid memory of San Diego. [Laughter]
That's right.
And I understand that they put a free-
way through the house where I used to
live. I cannot believe-[laughter]. It must
have been under a Republican adminis-
tration. [Laughter]
We had a good life there. Most of our
neighbors spoke Spanish, and it gave me
and Rosalynn a chance to learn that lan-
guage. And we had an overwhelming ex-
pression of friendship for me and my wife
and
my two little children.
I went from there to be the only officer,
as a matter of fact, on the first ship that
1872
