Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
DR. DAVENS. Good afternoon, Mr.
President. This is Dr. Ed Davens in
Baltimore.
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead, Doctor.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
Dr. Davens. You've already referred
to nuclear power, which is what my ques-
tion is about.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Dr. Davens. But I'd like to have you
pursue it just a bit more. Will you please
state clearly your policy on the develop-
ment of nuclear power? My impression is
that you're convinced that going full
steam ahead is essential for the good of
the economy. Am I wrong about that?
THE PRESIDENT. During my own cam-
paign for President and since I've been in
office, I've taken a position on nuclear
power that I think is a proper one—first
of all, that there is a place in our energy
industry for nuclear power. It's already
been established, and I think that it would
be
very difficult if not impossible to root it
out. For instance, I was in Hartford, Con-
necticut, not long ago. Connecticut de-
rives about 60 percent of all their elec-
tricity from nuclear powerplants;
Chicago, for instance, about 50 percent;
and so forth.
However, as I said earlier, I think that
the nuclear power portion and also the
synthetic fuel portion can be minimized
by those who fear it or those who want to
avoid it, to the extent that we can have
conservation, the increased production of
other forms of energy in our own country.
We will get back, probably around the
end of this month, a report from the so-
called Kemeny Commission on the Three
Mile Island accident. At that time I will
analyze that Commission report very thor-
oughly and make a report without delay
to the American people about its recom-
mendations and whether or not we can
carry out those recommendations and the
extent to which we can remove present
doubts about the safety or advisability of
nuclear power in the future.
I think our country is possibly, probably
going to rely on nuclear power less in fu-
ture years than other major nations about
which I happen to know. In Japan, in
Germany, Great Britain, even oil-produc-
ing countries like Iran and Saudi Arabia,
they're moving much more rapidly toward
nuclear power than are we. We are blessed
with a broad diversity of energy sources,
not only solar, with the technical ability to
use it, but also coal, geothermal supplies,
oil, natural gas, shale deposits, and many
others, hydroelectric power.
So, I think there is a place for nuclear
power. It ought to be safe; the American
people ought to understand all the facts
about it; and its use can be minimized to
the extent that we save energy and shift
to other sources of energy. But I don't
want to mislead you. I think there will be
a place for nuclear power in the future.
It's my responsibility along with many
others to guarantee that it is safe.
DR. DAVENS. Your background is in
nuclear engineering; mine is in pediatrics.
I would like to urge you to look very care-
fully at the evidence that nuclear radia-
tion is simply not a viable thing for the
survival of the race on this planet, and I
hope you will pay real attention to the
Kemeny Commission and other advice
you may get on minimizing this dangerous
pollution of the environment.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Doctor, I will. I don't
want to lose that point without making,
however, a clarification. I have done
graduate work in nuclear physics and nu-
clear engineering at the beginning of its
use back in the early 1950's, and I'm fa-
miliar with the dangers of radiation.
I would like to point out that in the
production of power in our country, using
nuclear power, there has never been a per-
1906
