Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 6
National Grandparents Day
Proclamation 4679. September 6, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
As we seek to strengthen the enduring
values of the family, it is appropriate that
we honor our grandparents.
Grandparents are our continuing tie to
the near-past, to the events and beliefs
and experiences that so strongly affect our
lives and the world around us. Whether
they are our own or surrogate grandpar-
ents who fill some of the gaps in our
mobile society, our senior generation also
provides our society a link to our national
heritage and traditions.
We all know grandparents whose values
transcend passing fads and pressures, and
who possess the wisdom of distilled pain
and joy. Because they are usually free to
love and guide and befriend the young
without having to take daily responsibility
for them, they can often reach out past
pride and fear of failure and close the
space between generations.
The Congress, by joint resolution (H.J.
Res. 244), has authorized and requested
the President to designate the first Sunday
of September following Labor Day of each
year as National Grandparents Day.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Sunday, September
9, 1979 and the first Sunday following
Labor Day in each succeeding year as
"National Grandparents Day."
I urge officials of Government at the
national, State, and local levels, and of
voluntary organizations to plan appro-
priate activities that recognize the im-
portance and the worth of the 17 million
grandparents in our nation. I urge all
Americans to take the time to honor their
own grandparents or those in their com-
munity.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of Septem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred seventy-nine, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America the
two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1 p.m., September 6, 1979]
Puerto Rican Nationalists
Announcement of the President's
Commutation of Sentences.
September 6, 1979
President Carter today commuted the
sentences of four Puerto Rican National-
ists to time served. These individuals have
been serving prison terms for Federal con-
victions stemming from their participation
in shootings that occurred at the Blair
House in 1950 and the U.S. House of
Representatives in 1954.
The four individuals are Oscar Collazo,
67; Rafael Cancel Miranda, 49; Irving
Flores Rodriguez, 54; and Lolita Lebron,
59.
Mr. Collazo has been eligible for pa-
role since April 1966, and Mrs. Lebron
has been eligible since July 1969. Both
Messrs. Cancel Miranda and Flores Rod-
riguez became eligible for parole in July
1979. However, none has applied for pa-
role because of their political beliefs.
The President based his decision on a
favorable recommendation of the Attor-
ney General to commute the sentences of
these individuals to time served. The At-
torney General's letter of advice to the
President cited the following reasons in
support of the recommendation:
1. Each of the four has served an un-
usually long time in prison, and the At-
torney General believes that no legitimate
1597
