Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Endangered Species Act
Amendments
Statement on Signing S. 1143 Into Law.
December 28, 1979
I am very pleased today to sign into
law S. 1143, a 3-year reauthorization of
the Endangered Species Act. This act is
one of the most far-reaching and pro-
gressive laws ever enacted by any nation
to protect wildlife and plant resources.
Reauthorization of the act has been one
of my high legislative priorities.
In addition to reauthorization, the bill
I am signing strengthens our endangered
species protection program by including
plant, as well as animal, species in the
emergency listing and international co-
operation provisions. The act also author-
izes funds to the Department of Agri-
culture to enforce provisions related to
plants.
The bill revises the procedures for im-
plementing the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora. The Congress has
established a strong and independent In-
ternational Convention Advisory Com-
mission to advise the Secretary of the
Interior on scientific authority responsi-
bilities related to the convention. The
scientific integrity of the convention will
be preserved by the Commission's advice
on the effects of trade, the listing of species
on the convention appendices, and the
interpretation and implementation of the
convention.
I look forward to and will continue to
support the implementation of a vigorous
endangered species program.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1143 is Public Law
96-159, approved December 28.
Financial Institutions
Deregulation Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 4998 Into Law.
December 28, 1979
I am deeply gratified by the passage of
this legislation, which will help many
Americans to obtain residential mortgage
loans that would otherwise have been un-
available in many States. The adminis-
tration has strongly supported a limited
Federal preemption of State usury ceil-
ings on mortgage loans, and the Congress
approval of this provision will alleviate se-
rious mortgage availability problems in
the coming months in States with binding
usury ceilings.
I am also pleased that the Congress has
deferred the effective date of a court deci-
sion which would have prohibited deposi-
tory institutions from offering share drafts,
remote service, and automatic transfer ac-
counts. These services have benefited mil-
lions of Americans, and we will work with
the Congress to give institutions perma-
nent legislative authority to offer these ac-
counts.
Finally, I am pleased to note the exten-
sion of NOW account authority to feder-
ally chartered savings and loan institu-
tions in New Jersey. Senator Williams and
the New Jersey congressional delegation
deserve credit for this provision, which
will remove a serious competitive inequity.
We will continue to seek nationwide
NOW account authority.
I am hopeful that the bill I am signing
today is only an interim step toward the
passage of historic financial reform legis-
lation early next year, legislation that
would assure small savers a fair rate of
return on their deposits, give our Nation's
central bank the necessary tools to imple-
ment an effective noninflationary mone-
2288
