Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
got people here eager to work with you,
and they've been successful in it.
I might say in summary that this com-
ing year, 1980-we're already in it-we're
asking for a 70-percent increase in this
program, and we're trying to focus it on
pockets of poverty that exist within com-
munities that are, basically and on the
average, healthy. And we've increased the
percentage that the conference committee
reports are accepting up to 20 percent that
can be derived from UDAG. We want to
do even better in the future.
And I said earlier, I hadn't recognized
all the people involved. Pat and Bob did
help, but the basic concepts that I have
tried to pursue as President came from
officials who have served for a long time
on the firing line.
And I'd like to call now on the dean of
those local officials, a good friend of mine,
the mayor of Milwaukee, Henry Maier,
who has served in his difficult job-it's
become easier, I think, the longer he's
been there since 1960. He organized the
Conference of Democratic Mayors. He's
been the president of the U.S. Conference
of Mayors.
And in 1975 and 1976, because of his
consultations and the trust that others had
in him, he put together-Henry did—a
kind of a picture of what the Federal Gov-
ernment ought to do in a comprehensive
urban policy, and we have basically
adopted what he and many of you that I
see in this room have put together. And
that's been the Government program-
the program that we got from local offi-
cials. That's the way it ought to work, in
my opinion.
And I'm very grateful to call now the
mayor of Milwaukee, my friend.
MAYOR MAIER. Mr. President, I am
overwhelmed. I thank you very much for
those very kind words.
Senator Williams and Representative
Ashley, our very good friends, and our
other good congressional friends, whom I
want to thank very much-who are here
today for all the help you've given us,
and Secretary Harris and Secretary Lan-
drieu, and distinguished audience:
I am greatly honored to speak as a
mayor on this milestone occasion, and I'm
particularly grateful, because I recall the
days when an official national urban pol-
icy was just a dream. And as the first pres-
ident of the National Conference of Dem-
ocratic Mayors in 1974, I was in the long
effort to spell out a first national urban
policy statement to give our cities a top
priority on the national agenda.
And I recall very vividly the day some
3 years ago in New York when you ap-
peared, Mr. President, and you appeared
with the other Presidential candidates be-
fore a panel of Democratic mayors in a
conference that I chaired. And that day
you pledged to support and actively work
for a national urban policy, and you also
pledged that, as President, you would
institute a White House open-door policy
for the mayors of America. And further,
you promised that programs and the pol-
icies of your administration affecting our
Nation's urban areas would be coordi-
nated. And you have kept those promises,
Mr. President, and we thank you.
And I know the leaders of the Demo-
cratic Mayors, fighting mayors like Dick
Hatcher of Gary, Indiana, and Coleman
Young of Detroit and Maynard Jackson,
our present president of the Democratic
Mayors, Bill McNichols of Denver and
Kevin White of Boston, Neil Goldschmidt
of Portland and Moon Landrieu of New
Orleans once a mayor, always a mayor-
[laughter] and my very good friend Lee
Alexander, who is vice president of the
Democratic Mayors, will be president next
year, and is past president of the United
States Conference of Mayors-these men
1970
