Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 26
markets for American business, more se-
cure income for American farmers, a
strengthened American dollar, and lower
costs for American consumers.
We all share the goal of a prosperous
and secure America at peace with the
world. This legislation provides us with an
important milestone in preserving and
promoting the economic strength and the
political strength of the Nation we all
love so much.
On behalf of the people of our country,
I would like to thank those assembled here
for the roles that you have played in mak-
ing this momentous achievement possible.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
We've got a new law.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Mr. President,
distinguished guests in the Congress, other
dear friends in the Government:
First, Mr. President, for myself and for
my two primary colleagues, Ambassadors
Wolff and McDonald, for all of our staffs
out there and our other colleagues
throughout the Government, for the coun-
try itself, I want to say to you what I have
said on many occasions, that this truly has
been a classic example of how the system
can work. And at the forefront of that was
your willingness to do the courageous, the
tough, and take the tenacious positions
that sometimes were less than popular.
You took them in London, you took them
in Bonn, and, more importantly, you took
them all across America. You never
choked, and the people who were repre-
senting you in the Congress, in the execu-
tive branch, Republicans or Democrats
alike, never choked. And it's for that rea-
son we have this bill.
And may I now say very quickly one
additional thing. I know it's wrong, but to
try to single out a few-I mentioned Am-
bassador McDonald, who was in Geneva,
Ambassador Wolff who was here. I see
Julius Katz in the State Department, Dale
Hathaway from the Agriculture Depart-
ment; I see so many others. And for all of
your staffs, I always seem to have a habit
of getting a good deal more credit than
most people think I deserve-not always
more than I think I deserve. [Laughter]
But I do know who made all of this pos-
sible for the President and for our country,
and, indeed, for the world, and it's all of
you. And on a very personal basis, even
though it's in this rather large group, I say
to you, thank you, each, very much, and
God bless us all and the country.
Thank you.
SENATOR LONG. Mr. President, I feel
that this occasion vindicates my judgment
that occurred before you took the oath of
office as President. I fought to see that the
Special Trade Representative would be a
Cabinet-level job. And without that I
don't think you could have gotten Bob
Strauss for the job, and without that this
effort might have failed.
THE PRESIDENT. Bob has always con-
sidered himself to be above the Cabinet.
[Laughter] I hope he won't be offended by
what you said. [Laughter]
SENATOR LONG. Well, we worked on
this for a long time, and I think that after
4 years, all those of us on the Finance
Committee and the Ways and Means
Committee are extremely proud. We have
to commend every Member. But in par-
ticular, I want to commend my dear
friend and a great statesman, Abe Ribi-
coff, the chairman of our trade subcom-
mittee, for the fine work he did on the
Senate side, and the same goes for all the
members of the committee-but Senator
Ribicoff worked especially hard on that,
and a great deal of this success is due to
him.
Thank you.
REPRESENTATIVE ULLMAN. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to echo the commendation
1313
