Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 29
This type of vehicle is available from
foreign suppliers in adequate quantities
to serve the Libyan market. However, U.S.
controls prevent an American contribu-
tion to Libyan military activity.
Controls of sales of off-highway trac-
tors of carriage capacity of 10 tons or
more can be effectively enforced.
Discontinuation of the controls would
be seen by other friendly countries as a
United States contribution to strengthen-
ing Libyan capability to mount hostile
actions along its borders.
The controls supplement other means
designed to influence Libyan behavior, in-
cluding numerous demarches on issues
such as Libyan activity in Uganda. There
are very few alternative means available
to the United States. For example, Libya
has no need for U.S. economic or military
assistance.
In 1977 the U.S. exported to Libya 330
vehicles of this type with a value of $7.1
million; these figures dropped in 1978 to
14 vehicles at $0.3 million. A sale of about
$60 million was lost to a foreign firm in
1978. Industry representatives estimate a
potential Libyan market of about $50 mil-
lion. There is also some indirect adverse
effect on exports to other markets.
V. Embargoes of Communist Countries
The embargoes on exports to North
Korea, Vietnam, Kampuchea, and Cuba
are administered not only under the Ex-
port Administration Act but also under
the Trading With the Enemy Act. The
latter authority continues by virtue of sec-
tions 101 (b) and (c) and 207 of Public
Law 95-223, and has been extended twice
pursuant to national interest determina-
tions, the most recent being from Sep-
tember 14, 1979, to September 14, 1980.
These embargoes were originally im-
posed for security reasons. During the
Korean conflict we imposed an embargo
against North Korea. During the Vietnam
war we embargoed trade with communist
controlled portions of that country and,
when the communists took over complete
control in 1975, this embargo was ex-
tended to all of Vietnam and to Kampu-
chea. The embargo against Cuba came at
a time when Cuban actions presented a
serious threat in the Western hemisphere.
The circumstances which prompted im-
position of these embargoes have changed
over the years. However, it would be ir-
responsible to discard them on that basis
alone. Ending a virtually total embargo
is a dramatic action with significant policy
ramifications.
North Korea is still technically in a
state of war with the United States, the
Republic of Korea, and the United Na-
tions. It is expanding its offensive mili-
tary and subversive potential and sup-
pressing human rights. It recently rejected
U.S. overtures for tripartite discussions on
ways to ease tensions on the Korean
peninsula.
In the case of Vietnam, we announced
our willingness some time ago to end the
embargo at such time as normal diplo-
matic relations are established and Am-
bassadors are in place. Subsequent Viet-
namese invasion and occupation of Kam-
puchea have blocked progress.
Controls on exports to Kampuchea
should be similar to those affecting Viet-
nam, particularly in light of the present
occupation. The United States is making
a major exception to the embargo of
Kampuchea in the form of humanitarian
aid to the people.
Full normalization of trade and diplo-
matic relations with Cuba hinges upon
Cuban willingness to address, among other
issues, restraint in other countries and
compensation for American citizens whose
property was expropriated by the Cuban
Government.
2295
