Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 26
sources of our centers of learning and
education and research, which attract
students from almost every land. Most of
all, I think of the resources of the spirit
of the more than one-half billion free
people in the major industrial democra-
cies. I think of the strength of the ideals
of freedom and individual dignity that
our nations embody, ideals that still exert
an almost magnetic attraction to disad-
vantaged people all over the Earth.
I have no doubt that together we have
the resources, the skill, and the dedication
to assure that people everywhere can be
adequately fed; that our factories and
farms and homes can draw on abundant,
secure sources of energy; that the pros-
perity so many of us have enjoyed can be
shared by others for whom life is little
more than the struggle to survive from
day to day. I'm confident that together
we can build a world in which all peo-
ples can live in peace.
Drawing upon the strength and the
flow of history uniting our two nations,
we shall together reach the goal that Your
Majesty set in a poem you wrote for the
new year nearly 40 years ago, and you
said then:
"We pray for the time to come
When East, West and all
Making friends with one another
Will share in a prosperous future."
Your Majesty, with this goal in mind,
I offer a toast to the health and well-
being of Your Imperial Majesty, your
family, the great people of Japan, and the
harmony and friendship which binds us
all together.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:02 p.m. in
the Bright Abundance Hall at the Imperial
Palace in response to a toast by Emperor
Hirohito.
Earlier in the afternoon, the President vis-
ited the Meiji Shrine and the nearby Iris
Gardens.
Tokyo, Japan
Informal Exchange With Reporters.
June 26, 1979
Q. While we are waiting, can you tell
us anything about how the talks are
going?
THE PRESIDENT. They couldn't be bet-
ter. Most of our serious difficulties were
discussed and basically resolved back in
May, when Prime Minister Ohira came
to the United States, and then when Am-
bassador Strauss came here. So, we have
been planning for the summit, talking
about energy, refugees, and discussing in-
ternational matters that are of mutual
interest to us.
Q. Mr. President, do you feel you have
made any progress on the refugee issue?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think so. What
we want to do, obviously, is to get the
entire world to participate in the accept-
ance of the refugees and the financing of
the very expensive programs, and also
to get the world to induce the Vietnam-
ese to change their policy, to cut down on
the large numbers who are having to
leave Vietnam. But the more nations
who become interested and who join in
the effort makes it possible to solve both
these problems-to stop the problem at
the source, and also to accommodate
those who have already left.
Q. Mr. President, did Prime Minister
Ohira give any indication what Japan can
do?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is better to
let him speak for Japan.
Q. Did you have any discussions on
U.S.-Soviet relations?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I gave the Japa-
nese leaders a report on the Vienna con-
ference, on the elements of SALT II, some
of the prospects for the future. This was
part of the discussion today.
Q. Did they indicate to you any con-
1167
