Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 7
Fourth, the system is affordable. The
projected cost over the full 10-year period,
total cost to develop, to produce, and to
deploy, is $33 billion in 1980 dollars. While
this acquisition cost may vary somewhat
as the program proceeds, it's important to
recognize that the cost of this system, in
constant dollar terms, will be no greater
than the cost of any one of the original
three legs of our strategic triad, either the
B-52 force or the Polaris-Poseidon force
or the Minuteman ICBM system.
Finally, this system is compatible with
existing SALT agreements and with our
objectives for SALT III. Deploying this
system will make it clear to the Soviet
Union that they will gain no strategic ad-
vantage out of continuing the nuclear
arms race. This is a fundamental precon-
dition to more effective arms control
agreements. Equally important, this sys-
tem points in the direction of reductions
of strategic arms, because we are giving
better protection with a force of fewer
missiles. Without such a mobile shelter
system, the only way we could maintain
our deterrent would be to increase greatly
the number of our strategic systems or
nuclear missiles.
In the course of making the series of
decisions that led to this announcement, I
carefully studied the potential threat to
our Minuteman force. That threat is real.
The system I've outlined this morning
does the best job of meeting that threat,
while also fulfilling the conditions that I
specified at the outset. The system is sur-
vivable, it's verifiable, it has a minimum
impact on the environment, it's afford-
able in cost, and it's consistent with our
SALT goal of deep reductions in strate-
gic arms.
In sum, this system will enhance our
Nation's security, both by strengthening
our strategic deterrent and by offering the
prospect of more effective arms control.
This system is not a bargaining chip. It's
a system that America needs and will have
for its security. I'm confident that the
American people will support its deploy-
ment.
Unhappily, we do not yet live in the
kind of world that permits us to devote
all our resources to the works of peace.
And as President, I have no higher duty
than to ensure that the security of the
United States will be protected beyond
doubt. As long as the threat of war per-
sists, we will do what we must to deter
that threat to our Nation's security. If
SALT II is ratified and SALT III is suc-
cessful, then the time may come when no
President will have to make this kind of
decision again, and the MX system will be
the last weapon system of such enormous
destructive power that we will ever have
to build. I fervently pray for that time,
but until it comes, we will build what we
must, even as we continue to work for
mutual restraint in strategic armaments.
Secretary Brown is with us, and he is
willing to answer your questions. Thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:51 a.m. to
reporters assembled in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building.
Following the President's remarks, Secretary
of Defense Harold Brown held a news confer-
ence on the President's announcement.
Federal Emergency
Management Agency
Nomination of Gloria Cusumano Jimenez To
Be an Associate Director. September 7, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Gloria Cusumano Jimenez,
of Durham, N.C., to be an Associate Di-
rector of the Federal Emergency Man-
1601
