Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Now, I'm not going
to referee about who has the next ques-
tion.
Q. I wasn't chosen to speak, but I've
been trying to get to you since March of
.77י
THE PRESIDENT. Why don't you—I will
be glad to see you after the meeting's over
you let the lady ask the question.
Q. Yes.
if
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. Check with one
of my staff members. Stu,3 would you
let one of the staff members bring the lady
around, and I'll be glad to see her after
the meeting.
FOOD PRICES
Q. President Carter, we're glad to see
you. I want one thing to say is, and I'm
sorry we had such rude people that had to
come here to do this to your program.
Second, I'd like to say, personally I'd like
to thank you very highly for the pictures
that you sent to our home of you and
Rosalynn. They're on my TV set, and
they'll stay there. And I know that you're
here to talk about the energy crisis. And
I cannot talk very much about that in the
way that you talk about it. But I got one
thing I want to say.
Will you please do something about
our food prices, because every time us
ladies go to the store, they're higher this
week, next week they'll be higher than
next week. And I would like to see you do
something for us about our food prices.
Can you or will you be able to freeze those
prices so they will not go up any higher
than they are today?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I can tell you
that the last few weeks, for the first time,
the retail food prices have begun leveling
off, and the projections are that they will
go down. We've got a very high produc-
tion of pork and poultry, and those two
Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Domestic Affairs and Policy.
meat supplies will help to force the price
of beef down.
About 2 or 3 weeks ago, I met with the
meat processors and distributors-as a
matter of fact, pork prices peaked; they
got to their highest point in February.
Beef prices got to their highest point in
April, to the farmer. But the people that
process that meat and distribute it to the
stores have been making too much profit.
They have not passed on those low prices
to the consumer.
They told me there was always a lag
between the time the farmers' price
dropped and the time they could pass it
on to the consumers. But I think 4 months
is too long a lag. Also, last winter when
the price of pork and beef was going up,
there wasn't much lag. I mean, they
passed those prices on to the consumer
pretty fast. But I can predict to you that
the price of food is leveling off and will
begin to go down shortly.
I'm not in favor of putting price con-
trols, mandatory price controls on. It's
been tried in the past with farm products.
It has never worked. But we've got a
tremendous production in this country of
food. One of your biggest export items, as
you know, is food. And I think that we'll
see, with the increasing production on the
farm, a moderation in food prices.
Our main concern now is the rapidly
increasing price of energy. Food's going
to get better.
Q. May I say something else, please?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am.
Q. I'd like to say I think it's wonderful
for the turnout that you have here to-
day-
THE PRESIDENT. I do too.
Q. -not of only the older people,
but I think you should give a little credit
to these young generation that we have
here, because one of these days they're
going to be standing where you are and
talking about things like they are to
energy, the welfare, the schools, and every-
thing else. But Tommy and I say God bless
1572
