Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
miles from our country, without the So-
viets propping them up. Every day the
Soviet Union sends to Castro $8 million
just to keep the Cuban people alive eco-
nomically and to keep Castro in power.
And they send them large quantities of
arms, military weapons-and don't even
charge Cuba for it. All the other satellite
countries in Eastern Europe, for instance,
when they get arms from the Soviet
Union, they have to pay for it.
So, I believe that until Cuba can bring
their own troops back from unwarranted
involvement in the internal affairs of
other countries, until they release the
hundreds and hundreds, even thousands
of political prisoners they have in jail-
jail—
and some of them have been there over 20
years and until they stop interfering in
the internal affairs of countries, even in
this hemisphere, we will not recognize
Cuba. After that, we'll consider it.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Doctor,
very much.
OIL IMPORTS AND GRAIN EXPORTS
Q. Hello, Mr. President, my name is
Harvey Harris, and I attend school here
at Thornridge High School.
THE PRESIDENT. Right on. [Laughter]
Q. The question that I would like to
ask you is, what do you plan to do about
the rising prices of gasoline, and what do
you plan to do about the OPEC nations
keep raising the prices of barrels of oil?
Do you plan to raise the price of wheat or
the imports that go over there?
THE PRESIDENT. I see. We don't have
any control, Harvey, over the prices that
are charged to us for oil from overseas.
What we must do is to cut down on our
overdependence on that oil. So, what we
want to do is to cut down on imports and
produce more energy in our own country.
The most important thing that we can
do, everyone in this room can do, is to save
energy. The more we save, the more our
families benefit and the more the security
of our country is protected.
Every family represented here, I hope,
later on today will meet together, either at
suppertime or at lunch, and just talk over
how you, in your own homes, on your own
jobs, traveling back and forth, can cut
down on the consumption of energy. The
more we save, the better off we all are.
We're also trying to shift toward the
use of energy sources that never give
out-solar power-and the use of growing
crops like trees or farm crops, like to make
gasohol out of. If we can do that, then
year after year, for thousands of years,
we'll have an adequate supply of energy.
Another thing that we can do is to use
the kinds of energy in our own country
that we have most of. The number one
State in the Nation on coal reserves-you
know what it is?
AUDIENCE. Illinois.
THE PRESIDENT. Illinois, right. And
we can increase the use of coal. So, the
more we can move away from dependence
on those foreign countries, the better off
we are.
You mentioned wheat and corn. I
would rather have what God has given us,
in the way of land and the ability to pro-
duce food, than I would to have all the
oil deposits in Saudi Arabia and all the
OPEC countries put together, because
we've got a permanent, very fine strategic
export that the rest of the world needs,
they will get, and is profitable for us.
The number one State in the export of
farm products-you know what it is?
AUDIENCE. Illinois.
THE PRESIDENT. Illinois. Right. Very
wise audience.
And every year since I've been in office,
we have tried to increase the exports of
grain. We set world records in 1977, world
1944
