Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
things that's ever happened to benefit our
own country.
None of these issues were considered to
be easy, and many of them were not politi-
cally attractive. And I could go down the
list a lot longer, if we had a longer pro-
gram. But I think those are the kinds of
things that exhibit leadership, and I am
perfectly willing to stand on my record. I
look forward to 1980 with a great deal of
anticipation and also confidence.
SUCCESS OF PRESIDENT'S PROPOSALS
MR. LEONE. I might ask-I think this
is bound to come up in the campaign—
what are the things you feel didn't go
well-the income tax reform or welfare
reform? How do you deal with those
things that were a big part of the cam-
paign in '76 and we don't have them
today?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if there's one
characteristic I have, it's tenacity. You
know, I don't give up, in spite of
discouragement.
Last year, for instance, after a year and
a half of tough debate, we only got about
65 percent of what we asked for in the
energy package. We've come back this
year, hopefully to get the other 30 or 35
percent. Last year we didn't get a word of
oil. This year we're addressing the oil
issue. We haven't gotten welfare reform
yet. I think that we will get it. I can't say
that it'll be exactly as we originally pro-
posed, but I think that we'll get welfare
reform.
Our major agenda items have pretty
well been passed by the Congress. There's
one on which we have failed, and that is
tax reform. We need basic tax reform in
this country, but the powerful special in-
terest groups are so influential on Capitol
Hill in Washington that it is almost im-
possible to have basic and good tax re-
form. And until the American people get
aroused enough to let their individual
Members of Congress in the House and
Senate know that they demand equity and
fairness, then the big shots in this country
are going to continue to use their influence
effectively and block basic tax reform.
With that one exception, however, I
think we've had very good luck in the
Congress, and the American people will
benefit now and in the long run because
of it.
PRESIDENT'S POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY
MR. LEONE. Let me ask you-neither
you nor Senator Kennedy is an announced
candidate yet, although both of you are
around the country a lot talking like can-
didates these days. Politicians here in New
Jersey and in this region say it'll be very
tough for Carter to beat Kennedy; Ken-
nedy has a mystique; there's a legend
about it.
I was interested to see at the dedication
of the Kennedy Library in Boston last
week, you said that you felt in some ways
you were closer to John F. Kennedy than
Senator Ted Kennedy is. And I wonder if
you could elaborate on that.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, philosophically,
I think so. I don't believe that the Federal
Government ought to do everything. I
don't believe in establishing a whole big
array of massive Federal Government
spending programs to take care of the
needs of our country. I believe in tight
management; I believe in making the
existing programs efficient. I believe in
saving money; I believe in trying to have
fiscal responsibility in managing the budg-
et; and another, I believe that John
Kennedy would have agreed with all those
things.
In addition, I believe in a strong de-
fense. I think the Nation can only be at
2034
