Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 21
dean of Williams College. He has been
legislative assistant to Senator Glenn since
1975.
United States-Mexico Agreement
on Natural Gas
Remarks Announcing the Framework for an
Agreement. September 21, 1979
I'm pleased to announce that we have
just reached an agreement with the Gov-
ernment of Mexico which will permit the
purchase of Mexican natural gas by
United States buyers.
This is a significant step toward provid-
ing a new source of energy supplies for
our country. Just as important, the agree-
ment is a breakthrough in building the re-
lationship of equity and mutual respect
which we seek with the government and
the people of our great southern neighbor.
Under the terms of this agreement, the
United States purchasers will be able to
buy 300 million cubic feet of natural gas
each day. This gas will be in excess of
Mexico's national demand and will meet
our own needs which are not covered by
our present supplies. The price is a fair
one for both countries.
This natural gas agreement represents
an important first step toward a deeper
and broader relationship, and it will be of
great benefit both to the people of Mexico
and to the people of our own country.
I've expressed to President López Por-
tillo today my pleasure that we've reached
an understanding with respect to natural
gas sales and that we will have a chance
to discuss more important issues-other
important issues when we meet in Wash-
ington next week.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:58 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
United States-Mexico Agreement
on Natural Gas
Joint Announcement. September 21, 1979
The Governments of Mexico and the
United States of America have reached
an understanding on a framework for the
sale of 300 million cubic feet per day of
natural gas by Petroleos Méxicanos, the
Mexican State Oil Company, to U.S.
purchasers.
Pursuant to the understanding reached,
the Governments of the United States of
America and the Mexican States have
agreed to authorize and support as a mat-
ter of policy commercial transactions
which are within the following frame-
work:
—The initial volume of natural gas de-
liveries will be 300 million cubic feet per
day, commencing as soon as contracts are
signed, regulatory approvals obtained,
and gas is available for delivery.
—The initial price will be $3.625/mil-
lion btu as of January 1, 1980. This initial
price is subject to reconsideration prior to
January 1, 1980, if the price for natural
gas from comparable sources exceeds that
amount prior to said date.
-The arrangement shall continue
without limitation subject to the under-
standing that the gas to be supplied is
surplus associated gas in excess of Mexi-
can national demand, that the gas being
purchased is to meet U.S. needs not cov-
ered from other sources, and that there-
fore the contractual provisions will pro-
vide that either nation, on the basis of its
own determination of its national inter-
est, taking into account its domestic sup-
ply and demand for natural gas, may
cause the termination of the arrangement
upon 180 days notice to the other nation.
-The initial price will be adjusted
quarterly by the same percentage as the
1703
