Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
business, which I'll touch on when I try to
make a more detailed estimate. But in a
very general way, the best you can say is
that one volume of sedimentary rock that
is known to have hydrocarbons in it has
as good a chance as another. If you were
to make the only kind of guess you could
make about what's out there, there's prob-
ably as much in the deep sea in the ad-
jacent Continental Slope in the way of oil
as there is in the areas we've already ex-
plored in the United States. Now, that
doesn't mean you can get it out, because
of course it has to be in very large fields to
have any potential for economic develop-
ment.
How do we know very much about this
region? It's because for the last 30 years,
the United States and other countries, the
United States oceanographers funded by
the Office of Naval Research and the
National Science Foundation have been
out making sub-bottom profiles of the sea
floor with increasing degrees of sophisti-
cation and penetration. In addition, for
the last 10 years, we've been drilling,
through the JOIDES program and its
followups, down through several thousand
feet of sediment in the deep sea. So, we
know something about the potential
source rocks out there, and we know a
great deal about the sub-bottom structure.
The oceanographers drilling out in the
deep sea have never drilled in the regions
where the greatest oil potential exists, the
edges of the Continental Margin. They
haven't drilled in the deep Gulf of Mex-
ico, except one preliminary hole. They
haven't drilled in the promising places
where the sediment is thickest and the oil
potential is great. That might seem irre-
sponsible of the oceanographers, and as
one of them I would have to accept that.
But it really isn't. The reason they haven't
drilled is that the deep sea drilling ship,
the Glomar Explorer, does not have a
potential to drill safely in places where
you expect oil and gas. They don't have
blowout preventers, they don't have the
risers and so on.
So, the region is unexplored by scien-
tists for the very reason that they think
there is some potential for oil and gas
there. The advisory committees won't per-
mit drilling. At the same time, industry
has been extending out from the Conti-
nental Margin from the very shallow
water out deeper and deeper, and it can
now drill out in depths of-there's drilling
right now off New Brunswick at a depth
of 4,875 feet, I think it is, varying with
the tide. And it has a potential to go out
even greater.
We have reached a point now where
the oceanographic information about the
potential of the deep sea is overlapping
the potential to develop that industry has
brought out at increasing cost into deeper
water. What would be ideal now would be
to find a potential site for drilling, a pros-
pect which would give us opportunity to
evaluate the entire deep sea in a way that
would encourage us to go out at greater
cost into deeper water.
Ideally for our country, such a prospect
would be clearly under U.S. jurisdiction.
It would have the characteristic that it
could be explored by existing commercial
equipment, it could be explored relatively
quickly, if we wanted to, and it could be
explored at reasonable cost. And if the
exploration was promising, it should have
the characteristic that it's capable of very
large yields at reasonable prices, and with-
in a decade.
Now, there appears to be such a pros-
pect in the area of the mid-Atlantic re-
gion which is off the—or the so-called
Baltimore Canyon. I'll show you some il-
lustrations in a moment—not quite yet—
show you what this prospect is like.
1545
