Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
know what the tax rates are in some of the
Scandinavian countries and places that
have these really nifty Government-spon-
sored day-care centers. And I wondered
how you felt about that.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. My own basic
philosophy, Colleen, is that anything that
can be done by the private individuals of
our Nation or private institutions,
churches and others certainly the pri-
vate enterprise system ought to be first,
and that the Government should inject it-
self into the lives of American people in a
minimal way, only as a last resort to meet
a need that can't be met otherwise.
There are many communities around
the country where there is no private
offering of day-care services. In those in-
stances I think the Federal Government
has a role to play. I don't think it ought
to abuse the right or the duty, and I think
that even in that case, there ought to be as
much care and consideration, not only
for the children but for the sensitivities of
the parents and the community as pos-
sible.
Many women, for instance, and, I
guess, on occasion some men could not
possibly work and would be permanent
welfare recipients if there was not a place
to leave a small child and to have that
child cared for. And also, of course, with
the Head Start program and other more
permanent programs during the year,
small children on the pre-first-grade level
start to get a good education. So, I think
that this is a partial answer to your ques-
tion.
The other one is, we don't anticipate
any massive increases in Federal day-care
programs that would put an additional
burden on the taxpayers of our country.
This is a fairly well established program. I
don't anticipate any substantial changes
in the future.
MRS. PORTER. Well, you're so, just so
in favor of the equal rights amendment,
and-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am.
MRS. PORTER. -most of the people
that are in favor of the equal rights
amendment, the women's groups, are also
very strongly in favor of massive day-care
centers. And I just hope you'll keep your
convictions about where to draw that line.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. They're not
necessarily related, but I agree that some
people do relate them.
MRS. PORTER. Yes, most of them. And
also, I'd just like to say that when you, if
you ever did get in the situation to cut
down on the role of the family, not only
are you going to put out tax money for
day-care centers but for more prisons, for
more welfare, for more drug and alcohol
rehabilitation. And I think if I can just
stay home and raise my kids, they're going
to be good citizens.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. That sounds like a
good thing to do if that's your preference.
Good luck to you.
MRS. PORTER. Thank you.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you so much,
Mrs. Porter.
President Carter, at this point we're go-
ing to take a 1-minute break. During that
time our stations across the country can
identify themselves, and you can get a
42-inning stretch; so can I.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
MS. STAMBERG. Then we will be back
with another hour of "Ask the President,"
from NPR, National Public Radio.
This is Susan Stamberg, back again at
the Oval Office in the White House for
National Public Radio's live broadcast,
"Ask the President."
President Carter is answering questions
by telephone from citizens across the
country. The questions are not being
screened, but the questioners are being
chosen on the basis of geographic distribu-
tion. We're kind of strolling around the
1903
