Nov. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tion, and Welfare, HEW Secretary Patri-
cia Harris requested the reprograming as
an immediate and temporary measure to
Census 1980
Proclamation 4701. November 6, 1979
provide immediate help to these school By the President of the United States
districts.
The funds would be reprogramed from
five areas in the Special Projects and
Training appropriation of the Office of
Education. Secretary Harris' letters ex-
plain that the supplemental appropriation
request for refugee activities which will be
submitted in January, with the President's
1981 budget, will include $6 million to re-
store the funds proposed for reprogram-
ing.
Since the President's decision in June
to double the number of new Indochinese
refugees entering the United States, an
estimated 20,000 refugee children have ar-
rived. An additional 45,000 are expected
by the end of the current school year.
There is a critical need for educational
assistance, because many of the new group
of Indochinese refugees have no profi-
ciency in English and lack other basic
skills. Many of the refugee children re-
quire several types of special educational
services.
Because many of the refugees are reset-
tling in only a few States and localities, the
impact on some school districts has been
substantial. Because States and local
agencies have already determined their
budgets for the 1979-80 school year, they
have limited flexibility to divert resources
to serve the Indochinese refugee children.
The administration sent legislation to
the Congress earlier this year that would
provide aid on a comprehensive, on-going
basis to refugees and to local governments
and school districts that need assistance in
dealing with refugee programs. The Presi-
dent urges passage of that bill to provide a
sound foundation for future aid in this
area.
of America
A Proclamation
Our Constitution requires that there
be a census of the people in the United
States once every ten years. The Twen-
tieth Decennial Census will be taken be-
ginning April 1, 1980.
It is vitally important to everyone that
this census be a complete and accurate
report of the Nation's population and re-
sources. Its results determine the repre-
sentation of the States in the House of
Representatives, the redrawing of congres-
sional boundaries, and State and local
redistricting. They also provide the basis
for distributing large amounts of funds
under various Federal programs among
the States and communities.
The census is also important for a
broader purpose. Americans are a free and
mobile people. Significant and rapid
changes take place in our country. To bet-
ter understand ourselves and make intelli-
gent decisions for the future, we depend
greatly on our census.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby declare and make known that
under the law it is the duty of every per-
son to participate in the census by answer-
ing all questions in the census schedule
applying to him or her and the family to
which he or she belongs, and to the home
being occupied.
Every person in the United States can
be sure that there will be no improper use
of the information given in the census.
Answers cannot be released in any way
which will harm the individual. By law in-
dividual information collected will not be
2088
