Aug. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
My question is, if you were granted the
power to independently do three things to
improve the country or the world, what
three things would you consider the most
important to do?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Let me say first
of all that it's not a sacrifice to serve as
President. It's gratifying and it's a great
honor for me, obviously. And the support
that I've had from the American people
since I've been in office has made the job
not a burden, but an enjoyable experience
for me. It's the greatest nation on Earth,
and to occupy the highest elective office in
the greatest nation on Earth is really a
wonderful position for me to hold.
I think the first requirement, Jaye, for
any President is to guarantee the security
of our Nation, and I have done what I
could and will continue to make sure that
our Nation's defenses are adequate to dis-
courage any possible threat to our Na-
tion's safety or its existence. That's the
number one consideration that any Presi-
dent must face.
Secondly, I would like to go out of
office with the same record that I've got
now, that is, that no American citizen in
combat would ever be endangered or lose
their lives. It's been a long time since this
happened, that a President could serve an
entire term or a time in the White House
without having any service men or women
have to endanger their lives in combat.
So, the peace for our own Nation is also
as important as protecting its own secu-
rity, to avoid war.
And the third thing, of course, I'd like
to have is peace in other parts of the
world. This obviously goes along with our
own. And I'd like to see our country have
its spirit revived. We don't need to de-
plore what we have now, but there is a
sense in our country of disunity and kind
of a loss of confidence, that I described
in my Sunday evening speech.
We ought to remember as Americans—
and part of my responsibility as President
is to remind people that our country is
the greatest on Earth. We're the strong-
est country in the world-militarily, eco-
nomically, politically. God's given us al-
most unbelievable blessings as far as nat-
ural resources are concerned.
In a democracy like ours we have free-
dom, the right to speak as we choose, to
select our own officials, to be an individ-
ual, to be different, to meet challenges
using the initiative and the innovation
that comes from a free enterprise system.
So, I would say that to defend our coun-
try, to have American and world peace,
and to restore and to enhance the spirit of
both confidence and self-sacrifice and
patriotism, those are the three things that
I believe are very important.
MR. ZESSAR. I think those are three
very good things, and I agree with you
that this is the greatest country in the
world. I think that all Americans should
remember that. And it's been a privilege
for me to speak with the President of the
United States. Thank you.
MR. JACKSON. The next caller is Leon
King in Burlington, Iowa. Mr. King?
THE PRESIDENT. Leon, go ahead.
MR. KING. Good morning, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning to
you.
INFLATION
MR. KING My question is, I wondered,
I had some property acquired through ur-
ban renewal, and I was wondering what
your plans are for lower income people as
far as upgrading their standards. I know
I've had an awful lot of problems with it,
because of the reason that the law was
made in 1972, I believe. And at that
time, the price of living was lower than
what it is now. And they haven't up-
1484
