July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. A half hour before we
adjourned, three of the European leaders
put forward a very strong amendment
proposal that the European Community
go back into a pool.
Q. You still can't identify those three?
THE PRESDIENT. Well, I can tell you
that Giscard d'Estaing helped me defeat
that amendment.
as a special energy task force, and a sec-
ond
group who have been designated as a
special inflation task force.
I think it's high time that the Congress
proceeded to a final legislative package
with the windfall profits tax, the energy
security fund, the alternate supplies of
energy, as supported by Jim Wright and
Moorhead, and also some expeditious
way to complete major projects in our
country, as proposed by the Energy Com-
mittee in the Senate under Senator
Q. That was my next question. We
heard that he stuck with you on this, so
that doesn't leave anybody but Mr.
Erhardt [Schmidt],2 Mr. Andreotti, and Jackson.
Mrs. Thatcher. So, we assume that by
process of elimination we've got them.
[Laughter]
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. There have
been press reports on this matter which
are, for the large part, accurate.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I'll only give you one
other comment. The Federal Republic of
Germany did not participate in that
debate.
FOLLOWUP ACTIONS ON ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, how will all this
translate in terms of what you're going to
do when you go back home?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was going to
take a few days off-[laughter]—but I'm
pleased with what we've accomplished,
and I would like to initiate, immediately,
actions to follow up on the energy ques-
tion. I'll be getting a briefing from my
own staff, who have been preparing it
now at my direction for the last week.
I'll be getting it, as a matter of fact, tomor-
row, Monday, in Washington. And then
as soon as the congressional leaders come
back to Washington, I'll be prepared to
meet with a group of Senate and House
Members who've already been designated
2 Printed in the transcript.
I think this combination of actions will
be very beneficial, and I want to do it
without delay.
Q. Do these actions include the multi-
national facility, Mr. President? Will you
make that announcement of a specific
proposal in the next few weeks?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would say
within the next few weeks. We've done
some background work on that already,
but it's hard for me to say unilaterally
what we will do collectively. That's why
I'm hesitant about it.
POSSIBILITY OF RECESSION
Q. Sir, you said at the summit that the
OPEC price increases are going to make
it more difficult for us to realize our eco-
nomic goals.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. What is your latest assessment about
the likelihood of a recession?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the OPEC de-
cision will make a recession much more
likely than it was before. We figure that
by the end of 1980, this might cost us 2 or
22 percent in our gross national product
increase, and maybe 2 to 22 percent in
the inflation rate. It might cost us as many
as 800,000 jobs-just the increase in
OPEC prices that have taken place since
last December.
1212
