Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
profits are up 50 percent. Farm exports
have broken world records in 1977, 1978,
and again in 1979. Taxes have been cut.
In 1980 you will realize tax savings of
over $40 billion. We've had good luck in
getting away from unnecessary regula-
tions. We have cut 1,000 OSHA regula-
tions off the books. Paperwork is down 15
percent, and the budget deficit has been
slashed 60 percent by $36 billion. Those
things are important. They are kind of a
measure of what we have tried to do in
this country and what we've accom-
plished.
In 30 months, we've created 82 million
new jobs in America, a quarter million of
those jobs right here in Chicago. We've
brought the national unemployment rate
down by 25 percent. And in Chicago, be-
cause of your extra good leadership, un-
employment has been cut almost 30 per-
cent.
Throughout the country, we created a
million new jobs for black workers, over
1,000* of those jobs for black citizens here
in Chicago. We've created 700,000 jobs
for teenagers in America, 17,000 of those
jobs here in Chicago. We've created over
a million jobs for construction workers,
30,000 of those jobs here in Chicago. The
country's never had before so many new
jobs in such a short time, and we are still
hard at work.
Americans in 1976 also wanted to re-
build our cities, our older cities. I knew
that with the right policies older cities
could be rebuilt, a new spirit could be en-
gendered, past defects could be corrected,
our urban dwellers could be given a better
life.
With your help, we launched the Na-
tion's first comprehensive urban program.
We changed old and existing Federal pro-
*The President meant to say 100,000.
[Printed in the transcript.]
grams so that for the first time they really
began to give better services to our people.
Now downtown and inner-city commu-
nities are reviving all over the Nation. As
in Chicago, the building spirit has revived,
and people are putting hard work and
new life back into our cities.
There's plenty to be done. It will not be
easy, but we are off to a good start. And I
pledge to keep this progress going. Our
cities in America must be rebuilt. If you'll
help me, we will succeed with that job.
And we are now devoting that same
American spirit-individualism, innova-
tion, dedication to our energy problem,
to free us from dangerous overdependence
on imported oil. We now import more
than half the oil we use from foreign
countries. Next year, we will spend $70
billion on foreign oil. We are importing
oil; we are exporting jobs, we are import-
ing inflation.
We've begun to act after too long a de-
lay. We've already cut imports by 2½ mil-
lion barrels per day by 1985, but we know
that this will not be enough. We must do
better.
I have now sent to Congress, in July, a
program to conserve more energy and to
produce more American energy. I pro-
posed a windfall profits tax on the un-
earned income of the oil companies of this
country to help poor families pay high en-
ergy bills, to build a better transportation
system, and to produce synthetic fuels, so-
lar power, and other energy in our own
country.
It will amount to the most ambitious
peacetime undertaking in our history, on
the same massive scale as we saw when we
built the Interstate Highway System
throughout the United States. It's the
kind of program Chicagoans like. It builds
American strengths. It harnesses
American ingenuity. It provides Ameri-
can jobs.
1936
