Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 18
own country. It must be financed by the
windfall profits tax, a tax on the oil com-
panies so that they won't take the tre-
mendous profits and keep it for them-
selves, but share it through your govern-
ment with you so that we can weatherize
homes, give us better transit systems, and
so forth.
I hope that you will contact your own
Members of Congress and ask them to
support the windfall profits tax, because
out of that tax can come enough money
from the oil companies to help poor peo-
ple, those with low incomes or moderate
incomes, to pay for the increased cost of
energy, to provide conservation encour-
agement, and also to produce more fuel
for ourselves in our own country.
We've got about 25 percent of the total
energy reserves on Earth in our own Na-
tion-all the OPEC countries put to-
gether only have less than 5 percent-but
we need to use our energy more effectively.
So, if you'll help me, I'll help you, and
we'll make the greatest nation on Earth
even greater in the future.
Will
you help me? [Applause] Good.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. at the
docking site of the Delta Queen.
Minnesota City, Minnesota
Informal Exchange With Reporters at the
Docking Site of the Delta Queen.
August 18, 1979
Q. Learned anything today? [Laughter]
Seriously-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if I have a
chance with the folks on the ship-[in-
audible]. Well, I've learned that at the
first stop with us in Wabasha, and I think
it's obvious they are genuinely interested
in saving energy and in proving that our
country can be unified and that there is
a good harmony among those who have
different backgrounds and different in-
terests. I think the turnout here shows a
great deal of interest obviously in the
office of the Presidency, and I consider
it to be a nonpartisan sort of expression
of support for the President himself and
for this Nation's strength.
Q. Did it seem to you that people were
a little bit more upbeat than you might
have expected?
THE PRESIDENT. Yeah, they really are.
It's been surprising. I thought in St. Paul
last night the genuine excitement that
they showed in that city in putting to-
gether a very far-reaching kind of a com-
plicated approach to the energy question
was also inspiring to me. And I think the
general tone of the response and the at-
titude of people toward one another, to-
ward our country is one of great patriot-
ism and strength. I've been very pleased.
Q. Are you getting any rest?
THE PRESIDENT. Enough. This has just
been really exciting to me.
Q. One final question. We're standing
on the wet bank of the Mississippi here.
THE PRESIDENT. I noticed that.
[Laughter]
Q. A question someone in the crowd
asked, but I didn't hear you answer it.
Wouldn't it be fair to call this cam-
paigning?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I-you know, I
want the people to be reminded of the
Nation's energy problems and the fact
that we can solve those problems. And
so, it's a vacation for us. We're enjoying
every minute of it, and I think for me to
give that message as we go along is very
important. So, we're campaigning for a
good energy program, but not on a par-
tisan basis. I think the people that come
here I don't know whether they're
Democrats or Republicans they come
because I'm President. It's not a partisan
1471
