Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 13
the Congress, by joint resolution of Au-
gust 11, 1945, as amended (36 U.S.C.
155), has called for the designation of
the first full week in October each year as
National Employ the Handicapped
Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
on October 7, 1979, as National Employ
the Handicapped Week. I urge all Gov-
ernors, Mayors, other public officials,
leaders in business and labor, and private
citizens at all levels of responsibility to
help remove all barriers which prevent
handicapped individuals from obtaining
productive employment and from par-
ticipating fully in other aspects of Ameri-
can life.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:59 p.m., September 14, 1979]
Welfare Reform Legislation
Statement on Action by the House Ways
and Means Committee. September 13, 1979
I congratulate the members of the
House Committee on Ways and Means for
their favorable action today on welfare
reform. I especially commend the leader-
ship and diligence of Chairman Al Ull-
man and of Representative Jim Corman,
chairman of the Public Assistance Sub-
committee.
Our Nation can afford to help its most
needy, and we can do so with a welfare
system that encourages work, while pro-
viding decent levels of assistance for those
who cannot work. Our programs can and
must be simpler, more efficient, and more
equitable. This bill is not the entire or the
final solution, but it does make important
progress. Combined with the other half of
my welfare reform package, which will ex-
pand work and training opportunities,
Congress itself has a precious opportunity
to make welfare reform a reality. We can
help millions of people and do so in a
fiscally responsible manner.
Welfare reform has been a decade-long
legislative struggle, and this important
action today is the most positive step in
this area in recent years. I applaud the
Ways and Means Committee, and urge
the other key committees and the Con-
gress as a whole to move promptly to com-
plete action on welfare reform.
Congressional Hispanic Caucus
Remarks at the Annual Dinner.
September 13, 1979
Mr. Speaker, Chairman Garcia, distin-
guished Members of Congress, members
of my own administration both those
who speak Spanish and the few who
don't—[laughter]:
It is a real pleasure for me as President
of our country to be present at this Second
Hispanic Caucus Dinner.
I have never known such a small caucus
to have so many friends and so much
power and so much influence. And the
friends, power, and influence are all grow-
ing every day, and I'm thankful for it. I'm
sure it's because the members of the Con-
gressional Hispanic Caucus have hearts
that are pure, and they certainly have a
cause that is just.
1661
