July 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
He was born April 2, 1937, in Detroit,
Mich. He received an A.B. from Colgate
University in 1958, an LL.B. from De-
troit College of Law in 1961, and an
LL.M. from Georgetown University Law
Center in 1963.
From 1962 to 1965, Leach was a trial
attorney in the Civil Division at the Jus-
tice Department, where he handled the
prosecution and defense of actions relat-
ing to the Government's water transporta-
tion and shipping interests. From 1965 to
1966, he practiced law with the Detroit
firm of Sullivan, Eaimes, Moody and
Petrillo.
From 1966 to 1976, Leach was general
counsel to the Democratic Policy Com-
mittee of the United States Senate.
As Vice Chairman of the EEOC, Leach
also serves as a member of the President's
Regulatory Council, the Task Force on
Youth Unemployment, and the Adminis-
trative Conference of the United States.
He is the author of a number of articles
on affirmative action and employment
discrimination.
United States Space
Observance, 1979
Proclamation 4669. July 17, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Ten years ago this week, the Apollo
astronauts changed forever, for all hu-
manity, our concept of the universe and
our relation to it. Their electrifying
landing on the Moon-that "giant leap"
to the surface of another world-was an
unparalleled triumph of determination
and technological genius. It epitomized
the strength and the potential of the
American people.
During ten years since, space has be-
come part of our daily lives. We use it for
essential communications and for moni-
toring our environment. Nationally and
internationally, the exploration and use of
space hold even greater promise in the
future for the wiser management of our
planetary resources, for the expansion of
knowledge, and for the development of
civilization.
In recognition of this triumph, the Con-
gress, by joint resolution (H.J. Res. 353),
has requested that the period of July 16
through
through 24, 1979, be designated as
"United States Space Observance."
As we face new challenges as a nation-
notably the challenge of achieving energy
security-let us reflect
security-let us reflect upon the courage
of the Apollo astronauts, and their pred-
ecessors in the Mercury and Gemini pro-
grams. And let us take courage and
inspiration from the success of America's
effort to land the first men on the Earth's
Moon and return them safely.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Ameri-
ca, do hereby proclaim the period of
July 16 through July 24, 1979, as
"United States Space Observance." In
accord with the congressional resolution,
I call upon the people of the United
States to observe this period with appro-
priate ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventeenth day of
July, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:56 a.m., July 18, 1979]
1260
