Aug. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cooperation we're going to continue, and
I want to say to you from the bottom of
my heart that I thank Mayor Schaefer
and all the government officials here in
the city. I appreciate the people who are
here assembled to hear my voice, and I
particularly appreciate the citizens of our
country who believe that our Nation is
already strong and great, that it can be
greater in the future and stronger, and
who will do your individual part in saving
energy, cutting out waste, guaranteeing
our Nation's security.
I want you to make sure that Congress
cooperates with me. We and the Congress
will cooperate with you. We'll have energy
security for our Nation and a better life
for all Americans. That's what we want;
that's what we're going to have.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. at the
intersection of East Biddle Street and North
Patterson Park Avenue, in east Baltimore.
Prior to his remarks, the President toured
the home of Mrs. Genitha Rhyne. The house
was rehabilitated and weatherized as part of
a citywide project, and also was outfitted with
a solar unit for heating. The President and Jay
Brodie, Commissioner of Housing and Com-
munity Development, then toured School No.
37, one of the vacant school buildings in Balti-
more being renovated into apartment hous-
ing. While he was at the school, the President
met with city officials and neighborhood resi-
dents to discuss the rehabilitation projects.
Baltimore, Maryland
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at the National Convention of the Order
of the Sons of Italy in America.
August 7, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Judge Montemurro,
Governor Hughes, Mayor Don Schaefer,
who's done so much to keep Baltimore a
great city, Senator Sarbanes, Senator
Mathias, Congressman Biaggi, Judge
Sirica, Colonel Battaglia, delegates, mem-
bers, and friends of the Sons of Italy in
America:
I'm not supposed to go to Italy until
next year. Why is it that I already feel
like I'm there?
I intend to visit your great mother
country next year for an official state visit
in Venice to meet with the other leaders
of the industrialized Western nations to
discuss matters important to our country
and to the other nations on Earth.
I'm especially glad today that in addi-
tion to Congressman Biaggi and Judge
Sirica and Father Baroni,¹ that I was able
to bring with me the highest law enforce-
ment officer in our Nation, the new At-
torney General of the United States of
America, Benjamin Civiletti. And I sin-
cerely hope that you approve of this ap-
pointment.
It is very important that the govern-
ment of our Nation represent and reflect
the varied heritage of America. But I
recognize a special claim that Italian
Americans have. Some of us are very
proud that our people came over in 1620
on the Mayflower, but not many of us can
say that our people came over in 1492 on
the Santa María. [Laughter]
For myself, today I came over on the
train. And first of all, I want to say that
I recommend this kind of trip to every
American regardless of national back-
ground. Trains have always been a truly
American way to travel, and I am deter-
mined to improve America's railway sys-
tem. I want to demonstrate that trains
represent the future and not the past in
transportation in America. And I hope
you'll help me with that.
In recent years there've been too many
bankruptcies, too many terminations of
rail service, to a great degree brought
about by excessive Government regula-
¹ Geno Baroni, Assistant Secretary for Neigh-
borhoods, Voluntary Associations, and Con-
sumer Protection, Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
1408
