Aug. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
production in our own country, and third,
to conserve energy that we would be
energy independent. But I cannot tell you
that we would go to war in that case. I
would do everything I could to avoid a
war, but at the same time my number one
responsibility is to protect the security of
our Nation.
I can tell you this in addition. You keep
using the word "blackmail." Since I have
been in office, there has never been any
allegation made to me or any insinuation
made to me by an Arab or other foreign
leader that "if you don't do so and so,
we will cut off your supply of oil." I have
never been the subject of a threat, and I
have the same attitude now that we had
when the Barbary pirates were in war:
"Millions for defense, but not one cent
for tribute." I wouldn't let you blackmail
me, and I would not let an Arab country
blackmail our Nation. We don't have to
take that.
MIDDLE EAST OIL PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, a few months ago
when the Saudis agreed to temporarily
increase production of oil by a million bar-
rels a day, is it your understanding that
there was a linkage of that increase in pro-
duction to a progress on the Mideast peace
settlement, and might that production be
backed off if there is no progress?
THE PRESIDENT. I can tell you that
there was no linkage. I can tell you that
there was no linkage ever mentioned with
the Saudi diplomats in Washington or
with our Ambassador in Saudi Arabia.
And I might say that the increase in oil
production was announced at that time
to be a temporary increase.
There are two things that it is important
to remember: Now the OPEC nations as
a group are producing more oil than they
want to produce. The Saudi Arabians
would be very pleased if I and Giscard
d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt and others
would, say, "Why don't you lower your
production, 92 million barrels of produc-
tion down to 4 million," because 4 million
barrels a day is about all the income that
they can possibly use. They would rather
keep the oil in the ground. They are pro-
ducing the extra oil in effect as a favor
to the rest of the world, to provide world
stability, which helps them.
Iran is the same way. They don't need
4 million barrels worth of oil income per
day. And the same with some of the other
countries like Iraq that have some very
close relationship with France, no diplo-
matic relationship with us. Other coun-
tries are now producing oil at a rate that
they cannot sustain.
So, inevitably OPEC oil production on
a worldwide basis is going to go down. I
cannot anticipate the Saudis doing any-
thing in the future except having a lower
production. We had hoped once they
They don't want to. That is one thing.
might go up to 12 million barrels a day.
The other thing is the price is going to
be determined eventually by the price of
alternate energy sources-synthetic fuel,
photovoltaic cells supplying electricity,
nuclear powerplants in most nations of
the world, including our own. Competi-
tive prices of energy is what is going to
determine ultimately the level of oil prices.
And I think they are going to go up in
price until that stabilizing point is reached.
So, you know, we are dreaming when
we think that there is some tremendous
reservoir of oil out there in the OPEC na-
tions that they are waiting to sell. Inevit-
ably their production of oil is going to go
down, either because they are running out
of oil, which many of them are, or because
they would really prefer to have less pro-
1584
