Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the President's Advisory Committee for
Women. They are:
JACK T. CONWAY, senior vice president of
United Way of America, former president
of Common Cause and the Center for Com-
munity Change, and former executive
director of the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees;
CHARLES GUERRIER, executive director of the
Women's Law Fund in Cleveland, Ohio,
and a member of the board of trustees of
the Women's Resource and Policy Develop-
ment Center in Columbus, Ohio;
NANCY A. HUMPHREYS, president of the Na-
tional Association of Social Workers and an
assistant professor at the Graduate School
of Social Work at Rutgers University;
ESTELLE RAMEY, professor and director of
graduate studies at the School of Medicine,
Georgetown University, and a nationally
known lecturer on women's health issues.
American Education Week, 1979
Proclamation 4692. September 20, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Our nation has come a long way to-
ward realizing the Founders' dream of
having an educated electorate, so that all
our people might share fully in freedom,
justice and opportunity. In this Interna-
tional Year of the Child, as we join with
other nations to understand and meet the
needs of children around the world, we
are especially aware of the importance
of education.
The theme of this year's American
American
Education Week, "Teach All the Chil-
dren", acknowledges both our goal and
what must be done to accomplish it. The
responsibility for educating our children
lies not just with the schools, but with
parents and communities as well.
Every American has a responsibility to
make sure that our children do not merely
pass through school systems, but actually
receive the education they need. To do
that, we must find ways to reach every
child-regardless of race, sex, religion,
national origin or economic background,
and responding to particular needs be-
cause of physical or mental handicaps or
special talents. We must respect and
nourish each child's unique potential.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
November 11, 1979, as American Educa-
tion Week.
I ask for the support of every American
in helping to create challenging educa-
tional opportunities that will help develop
the diverse abilities of children, and to
help nurture in each a sense of excellence
and respect for all mankind.
I urge individuals and groups to work
with schools in their communities to en-
sure that they are able to "Teach All the
Children" well.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:35 a.m., September 21, 1979]
Panama Canal
Treaties
White House Statement on Disapproval of
Implementing Legislation by the House of
Representatives. September 20, 1979
The President deeply regrets that the
House of Representatives did not adopt
the legislation proposed by the House-
Senate conference to provide for the oper-
ation of the Panama Canal under the
treaties that enter into force on Octo-
1698
