Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
billion for energy purposes over the next
10 years; $75 billion of that will be spent
on coal.
This is the kind of vision that I have
for the future, but it's going to require
action by the Congress. And your Con-
gressmen and your Senators support this,
but are dealing with the question in a
confident and courageous way. In the
process, we have enhanced mine safety
and the health of miners, and I believe
there's a growing sense of cooperation
between mineworkers and mineowners.
Our country is strong enough to with-
stand any challenge if our people are
willing to do two things: make a common
sacrifice, not losing our confidence, and
work in a spirit of unity. The synthetic
fuel process is going to take a good while,
8, 10 years. In the meantime, we need to
save energy, stop wasting energy, use more
coal, which you've already got. And I
believe with that kind of program, we will
prevail.
Now I would like to answer the ques-
tions that you've prepared for me. I have
no idea what they are. I'll do the best I
can in answering them.
And I am very glad to be with you.
Thank you for coming.
Now, the first question.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY PRICES
Q. Mary Albritton, project director
from the city nutrition program in Jef-
ferson County. I would like to know what
are you going to do about the utility bills
for the seniors in the low-income in this
area? We do not have any funds at this
time for that purpose.
THE PRESIDENT. We're doing several
things, the first one of which is to continue
our crisis financing program that we've
had in the last 2 years since I've been in
the White House to give low-income fam-
ilies some help with their energy bills if
they were too high. In the last 2 years,
working through the State governments,
we've allocated $250 million for that pur-
pose. If the family's health was in danger,
because they were going to get too cold
and couldn't afford the bills, that's been
helped. We intend to expand that this
coming winter by a hundred and fifty
more million dollars.
And in addition to that, we are asking
for a special program, because energy
costs have gone up so much-home heat-
ing oil, for instance, is likely to double in
price. Propane is likely to double in price.
Under the windfall profits tax, we'll have
additional funds available to help those
families that can't afford to pay for their
rapidly increasing bills.
The most important thing for all fam-
ilies in our country is this: We've already
approved a tax credit, up to $300 per
home, for you to insulate and to make
your own homes more efficient.
I was in Baltimore just a few days
ago a few weeks ago, and they have
winterized or weatherized or insulated
3,000 homes in that one city; next year,
5,000 homes. The average cost per home
was only $175. They'll save that much on
their heating bill the first year, or if the
house was pretty well insulated to start
with, it might take 2 years. But if you do
that, you have a direct tax credit when
you pay your income tax to pay that back
to you.
So, saving through winterizing your
homes, help for low-income families to
overcome a very high, uncontrollable
energy bill, plus your need to save in
every way you can what energy you con-
sume, in the setting of your thermostats,
the closing off of unused rooms in your
1642
