Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
condition of the fund based on strict cur-
rent law basis as well as under the normal
requirements of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA). Both esti-
mates will use the economic assumptions
in the most recent
recent Social Security
Trustee's Report. These additional per-
spectives will help assure that changes to
restore the solvency of the industry pen-
sion are based on information under a
variety of economic and legislative
economic and legislative
assumptions.
The White House,
September 17, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Railroad Re-
tirement Board-1978 Annual Report for Fis-
cal Year Ending September 30" (Government
Printing Office, 94 pages).
First Anniversary of the Camp
David Agreements
Remarks of the President, Vice President
Muhammad Husni Mubarak of Egypt, and
Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan of Israel
Following Their Meeting.
September 17, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I'd like to
introduce to the press some very famous
gentlemen who are almost as well known
in our country as am I: the Vice President
of Egypt, Mr. Mubarak; the Foreign
Minister of Israel, Moshe Dayan; the De-
fense Minister of Israel, Ezer Weizman;
and General Ali, who is the Director of
Defense of Egypt; and the two Ambassa-
dors from Egypt and Israel.
As you know, this is the first anniversary
of the signing of the Camp David accords.
During that year we have seen realized,
because of the courage and the conviction
and the vision and the determination of
President Sadat and Prime Minister
Begin, the hopes and dreams that were
present among us a year ago. Although
the Camp David accords is a document
made of words, the peace progress that
has been made in the last year has been
in the hearts and minds of the people of
Israel and Egypt.
It's obvious that both countries, both
peoples, both leaders are determined that
this process will be successful and that we
will indeed have peace in the Mideast,
based on a comprehensive settlement of
the differences that have divided the
Arabs and the Israelis for so many years.
It's with a great sense of thanksgiving and
confidence that I assess what has been
done so far and what will be done in the
future.
I'd like to introduce now Vice Presi-
dent Mubarak of Egypt, representing
President Sadat. I talked to President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin this
morning. They sent their best wishes to
the American people and their thanks for
the foundation that was laid a year ago
for this comprehensive peace.
Mr. Vice President.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Mr.
President, friends, this is a fine moment
for those who are committed to the cause
of peace.
A year ago today, the leaders of the
three countries—the three great nations—
signed the Framework for Peace in the
Middle East. It was an historic step of
tremendous significance, but it remains a
first step. Much remains to be achieved in
the months ahead. We are all committed
to continue our efforts until we reach a
comprehensive settlement that tackles all
aspects of the problem. First and fore-
most, it must address itself to the heart
and the core of the entire conflict—
namely, the Palestinian question.
It's very significant that we are in
Washington on the 17th of September to
1684
