Nov. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the National Institute of Handicapped
Research, a new position.
Giannini is a professor in the Depart-
ment of Pediatrics and director of the
Mental Retardation Institute at New
York Medical College.
She was born May 27, 1921, in Cam-
den, N.J. She graduated from Boston Uni-
versity and Temple University and re-
ceived an M.D. from Hahnemann Medi-
cal College in 1945. She did her internship
at New York Medical College in 1945-46
and was a resident in pathology in 1946–
47 and in pediatrics in 1947-48.
From 1948 to 1950, Giannini was a
practicing pediatrician. She has been a
professor of pediatrics at New York Medi-
cal College since 1950 and director of the
Mental Retardation Institute since 1956.
Giannini has also served as attending
pediatrician at Metropolitan Hospital
Medical Center and as a pediatric consult-
ant for the city of New York's Bureau for
Handicapped Children. She was inter-
regional adviser in mental retardation to
the United Nations Department of World
Technical Cooperation in 1978. She has
served as president of the American Asso-
ciation on Mental Deficiency.
The First Lady's Trip to
Thailand
Remarks on Her Departure From the
White House. November 7, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say to my
wife, Rosalynn, and to Surgeon General
Richmond, to Mrs. Young, who is our Na-
tional Chairman for the Year of the
Child, that I'm deeply grateful to them
for their willingness to go to Thailand, to
observe at first hand the consequences of
the horrible tragedy that is occurring
there.
It's imperative that our Nation exert its
moral leadership as an example to the
entire world of the true feelings of
Americans, as we have observed with
deep concern and with horror the unpre-
cedented loss of life, because of starvation
and persecution, of the people of Cam-
bodia, many of whom have now fled into
Thailand. It's important that we main-
tain our commitment and our concern to
all the starving people there, regardless
of their political affiliation, regardless of
the circumstances under which they
suffer.
Secondly, I would like for the Surgeon
General and my wife and others in the
group to assess the bureaucratic obstacles
that exist. This is an international effort,
but our Nation plays a major role in shap-
ing the means by which relief-food, med-
ical care-can be delivered to the starv-
ing and suffering people who have crossed
the border into Thailand. And I would
hope that when they come back, they can
report accurately what can be done to re-
move any such obstacles from the delivery
of this care. We recognize that the warring
parties in Kampuchea have provided an
unwarranted obstacle to the delivery of
food, and I would hope they would ex-
plore every possibility for the breaking
down of these obstacles.
The third thing I've asked Rosalynn to
do is to deliver to Prime Minister Kriang-
sak and the Royal Family of Thailand a
personal message of appreciation and ad-
miration for the courage and the generos-
ity of the Thais in receiving literally
hundreds of thousands of refugees into a
country already somewhat impoverished,
already having exhibited great generosity
in the past.
This tragedy, where almost one-half
the total population of Kampuchea has
died, is of unbelievable proportions, and
it's important that the world and the
people of the United States maintain their
intense interest and their intense commit-
ment until the tragedy is relieved. Our
2090
