June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
is a very fruitful opportunity for the
future.
Recently, for instance, Japan and Ger-
many have agreed to join in with the
United States in a project concerning the
liquefaction and gasification of coal. We
would obviously like to see Japan increase
its purchase of American coal in the fu-
ture, with the knowledge the coal can be
burned cleanly and efficiently.
So, these are the kinds of areas where
we can cooperate fully in the future.
TRADE WITH CHINA
Q. Mr. President, both the United
States and Japan have expressed the will-
ingness and intention, desire, possibly, of
cooperating with the modernization pro-
gram by the People's Republic of China.
In so doing, however, isn't there a possi-
bility that your country and Japan might
end up competing over the Chinese
market?
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that we
favor the modernization program of the
People's Republic of China, an attitude
shared by the leaders of Japan. We see
nothing threatening about this, and the
turning toward Japan and toward the
United States by China, we believe, is a
very good recent development for stability
and peace in Asia.
Obviously, there will be some competi-
tion for markets, but this is a benefit to
both countries. We have the same com-
petition with each other for markets in
Canada, in Europe, in Asia. This is noth-
ing new for us.
We are able to compete successfully in
the technological field. There are some
areas of science and industry where the
United States is preeminent; there are
other areas where Japan is preeminent;
and there is a third category of areas
where we are roughly equivalent to one
another in our progress and we can com-
pete successfully. We believe there is
enough market throughout the world to
meet the expanding production of both
Japan and the United States.
I might point out there are a few realms
of economic development in China where
Japan and the United States will be co-
operating. But this is of benefit also to
both countries, but we have no fear of this.
We believe that, overall, a friendly com-
petition for the increasing markets with
China will be of benefit to both our coun-
tries. And it is obvious that the openness
of China's attitude and its economic de-
velopments is better for the entire world.
INDOCHINESE REFUGEES
Q. Going back to the Indochinese
refugee issue that you briefly referred to
earlier, specifically, what would be your
expectations concerning an increased Jap-
anese role in this international problem?
THE PRESIDENT. All countries must
play a larger role. The United States is
accepting a very large number of refugees,
tens of thousands of refugees. Japan has
accepted very few. [Laughter] I think
when Prime Minister Ohira was over
here, the total number of refugees
accepted in Japan was only three.
[Laughter] This, however, has been com-
bined in Japan with very generous con-
tributions to the U.N.'s effort to alleviate
the refugee problem.
We recognize Japan has a very homo-
geneous society; ours is quite hetero-
geneous. We are a nation that is com-
prised of refugees or immigrants. It is
easier for us to accept refugees, perhaps,
1150
