Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
August Consumer Price Index
White House Statement. September 25, 1979
scores
Once again, the increased cost of energy
was the major factor in an unacceptably
high inflation rate during the month of
August, and once again, this fact under-
the importance of following
through on the President's energy and
anti-inflation programs. In fact, the cost
of energy and the cost of buying and fi-
nancing a home were exclusively respon-
sible for pushing the Consumer Price In-
dex into a double-digit annual rate.
We were, of course, gratified that
gro-
cery prices remained stable during the
month. And outside of food and the
troublesome areas of energy and housing,
other consumer prices rose at a much
lower, though still too high, annual rate
of 8.5 percent.
For the second time in 6 years, our Na-
tion is suffering severely from both higher
inflation and higher unemployment be-
cause of a sudden and massive increase in
world oil prices. The need to reduce our
dependence on foreign oil is driven home
each time the CPI comes out.
We simply cannot allow the huge in-
creases in the prices of energy and hous-
ing to set off double-digit inflation in
wages and other prices. To prevent that
from happening, we need restraint on two
fronts:
1. continuing to pursue a tight Federal
budget as the President has pro-
posed, and
2. observing the President's voluntary
wage-price standards, which, skep-
tics to the contrary, have been keep-
ing double-digit inflation at bay,
outside of energy and housing.
New York City, New York
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the
American Public Transit Association.
September 25, 1979
Senator Moynihan, Governor Hugh
Carey, Mayor Ed Koch, Secretary of
Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, Mem-
bers of Congress from this State and from
others, Lieutenant Governor Mario
Cuomo, Chairman Harold Fisher, my
good friend and partners with me in a
great future for mass transit, rapid transit,
public transportation, public transit:
We're all in it together, and we're going
to prevail.
Thank you. I'm glad to be with you.
I'm particularly glad to be back in New
York-this great city which has, among
so many other superlatives, the title of the
"mass transit capital of the world." With
45 percent of all the riders of public
transportation in our Nation, it's obvious
that I should come here, first of all, and
say that there is absolutely no way that
New York would lose Federal funds for
public transportation because of any tech-
nicality or lack of adequate preparation
between the Federal Government and
New York, and no one need worry about
that.
And I'm glad to be in the same room
with so many people, from all over this
Nation, who agree with me that public
transit is one of the keys to the future
of the United States of America.
We can no longer afford to think of
public transportation as something that
we might some day get around to devel-
oping adequately for the people who look
to me and you for public leadership, once
all the superhighways and cloverleafs
have been completed. We must address
the problems of public transportation
1739
