Sept. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
a decline in American military might and
that the military balance has now tipped
against us. I do not believe this to be so,
but I am concerned about the trends. I
believe that it is necessary for us to act now
to reverse these trends.
The Secretary of Defense will be pre-
senting to the Congress over the coming
months the highlights of our defense pro-
gram in terms of the goals we think we
should achieve and the Five-Year Defense
Program we plan to achieve them. In this
context he will point out, among many
other items, how MX and our other stra-
tegic programs will contribute to the
maintenance of essential equivalence be-
tween the central strategic forces of the
United States and Soviet Union, how we
plan to modernize theater nuclear forces
in cooperation with our NATO allies, how
our general purpose forces programs con-
tribute both to our military capability to
support our NATO allies and rapidly to
deploy forces to defend our vital interests
elsewhere. That presentation can serve as
the basis for future discussions (including
open testimony) that will allow us to build
the national consensus that is the funda-
mental prerequisite of a strong and secure
America.
The White House,
September 11, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Hartford, Connecticut
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at the National Issue Forum of the National
Retired Teachers Association and the
American Association of Retired People.
September 12, 1979
President Johnson, President Hughes,
Governor Grasso, Senator Weicker, Con-
gressmen Cotter, Dodd, and Ratchford:
It is a distinct honor for me to be here
with these two combined distinguished
groups of retired Americans. As much as
I admire you as retired Americans, I must
admit that I'm not yet tempted to join
your ranks anytime soon. [Laughter]
For much of this century, you've seen
our Nation through its major crises-two
World Wars, a great depression, severe
shortages, tragic assassinations, political
scandals, embarrassments to our Govern-
ment, and social upheavals changing the
racial interrelationship of our country.
You've helped to bring us through all of
that, and you've helped to build the most
powerful, free society in history, with both
material power and also with spiritual
power.
These are achievements of which all of
you can be very proud, and I as President
am deeply grateful to you for this wonder-
ful achievement for all of us. Thank you
very much.
But there are some things that trouble
us about the future of our great Nation.
And I cannot think of any group more
qualified to discuss our Nation's future
than you who have so positively shaped its
past and its present.
My greatest responsibility, above every-
thing else as President of the United
States of America, is to protect the secu-
rity of the United States. Excessive im-
ports of foreign oil-listen very care-
fully-threaten the security of our coun-
try. We not only import about one-half of
all the oil we use, but with that oil, we also
import excessive inflation and unemploy-
ment.
Listen to this: Without including
energy, the inflation rate would only have
gone up this year about one-fourth of 1
percent-without energy. Energy prices,
however, have forced up the consumer
price index, because they have increased
60 percent this year.
You know that our country has had
1630
