Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
matter how long I serve, with that record
intact.
But the best way, the only way, I think,
that we can preserve peace is to be strong.
And as long as the Nation, ourselves, and
our allies and our potential adversaries
all know that our Nation is strong mili-
tarily and the will to defend ourselves,
under those circumstances, we are likely
to maintain peace for ourselves, and our
allies. If we ever become weak and vul-
nerable or vacillate or divided from one
another, that's when we are likely to have
to go to war. And so, I have no apology
to make for what we've done to try to
strengthen our defense. I'm going to keep
it up.
I might say that the percentage of our
gross national product, what this country
produces, that goes into military is very
low, about 5 percent, much lower than it's
been in previous years-we're more ef-
ficient now-and much lower than the
Soviet Union puts in. They put in about
13 percent of their gross national product
into defense, but still we're the strongest
and we're going to stay that way.
SHIPBUILDING CONTRACTS
MR. ELLIS. This is strictly a local or
regional question that involves the Gen-
eral Dynamic Shipyard in Quincy, which
has lost several recent shipbuilding con-
tracts to firms from different parts of the
country when we understood that they
had submitted the low bid.
What is the bidding process? How is it
determined who gets that bid? And if the
Government were willing to step in, for
instance, and come to the aid of the
Chrysler Corporation, would it also be
willing, do you think, to step into the aid
of a business that's important regionally
as the General Dynamic Shipyard is to
this economy here?
THE PRESIDENT. I have a special feel-
ing for General Dynamics. After the Sec-
ond World War, as a young naval officer,
I was assigned as the only officer to Elec-
tric Boat Company then, which later be-
came General Dynamics, to build the first
ship our Nation built, a little small anti-
submarine submarine. At that time, Gen-
eral Dynamics was building refrigerator
bodies for pickup trucks. So, my history
of navy yards and my interest is very
strong.
I don't want to mislead you. As long
as I'm in the White House, I'm not going
to let politics, even the hope of getting
votes in Boston, affect-or Quincy-affect
the decision on contracts on what's best
for our whole country. I don't interfere,
for political reasons, in which military
base is expanded or which one's closed
down. There's a tremendous temptation
to do that; I'm not going to do it. I made
that clear during the campaign. I'm not
going to deviate from it.
The decision on contracts at Quincy
and other navy yards around the Nation
are made on the basis of what's best for
our country. Most recently, although
Quincy lost a highly publicized contract,
I understand that since then, they have
gotten one equally as good-that's not
quite so highly publicized when they got
one. It's important to us to see the ship-
yards around the Nation be kept viable
and open and to keep their labor force
relatively intact-they can't be frozen-
relatively intact, because if our country
is ever threatened or needs to expand
rapidly what our Navy is doing or repair
our ships rapidly in time of war, we'll
need those navy yards to be in operating
condition and to have the skilled people
there.
The contract decisions about Quincy
were not made with any political consid-
erations at all. When they lost a contract,
1990
