July 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Saudi Arabian Crude Oil
Production
White House Statement. July 9, 1979
The President told Members of the
Senate and House at Camp David this
morning that he has received a personal
commitment from Crown Prince Fahd of
Saudi Arabia to increase substantially
crude oil production for a significant and
specific period of time. Details of produc-
tion plans will be announced by the Saudi
Government in the near future.
The personal message to the President
made clear that the Saudi decision is
based on their historic friendly relation-
ship with the United States and their com-
mitment to be a dependable supplier of oil
to the world.
The President has expressed the appre-
ciation of the American people for this
decision. He wishes to emphasize, how-
ever, that while the increased production
will be helpful in the short term, it does
not relieve the United States or other oil-
consuming nations of the necessity for firm
action to reduce significantly their
dependence on imported oil.
NOTE: Deputy Press Secretary Rex Granum
read the statement at 11:39 a.m. at the regular
news briefing for reporters, held in the Briefing
Room at the White House.
President's Council on Physical
Fitness and Sports
Appointment of Abbi Fisher as a Member.
July 10, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Abbi Fisher, of South Con-
way, N.H., as a member of the President's
Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
Fisher, 21, is a member of the U.S.
Olympic Ski Team and won the slalom
event in the 1978 World Cup. She has
been skiing since the age of 3 and racing
since 16. She placed second and third in
the giant slalom in the 1977 World Cup
season and won the slalom event in the
1977 Europa Cup.
Death of Arthur Fiedler
Statement by the President. July 10, 1979
Music lovers everywhere were sad-
dened to learn of the death of Arthur
Fiedler, who had a special place in our
hearts as the courtly man who introduced
millions to the infinite variety and
pleasures of music.
The Fourth of July concerts he origi-
nated on the banks of the Charles River
became a part of our national tradition.
He gave us the best loved classics with a
joyous mixture of country, jazz, and popu-
lar works. He knew how to take music
seriously without taking the fun out of it,
and he shared that gift with us all.
Rosalynn and I join a nation filled with
the grateful recipients of that gift in send-
ing our deepest sympathy to his wife,
Ellen Bottomly Fiedler, and the rest of
his family.
National Energy Supply Shortage
Proclamation 4667. July 10, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Secretary of Energy has advised
me that the continued reduction in world
1226
