Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
• evaluate local, regional, and national
demands and needs and assess and
compare the value of public land
goods and services with the public
and private costs of providing such
benefits;
• reflect evaluation and comment by
the people of neighboring commu-
nities and other members of the pub-
lic, and appropriate local, state, and
federal officials;
• be accomplished by using ongoing
assessment and planning programs
and resources, to the extent possible,
within the Bureau, the U.S. Forest
Service and other agencies and de-
partments; and
⚫ be coordinated with plans and pro-
grams called for by the Resources
Planning Act and developed by the
Forest Service and other federal
agencies.
Furthermore, I am directing that each
of the alternative programs developed by
BLM shall:
• be designed to reflect environmentally
sound, fiscally responsible, and eco-
nomically efficient resource use, de-
velopment and investment strategies.
⚫ be based on the capability and suit-
ability of the public land resource as
determined by you based on BLM's
resource management planning proc-
ess.
clearly identify the assumptions used
and describe environmental impacts,
personnel requirements and program
costs, and national, regional, and lo-
cal benefits, and relate those benefits
and costs through the use of cost/
benefit, cost effective, or other appro-
priate analytic techniques.
clearly state the inventory, planning,
protection, rehabilitation, operation
and maintenance work that would be
achieved under that program alter-
native.
In addition, I noted in my Message that
lands administered by BLM contain areas
of great cultural and ecological value.
I am therefore directing you to give spe-
cial attention to protecting areas of BLM-
administered lands with nationally signifi-
cant wildlife, natural, scientific, cultural,
or scenic resources. As part of this effort,
the Department shall develop by June
1980 a process and criteria for : (i) identi-
fying those nationally significant resources,
and (ii) proposing protective measures to
provide special protective management
for these resources on a continuing
basis, commensurate with their national
significance.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Secretary of Agri-
culture, the Secretary of the Interior
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I discussed the public in-
terest to be served by improved coordina-
tion of the natural resources programs of
your Departments. In particular, there is
an urgent need for genuine cooperation
between the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment and the Forest Service-the two
multiple-use management agencies that
administer most of our public lands.
I recognize that much has been accom-
plished already by the two agencies, work-
ing in a spirit of cooperation—including
cooperative fire protection efforts which
have resulted in significant cost savings,
an agreement for more efficient gath-
ering and exchange of renewable resource
information, and development of similar
procedures for site-specific land use and
resource management planning.
1375
