Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 18
you are here. It's an honor for us to partic- cants who look to him with direct religious
ipate in honoring him.
I would like to say that we have Mem-
bers of the Congress here; we have distin-
guished educators here, distinguished reli-
gious leaders from every faith. We also
have people who've come as personal
friends-those from the business commu-
nity, from other elements of government,
from all over the Nation-to listen to the
beautiful music of the Metropolitan Sing-
ers and to take part in this celebration of
one of the important anniversaries in the
Greek Orthodox Church.
As all of you know, the Greek Orthodox
Church has been the repository and the
avenue through which the culture and the
values of Hellenic society have been trans-
mitted and enhanced from one generation
to another, in the service of one another
and in the service of Jesus Christ.
Our own Nation is a nation of immi-
grants. We've brought here some of the
finest aspects of the lives and the customs,
the achievements and the hopes and
aspirations of people throughout the
world. But our heritage from Greece is
indeed extraordinary, because from that
great country, the mother country of many
in this room, we have derived the basis for
American principles and government—
liberty and democracy. And we thank all
of you and your ancestors for that noble
gift.
We could not have a better exemplifica-
tion of the finest aspects of human life
than His Eminence Archbishop Iakovos.
His life is one which has been dedicated to
the pursuit of the broadest possible realm
of basic civil rights, basic human rights,
not just in this country but throughout the
world.
As you know, this is the 20th anniver-
sary of his enthronement as a spiritual
leader of North and South America. Al-
though he only has 3 million communi-
conviction, and a common, narrowly de-
fined religious conviction, he has many
millions of other Americans who look to
him for spiritual inspiration and who ad-
mire his great contributions to our country
and to the kingdom of Christ.
His small gestures have exemplified not
only humaneness but also courage. In
1965, when it was not an easy thing to do,
this great man walked shoulder to should-
er with Martin Luther King, Jr., holding
the hand of a small black girl in Selma,
Alabama. He didn't have to do it. His
church did not demand it. Had he not
been there, few would have noticed his
absence. But he was there. And this simple
act was not extraordinary in his life, be-
cause it's one of many similar acts that
have exemplified his public and his private
and his religious service. He has always
sought justice for the poor.
He's also been a world leader in many
organized religious efforts—twice presi-
dent of the World Council of Churches.
He's had the breadth of vision to tran-
scend religious boundaries, which often are
very difficult to cross. One of his major
achievements has been that he was the
first Archbishop in 350 years, 3½ cen-
turies, to meet with the Pope, represent-
ing the Roman Catholic Church. And not
only in this connection between Greek
Orthodox and Roman Catholic Churches
but among Protestant and other religious
orders, this fine leader has helped to
bridge a chasm that separates human
beings.
He's been an adviser for many. He's
been an adviser for me, and I thank God
for it. Not too long ago I was at Camp
David, considering our Nation, some of its
problems, some possible solutions for it. I
needed counsel on government, politics,
energy, taxation, economics. But, above
all, I needed counsel on our country's
spirit-who we are, what we are, what we
1689
