Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
all those who share the Moslem faith.
I might say that, so far as I know, all the
Islamic nations have joined us in con-
demning the activities and the actions of
the Government of Iran. So, I don't think
religious divisions are a factor here at all.
But I will have to continue to restrict
my own political activities and call on
those who might be opposing me in the
future for President to support my posi-
tion as President and to provide unity
for our country and for our Nation in the
eyes of those who might be looking for
some sign of weakness or division in order
to perpetuate their abuse of our hostages.
SECURITY FOR EMBASSIES
Q. What can the U.S. do now, what
can it do to prevent future incidents of
the nature of Iran? How can you satisfy
the public demand to end such
embarrassment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is an un-
precedented and unique occurrence.
Down through history, we have had times
when some of our people were captured
by terrorists or who were abused, and
there have obviously been instances of
international kidnaping which occurred
for the discomforture of a people or a
government. So far as I know, this is the
first time that such an activity has been
encouraged by and supported by the gov-
ernment itself, and I don't anticipate this
kind of thing recurring.
We have taken steps already, in view
of the disturbances in the Middle East
and the Persian Gulf region, to guard our
people more closely, to provide them with
higher degree of security, and to make
arrangements with the host governments
to provide assistance, if it's needed, in the
fastest possible way.
Many other nations have reduced se-
verely the number of persons overseas. I
think one of the points that should be
made is that a year ago, we had 70,000
Americans in Iran-70,000. There were
literally thousands of people who were
killed in the Iranian revolution, from all
nations. We were able to extract Ameri-
cans from Iran safely. It was a superb
demonstration of cooperation and good
conduct on the part of the State Depart-
ment and other American officials.
So, there will be disturbances in the
future, but I think we are well protected
as we possibly can be, without withdraw-
ing into a shell, from protecting American
interests in nations overseas.
My own experience, so far, has been
that the leaders of nations have recom-
mitted themselves to provide security for
embassies of all countries. I think we've
learned a lesson from this instance. But,
because it is so unique, in the high degree
of irresponsibility of the Iranian Govern-
ment leaders, I don't believe that we'll
see another reoccurrence of it any time
soon.
HENRY KISSINGER
Q. Mr. President, former Secretary of
State Kissinger has criticized your admin-
istration's handling of the situation in
Iran. He has suggested that it came about
because, partly because of the perceived
weakness in American foreign policy, and
that it has further damaged America's
image as a result.
How do you respond?
THE PRESIDENT. I would rather not
respond. There's no reason for me to get
into a public debate at this time with
former Secretary Kissinger about who is
or who is not responsible for the events
that took place in Iran.
2170
