Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 27
allocated enough money to accommodate
every possible means to deliver the food.
It's one of those horrible examples of, I
think, partially a deliberate attempt to
decimate a population in the form of
genocide. And now, I think, that the
world has been aroused, I think the con-
flicting military groups in Kampuchea,
including the Vietnamese, have been con-
vinced that they must open up an avenue
to alleviate the suffering. And we are in
the forefront and have been in the fore-
front of making food and money and
transportation capabilities available.
MR. EISELE. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I'll take
one more question and then-
PRESIDENT'S LEADERSHIP QUALITIES
AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Q. Mr. President, the question of lead-
ership is apparently going to be a very
large one in the coming Presidential
campaign. And some of your critics con-
tend that one of the problems you got into
early on was that you had no grand vi-
sion of national goals, no overarching
idea of what direction the country ought
to go in. And they say that that's because
you were an engineer and you were en-
grossed in details, but couldn't deal in
the grand picture, particularly here in
Washington. How do you react to that?
THE PRESIDENT. You know, in many
ways our country has been built by peo-
ple like engineers. I think Thomas Jeffer-
son was a scientist, for instance. I was a
farmer like George Washington was. I
don't think there's any exclusive kind of
person who has visions or who has lead-
ership, to the exclusion of other kinds
of people. We've had haberdashers who
were great leaders, we've had military
generals who've been great leaders, we've
had ex-Governors who were great-Pres-
idents, I meant to say who were great
Presidents. And I don't know how to re-
spond to any particular categorization.
I think the fact that I was an engineer
and have had some training in State
government and also in science and also
in agriculture-none of those things are
debilitating experiences. [Laughter] I be-
lieve that any fair and accurate analysis
of what we have proposed and accom-
plished would debunk that kind of
allegation.
Before I was ever President, we had
broad and extensive goals that we wanted
to accomplish, and I think the difficulty
that we've experienced with Congress
originally has been because of the com-
plexity of the proposals that we've put
to them. I'll just give you two quick ex-
amples, one on the domestic scene.
We've never had an energy policy. For
many years, back to Harry Truman,
we've recognized that something needed
to be done about energy. It's been in a
crisis stage since 1973. This has been one
of the most complicated and difficult po-
litical battles on the Hill that our country
has ever seen. And I predict to you that
before the end of this year we will have,
almost in its totality, an adequate national
energy policy. Had we had this earlier,
we would have saved our Nation a great
deal of suffering and threat to our very
security.
In foreign affairs, we've had the same
thing. You know, for 14 years Presidents
have had the opportunity to complete a
Panama Canal treaty and, for much
longer than that, to open up China to
trade and diplomatic relationships with
our country, for even longer than that, to
try to bring peace to the Mideast.
We've never flinched in any way from
addressing an issue that I consider to be
important to our Nation domestically or
in foreign matters because of adverse po-
litical consequences. I can well under-
2053
