Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
low citizens who celebrate this religious section of the country of essential trans-
holiday.
At this time of traditional joy and fam-
ily festivity, as we join in thanking God
for His blessings to us as a nation and as
individuals, we ask that you offer a
special prayer for the Americans who are
being held hostage in Iran and for their
families. We remember also the plight of
all people, whatever their nationality,
who suffer from injustice, oppression,
hunger, war, or terrorism.
May this Christmas season truly be the
beginning of a time of peace among na-
tions and good will among all peoples, and
may the spirit of love and caring continue
from this holy season through the coming
year.
Emergency Board To Investigate
a Railway Labor Dispute
Executive Order 12182. December 14, 1979
CREATING AN EMERGENCY BOARD TO IN-
VESTIGATE A DISPUTE BETWEEN THE
LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD AND CERTAIN
OF ITS EMPLOYEES
A dispute exists between The Long Is-
land Rail Road and certain of its em-
ployees represented by Participating
Labor Organizations designated in list at-
tached hereto and made part hereof.
This dispute has not heretofore been
adjusted under the provisions of the Rail-
way Labor Act, as amended; and
This dispute, in the judgment of the
National Mediation Board, threatens sub-
stantially to interrupt interstate com-
merce to a degree such as to deprive a
portation service:
Now, THEREFORE, by the authority
vested in me by Section 10 of the Railway
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160),
it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. Establishment of Board. There
is established a board of three members
to be appointed by the President to in-
vestigate this dispute. No member of the
board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise
interested in any organization of railroad
employees or any carrier.
1-102. Report. The board shall report
its finding to the President with respect
to the dispute within 30 days from the
date of this Order.
1-103. Maintaining Conditions. As pro-
vided by Section 10 of the Railway Labor
Act, as amended, from this date and for
30 days after the board has made its
report to the President, no change, ex-
cept by agreement, shall be made by The
Long Island Rail Road, or by its em-
ployees, in the conditions out of which
the dispute arose.
The White House,
December 14, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Participating Labor Organizations
International Brotherhood of Teamsters
(IBT)
United Transportation Union (UTU)
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers
(BLE)
Brotherhood of Railroad Carmen (BRC)
Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen
(BRS)
Railroad Yardmasters of America (RYA)
Police Benevolent Association (PBA)
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:15 a.m., December 17, 1979]
2246
