Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 25
our Nation to reliance on our bountiful
supplies of coal.
I agree with the Commission's view
that we can convert to coal without sac-
rificing our environment or the health
and safety of coal workers.
At a time when thousands of coal min-
ers have been thrown out of work, we
must redouble our efforts to insist that the
energy needs of our Nation are supplied
as much as possible by coal.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JULY 25, 1979
NATIONAL GOALS
THE PRESIDENT. My fellow citizens and
men and women of the press:
Ten days ago, I spoke to you about
my deep concern for the future of our
country-about a crisis of the American
spirit, which I know to be just as real
as the problems that face us on energy
or inflation or any other problem of a
material nature. But I also know that
we can overcome these crises by uniting
in a common purpose as we have done
so often in the past when our Nation
faces a serious challenge. The opportu-
nity which we now have is to seize con-
trol of our energy future to work
together to overcome our dangerous
overdependence on foreign oil.
Millions of Americans have responded
positively to what I said—because they
know that I'm telling the truth.
We have lost confidence in our gov-
ernment, and we have lost confidence
in many other institutions—all of us
know that. But we also know that we
can overcome the pessimism, and with
patriotism and with hard work, we can
move forward together as Americans.
In these 10 days since I addressed the
Nation, I have moved swiftly—I do not
believe too swiftly-to create a better
administration team to work with me, a
team that will be unified, a team that
will be filled with confidence, a team
that will be in good fighting shape to
face the problems together.
And during this same period, I have
proposed to the Congress a bold pro-
gram to harness American ingenuity and
to harness American strength to lay a
groundwork for American energy se-
curity. This massive effort will cost a
great deal of money, funds that can only
come from a windfall profits tax on the
oil companies, a tax on profits which the
oil companies have not earned.
The American people overwhelmingly
support such a tax, a message clearly
demonstrated by the action already taken
by the House of Representatives of our
U.S. Congress, which has passed a bill
which will finance the energy proposal
that I have made and still leave plenty
of new funds, additional funds, for the oil
companies to proceed with exploration
and production of new oil and new gas
within our own country.
Now it is the turn of the United States
Senate to act, and there will be a mas-
sive struggle to gut the windfall profits tax
bill. If this happens, then we cannot reach
our energy goals.
I want to serve notice tonight that I
will do everything in my power as Presi-
dent to see that the windfall profits tax is
passed, because I consider it to be crucial
to our Nation's future.
I need your help. I need the help of the
people of America. This is a democracy.
Your voice can be heard. Your voice must
be heard. Those of you who believe in the
1303
