Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
during the interim of August, the Senate
Budget Committee and all the related
staffs were working on this matter. And I
don't see any reason for concern about
delay.
I am concerned about the ultimate con-
tent of the tax. If it's watered down by
any substantial degree, we will not reach
our goals on energy, and our Nation's
security will be damaged. And we just
absolutely must have a way to reduce our
dependence on foreign oil, and the
windfall profits tax is a key to this assur-
ance.
ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, before you an-
nounced your energy program, a consor-
tium of five utilities have already spent $4
million on the study of the possibility of a
plant in North Dakota to convert lignite
coal to gas. Secretary Andrus has endorsed
this wholeheartedly as being in line with
your energy aims. A judge of the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission has rec-
ommended that it be turned down, be-
cause the utilities plan on providing about
25 percent of the costs which would be
assumed by shareholders.
Now, the decision comes before the full
Commission sometime in October. Would
this hinge on congressional action or
could this proceed as a pilot plan under
your energy program?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I'm not
familiar with their particular status.
You're talking about the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission is considering
it-
Q. Their decision on a go-ahead in
October. There is a bill before the Con-
gress on endorsing loans.
THE PRESIDENT. I see. I can't answer
that question.
The energy production board* would, if
passed into law-and I hope it will be-
will expedite that kind of decision on
powerplants, refineries, pipelines, syn-
thetic fuel production plants, and cut
through the redtape and the procedural
delay which hamstrings a great portion of
our energy program. It wouldn't decide
whether a plant was warranted or not or
whether a site was proper or not. It would
just ensure that that decision was made to
"go" or "no go" without unnecessary
delay.
If a plant is environmentally accept-
able and is needed and is financially rea-
sonable and is located properly, I'd like
to see the decision made and get the plant
built and operating. If it's not acceptable,
let the people who propose it know. But
I think that would be expedited by con-
gressional action.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. And I'll check with
Cecil Andrus about this. I think if the
Secretary of Interior has endorsed the
project-
Q. He's endorsed it-[inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT.—this would prob-
ably remove most of the potential obsta-
cles that I can envision.
I promised the gentleman on the end.
I'll get you next.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Dean Conklin from Racine, Wis-
consin. Your National Security Adviser
expressed concern about linkage of the
SALT II consideration with other
events. My question is, how can the
American people be expected to separate
Soviet behavior in Africa or with the
Mideast or Cuba from its feeling related
to SALT II?
*The President meant the Energy Mobiliza-
tion Board. [Printed in the transcript.]
1610
