Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
dom, and I for one am convinced we can
make progress now that we have the prob-
lems in clearer perspective.
And I've been particularly encouraged,
Mr. President, with the forthrightness
with which you have reiterated the priori-
ties on inflation, on energy, on the budget,
and all the rest—priorities and objectives
that I am sure are shared not just by me
but by the Federal Reserve generally and
indeed by the citizens of this country.
Now, we in Federal Reserve, I suppose,
are always a little sensitive about our spe-
cial niche within the Government. But I
assure you, we also know we operate with-
in the framework of government. There's
no moat around that marble palace on
Constitution Avenue to impede communi-
cation in every direction, and particularly
with the administration, with the Con-
gress. And I look forward to maintaining
those communications.
I've spent a fair amount of my life now
within the Federal Reserve, and it looks
as though it will be a little more. I cherish
its integrity. I cherish its professionalism.
And I only hope that as I take office that
reputation can be maintained and, over
time, even enhanced, as it was with my
predecessor, whom I'm so happy and
proud to share this platform today. I ap-
preciate the chance to try to do my part.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3 p.m. at the
ceremony in the East Room at the White
House.
Baltimore, Maryland
Remarks Following a Tour of Neighborhood
Rehabilitation Projects. August 7, 1979
As all of you know, our country is
determined to win the energy war and
I believe the people here on East Biddle
Street can help me. Do you agree?
[Applause]
A couple of Sundays ago I made a
speech to the Nation about the strength
of our country and about our need to have
a strong and united effort in our Nation,
not only to have a good economy, with
jobs for people, good housing, but also to
stop the waste of energy and to let our
Nation be dependent on ourselves and
not on the OPEC countries.
Behind me, you see several panels on
the top of this house that are going to be
all over the Nation in the future. There's
no way for them to embargo the sunshine,
right? [Applause]
Baltimore is showing the way. You've
got a great mayor in Don Schaefer. And
you have worked with him to make sure
that
your city is becoming a better place
to live.
Two and a half years ago, almost three,
I came to Baltimore to see the fine hous-
ing programs that were in effect here,
where people who did not have jobs were
given jobs to make old homes new and
to let people live in decent housing for a
change, quite often with a family that was
going to live in a house doing a major
part of the work.
Now we have a fine weatherization pro-
gram underway in Baltimore. This year,
we will have 3,000 homes completely
weatherized, not with expensive workers,
but with CETA workers, who were for-
merly unemployed. They are doing a su-
perb job. It only costs, for each home,
about $275 to make sure that the doors,
the windows, the hot water heaters do
not waste energy. This money comes back
in saved heating bills in less than 2 years,
and then for the rest of the life of the
home, there's a tremendous savings in
dollars and a warmer house and a better
1406
