Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 27
be increased from 6.5 percent to 7 percent
for Bonds held for the full 11 years to
maturity.
I believe it is appropriate for employees
of the Federal Government to take the
leadership responsibility in furthering the
sale of U.S. Energy Savings Bonds. We
must set the example for all Americans to
follow.
Consequently, I have appointed Secre-
tary of Defense Harold Brown to serve as
Chairman of the Interagency Savings
Bonds Committee.
The introduction this year of the U.S.
Energy Savings Bonds, Series EE not only
presents new challenges, but also new op-
portunities for close cooperation at all
levels of government.
Secretary Brown and the members of
the Committee have a special duty to
ensure that all Departments and Agencies
complete the transition to U.S. Energy
Savings Bonds, Series EE smoothly and
effectively, maintaining a high record of
employee participation in the Savings
Bonds Program.
Secretary Brown has my full support in
undertaking this new responsibility. In
turn, I want him to be able to count on
your full support through your active per-
sonal involvement in this year's payroll
savings campaign in your agency.
JIMMY CARTER
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. December 26, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
three new deferrals totalling $28.7 million
and three revisions to previously trans-
mitted deferrals increasing the amount
deferred by $34.5 million. These items
affect programs in the Departments of
Defense and Treasury, the National Con-
sumer Cooperative Bank, the National
Commission on Social Security, and the
District of Columbia.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
December 26, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of De-
cember 31, 1979.
United States International
Trade Commission
Designation of Catherine May Bedell as
Chairman. December 26, 1979
The President today announced that
he has designated Catherine May Bedell
as Chairman of the United States Inter-
national Trade Commission (USITC).
Bedell has been a member of USITC
and its predecessor agency, the United
States Tariff Commission, since 1971. She
has previously served as Chairman. She is
a former U.S. Representative from the
State of Washington.
Iranians in the United States
White House Statement on a Court Decision
Upholding the President's Authority To In-
vestigate Student Visas. December 27, 1979
The decision by the Court of Appeals
confirms the view that the administration
has held all along-that the action taken
in surveying Iranian students was both
constitutional and lawful. The President
is, of course, gratified by the decision. The
2285
