Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
influence. And the result of all that work
is this Executive order, which is now effec-
tive.
It prescribes a standard for the protec-
tion of consumer interests throughout
Government—a single, carefully drafted,
comprehensible standard that will pro-
vide coherence and unity and a better un-
derstanding of the purposes that we want
to accomplish. And it also establishes a
strong leader within each agency, who
will be designated by the head of each
agency, to protect consumer interests.
Esther, of course, will continue to rep-
resent me directly in these relationships.
But in this process of evolving the Execu-
tive order, I think we've aroused to a high
pitch of interest the leaders throughout
Government who will be affected by the
order itself.
OMB is extremely reluctant to expand
the bureaucracy or to make an ineffective
Government effort possible, and they are
extremely important to save taxpayers'
funds. They are enthusiastic supporters of
this Executive order, because they see
that this is a contribution to the efficiency
of Government and does not create addi-
tional bureaucracy nor delay decisions in
their final judgments.
I might add one other thing, and that is
that recent trends in Government have
been very disturbing to me, particularly
of trends are a bad omen. And I would
like to ask all of you to monitor very care-
fully what goes on in Government to pre-
vent these unwarranted encroachments on
the basic rights of every American citizen.
We have worked together in the past.
Many of you have been in the forefront of
battles to make the civil service system
more effective. You've helped me greatly
in the progress that we've made so far in
hospital cost containment, to reduce the
inflationary pressures on American citi-
zens, and of course, you've helped me
with the evolution of the concept of the
cooperative bank and many other items
on which we share a major interest. We
are in this fight together. And I welcome
your support and the partnership that we
share.
And I'm particularly grateful to your
leader and to my leader, Esther Peterson,
who will continue the fight, with us as her
army. And I'm very grateful to serve in
this capacity under one of the greatest
leaders in Government. And now I'd like
to introduce to you Esther Peterson.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:50 a.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing. Following his remarks, Esther Peterson,
Special Assistant to the President for Consumer
Affairs, spoke to the group.
on Capitol Hill. The attacks that are being Federal Consumer Programs
made against the Federal Trade Commis-
sion, the recent effort in the Senate to
have every regulatory decision be sub-
jected to proof in court before it can go
into effect, the efforts to block sections of
bills that would directly give consumers a
stronger voice in Government, the trend
toward increasing one-house vetoes over
decisions made by agencies responsible for
protecting consumers' rights-these kinds
Executive Order 12160. September 26, 1979
PROVIDING FOR ENHANCEMENT AND Co-
ORDINATION OF FEDERAL CONSUMER
PROGRAMS
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution of the
United States of America, and in order
to improve the management, coordina-
1762
