Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 27
reflects the desire of the Government of
the United States and the Government of
Australia to update the framework for
peaceful nuclear cooperation between our
two countries in a manner which recog-
nizes both the shared non-proliferation
objectives and the close relationship be-
tween the United States and Australia in
the peaceful applications of nuclear en-
ergy. The proposed agreement will, in my
view, further the non-proliferation and
other foreign policy interests of the United
States.
I have considered the views and recom-
mendations of the interested agencies in
reviewing the proposed agreement and
have determined that its performance will
promote, and will not constitute an un-
reasonable risk to, the common defense
and security. Accordingly, I have ap-
proved the agreement and authorized its
execution, and urge that the Congress give
it favorable consideration.
The White House,
July 27, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Department of Housing and
Urban Development
Nomination of Moon Landrieu To Be
Secretary. July 27, 1979
The President will nominate Moon
Landrieu, former mayor of New Orleans,
as Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment.
The President said, "Mayor Landrieu
enjoys a national reputation as a pro-
gressive mayor and strong administrator,
as well as a respected and effective spokes-
man for local government. His service at
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development will be a contribution to this
administration and to the country. He en-
joys my full confidence and support, and
I am confident that he will build upon
the outstanding record of Secretary
Harris."
Mayor Landrieu and Secretary Harris
have already discussed transition plans.
The details of the transition will be
worked out in a manner that will ensure
continuity and efficiency of service at
HUD.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 12:03 p.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
The press release also includes a transcript
of the question-and-answer session which fol-
lowed the announcement.
Solar Energy Development Bank
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting Proposed
Legislation. July 27, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
I am transmitting proposed legislation
which would establish, within the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, a Solar Energy Development
Bank. This proposal is an essential ele-
ment of my recently announced national
strategy for accelerating the use of solar
and other renewable resources. It pro-
vides for incentives which can, in con-
junction with other governmental ac-
tions to be undertaken as part of the Ad-
ministration's program, stimulate the in-
stallation of solar energy systems in resi-
dential and commercial properties on a
significant scale.
The Solar Bank would be governed by
a Board of Directors chaired by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment. The Board would also include the
1315
