Aug. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
express your congratulations and your
pledge of support to him.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:39 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Id al-Fitr
Message of the President. August 24, 1979
On this joyous holiday of Id al-Fitr,
ending the fast of Ramadan, Rosalynn and
I extend our warmest good wishes to all
of our fellow citizens of the Muslim faith.
The observance of your traditional reli-
gious ceremonies strengthens the moral
and spiritual values of your Faith and
thereby deepens our nation's commitment
to our highest principles.
At this critical time, we join together in
praying for a lasting peace that will bring
justice and freedom to all people.
JIMMY CARTER
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
August 20
The White House announced that the
President will answer questions from the
public in a live, 2-hour radio broadcast
from the Oval Office on Saturday, Octo-
ber 13. The program will be produced by
National Public Radio and will be heard
on most NPR member stations from 1 to
3 p.m. (EDT) on October 13. Anyone
who wishes to talk with the President is
requested to send a postcard to: "Ask the
President," P.O. Box 19369, Washington,
D.C. 20036, listing name, address, and
telephone number. The questions a caller
would like to ask should not be given on
the card. Just prior to the broadcast, NPR
will choose callers at random from the
postcards and connect the persons selected
with the President as lines become avail-
able. Susan Stamberg, cohost of "All
Things Considered," will anchor the pro-
gram for NPR and will introduce each
caller to the President and the radio audi-
ence.
The White House announced that Ray
Jenkins, editor of the Montgomery Ad-
vertiser and Alabama Journal, will join
the White House staff in early September
as a Special Assistant to the President. He
will work in the Press Office and will assist
the President and the Press Secretary in
the full range of responsibilities of the
Press Office.
August 24
The President returned to the White
House following his trip down the Mis-
sissippi River. Later in the afternoon, the
President went to Camp David, Md.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nomi-
nations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted August 20, 1979
PAUL A. VOLCKER, of New Jersey, to be United
States Alternate Governor of the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years,
vice G. William Miller.
1518
