Sept. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
National Day of Prayer, 1979
Proclamation 4690. September 19, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The history of our country is a history
of triumph over adversity. Time after
time, we have overcome threats from
within and without. Over the generations,
wars, depressions, and internal differences
and bigotry in various forms have struck
at the foundations of our society. As we
have met these challenges together, the
bonds between us as Americans have
grown stronger.
We endure and remain a land of hope
because of the basic goodness and strength
of our people and because the God of us
all has shown us His favor.
The decisions we make today on arms,
economics, social justice and global re-
sponsibilities echo into the future of the
world. We accept our responsibilities and
make our choices with all the will and de-
termination at our command, but always
in the full knowledge that we are finally
in the hands of God. In the words of the
prophet Zechariah, "Not by might, not by
power but by my spirit saith the Lord of
Hosts." (4:6)
Recognizing this, the Congress by joint
resolution approved April 17, 1952 (36
U.S.C. 185; 66 Stat. 64) has called upon
the President to set aside a suitable day
each year as a National Day of Prayer.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Wednesday, Octo-
ber 3, 1979, as a National Day of Prayer.
I ask all Americans to join with me on that
day to recommit ourselves to God, to each
other and to the towering ideals of truth,
justice, fairness, brotherhood, and love
which our Nation has cherished and
protected. Let us pray for the will and wis-
dom to create a world in which all people
can live with each other in peace. Let us
pray that careful stewardship of today's
opportunities will protect and enlarge the
inheritance of liberty and security we give
our children.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:46 p.m., September 19, 1979]
National School Lunch
Week, 1979
Proclamation 4691. September 20, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Active, growing youngsters need good
food to do well in school. And since the
eating habits established in childhood
affect later tastes and practices, school
meals also provide a unique opportunity
to understand and enjoy good nutrition.
The National School Lunch Program,
established in 1946, now provides nourish-
ing lunches to 26 million school children
each school day. The United States De-
partment of Agriculture sets nutritional
standards to these meals but the quality
and appeal of school lunches depend on
another vital ingredient: people who care.
Therefore, I want to pay special tribute
to the thousands of people-parents,
teachers, principals, school food service
workers, State and local officials-who
make the school lunch program work in
1694
