June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
which ignores the rights and sovereignty
of our ally, the Republic of Korea. We
recognize that solution of the problems
on the Korean peninsula can only be re-
solved through the direct involvement of
the Governments of both North and
South Korea.
U.S.-SOVIET TALKS
Q. Mr. President, you have met with
your Soviet counterpart, Leonid Brezh-
nev, June 15-18 in Vienna. Arms con-
trol is one of your foreign policy objec-
tives. Will you discuss with the Soviet
leader on the Korean question in the
context of "control of transfer of conven-
tional weapons" and of "better com-
munications” with the Soviets for regional
stability?
A. There are no discussions of Korean
arms transfers with Soviet representatives
in Vienna.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Another major foreign policy objec-
tive of your administration is enhance-
ment of human rights at home and
abroad. Mr. President, do you plan or
expect to see some Korean political dis-
sidents during your trip to Seoul—either
at a church service or at a reception?
A. The schedule for my visit to Korea
is not yet fully fixed. However, in addition
to the important consultations between
our two Governments, I look forward to
meeting with other elements of Korean
society. This will include opportunities for
discussion with elected political leaders,
including the opposition, and with leading
churchmen. However, my worship at
church is a personal matter and will not
be an occasion for political meetings.
NOTE: The written questions were submitted
to the President by So-Whan Hyon of the
Orient Press. The answers were given to him
by the President on June 21. The texts of the
questions and answers were released on June 23.
The President's Trip to Japan
and the Republic of Korea
Remarks on Departure From the White House.
June 23, 1979
I leave in a few minutes for an econom-
ic summit meeting that can affect the
daily life of every American citizen. Oil
shortages and oil prices threaten the very
strength of our own economy and also the
fabric of our society. This will be the ma-
jor economic item on our agenda when I
arrive in Japan. Concerted action by all
the industrialized nations-there will be
seven of us leaders there is absolutely
crucial to solve the energy problems facing
the American people today. This is a pri-
mary reason for my trip. We must act now
to bring these global energy problems
under control.
This is not just an American challenge.
The long gas lines, the shortages of diesel
fuel, the concern about heating homes,
the mounting frustration over fuel sup-
plies that we see here in America are
symptoms of a global energy shortage. Our
planet is simply not producing enough oil
to meet rising demands.
We now are consuming about 2 million
barrels of oil per day more than is being
produced. And as I know many of you
realize, since last December the price of
OPEC oil has increased more than 35
percent. The challenge to the industrial-
ized democracies is very clear. We must
not be set one against another in a desper-
ate competition to buy every barrel of
scarce oil regardless of its price. Together,
we must import less. Together, we must
produce more. Together, we must reduce
our dependence on a handful of oil pro-
ducing and exporting countries.
At Tokyo I will call on our allies to join
with the United States to meet our targets
for reducing oil imports in 1979 and to re-
duce our imports even more in 1980. Also,
1154
