Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Laos, conditions were substantially bet-
ter. There are approximately 37,000
persons there. That camp is 4 or 5
years old. They eat well, but they don't
go out of the camp. They have been
there, some for 3 or 4 years, waiting to
resettle abroad. And although the living
conditions are so much better than Sakeo,
they are still not anything that you would
call good.
It is sad to see them with no purpose.
They at first thought they might go back
into Laos. Now they know they won't, or
don't want to. And they're waiting to be
resettled, some of them with feeling that
they've been forgotten by the world, be-
cause the focus has been on the Kam-
pucheans, the focus has been on the boat
people. And these people really feel for-
gotten. I was touched by them. And one
of the girls that worked with me said
that one of the main problems they have
with these people is mental depression,
just existing day to day for 4 or 5 years,
waiting to see what happens to them.
At the transit center, the refugee tran-
sit center in Bangkok, we saw over-
crowded and humiliating conditions
where refugees awaiting final processing
for immigration must endure. These
were things that I don't think I'll ever
forget. These were people who have al-
ready been chosen to go to other coun-
tries and have to wait in an unbelievable
place, some for a month and a half or 2
months. We try to process ours, the ones
that are coming to the United States,
much earlier, but still the conditions are
unbearable.
While we were there in Bangkok, we
had candid discussions with representa-
tives of the international volunteer or-
ganizations to discuss their goals, their
frustrations, and the need for better co-
ordination. We did have a very good
meeting, and everybody, I think, vented
their frustrations, and everybody decided
that there was a great need for coordina-
tion.
We met with the King and Queen of
Thailand to discuss the whole spectrum
of the refugee problem and the need for
further sites, because we must have fur-
ther sites for this 200,000 to 300,000 that
are expected to come into Thailand from
Cambodia and they're expected to come
in in the next 3 or 4 weeks. The situation
is urgent.
We had a long discussion with Prime
Minister Kriangsak, a fruitful discussion,
about the political and foreign policy
risks that are facing the Thai Govern-
ment because of their policies. It is im-
portant that the international community
provide visible and demonstrable politi-
cal, economic, and security support to the
Thais.
As we flew back to Washington, we
got together on the airplane and worked
on our report for the President, which
stresses the urgency of the situation, and
we did lay out some specific recommen-
dations. We will give you that report this
morning. In fact, you have in your bro-
chure a folder with our recommendations
in it.
We need your careful consideration of
our recommendations. We need your
creative ideas for how to implement them,
your support, and your consensus. I do
not know when I have ever felt a sense
of urgency more about cutting redtape
and unblocking logjams and moving
ahead.
I think I can say with some assurance
that the American people are ready to
help. They are already mobilizing help, as
you here indicate and as I have seen and
heard through my mail and telephone
calls and with people in the whole coun-
try concerned about this problem. But
they need to know how to help, and they
need to know now. They need to know
where to turn; they need to know that
now. They need to know what is needed,
2116
