Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 21
MR. SCOTT. I think what really made
this country great are the natural resources
that were here when it was settled, and
that my major concern about the future is
our, what I think, our abuse of the coun-
try by dumping toxic wastes. And my
major concern is the dumping of nuclear
wastes, and I read the other day that you
were thinking about importing nuclear
wastes from foreign countries to be
dumped here.
THE PRESIDENT. No. I'm not thinking
about that at all. We are thinking about
presenting to the Congress for the first
time in 35 years a proposal on how we can
more safely dispose of nuclear wastes.
I know there have been some rumors
around here that toxic or nuclear wastes
were being brought into Rock Island, for
instance, to the arsenal. That's not true.
The toxic wastes that are produced on
Rock Island have been handled very care-
fully. And we've had a reassessment made
of that situation recently, and they are
being taken care of properly and taken
off the island for proper disposition.
But we do not intend to import nuclear
or toxic wastes from foreign countries.
We're trying to make sure that when we
dispose of those produced in our own
country, that it's done safely and wisely.
MR. SCOTT. Well, I don't see how that
can be done, though, because how long do
they last?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've been pro-
ducing nuclear wastes now for 35 or 40
years, ever since we've had nuclear power-
plants. They last, as far as radioactivity
is concerned, for thousands of years. The
problem is to try to dispose of them so
that they won't have an adverse impact
on our environment in the future.
And as you know, toxic wastes or toxic
materials and also nuclear materials exist
in very large quantities in a natural state
in the ores from which uranium is de-
rived, and also from which radium and
other radioactivity is derived.
So, we're trying to straighten out a toxic
waste and a nuclear waste mess that I in-
herited 22 years ago. We have proposed
to the Congress new legislation that re-
quires that the manufacturers of any toxic
materials would have to pay a small
amount of money into a reserve fund, like
an insurance fund, and after those toxic
wastes are used, then that fund would be
tapped to dispose of the toxic wastes prop-
erly. And if a mistake was made in their
disposition in the future, that any damage
that was done to an American or to a
community would be paid for out of the
insurance fund that would be accumu-
lated from the toxic wastes manufac-
turers.
As you know, many toxic materials
have to be used in our country for herbi-
cides, insecticides, and other reasons, and
we want to make sure that when they are
finally disposed of, that nobody gets hurt
because they are disposed of wisely, and if
any damage takes place, then the damages
can be paid for by those who manufacture
the toxic wastes in the beginning.
MR. JACKSON. Mr. President, we have
Jaye Zessar of Rock Island on the line.
MR. ZESSAR. Good morning, President
Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Jaye.
GOALS FOR THE NATION
MR. ZESSAR. My family and I want to
welcome you and your family to the Quad
City area. We realize that all of you are
making great sacrifices in order for you to
serve as President of our country, and we
appreciate your efforts and dedication
and wish you success with all the issues
you must deal with for the sake of our
country and the world's future.
1483
