Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 28
Obviously, what has occurred could not
have been predicted. And for 30 years, our
country has had a relationship with a fairly
stable government there. The changes took
place very rapidly. So far as I know, no
one on Earth predicted them.
And I think it's not becoming at this
moment and not conducive to better
American understanding to get involved
in answering allegations that I or some-
one else may have been culpable and may
have caused a further aggravation of a
very difficult situation.
Q. Mr. President, just one followup.
What role did the former Secretary play
in your decision to permit the Shah into
the country?
THE PRESIDENT. None. I did not hear
at all from the Secretary, former Secre-
tary Kissinger, nor did he contact Secre-
tary Vance at any time during the days
when we were deciding that the Shah
should come into the United States for
medical care to save his life. In previous
weeks and months since the Shah was
deposed, Secretary Kissinger and many
others let it be known that they thought
that we should provide a haven for the
Shah. But Secretary Kissinger played no
role in my decision to permit the
Shah to come in for medical treatment.
SHAH OF IRAN
Q. Mr. President, speaking of the Shah,
if he is well enough to travel, would you
like him to leave the country?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a decision to
be made by the Shah and by his medical
advisers. When he decided to come to
our country, with my permission, I was
informed then, and I have been informed
since, that as soon as his medical treat-
ment was successfully completed, that his
intention was to leave. And I have not
encouraged him to leave. He was free to
come here for medical treatment, and he
will leave on his own volition.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH ISLAMIC NATIONS
Q. Mr. President, yes, I would like to
follow up Mr. Schorr's [Daniel Schorr,
Des Moines Register] question. The conse-
quences of the crisis in Iran is drifting the
United States into almost a cold war with
the Islamic countries. Watching TV news
for 25 days, Americans soon will believe
the whole Moslem world is hating them.
Moreover, they are not told that the
Shiites are a very minor minority among
the population of the Islamic world, be-
cause the most majority is Sunni. Don't
you think you get any help from any
Islamic country, and what will your policy
be towards the Islamic countries under
these circumstances?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the premise of
your question is completely wrong. We're
not approaching any sort of cold war with
the Islamic countries. So far as I know,
every Islamic country has condemned
Iran for its capture of our hostages, and
has been very supportive. This includes
Moslem nations which, in the past, have
not been close friends of ours-Iraq,
Libya, and others. So, I don't see this as
confrontation at all between our Nation
and the Islamic world.
It's certainly not part of the Islamic
faith to condone, as I said earlier, black-
mail or the persecution or harm of inno-
cent people or kidnaping or terrororism.
So, I think that we have a very good
relationship with the people and the gov-
ernments of the Islamic world, and I
don't think it's deteriorated in this in-
stance. In some ways, we've been drawn
closer to these people, because they see
2171
