Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
they are, what effect will that have in the
campaign of 1980?
THE PRESIDENT. I've read a lot of
history since I've been in this house.
And when I compare the present difficulty
of governing with what it was under pre-
vious administrations, I don't think there's
a remarkable difference. Obviously, un-
der President Hoover and Roosevelt and
Kennedy and Truman and Johnson and
Nixon and Ford, there were extreme diffi-
culties, some the same that I have in-
herited; others change from one decade
or generation to another.
The thing that does concern me, how-
ever, is the tendency among our people to
alienate themselves, one from another:
the evolution of special interest groups,
with a narrowly focused grasping for ad-
vantage; the inability that our country
has so far exhibited to deal with a major
threat to our national security, that is, an
overdependence on foreign oil; and a gen-
eral lack of confidence in the future as re-
vealed by public opinion polls and an ab-
sence of saving habits. And I described
this as best I could in the speech in July on
Sunday evening, after coming back from
Camp David.
In spite of all that evidence, which is
available to anyone, I have a firm and
growing awareness of the basic strength of
our country, which is unshaken. Militar-
ily, politically, economically, morally,
ethically, our country is still extremely
strong, the strongest nation on Earth, in
my opinion, in every one of those cate-
gories that I have just outlined. I think in
any sort of peaceful competition we can
prevail over any other power on Earth
because of the qualities of American be-
liefs and principles.
I also believe that our system of govern-
ment is admirable and worthy of emula-
tion. Our belief in stability on Earth, the
absence of war, the enhancement of
peace, the independence of other nations,
their right to be free of foreign intrusion
from us or anyone else, is appealing to
other countries.
Militarily, I'm determined to keep our
Nation as strong as any on Earth. I don't
ever want to see our country be second to
the Soviet Union or any other country in
military strength.
I feel that our Nation can be unified if
in a few test cases we can prevail and the
Government can show its ability to deal
with a controversial issue effectively. The
ratification of SALT will be a major step
forward. The passage this year of the en-
ergy package will show Americans that
we have a clear vision of the future and
that we can make sacrifices when neces-
sary. We can accommodate changing
times even though it's inconvenient and
there is a possibility of triumph in a time
of difficulty through national unity, even
though the threat to our Nation's security
is not so obvious as a war or a worldwide
depression. I expressed all this as clearly
as I could.
The campaign, to close my answer and
refer to the last part of your question, I
think is an excellent opportunity for can-
didates and for American people to assess
and to debate these controversial issues. I
will be trying to present to the American
people as clearly as possible the achieve-
ments of our country during the last 3
years, the unmet needs, my own proposals
for meeting those needs, and, in the give-
and-take with other candidates and with
the media and with private citizens, let
these controversial issues be explored. And
I think the American people will be edu-
cated in the process, which is always a
case with the campaign.
So, I look forward to the 1980 cam-
paign, not with trepidation or doubt, but
with anticipation and pleasure—and, I
might say, confidence and believe that
the American people will benefit from it.
1862
