Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 2
now, an awareness of what it can be in the ing assignment and to the United States
future.
Senate for its confirmation.
He's able to span chasms that some-
times exist between people, and his in-
tense devotion to duty and his superb
knowledge of our country and his ability
to bring disparate groups together in a
spirit of common purpose will stand our
Nation in good stead. I'm very grateful to
Reubin for being willing to do this.
One of his first assignments will be to
alleviate the
of Mexican
problem of
tomatoes [laughter]-competing with
Florida tomatoes. [Laughter] I see Bob
Strauss smiling broadly, and we've
almost taken the smile off Reubin Askew's
face. But this is one among many very
de-
tailed but very important issues which
can serve to bind our Nation together very
closely with other nations, and I'm deeply
grateful for Reubin Askew's willingness to
take on this assignment.
And now Judge Joseph Hatchett, newly
appointed to the Court of Appeals, Fed-
eral Court of Appeals, will administer the
oath of office, while my friend, Donna
Lou, holds the Bible for Reubin Askew.
Judge Hatchett.
I want to thank my predecessor, my
very dear friend, Ambassador Robert
Strauss, for all that he's meant to me over
these years and for all he's done and con-
tinues to do for our country. I think the
Almighty made only one Bob Strauss, and
I'm sure that makes some people glad and
other people sad. [Laughter]
In addition, I want to thank all the
members of the STR staff for their capa-
ble assistance during these past several
weeks in what promises, I believe, to be a
smooth and successful transition; to the
Members of the Congress and their staffs
for their continued counsel and encour-
agement and support, for I am not un-
mindful that I also work for them as well;
to the Governors of this Nation-two of
my very closest friends, Governor Busbee,
who rearranged his schedule from the
Southern Governors' Conference to come
up here, to Governor Milliken, who has
been one of my very closest friends for
many years and for the role that the na-
tional Governors are playing and continue
to play in this vital area; and also again
to the President for the privilege of work-
[At this point, Judge Joseph W. Hatchett of ing with the other members of his Cabinet,
the Fifth Circuit administered the oath of
office.]
AMBASSADOR ASKEW. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, distinguished guests, my
family, and friends:
This is a happy day for me, to say
the
least. Public service is a high calling, and
I'm truly happy that I've been called once
again.
I want to begin my brief remarks by
thanking President Carter for giving me
this opportunity to serve the people of the
United States of America in this challeng-
almost all of whom I know very well and
look forward very much to working with,
and their staffs.
I'm grateful, too, for the support I've
received and the experiences I've shared
with many
of you
you here today, for, Mr.
President, I stand here with a great deal
of emotion, because I see so many good
friends in this audience, for some of you
have traveled long distances at some sacri-
fice just to be with me and my family. I
know that you know that I appreciate it.
Seeing your faces once again inspires
1809
