Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
and the general public, the President's
Advisory Committees and others, the
Health, Education, and Welfare De-
partment will monitor those fees.
If doctors charge different fees under
the health care program than they do
private patients, say, higher or more abu-
sive, they would be revealed. And that
doctor will either be prohibited from par-
ticipating in the plan or castigated in
public as someone who's trying to cheat
his patients or her patients.
Let me say this in closing: I'm very
proud to have a chance to come and be
with you. In almost every forum of this
kind we spend our time-mine in my
opening speech, yours in asking questions,
mine in answering questions-talking
about the problems that we face, the dif-
ferences that exist among us, the disap-
pointments, the challenges, the debates,
the controversial issues-that's part of
our system, and I wouldn't want to
change it.
But as President, I'd like to remind you
of this: The problems that we face, com-
pared to the blessings that we have, are
very
few and far between. God has given
us in this great country uncounted, some-
times unremembered opportunities and
blessings. We are free, we can be individ-
uals, we can speak our mind, we can cri-
ticize the President, we can let our Con-
gress know what we want and demand,
we can shape our own government. We
can sustain ethical and moral standards
and commitments in a time of transient,
fast-changing, technological progress. We
can repair a nation when it's injured; we
can unite if we choose when a nation's in
danger. We've got ideals and commit-
ments we can spread around the world.
So, I'd just like to remind you not to
forget that our country, in spite of its
problems and they're here, they are
manageable—in spite of its problems, it's
still the strongest and greatest nation on
Earth. Militarily, economically, politically,
morally, spiritually—we still live in the
greatest nation on Earth. And with your
help as free human beings, we can make
it even greater in the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. in
the Hartford Civic Center assembly hall. In his
opening remarks, he referred to J. Leonard
Johnson, president of the American Association
of Retired People, and Frank Hughes, presi-
dent of the National Retired Teachers Associa-
tion.
Following his appearance at the forum, the
President met with insurance executives at the
Sheraton-Hartford Hotel to discuss energy
issues.
Low-Income Energy
Assistance Program
Statement Announcing Proposed Legislation.
September 12, 1979
I am today announcing that my low-
income energy assistance program is be-
ing sent to Congress. The program would
provide $1.6 billion in aid this winter, and
$2.4 billion per year thereafter.
This proposal will address a critical
need alleviating the impact of higher
energy prices on those who are suffering
most from higher energy prices. Our
energy policy must be compassionate.
Without a substantial program such as
this one, our most needy households, in-
cluding many of the elderly on meager
fixed incomes, will face almost impossible
pressures on household budgets which
already go entirely for the necessities of
life.
The proposal has two components: an
energy crisis assistance program, which
will provide $400 million this year to the
States to operate flexible programs to help
1639
