Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 15
On the battlefield of energy we can win
for our Nation a new confidence, and we
can seize control again of our common
destiny.
In little more than two decades we've
gone from a position of energy independ-
ence to one in which almost half the oil
we use comes from foreign countries, at
prices that are going through the roof.
Our excessive dependence on OPEC has
already taken a tremendous toll on our
economy and our people. This is the di-
rect cause of the long lines which have
made millions of you spend aggravating
hours waiting for gasoline. It's a cause of
the increased inflation and unemployment
that we now face. This intolerable de-
pendence on foreign oil threatens our eco-
nomic independence and the very security
of our Nation.
The energy crisis is real. It is world-
wide. It is a clear and present danger to
our Nation. These are facts and we sim-
ply must face them.
What I have to say to you now about
energy is simple and vitally important.
Point one: I am tonight setting a clear
goal for the energy policy of the United
States. Beginning this moment, this Na-
tion will never use more foreign oil than
we did in 1977-never. From now on,
every new addition to our demand for en-
ergy will be met from our own production
and our own conservation. The genera-
tion-long growth in our dependence on
foreign oil will be stopped dead in its
tracks right now and then reversed as we
move through the 1980's, for I am tonight
setting the further goal of cutting our de-
pendence on foreign oil by one-half by the
end of the next decade-a saving of over
42 million barrels of imported oil per
day.
Point two: To ensure that we meet
these targets, I will use my Presidential
authority to set import quotas. I'm an-
nouncing tonight that for 1979 and 1980,
I will forbid the entry into this country of
one drop of foreign oil more than these
goals allow. These quotas will ensure a
reduction in imports even below the am-
bitious levels we set at the recent Tokyo
summit.
Point three: To give us energy security,
I am asking for the most massive peace-
time commitment of funds and resources
in our Nation's history to develop Amer-
ica's own alternative sources of fuel-
from coal, from oil shale, from plant
products for gasohol, from unconventional
gas, from the Sun.
I propose the creation of an energy
security corporation to lead this effort to
replace 22 million barrels of imported oil
per day by 1990. The corporation will
issue up to $5 billion in energy bonds, and
I especially want them to be in small
denominations so that average Americans
can invest directly in America's energy
security.
Just as a similar synthetic rubber cor-
poration helped us win World War II, so
will we mobilize American determination
and ability to win the energy war. More-
over, I will soon submit legislation to Con-
gress calling for the creation of this Na-
tion's first solar bank, which will help us
achieve the crucial goal of 20 percent of
our energy coming from solar power by
the year 2000.
These efforts will cost money, a lot of
money, and that is why Congress must
enact the windfall profits tax without de-
lay. It will be money well spent. Unlike
the billions of dollars that we ship to for-
eign countries to pay for foreign oil, these
funds will be paid by Americans to Amer-
icans. These funds will go to fight, not to
increase, inflation and unemployment.
Point four: I'm asking Congress to
mandate, to require as a matter of law,
that our Nation's utility companies cut
1239
