June 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cern over U.S. presence in North Asia or
in Asian countries?
THE PRESIDENT. Not concern. I think
our intentions and their desires are
compatible.
Q. They are not concerned about our
maintaining our presence here?
THE PRESIDENT. As I say, I think our
intentions and desires are compatible.
Q. Mr. President, is there anything
more that the United States can do about
the refugees?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of all the refu-
gees who leave Southeast Asia now, we
are taking about 70 percent of them. We
have already committed to take 7,000 per
year. We have already accepted-I mean,
a month. And we have already taken
about 200,000. What we want now is to
increase what we are doing, but to get
many other nations to join in with us.
Q. Do you think you will discuss this
at the summit meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Do you think there will be some
specific proposal to come out of the sum-
mit meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Tokyo, Japan
Remarks at a Reception With Members of the
Japanese Diet. June 26, 1979
Speaker Nadao, President Yasui, distin-
guished Members of the Japanese Diet,
other guests:
It's a great honor for me and my wife
to be here with you.
First of all, let me thank those among
you who were here 4 years ago when I
visited in May of 1975, who welcomed
me when I was beginning my own cam-
paign for President of the United States.
At that time you gave me a much better
welcome than I was getting in my own
country. [Laughter]
As I stated yesterday, no other two
legislative bodies in the world exchange
more visits than do the Members of the
Diet of Japan and the Members of the
Congress of the United States. It is very
reassuring and gratifying to me as Presi-
dent of our country to know that two
great democracies are bound together
through our people, through the heads
of state, and through the great demo-
Q. Can you give us any indication what cratically elected congresses.
that might be?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I can't speak for
anybody except ourselves.
This strength, derived from friendship
and close consultation, permits our coun-
tries to bear the burdens of responsibil-
Q. But you will have specific proposals ity and the great, wonderful opportunities
to put forward at the summit?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Mr. President, will you make any
direct approach to Hanoi on this?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a continuing
effort.
NOTE: The exchange began at approximately
1:30 p.m. outside the U.S. Ambassador's resi-
dence. As printed above, the item follows the
press release.
Following his remarks, the President went
inside to meet with former Japanese Prime
Minister Takeo Fukuda.
Earlier in the day, the President and Prime
of a better life in the future. My con-
versations with your Prime Minister and
other officials today in Oiso, at what can
be known in our country as a shrine of
peace, were very productive and typical
of the frank discussions which have
bound our nations together through years
of trial and years of achievement.
The economic achievements of Japan
and the beneficent political influence of
Japan throughout the world are a legiti-
mate source of admiration for all other
Minister Ohira and members of their delega- people. This great achievement of yours,
tions met at Yoshida Villa in the town of Oiso.
which has aroused admiration, is closely
1168
