Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The five agencies entering into this
agreement with the Department of Labor
(DOL) are: the Economic Development
Administration (EDA), the Community
Services Administration (CSA), the De-
partment of Transportation (DOT), the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (HUD), and the Farmers
Home Administration (FmHA). Their
efforts to direct a greater number of jobs
created by Federal economic development
programs to the hardcore unemployed
are central to the employment initiatives
announced by the White House last April.
These initiatives are among the Presi-
dent's administrative actions aimed at the
persistent problem of high unemployment
in both rural and urban areas.
Programs covered by the agreements
include HUD's $675 million Urban De-
velopment Action Grant program, for
which a 10-percent employment goal has
been established; EDA's proposed $3 bil-
lion (including $1.8 billion in loan guar-
antees) public works and business devel-
opment activities, with a 10- to 15-percent
goal; the Urban Mass Transportation
Administration's new $200 million ($80
million appropriated by Congress) Urban
Initiatives program, with a 10- to 15-per-
cent goal; CSA's $35 million title VII
program, with a 25-percent goal; and
FmHA's $1.2 billion Business and Indus-
trial Loan program, with a 20-percent
goal.
In addition to the 80,000 private sector
jobs that will result from this agreement,
approximately 100,000 private sector jobs
will be made available to the hardcore
unemployed under the new Private Sec-
tor Initiatives program of the recently re-
enacted Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act. This effort is also consistent
with the President's goals of targeting
Federal resources to those with the great-
est need and utilizing existing programs
and resources more effectively.
The White House also announced that
14 local jurisdictions will receive 2-year
grants, under the Targeted Jobs Demon-
stration program, to link already funded
economic development projects with Fed-
eral employment and training efforts. The
demonstration program is another com-
ponent of the President's Employment
Initiatives. Funded at $3 million, the dem-
onstration program is an interagency
effort involving DOL, HUD, EDA, CSA,
DOT, and the Small Business Administra-
tion.
Fund recipients under the program are
Portland, Oreg., Buffalo, N.Y., New York
City, Seattle, Wash., Browning, Mont.,
San Antonio, Tex., Metcalfe, Miss., Port-
land, Maine, Wilmington, Del., Milwau-
kee, Wis., Paterson, N.J., Lynn, Mass.,
Genesee County, Mich., and Philadel-
phia, Pa. Each recipient is to develop
practical and effective strategies for plac-
ing the hardcore unemployed in the
greatest feasible number of jobs created
by Federal economic development and
transit-related activities. Techniques will
be explored to ensure that a maximum
number of the business opportunities
which result from economic development
and transit projects go to small, minority,
and community businesses. An inter-
agency work group will monitor the
demonstration effort, and HUD has lead
administrative responsibility.
Interagency Committee on
Emergency Medical Services
Appointment of Two Members.
November 27, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of two persons as members
of the Interagency Committee on Emer-
gency Medical Services. They are:
2158
