Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 24
strong nation. We are not talking about
very destructive weapons. They cause me
more concern than anybody in this
room-the MX missile, Trident subma-
rines, Trident missiles, cruise missiles. The
best investment that we can make is in a
weapon which will never be fired in anger,
and the best investment we can make is
in a soldier who will never die in battle.
And I think so long as our potential ad-
versaries know that we are strong militar-
ily and that we have the courage and the
will and the unity to defend ourselves if
attacked, our Nation will stay at peace,
and that's the only way we can realize all
the other aspirations which are so dear
to our people. This is a position that the
Democratic Party has maintained, and
that inherited tradition is extremely im-
portant to me and to you.
The true strength of the party over the
years has been its unequaled capacity to
lead this Nation in times of change. As
President Kennedy said-I used this same
quote in Boston, Saturday "Change is
the law of life and those who look on it
to the past or the present are certain to
miss the future." These past 3 years, with-
out timidity, we have plunged head on
into the future with courage, with con-
viction, with confidence.
And today we're engaged, as you know,
in a massive, unprecedented enterprise to
free our Nation from a very dangerous
overdependence on foreign oil. It's the
most ambitious peacetime undertaking in
our history, as ambitious as the Marshall
plan and the space program combined,
bigger than the Interstate Highway Sys-
tem, by far.
We'll overcome these and all the other
challenges which I don't have time to
mention-but there's no shortcut. It's go-
ing to take hard work. It's going to take
dedication. It's going to take unity. It's
going to take perseverance, and above all,
it's going to require us to tell the Ameri-
can people the truth, never to mislead
them, never to raise a false hope, never to
lie.
We will continue to meet our Nation's
needs in education, in health, in housing,
better cities, transportation, agriculture,
with efficiency and with carefully man-
aged programs, not with wasteful bu-
reaucracy, not with gimmicks.
We'll look forward in the Democratic
Party, not backward. And we'll talk sense
to the American people, because I believe
they're prepared for it, they demand it.
And it makes it doubly sure that Fritz
Mondale and Jimmy Carter and all those
who work with us will minimize our mis-
takes if, in the decisionmaking process,
the American people, through full knowl-
edge and open debate, have a voice in ar-
riving at those conclusions. I trust the wis-
dom of the American people just as much
as I trust their innate unselfishness and
their innate patriotism, in the finest sense
of those words.
We are now coming to grips with a
10-year burden of excessive inflation on
the American people-fundamental chal-
lenge of our time. Recently, we moved
boldly down a new road, which I believe
will bring rich dividends, and that is to
recruit to our side labor and business in a
national accord.
In the past the Government has im-
posed upon the free enterprise system of
our country, on the labor unions, business,
and others, a mandate. It may have been
a good mandate, you may have been able
to defend it logically, but now we're work-
ing in harmony. We're developing our
plans and the way to implement those
plans jointly. Labor has a full voice; busi-
ness has a full voice; the Government has
a full voice. We're working to cure infla-
tion as partners, for a change. There is no
working man or woman in this country
2019
