Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 17
this goal after I don't know how many
years of frustrated efforts. Sometimes it
didn't look as though we were going to
make it, and Fritz has already thanked
those who have helped. Educators, local
officials of all kinds, interested parents,
students helped, and I think in the House
and Senate, as Fritz has already said, we
had superb bipartisan leadership.
I'd like to introduce now, to speak for
the House, Jack Brooks, who's a formid-
able ally to have in a tough fight. He hates
to lose, and he rarely does. [Laughter]
And I'm very grateful to Jack Brooks,
because there were times when the out-
come was in doubt, and had it not been
for him, we would not have prevailed.
And I think what he's done for me as
President, for our government, and for
the children and other students in our
country is a notable achievement, and
I'm deeply grateful to Jack.
I might point out that [Representative]
Frank Horton and the Republicans help-
ed enormously to make sure that the Na-
tion knew, and the votes indicated, that
this is not a partisan issue, as Fritz has
already pointed out.
But I would like to introduce to you
my friend, with a great deal of gratitude,
Jack Brooks.
REPRESENTATIVE BROOKS. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to thank you. It gives me a
great pleasure to be here on this occasion.
We weren't always sure we'd make this
trip. [Laughter]
But an educated citizenry is essential to
the survival of a democratic form of gov-
ernment, to the promotion of justice and
equality, and to our country's economic
progress. And for the first time, our $14
billion education program will be receiv-
ing Presidential attention, and the man-
agers can be held accountable for achiev-
ing maximum results.
So, I want to congratulate you, Mr.
President, for your insight, your leader-
ship in the field of education. This bill
is a result of cooperation and teamwork
between the White House and the Con-
gress, and we're just pleased to join you
here in finalizing that successful effort.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know if [Rep-
resentative] Carl Perkins is here. Is he? I
wanted particularly to thank him. Well,
Jack, you tell him that we missed him, and
thank him especially.
And now I'd like to turn to Abe Ribi-
coff, who had a similar responsibility and
achievement in the Senate. He, contrary
to Jack Brooks, made an extremely dif-
ficult issue look easy. [Laughter] But I was
involved in both fights on both sides, and
they are great allies to have.
But I'd like to call now on Abe Ribicoff
to come and say a word, if he will. Abe?
SENATOR RIBICOFF. Mr. President, in
1960 President-elect Kennedy asked me
what job I'd like in the Cabinet, and I
told him I'd like to go to HEW. And the
basic reason for that was education. When
I got in the Cabinet, I realized that the
problems of health and welfare were so
overriding that education was relegated
to the back burner.
When I came to the Senate in 1963,
the first measure I placed in the hopper
was the creation of a department of edu-
cation. I felt then that it was absolutely
essential. If we were to take care of chil-
dren such as this, we needed the organi-
zation to put into effect the huge ex-
penditures of money that we have been
appropriating. And I'm so pleased that
President Carter was the first President
during that interim period who realized
the absolute necessity for a department
of education.
So, now it's become a reality-organi-
zation is policy, the policies that we have
1957
