Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
interest rates, we have still improved
Americans' ability to get jobs.
MS. STAMBERG. Let's take another
question from a listener. Mr. President,
this is Kenneth Morris, in Chatham, New
Jersey. Go ahead, Mr. Morris.
GRAIN EXPORTS
MR. MORRIS. Well, it's quite an honor,
I must admit, to be talking to you, Mr.
President. I have two questions, I guess.
I'm doing the family bills, and I have to
admit I'm worried about inflation. Why
can't the U.S. Government put more
muscle in support of American business
in dealing with the OPEC countries and
sit down on a government-to-government
level and negotiate oil for barrels of wheat
or even form an agreement with other
major grain-producing countries, like
Argentina, or even perhaps consider cer-
tain exemptions to the antitrust laws.
That's a mouthful, I suppose.
THE PRESIDENT. Kenneth, this is a fre-
quent proposal made, that our Nation ex-
change a bushel of wheat for a barrel of
oil, something of that kind. It has an im-
mediate appeal to people, but it's just not
practical.
The oil-producing countries, like Saudi
Arabia, for instance, which produces
about 92 million barrels a day, have a
very small population, and they, therefore,
import very little food although they don't
produce it themselves. Any other country
that's of any size at all, like France, in
Europe, or other European countries or
countries in Latin America, would be
eager to provide those small quantities of
grain to the oil-producing countries if we
decided not to. And it would be a very
serious mistake for us to try, through a
wheat embargo, to cut out food supplies
to those foreign countries.
One of the most important gifts that
God has given us is fertile land and a free
enterprise system, which gives us food
and grain and other products to sell to
others. I would say that we have a better
advantage in producing food, which will
last, hopefully, forever, than the oil-
producing nations overseas have with de-
pleting oil supplies. The greatest strategic
advantage that I see that our country will
have in years to come is food, which can
be made available in a very beneficial way
to all the people on Earth who need food.
Secondly, we have derived from this
much better and more stable markets in
our own country. Since I've been in office,
for instance, we've increased the amount
of grain that's stored on farms, we've im-
proved the quality of life, and the income
of farm families is near the peak that it's
ever been in history now. And every year
we have set records, unprecedented on
Earth, for the export of American prod-
ucts.
So, just as Saudi Arabia or Iran or Ni-
geria or Venezuela benefit from their sale
of oil to other countries, we benefit on a
permanent basis, hundreds of years, from
the export of food products. And if we
should interrupt the sale of those grain
products overseas, as was done quite fre-
quently when Secretary Butz was running
the Agriculture Department and the Re-
publican administration was in office, we
would make our potential buyers of
American products very uncertain about
our ability to supply them.
We have not had grain embargoes
since I've been in office, and we're not
going to have them. So, we can deal with
the energy imports in other ways—which
we are doing-without stopping the ex-
port of our equally valuable product, even
more valuable product, and that is food.
1910
