Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
In Africa the largest black nation
black nation
and the most influential and powerful
black nation in the African continent is
Nigeria. It wasn't too long ago that Sec-
retary Kissinger couldn't even get permis-
sion to go inside Nigeria, because they
were antagonistic toward the United
States. I've visited there myself. Now
they're one of the best friends and allies
we have.
We haven't been successful in every in-
stance. But in general, in our peaceful
competition with the Soviet Union, we
are making out very well. And I think this
gives us an opportunity-with China and
other countries-to benefit Americans in
the future.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you, Dr. Berg-
strom.
U.S. STRENGTHS
President Carter, I noticed when you
answered that question outlining our re-
lations with the Soviets, your answer was
very similar to one that you gave earlier
in the week at a news conference. And it
begins to sound like a kind of litany, a list
that you're doing really of a definition of
what the Soviet Union is about, as com-
pared to what the United States stands
for. Why are you doing that right now? Is
this some sort of escalation of rhetoric?
THE PRESIDENT. No, no. I think it's
good for our country to be reminded of
our strengths. We're the strongest nation
on Earth militarily. We're the strongest
nation on Earth economically. We're the
strongest nation on Earth politically. I
think we're the strongest nation on Earth
when you compare ethics and moral
standards and a commitment to basic hu-
man freedoms. It does give us an advan-
tage that Americans ought not to forget
about.
Quite often we read in the news
media, watch television, listen to the
radio, and all we hear about are the tem-
porary inconveniences and the differences
that exist in Washington between the
President and the Congress or between the
House and the Senate, the arguments and
the debates and the temporary setbacks
and the failures. But in general, the prog-
ress of our country is absolutely superb.
It's something that we ought to remem-
ber-how much we've been blessed, what
a superior opportunity we have in life,
and how influential our country is among
the community of nations in the world.
And I believe that to point out these
basic advantages strengthens the ability
of Americans to overcome temporary set-
backs and to meet challenges and to an-
swer questions and to resolve problems,
whereas on the other hand, we often tend
to become discouraged. And I think that
a part of my duty as President is not to
mislead anyone, but to remind Americans
of how strong and how great our country
is now and can be in the future.
Ms. STAMBERG. Interesting that you're
saying this. Now, a few months ago you
were telling us about the malaise that you
were perceiving across the country.
THE PRESIDENT. Exactly.
Ms. STAMBERG. Has now that disap-
peared?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it hasn't disap-
peared. But part of that malaise that I
pointed out and a lack of confidence in
the American people is what I'm trying
to address. If we'll just stop and inven-
tory what we have, there is no need for us
to be discouraged or divided or antagonis-
tic toward our own Government or dis-
couraged about the strength of America,
now and in the future. We need that con-
fidence, and we need not only that—to
respect each other.
When we have gasoline lines or even
when we have a serious problem like in-
creased home heating costs, we tend to
overemphasize those inconveniences and
those problems. They are serious, and our
1917
