Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 1
my own administration. Mike will un-
doubtedly serve, along with Schlesinger,
maybe Stu Eizenstat, Charlie Schultze,
and others Juanita Kreps-depending
on-I haven't decided on specific names,
but those would be, obviously.
PRESIDENT'S SUMMARY OF TRIP
I might say, in summary, that I think
the trip has been a very good one. I'm
pleased with the results. We accomplished
all the goals that we established for our-
selves. Many of the commitments that
were made still have to be carried out-
in Japan, at the economic summit, and
also in my visit with President Park and
Korean leaders.
I think that the alleviation of tension
between South Korea and North Korea, if
we can accomplish this, will be of great
benefit. I would like to see trade open up
between South Korea and the People's
Republic of China; between ourselves and
North Korea on the same time basis.
I think that our genuine concern about
human rights has been imparted very
clearly to President Park and all the mem-
bers of the Government of the Republic of
Korea. My belief is that the military re-
lationship has been much more actively
clarified. We will accommodate the recent
development of the buildup in North
Korea adequately. We will not abandon
our commitments to the Republic of
Korea.
So, I think all those issues that we
studied and worked on so long have been
successfully concluded.
Q. Have you pretty well formed a de-
cision in your mind on troop with-
drawals?
THE PRESIDENT. A general framework,
yes.
4
Thank you all very much.
* Secretary of the Treasury Blumenthal.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The briefing was held during the flight
from the Republic of Korea to Hawaii. The
President joined the group approximately mid-
way through the briefing, and only that por-
tion attended by the President is printed above.
Earlier in the day, the President met at the
U.S. Ambassador's residence in Seoul with a
group of Korean religious leaders and attended
a reception with members of the National As-
sembly at the National Assembly building.
Prior to departure ceremonies at Kimpo In-
ternational Airport, the President went to the
Blue House, where he met with President Park.
President Park then accompanied the President
to the airport.
Hickam Air Force
Base, Hawaii
Remarks at a Reception. July 1, 1979
Aloha!
You don't know how nice it is to be
home.
This is our second Sunday, July 1st. We
spent the first one in Seoul, Korea, and
worshiped there in a new church and
then had meetings with the President and
the leaders of that country, close allies of
ours. And if I had to pick one place on
Earth that I would rather spend my sec-
ond Sunday, it would be Hawaii with you.
It was a pleasure to be welcomed by
Governor Ariyoshi and his wife. I've asked
him, by the way, later on this month, to
go out and represent me at the new Re-
public of Kiribati, formerly the Gilbert
Islands, on their first independence day.
And, Governor, I hope you can do that
for me. Thank you very much. He'll be a
great representative for our country.
And Senator and Mrs. Matsunaga,
Sparky Matsunaga, has been with me on
this entire trip. He's been a special good
will ambassador. And when I've been
closed up in those room's trying to nego-
1217
