Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 12
agreement reached this afternoon in
Europe was a unanimous agreement very
encouraging to all of us. Now, on the basis
of strength, we can negotiate with the
Warsaw Pact to reduce nuclear weapons
and also to reduce, we hope, conven-
tional weapons throughout the European
theater.
In the area of intercontinental or
strategic forces, we also face adverse
trends that must be corrected. Improved
Soviet air defenses now threaten to make
our strategic bombers vulnerable. The
cruise missile will be our solution to that
problem. Production of the first genera-
tion of air-launched cruise missiles will
begin next year.
In addition, our land-based Minuteman
ICBM's are becoming increasingly vulner-
able because of the improved accuracy of
the Soviet Union's multiwarhead missiles.
That's why we decided last spring to pro-
duce the MX missile. The relatively small
number of MX missiles to be deployed
will have mobility and a large number of
shelters and will be far less vulnerable
than our present fixed-shelter Minutemen.
Further, in response to any first strike
against us, the MX will have the capabil-
ity to attack a wide variety of Soviet mili-
tary targets.
The MX missile, deployed as I've just
described, will not undermine stability, but
it will deter attack and encourage negotia-
tions on further nuclear arms limits. In
addition, by increasing the difficulty of
any contemplated Soviet strike, it will
contribute to the survivability of our own
strategic bombers and submarines. Even
with SALT II, America needs the MX
to maintain the strategic nuclear balance.
We are also modernizing our strategic
submarine force. The first new Trident
submarine has already been launched, and
the first of our new Trident missiles, with
a range of more than 4,000 miles, have
already been put to sea.
Thus, each leg of our strategic triad is
being modernized-cruise missiles for our
bombers, the MX for our intercontinental
missiles, and Trident for our undersea
deterrent. Nor will we neglect our conven-
tional forces, though here we must rely
heavily on the parallel efforts of our allies,
in Asia as well as in Europe. They must
bear their proportional share of the in-
creased costs of a common defense.
I'm determined to keep our naval
forces more powerful than those of any
other nation on Earth. Our shipbuilding
program will sustain a 550-ship navy in
the 1990's, and we will continue to build
the most capable ships afloat. Seapower is
indispensable to our global strategy, in
peace and also in war.
And finally, we are moving rapidly to
counterbalance the growing ability of the
Soviet Union, directly or through sur-
rogates, to use its military power in Third
World regions, and we must be prepared
to deal with hostile actions against our
own citizens or our vital interests from
others as well. For this purpose, we need
not only stronger forces but better means
for rapid deployment of the forces that we
already have.
Our 1981 defense budget and our 5-year
defense program will meet this need in
two different ways. The first will be a new
fleet of maritime prepositioning ships that
will carry the heavy equipment and the
supplies for three Marine brigades that
can be stationed in forward areas where
United States forces may be needed. With
their supplies already near the scene of
action, the troops themselves can then
be moved in by air very rapidly. The
second innovation will be a new fleet of
large cargo aircraft to carry Army tanks
and other equipment over interconti-
nental distances.
2235
