Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
entirely devoted to energy-conscious de-
sign, both related to energy conservation
and solar applications.
In looking at the response to other sem-
inars and information, instructional media
and so forth, the response of the architects
has been very good. A lot of this is coming
from public demand. They are getting a
lot of people walking in the door who
want to do it. So, I think it is happening,
yes, sir.
here. You said that part of Dr. Press'
summary—that 10 percent of the oil could
be recovered. Is that 10 percent of aban-
doned fields or is that an increase
of 10 percent in a field that's under
productivity?
DR. HACKERMAN. Well, either way, it's
10 percent of what would be left after full
depletion.
THE PRESIDENT. Could you go back
into an abandoned field and then still get
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's no ques- that 10 percent?
tion that the customer is well served with
an increase in insulation or decrease in
window space or thickness of walls and so
forth, with increasing prices of energy,
right?
DR. BALCOMB. No, that is certainly not
questioned. I have not seen an example
where it's been done where it was not cost-
effective.
THE PRESIDENT. That's one of the
things that I and other public officials
might do, including yourself, is to get this
to be just a routine sort of thing for new
building designs, instead of it being a hit-
or-miss proposition. I may be underesti-
mating what's already been done, but it
seems that that's the right field for initiat-
ing these kinds of energy savings in build-
ings—at the initial stage of design and
construction.
DR. BALCOMB. A survey of current
practices done in '75 indicated that there
is quite a good response and everyone
was surprised at the extent to which there
is an increase in the standards which
buildings are being built in response to the
situation.
DR. HACKERMAN. That's right, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Would that be cost-
effective?
DR. HACKERMAN. Yes, at the way
things are going, it would be cost-effec-
tive.
THE PRESIDENT. I see. [Laughter]
That's the good news and bad news in
one sentence. [Laughter]
Thank you.
COAL SYNTHETICS
DR. PRESS. The first speaker of this
second half of our seminar, Mr. Presi-
dent, is Dr. Lawrence Swabb, who's vice
president of the Exxon Research and En-
gineering Company and is one of the
experts in our country on synthetic fuels
derived from coal.
DR. SWABB. Mr. President, Secretary
Duncan, Dr. Press, ladies and gentlemen:
I will discuss the technology for con-
verting coal to synthetic fuels. And I also
have some good news and some bad news.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. The good news is that the technology for
ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY
Mr. Hackerman, I had one question.
I'm sorry I came in late. I probably would
have gotten this from you if I had been
commercial-size plants' is available to
change coal to gaseous products, such as
synthetic natural gas, and into liquids,
such as gasoline and fuel oil. In addition,
research is moving ahead to develop even
better technology.
1538
