Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
the profit motive is the best incentive to
provide the services that we need, the
goods we need, as long as it's based on
tough competition in the marketplace.
Now, we have seen in our own Nation
in the last 10 or 12 years an annual de-
crease in the amount of oil we are pro-
ducing. The only break in that downward
trend was in 1977, 1978, when the Alas-
kan oil started coming in. We now get
about 1.2 million barrels of oil a day from
Alaska. But we've also seen the oil com-
panies misuse the profits they have made.
If the oil companies take the profits and
invest them back into exploration and
the production of additional oil and gas
in our country, then I have no objection
to their profits being made. But what
they've done in the past is buy restaurants
and motel chains; they've tried to buy
circuses. They've bought department
stores. They've taken profits off of oil
and gasoline and not put it back in the
ground to develop more energy for you
and me.
We have introduced now and I support
a bill that would prevent any of the 18
largest oil companies from purchasing
companies like I've just described, which
would force them within all practical
bounds to take what profits they do make
and produce more oil and gas.
We are also investigating, through the
Justice Department and the Energy De-
partment, complaints against the oil com-
panies to make sure that they don't violate
the antitrust laws, that is, that they main-
tain a high degree of competition and that
they don't violate regulations or rules or
proprieties in the adequate provision of
gasoline and oil products for you.
So, to summarize, the profits are okay
if the oil companies use them the right
way. And it's my responsibility and yours
to monitor them to make sure that the oil
companies act legally and properly to serve
the American people under the free enter-
prise, which is so dear to us all.
ADMINISTRATION GOALS
Q. Good afternoon. My name is Buzz
Turner, and I'm from Magnolia, in Larue
County. Mr. President, as a graduate stu-
dent of American history at Western Ken-
tucky University, I'd like to know what
do you
think the history books will remem-
ber your administration for, or at least
what you hope it will be remembered for?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope that when the
record of my administration is written that
the historians say that under the Carter
administration, our Nation was secure,
that our Nation was at peace, that no
young American ever shed blood in a for-
eign war. I hope that our Nation will re-
port—that history will report that under
my administration, we've moved to restore
the confidence of the American people in
their own government. I hope that the
history books will show that I helped to
put American people back to work, and I
hope that the history books will show that
the threats to our security-both from for-
eign sources and also domestically, like
energy shortages were reduced or re-
moved under my administration. And I
hope that the history books will also show
that while I served as President that I was
honest with the American people when the
times were difficult and that I joined in
with the American people as partners in
searching out the best that's in the hearts
and minds of every individual American
and that it be expressed in a true sense
of patriotism, based on respect for one
another, compassion for one another,
stronger families, and love for one another.
That's what I hope.
Now, you've got to help me make all
those wishes come true. I believe they will.
1345
