Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 16
spond to intimidation or blackmail; we
will not honor in any possible way the
threats or actions of terrorists. I've tried
to act moderately, but without deviation
from the principles on which our Nation
was founded, and which make us justifia-
bly proud. A few of the things that we
have done I'm sure you understand, and
on some you've had to join in with me.
I have discouraged the issuing of per-
mits for demonstrations on any Federal
property, where the demonstrations might
result in violence or abusive acts or per-
haps bloodshed or loss of life, because I
think the transmission of television or
other photographs or reports of those in-
stances might very well result in a danger
to the lives of Americans who are being
held hostage.
In addition, as you know, I have issued
instructions that we will not accept the
shipment of any Iranian oil to our coun-
try. I did that to make it vividly clear that
our country is not subject to the threat of
an embargo or a threat of any other kind.
I don't know the ultimate results of that
decision in international oil markets. The
high likelihood is that supplies to our
country will be reduced. That's something
that I am perfectly willing to face, par-
ticularly since I have leaders like you
marching shoulder to shoulder with me to
face that eventuality. The American peo-
ple cannot underestimate the importance
of the strictest possible conservation mat-
ters and actions at this moment.
There is no reason to panic, fortunately.
Because of actions that you and I and
others have taken in the past few months,
we have a fairly good supply of crude oil,
gasoline, home heating oil on hand, and
we'll be able to see the trends in the weeks
ahead. But an early and a permanent
commitment to the sharpest possible re-
duction in waste of energy of all kinds will
be helpful. And a preparation for con-
tingency plans within your own States,
and working in harmony with us, will be a
very important element.
I've asked the Immigration and Nat-
uralization Service to examine the visas
of Iranian students and others who are
here. If they are here legally, they'll be en-
couraged to stay, or permitted to stay if
they choose to pursue their studies or to
pursue their work. If they are here
illegally, their papers will be processed
completely in accordance with our Con-
stitution and laws and the proprieties that
we must observe, and they will be de-
ported if they aren't complying with those
laws or constitutional provisions.
In order to protect our own economy
and the rights and privileges of American
business leaders and others, our banks,
American citizens, I have frozen the
assets of Iran which are directly or in-
directly related to the government owner-
ship or control. This is so that debts owed
by Iran to us will be paid, and so that we
will not have an adverse effect on our
economy because of the forfeiture of those
debts, because of impoundment in Iran of
our assets or properties.
And the last action that I've taken that
I'll mention, in order to save time, is that
I have discouraged any meeting of or de-
bate in the United Nations Security
Council of the Iranian problem. This
was requested by Iran, but my own deci-
sion has been that this would not be ap-
propriate as long as they are holding
hostages in our Embassy there. And I'm
proud to say that the United Nations Se-
curity Council unanimously has con-
demned the Iranian Government for
what it has condoned or permitted. And
they have also unanimously rejected any
proposal by Iran for debate or discussion
of this issue while the hostages are being
held.
2133
