Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 21
every other citizen in the Nation-not yet
for women. And there's no doubt in my
mind that the women deserve this pro-
tection under our Constitution.
MS. FRINK. Thank you, Mr. President.
We've worked very hard, and we'll con-
tinue to do so. I hope you do, too.
MR. JACKSON. The next caller is Cindy
Wolf in Davenport.
any other nation on Earth. Also when a
country has a problem like we have now
with energy, each family should decide
what it can do and each person what he
or she can do.
There are many things that I can do
and you can do to save energy, first of
all, I think, in our driving habits. I like to
walk and in fact I run every day for exer-
THE PRESIDENT. Cindy, good morning. cise. We can ride bikes. We can eliminate
Go ahead.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Ms. WOLF. Good morning, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I'd like to change the focus a little bit.
We're talking mostly about what happens
on a very large scale, and I know that's
what you're concerned with. But I'm
just a little person, and OPEC to me is
simply a four-letter word that we talk
about at the dinner table, and that's all. I
need to know something that I can do
very specifically. When we talk about the
economy having trouble, that will affect
me. But I think we will be in more trouble,
the generation of today will be in more
trouble, because we can't do the things
that our heritage has given us because
we've let it slip through our fingers.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. I think that's a
very good approach, and it's always good
for us to get down to practicalities.
I think the first thing that an American
citizen could do, Cindy, in one's own life
and within one's own family and within
one's own community is to count our bless-
ings and to say something good about our
country and, in between elections, to try
to support our government officials at the
local, State, and Federal level. The sense
of unity and a common purpose is often
missing in a nation. We have blessings in
our own standard of living, the quality of
our lives, that are as high or higher than
excessive trips. We can always obey the
speed limit. We can share our automobiles
or perhaps small vans with neighbors go-
ing to shop or going to work every day.
We can try to set aside one day in the
week where we don't drive at all.
There are hundreds of things that can
be done around a home to make sure that
a house is efficient, to eliminate the
waste of heat in the winter and to elimi-
nate the waste of air-conditioning in the
summer. These things can be not only
effective in helping our country, but they
can be an enjoyable experience and also
save us a lot of money, help to overcome
the impact of inflation.
One of the great things that we can do
is to increase the productivity of our farms
and factories. Each American worker,
whether you're on a tractor or whether
you're manufacturing a product to be
sold, can do just a little bit better job
during the day to have the productivity
of our own lives higher.
And I think the last thing, to try to ab-
breviate an answer that could go on for
several hours-
MS. WOLF. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. is to have a re-
newed sense of the history of our coun-
try. Morality, ethics, the standards of
our own lives, deeper commitment to
our religious beliefs-these kinds of things
also are very important. So, you could in-
ventory your own life, realize it's different
from everyone else's, and use your own
1487
