Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
1
The national accord commits us to pro-
tect jobs, it commits us to aid the poor as
they struggle with inflation. The national
accord also obligates us to continue what
we begin-action to ensure capital for the
housing industry, and especially to make
available adequate financing for low- and
middle-income families who are seeking
homes.
Now, we all know that we must pursue
a policy of fiscal discipline, with protec-
tion for the poor and the disadvantaged.
We cannot spend our way out of this in-
flation. Austerity is unavoidable and in-
evitable. We all recognize that. Labor,
business, and government leaders, we can
no longer postpone it.
If we all continue shoving each other to
get more, we will only get more inflation
and, ultimately, less of everything. But if
we respect each other's needs and capa-
bilities and needs and if we restrain our-
selves and cooperate with one another, we
can have both less inflation, more jobs,
and a steadily expanding economy.
Let me add that I count as an obliga-
tion something not written into the labor
accord. That's my pledge to you to oppose
in the Congress antilabor legislation and
to support positive labor legislation, such
as common situs picketing and labor law
reform. My own experience is that you
can't always get from the Congress every-
thing you want the first year, but I've
never been one to give up, and I don't
intend to give up on this.
That's the positive action that we want
from the Congress. But we've also seen
this year seven different attempts in the
Congress to gut the Davis-Bacon act.
We've turned back all seven attempts, and
I stand with you to turn back all such fu-
ture attempts. And you can depend upon
it.
workers is essential to any sort of energy,
economic plans or contracts. So, when
somebody begins to complain about infla-
tion, for instance in the Congress, and
then attacks labor, I say that all they want
to do is to put the sacrifice, all the sacrifice,
on the shoulders of the working men and
women of this country. And this we can-
not and we will not permit. The sacrifice
must be shared.
We've got some problems that are diffi-
cult to resolve. There's no question about
that. As you know, I'm the fourth Presi-
dent to have to deal with the problem of
continued high inflation. But missing from
every previous approach to resolve the
problem of inflation has been this volun-
tary compact, negotiated freely, with a
broad consensus of support, including, as
an essential element, labor. For the first
time, we have such an accord now in the
national accord. It's because of you that
we have it, and I thank you deeply for it.
And I might add that within a few
moments after the AFL-CIO executive
council approved the national accord,
President Frank Fitzsimmons sent me
word that I could count on the Teamsters,
and, President Fitzsimmons, I thank you
for that.
In closing, let me point this out—it's
important to you and me: Our energy
and economic and other domestic efforts
are closely tied to our international chal-
lenges, for it's our national strength and
our national resolve and our world leader-
ship that helps to promote peace.
We are at peace in the world. While
I've been President, not one single Ameri-
can has lost a life in combat, and I thank
God for it.
This is a peace based on strength, on
determination, a peace based on vigilance.
We've strengthened our NATO com-
mitment, and it becomes stronger every
It's clear that protecting the rights of day. We've reversed the long decline in
1870
