Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and to utilize the new technologies that
will carry us to a future age of clean and
renewable energy.
And we face these times when centrifu-
gal forces in our society and in our polit-
ical system as well-forces of regionalism,
forces of ethnicity, of narrow economic
interests, of single-issue politics—are test-
ing the resiliency of American pluralism
and of our ability to govern. But we can
and we will prevail.
"(T)o those who died in the time of the
joy of their strength. . .
59 1
This library is dedicated to John F.
Kennedy, 35th President of the United
States of America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:25 a.m. out-
side the library.
Prior to the ceremonies, the President was
given a private tour of the library.
The problems are different; the solu-
tions, none of them easy, are also differ- Boston, Massachusetts
ent. But in this age of hard choices and
scarce resources, the essence of President
Kennedy's message-the appeal for unsel-
fish dedication to the common good-is
more urgent than it ever was. The spirit
that he evoked-the spirit of sacrifice, of
patriotism, of unstinting dedication is
the same spirit that will bring us safely
through the adversities that we face today.
The overarching purpose of this Nation
remains the same to build a just society
in a secure America living at peace with
the other nations of the world.
The library that we dedicate today is a
symbol, above all, of that unchanging pur-
pose. Through our study here of his words
and his deeds, the service of President
Kennedy will keep its high place in the
hearts of many generations of America to
come after us.
This library may be dedicated with the
words of a poet from Tennessee, a con-
temporary of the President whose name
the library will bear:
"To those who in all times have sought
the truth and have told it in their
art or in their living, who died in
honor . .
"To those who died in the high and
humble knowledge of God
"(T)o those who died in sorrow, and
in kindness, and in bravery; to those
who died in violence suddenly.
Question-and-Answer Session With
Newspaper and Television Reporters.
October 20, 1979
MR. FOELL. Hello, I'm Earl Foell of the
Christian Science Monitor. With me to-
day to interview President Jimmy Carter
are Tom Ellis of Station WCVB-TV,
Channel 5 in Boston, Jim Scott of WBZ,
Channel 4, Mary Richardson of WNAC-
TV, Channel 7, and Christopher Lydon
of WGBH-TV, Channel 2. This program
is being taped at Logan Airport on Satur-
day afternoon for broadcast at this time.
SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY
Mr. President, before we get into the
heavyweight questions, I think a lot of
viewers are interested to hear what you
had to say with Senator Kennedy before
and after the ceremony at the opening of
the Kennedy Library.
THE PRESIDENT. We have always been
friendly toward one another and have
conversations about matters before the
Senate and also about politics. But today
we concentrated mostly on the impact
that his brother had his brothers, as a
matter of fact-on our Nation.
¹ Excerpts from James Agee's dedication to
his first book of poems, "Permit Me Voyage."
1982
