June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
This is concerning the statement. At the
request of heads of state and government
who participated in the summit, I, in my
capacity of chairman of the meeting, am
pleased to make the following statement
which concerns the declaration of air hi-
jacking issued in Bonn in July 1978. I
now read the statement.
"The heads of state and government
express their pleasure with the broad sup-
port expressed by other states for the dec-
laration on hijacking made at the Bonn
Summit in July 1978.
"They noted that procedures for the
prompt implementation of the declara-
tion have been agreed upon and that to
date enforcement measures under the
declaration have not been necessary.
"They also noted with satisfaction the
widespread adherence to the conventions
dealing with unlawful interference with
international civil aviation. Extensive
support for these conventions and the
Bonn declaration on hijacking reflects the
acceptance by the international commu-
nity as a whole of the principles expressed
therein."
That is the statement.
Also, in the present summit, we have
adopted a special statement on the ques-
tion of refugees from Indochina,ยน which is
ยน [Issued on June 28 by the seven nations
meeting at the Tokyo Economic Summit.]
STATEMENT ON INDOCHINEse Refugee CRISIS
The plight of refugees from Vietnam, Laos
and Cambodia poses a humanitarian problem
of historic proportions and constitutes a threat
to the peace and stability of Southeast Asia.
Given the tragedy and suffering which are
taking place, the problem calls for an imme-
diate and major response.
The Heads of State and Government call
on Vietnam and other countries of Indochina
to take urgent and effective measures so that
the present human hardship and suffering are
eliminated. They confirm the great importance
they attach to the immediate cessation of the
disorderly outflow of refugees without prejudice
another major fruit. Japan itself feels we
must make our utmost contribution to the
solution of this problem, and I would like
to see that the statement be transmitted to
other various countries and various inter-
national organizations and invite their
further participation in international ef-
forts on this question.
This has been an unprecedentedly im-
portant international event, but this
Tokyo summit has now come to its safe
and successful conclusion, and next year
we have unanimously agreed to meet
again in Italy. We look forward to our
reunion in Italy.
And I would like to take this opportu-
nity to express our heartfelt appreciation
to all the people, both within and without
Japan, who have supported this meeting.
Because we have taken unexpected, un-
precedentedly elaborate security measures
in connection with the convening of this
summit-and I know we have dealt in-
conveniences with many people, but be-
cause of their cooperation we have been
able to successfully carry this conference.
I thank all of these people concerned.
Thank you very much.
to the principles of free emigration and family
reunification.
The governments represented will, as part
of an international effort, significantly increase
their contribution to Indochinese refugee relief
and resettlement by making more funds avail-
able and by admitting more people, while tak-
ing into account the existing social and eco-
nomic circumstances in each of their countries.
The Heads of State and Government request
the Secretary-General of the United Nations
to convene a conference as soon as possible
with a view to attaining concrete and positive
results. They extend full support to this objec-
tive and are ready to participate constructively
in such a conference.
The Heads of State and Government call
on all nations to join in addressing this press-
ing problem.
1188
