Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
They are entrepreneurs; they're the
kind of people that work hard under the
form of free enterprise system that existed
in Vietnam before it was taken over by
the Communists. One of the reasons
they're being pushed out of Vietnam is
because they believe in individual work,
individual initiative, personal freedom.
They are more philosophically attuned to
us than they are to the Communist regime
that's taken over.
I believe that a thousand Americans
can support, for just a few weeks, one
refugee searching for freedom, particu-
larly when those people have proven
already that they are eager to learn our
language, they are eager to be self-
supporting, they are hard-working, dedi-
cated, honest people.
So, I hope that all Americans, no mat-
ter how you might feel, will realize that
your family came here in generations gone
by, looking for exactly the same thing
that the Vietnam refugees are looking for
now. There are very few of them. And I
think our country ought to be proud that
we still are the land of the free and the
home of the brave, with an open heart
and open minds and open arms to take
them in.
ENERGY LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Linda
Larkin, and I'm from Fort Madison. And
my question to you is, now that you've
been in office for about 3 years, and
you've seen that Congress hasn't done
that much to help you, what do you think
you could do to improve your working
relationship with them, especially with
the energy legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. Last week I took the
last action that I can take to improve the
production of energy in our own country
by moving to encourage the production of
very heavy, very thick oil. It costs more to
produce it. And in the past, Government
redtape and regulations and low prices
have kept us from producing about half a
million barrels per day of that heavy, un-
conventional oil.
The next steps must be taken by Con-
gress. I might hasten to add that Senator
Culver's been very helpful in trying to
move toward a comprehensive energy
policy. So far, we've passed about 65 per-
cent of the energy proposals that I made
to the Congress in April of 1977, the first
year I was in office.
The other part that hasn't been passed
relates to oil. The Congress has not yet
passed a single line of legislation about oil.
And it's not an accident, because for
many years the oil companies have had a
tremendous, effective lobby in Washing-
ton to protect their interests. You can't
much blame them.
But in the last couple of years the con-
sumers of this country have got a new
voice. And now it's a very close match
between the oil companies on one hand,
wanting to keep all the profits that they
get that they do not earn, and the con-
on the other hand, that are
struggling to see the Congress pass a wind-
fall profits tax, so that those excess profits
can be shared among the American
people.
I can't force the Congress to take ac-
tion, but all of you, and people like you
around the Nation, can force the Con-
gress to take action.
I was just informed a few minutes ago
that all the members of the United Auto-
mobile Workers in the Nation are going
to take 6 minutes and write a postcard to
Congress supporting the energy proposals
that we have made. And I hope this will
make a lot of impact on the Congress.
So, Linda, I'll have to say this to you:
It's not an accident that as we've drifted
1498
