Oct. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
first things the President of the United
States told me is that whatever we told
the people of this country that was in it
for them, to the extent that it presented
balanced trade throughout the world,
that's what my job was. And that's what
I'm committed to do.
And one of the unique things about this
area that has pleased me so much has been
the very nonpartisan approach of this
whole issue. I want to tell you, if there's
one area that must remain nonpartisan,
it's this area. And I want to give tribute
to the minority in both Houses of this
Congress for the role that they have
played in making it possible, because
sometimes they themselves have set a
standard for us to try to follow. So, it's
important not only that the Congress and
the Executive work together; it's im-
portant also that we continue a nonparti-
san effort together with the private sector.
The policy of which I speak requires
an institutional response in furthering the
trade interests of our country, a goal which
can be attained by the approval of the
trade reorganization plan submitted to the
Congress by the President. This policy
requires continued cooperation among the
agencies and branches of government and,
in addition, continued cooperation be-
tween government, business, and agricul-
ture and labor in fashioning a coherent
and creative presence for the United
States in the world marketplace. And this
policy requires, as well, the avoidance of
unnecessary impediments to increased ex-
portation of American goods and services
to other nations of the world.
In closing, let me say, crucial to this
achievement of the important ends of our
trade policy is a substantial increase in
American exports. We must encourage ex-
ports in every appropriate way, and this
administration is committed to a continu-
ing review in all of those that some might
classify as export disincentives. To the ex-
tent possible, we have to free up the
American business man and woman to
compete in the foreign marketplace. We
must marshal every ounce of American in-
genuity, every device of American tech-
nology, and every reserve of American
enterprise in a renewed effort to sell
American
American skills, American products
around this world. We must make Amer-
ica the forceful competitor it should be in
the world marketplace.
As I assume this responsibility, I'm re-
assured, particularly by the key leadership
in both the majority and the minority in
the Congress and key positions, as well as
the key Cabinet members, for I've come
to know them, in particular to know Cy
Vance and Warren Christopher, who's
acting in his place now as the acting Sec-
retary of State. There's no finer person in
American Government than Cyrus Vance.
I've worked closely with him, and worked
with him in the dedication of the people
in that Department, with the people in
Treasury, the people in Commerce, as you
move to every facet of American Govern-
ment.
But I want to tell them, parenthetically,
that I come as a trade advocate-and
which I intend to assert fully to every ex-
tent possible, the trade interest of the
United States as contained in that legis-
lation-but will work with them to make
sure that all that we do has a constructive
result and effect upon this country.
I believe in the policy of this adminis-
tration. I believe in the better life and
the lasting prosperity this Nation can get
1812
