Aug. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to express your respect for our great coun-
try, and to take us into your arms and
into your hearts as the President and the
First Family of our Nation.
Amy has had a good time. Rosalynn
has had a good time. And so have I. We
hate to see the trip end, but if it has to
end somewhere, it could not possibly end
in a more beautiful place and a more
exciting place than under this tre-
mendous arch here in St. Louis.
It's my privilege, by the way, to an-
nounce the 10 millionth visitor to the top
of the Gateway Arch, who was selected
this morning immediately before we ar-
rived at this historic St. Louis site. His
name is Bill Bund from Alton, Illinois, the
10 millionth visitor to your beautiful arch.
I think Bill is here somewhere. Here is
the 10 millionth visitor over here. Con-
gratulations, Bill.
I'd like to say just a few words to you
now about our country. We've got so
much to be thankful for. Sometimes we
forget how much God has blessed us in
the United States of America. He's given
us some of the richest land on Earth, and
we've seen it on both sides of the Missis-
sippi River during the last week. This is
indeed the breadbasket of the world. And
if there's one tremendous, strategic ad-
vantage that our Nation presently has and
which will always be a weapon for peace
and for the good will and the well-being
of people in our own country and
throughout the world, it's the food and
the fiber produced in this tremendous
Mississippi River basin because of the
wonderful land that God has given us.
I've had a chance to speak to a lot of
farmers on the way down and to express
my thanks to them from the bottom of
my heart as President of our country.
We've also seen the tremendous ad-
vantages that we have of a good trans-
portation system with the river, and I be-
lieve in the future we can, with a good
energy policy, have a much better trans-
portation system, no matter what kind of
river we want to use for goods or for
people.
We also have a nation in which we can
enjoy individual freedom, the right to be
individuals, to be ourselves, to be differ-
ent, to make our own decisions, to control
our own government, and to develop in
the best way that we can according to
our own abilities and our own talents.
This is one of the things that we some-
times forget, but I believe it's very im-
portant for us never to forget the freedom
and the democracy that we have; a free
enterprise system which lets us compete
and lets us have innovation and lets us
have new ideas to overcome problems.
So, we are blessed with the greatest na-
tion on Earth. Unified, nothing can stand
in our way to resolving problems, over-
coming difficulties, and answering serious
questions.
In the past our Nation has always been
able to do this as we have been faced
with serious trials and temptations that
threaten our country. In the First World
War, the Second World War, the Great
Depression, Americans recognized the
threat to our country. We united together
and we overcame it.
Now we have a serious threat to our
country that's not nearly so easy to under-
stand and so far we've not united enough
to overcome it. And that's the threat to
our Nation's security brought about by
excessive dependence on foreign oil. We
import about half the oil we use, and along
with oil that comes in from the Middle
East, we also import unemployment, and
we also import inflation.
1512
