Aug. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sire for government responsiveness at all
levels; in their desire for opportunities for
genuine participation as members of our
society. We have discovered along the
way that poor and non-poor alike long
for a sense of community, a share in de-
cision-making, a feeling that the indi-
vidual can be heard-in the councils of
government, in corporate meetings, and
in the marketplace.
All Americans should have learned in
to set my hand this twentieth day of Au-
gust, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica, the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:48 p.m., August 20, 1979]
Remarks on Arrival at the City.
August 21, 1979
these 15 tumultuous years that changing Davenport, Iowa
circumstances may place any one of us
in the path of common enemies: obsolete
skills in an age of technological revolu-
tion; the danger of disability through in-
jury or disease in a hazardous environ-
ment; mutual vulnerability to shrinking
energy, housing, and food resources. All
of us have learned that our country can-
not afford to allow differences-in in-
come, in social status, in geography, in
age, in intellect or health, in color, accent,
or religion—to divide and polarize us.
This generation has learned also that
poverty is not a question of income
alone we can be energy-poor, even
though wealthy as a Nation; we can be
spiritually impoverished, even when we
are materially satiated.
Let us take this occasion, then to re-
dedicate ourselves and our country to the
ideals of the Economic Opportunity Act
with a renewed commitment to our Na-
tion's goal of securing the opportunity for
every individual to "attain the skills,
knowledge, and motivations . . . to be-
come fully self-sufficient."
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim and designate the
next 12 months as a year of rekindled ef-
fort to open to everyone in our land "the
opportunity to live in decency and dig-
nity."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
Good morning, everybody. Good morn-
ing. Did you enjoy the music? Doc Hatha-
way, wasn't he great? We're really excited
coming back to Davenport, and thank all
you for coming out to welcome us.
of
This last 3 days have been very exciting
for me and for Amy and for Rosalynn-
to see the beautiful Midwest, to enjoy the
Mississippi, and above all, to see the won-
derful people that have made us feel so
welcome. Thank you very much. God
bless you.
We believe that we live in the greatest
country on Earth. Do you agree with that?
[Applause] Our Nation is so strong and so
good to all of us. And, as you know, God's
blessed us with personal freedom, a chance
to live in a democracy where we can
choose our own government, solve our
own problems, meet our own challenges,
answer our own questions, if we as Ameri-
cans can be unified, can see a common
problem and work together to solve it.
We do have one serious common prob-
lem—and I'm going to talk to you about
that on the telephone this morning in just
a few minutes. But I think that with this
tremendous crowd, I would like to say that
we can solve our energy problem if we
work together. It's serious enough to chal-
lenge our Nation's security. And shortly
1478
