Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, they ought to be
separated. There ought not to be any
connection.
Q. Okay. But I want to tell you, the
assumption of the SALT II treaty is
that we're laying the groundwork for
peace between the Soviet Union and
America. Why do they have troops in
Cuba? For that matter, why do the So-
viets back troops if they want peace? Why
are they eating up Southeast Asia? Why
are they in Africa? Why do they denounce
peace in the Middle East? Where are we
going to draw the line? Our measures
have got to be effective.
THE PRESIDENT. You put me in the po-
sition of defending the Soviet Union,
which I have no inclination to do.
[Laughter] But let me say this: There
have been troops in Cuba for a long time.
Q. I understand.
THE PRESIDENT. In 1962 there were
22,000 troops in Cuba. Evidence is that
ever since that time, there have been sub-
stantial numbers of Soviet troops in Cuba.
We, this year, began to monitor that
situation much more closely. In the past
Cuba was not a high priority for us to
monitor with our surveillance systems on
a concentrated basis. We were looking at
the Soviet Union to make sure they com-
plied with the provisions of SALT I; we
were monitoring Vietnam during that
war, and we, this year, earlier, focused
our attention more on Cuba to monitor
what the Soviet troops were doing. My
judgment is that the number of Soviet
troops is less now than it was in 1963, for
instance, months after all the missiles had
been moved out of Cuba in October, I
believe, of 1962.
The question is whether this is a com-
bat unit-we're convinced it is-and
whether that combat status should
change. I might point out to you that the
United States has troops in several coun-
tries around the world, some of them very
close to the borders of the Soviet Union.
This is part of a normal interrelationship
between major powers, like ours, and the
Soviet Union. We have troops in South
Korea, we have troops in Japan, we have
a few troops in Turkey, we have had some
troops in Iran, and so forth. And so, this
is not a new thing.
But we want the Soviets to understand
that the American people are exception-
ally sensitive about Soviet combat troops
in this hemisphere, particularly in a coun-
try like Cuba, which acts, in effect, as an
arm of the Soviets in adventurism and in-
tervention in other countries.
How to deal with this successfully is
not an easy task, but we'll do the best we
can. And I believe that you will be satis-
fied when I make my report to the coun-
try within the next week.
Q. One departing remark. Thanks a
lot. That's the first time I ever spoke to a
President. [Laughter]
The President. This is your last ques-
tion. [Laughter]
Q. Yes. I just want to say a departing
remark. I'm just worried about the prin-
ciple of the matter, not the threat of inva-
sion. Thanks, President Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
OIL PRICES
Q. My name is Lori Kober, and I'm a
student at Saint Mathias School, and I'm
11 years old. This is my question. There
are four kids in my family, and my par-
ents just bought a house. This house is
to use oil heat, and my mom says that oil
is very expensive. Is there anything you
will do to help about these high prices?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Your first
name is Laura?
Q. No. Lori.
1757
