Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 23, 1979
American Hostages in Iran
White House Statement. November 17, 1979
We welcome this announcement that
some of the Americans held in the Em-
bassy in Tehran will be released. We are
thankful the ordeal may be over for them
and that they may be soon reunited with
their families.
We strongly urge that the authorities in
Iran now move to secure the safe release
of all those still being held. Their ordeal
is not over. The United States Govern-
ment will continue to work in every chan-
nel open to it to achieve that end.
them in seeking an end to acts of terrorism
against innocent people.
On Thanksgiving Day and during the
holiday weekend, I ask all Americans to
make a special prayer at churches and
synagogues and places of public meeting.
Let us seek God's guidance in our
search for peace and human brotherhood
and pray for the safe return of those whose
lives are threatened. May we come with
gratitude for our abundant blessings and
humility before the heavy burden of world
responsibility that our blessings and power
have brought.
American Hostages in Iran
Statement Requesting Special Prayers for the
Hostages During the Thanksgiving Holiday
Weekend. November 17, 1979
As we approach our traditional day of
national thanksgiving, the hearts of all
Americans are heavy with concern for the
safety of those held hostage in Iran.
We join with people of all faiths
throughout the world who adhere to
fundamental principles of human rights
and international law. We are united with
American Hostages in Iran
White House Statement. November 19, 1979
Three of our hostages in Tehran have
been released and have left Iran. After a
brief period of rest and care, they will be
reunited with their families here in the
United States.
The remaining hostages must also be
released. Their detention is without justi-
fication. The Government of Iran is re-
sponsible for achieving their immediate
and safe release, and the United States has
the right to expect that Iran will do so.
2141
