Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I might have some other questions later.
UNCONVENTIONAL GAS
Dr. Linden, one of the most doubtful
issues that I had to face a few months ago
when we were putting together our
energy proposal for Congress was the un-
conventional gas production. We had
estimates all the way from half a million
barrels a day by 1990, up to 22 million
barrels a day by 1990.
Within the constraints of predictable
cost for production, compared with
present projections, what would be your
best estimate of how much we might
realize from the unconventional gas
sources by 1990? My parameters may not
be good ones.
DR. LINDEN. The two resources, Mr.
President, that are the most immediately
developable are the Devonian shales in
Appalachia and the tight sands in the
Western Rocky Mountain States. Nearly
all estimates that have been made indicate
that there are on the order of 200 trillion
cubic feet or quads of gas in these two
sources, available at prices somewhere
between $4 to $5 a million Btu at the
wellhead and-which is equivalent to
something like $24 to $30 a barrel, which
is a price which we are afraid will soon
be reached in terms of OPEC oil imports.
Several studies done for DOE and for
us have indicated that somewhere be-
tween 5 and 8 trillion cubic feet from
these sources alone could be produced as
early as 1990 and, perhaps, as late as
2000. So, we're talking about supplements
in the 22-million-barrel-a-day to 4-mil-
lion-barrel-a-day range. Your particular
initiative, the oil import reduction pro-
gram, calls only for 1/2 to 1 million barrels
a day equivalent by 1990.
I am very confident that we will meet
this goal, in view of the legislative actions
and regulatory actions that have been
taken or proposed by you. So, we are quite
confident that this will be exceeded under
current conditions.
THE PRESIDENT. That was the most
conservative estimate that we made, and
it was done deliberately because of the
doubt about the effort that would be
underway. What is the degree of effort
now being explored in getting these un-
conventional gas sources realized?
DR. LINDEN. We have large well drill-
ing programs, wells of opportunity, and,
actually, research wells in all of the four
resources.
In the Devonian shale, there is a large
drilling program jointly by industry, DOE,
and my own organization. In the western
tight sands, some very extensive stimula-
tion work, hydraulic fraction work is un-
derway.
In the geopressured zone, gas in the
gulf, we have a 10-well drilling program
underway, and you, I think, participated
in launching of a project to recover gas
from coal seams for rural development.
So, we are making good progress. And
DOE is currently spending on the order
of $65 million a year on unconventional
gas R&D, and we have proposed that
it should be boosted to something on the
order of $100 million.
But with these initiatives and the very
heavy involvement of industry, as well, on
a cooperative basis, I think we are well
launched to realizing these targets.
THE PRESIDENT. So, to summarize, you
would say that by 1990 we have an ex-
cellent chance to have, say, 2 million bar-
rels of oil equivalent per day at prices at
least competitive with synthetic fuel
costs?
DR. LINDEN. Absolutely.
THE PRESIDENT. That's much higher
than we had anticipated or projected.
1536
