Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
international issues, including East-West
relations and the Middle East. The Pres-
ident reiterated the U.S. commitment to
the Camp David process, which can bring
a comprehensive peace settlement to the
area. The conversations were constructive
and friendly.
Other participants in this morning's
meeting between the President and the
Chancellor included:
U.S. Side
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance
Over more than a decade, the WHO
brought together in a sustained battle
against smallpox a group of experts,
health workers, and political officials from
countries throughout the many regions
where the disease was endemic. The
leader of that WHO effort was Dr. Don-
ald A. Henderson, who was then an officer
of the U.S. Public Health Service working
with the WHO. Henderson and his suc-
cessors at the Center for Disease Control
were imaginative and dedicated Ameri-
can contributors to this worldwide success.
In addition to eradicating what was
long one of the most dread diseases known
to mankind, this global campaign has pro-
duced financial savings for the United
States. We invested an estimated $27 mil- James Rentschler, NSC staff member
lion over the many years that some 300
persons from the Public Health Service
filled assignments overseas related to
smallpox control, and in direct financial
assistance from AID and HEW. Now, rou-
tine smallpox vaccination is no longer nec-
essary in this country, and there is no risk
of smallpox to American travelers
abroad. The $27 million investment is re-
turned every 3 months in savings.
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs
Milton Wolfe, U.S. Ambassador
Austria
Austrian Side
to
Georg Lannkh, Private Secretary to the
Chancellor
Karl Schober, Austrian Ambassador to
the United States
Guenter Birbaum, Minister-Counselor of
the Austrian Embassy
“I am proud of the results of the small- Aid for Kampucheans
pox eradication program, and I cite this
program as a giant step toward the goal
of rational planning for good health
throughout the world in the future," the
President stated.
Meeting With Chancellor Bruno
Kreisky of Austria
White House Statement. October 26, 1979
President Carter met with Austrian
Chancellor Bruno Kreisky in the Cabinet
Room for an hour this morning. The two
leaders exchanged views on a number of
Remarks Following a Meeting With Senators
Jim Sasser, Max Baucus, and John C.
Danforth on Their Trip to Southeast Asia.
October 26, 1979
My first comment to the press and to
the American people is one of thanks and
appreciation on behalf of all of our coun-
try to Senators Sasser, Baucus, and Dan-
forth, who have just returned from a visit
to Thailand and Kampuchea to represent
our Nation in the analysis of what can be
done to alleviate the tragedy that is tak-
ing place in that country.
It's been estimated that almost half the
people of Kampuchea have lost their lives
in the last few years. And at the present
2036
