Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 13
cal progress and to controlling both con-
ventional and nuclear weapons.
As the strongest, most advanced coun-
try on Earth, we have a special obligation
to seek security through arms control as
well as through military power. So, I wel-
come the debate by the Senate in its con-
sideration of the SALT II treaty. It will
enable us to build a clearer understand-
ing that these efforts in both arms control
and in defense are vital to our security
and they are mutually compatible, one
with another.
There are several reasons why SALT II
will strengthen the military aspect of our
national security:
First, we can better maintain strategic
equivalence in nuclear weapons with
SALT II. Without it, the Soviet Union
can add more to the power of their own
forces, widen any advantage that they
may achieve in the early 1980's, and con-
ceal from us what they are doing. For us,
maintaining parity with these uncon-
trollable Soviet activities would add to
our costs in time, money, and also uncer-
tainty about our own safety.
Second, we can better maintain the
combat efficiency and readiness of our
nonnuclear forces with SALT II than
we can without it. Whatever the level of
the defense budget, more of it will have
to go into strategic weapons, atomic
weapons, if SALT II is not ratified.
Third, we can better strengthen the
unity, resolve, and capability of the
NATO Alliance with SALT II than we
can without it. That's why the heads of
other NATO countries have urged
strongly its ratification.
Fourth, we can better continue the
SALT process, which has now been going
on for more than 30 years, the process of
negotiating further reductions in the
world's nuclear arsenals, with SALT II
than without it. Without SALT II and
all its limits, its rules, and definitions in
place, any agreement in SALT III would,
at the very best, take many more years to
achieve.
And finally, we can better control the
proliferation of nuclear weapons among
currently nonnuclear nations with SALT
II than without it. This could be one of
the most important factors involved in
our pending decision on the SALT treaty.
All of these issues are extremely im-
portant, and they are intimately interre-
lated. A strong defense is a matter of
simple common sense; so is SALT II.
I will do my utmost as President to keep
America strong and to keep our Nation
secure, but this cannot be done without
sustained effort and without some sac-
rifice, which our Nation can certainly
afford.
The best investment in defense is in
weapons that will never have to be used
and in soldiers who will never have to
die. But the peace we enjoy is the fruit of
our strength and our will to use this
strength if we need to. As a great nation
devoted to peace, we must and we will
continue to build that American strength.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Domestic Volunteer Service
Act Amendments of 1979
Statement on Signing S. 239 Into Law.
December 13, 1979
I have today signed S. 239, which re-
authorizes funding for the domestic volun-
teer service programs administered by the
ACTION agency. The most notable of
these is VISTA, a program through
which volunteers donate their talents to
2237
