Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 6
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
Now,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim December 10, 1979,
as Human Rights Day and December 15,
1979, as Bill of Rights Day, and call on all
Americans to observe Human Rights
Week beginning December 10, 1979. Let
us rededicate ourselves to promoting the
ideals embodied in the Bill of Rights and
the Universal Declaration so that, one
day, they will be enjoyed by all peoples of
the world.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:45 a.m., December 7, 1979]
Department of Education
Remarks at the Swearing In of Shirley
Hufstedler as Secretary. December 6, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. This is a good day for
our Nation. Many people look around us
in this great country, and we see the
notable achievements that have benefited
our own lives in so many varied ways that
we tend to give credit to diverse reasons
for the great achievements of America:
that we've started out in a land that was
unexplored, without knowing what our
natural resources were, with the most het-
erogeneous population, I guess, of any
nation on Earth-widely diverse motiva-
tions and interests and backgrounds, re-
ligions, beliefs, languages, great chal-
lenges, all too frequent wars, racial prob-
lems. And still, in spite of all those
obstacles, our Nation has been the great-
est of all.
We've overcome obstacles, and we've
answered questions, and we've solved
problems, and we've made progress, be-
cause our people have always believed in
good education. It's let us transcend po-
tential language barriers and the barriers
of communication. It's let us explore the
frontiers of knowledge to learn about the
world around us, to stretch our hearts and
minds to people throughout the world,
and to bind ourselves together in a spirit
of unity of purpose and understanding.
We still have a long way to go in pro-
viding a quality education for all Ameri-
can people. I promised you in my own
campaign more than 3 years ago, that if
I was elected President that one of my
goals would be to establish a separate
Department of Education, to give it a
high profile in Government, to let it
have a single purpose which would focus
the attention of the Nation on unmet
needs and potential ways to resolve and
to meet those needs.
At the same time, a department must
encompass a wide gamut of opportunities
for learning. And as I've sought around
the last 3 or 4 months for a person to
be the first Secretary of Education in our
Nation, I was very grateful to be able
to induce Judge Shirley Hufstedler to
take over this job. She's a person who has
a wide range of interests herself. She's a
person of character. She is strong. She
has a breadth of experience and back-
ground in education and scholarship that
will stand her in good stead in this dif-
ficult achievement.
She has demonstrated a feeling of com-
passion for those who need help in our
society, and she has sound and good judg-
ment. She's interested in colonial Wil-
liamsburg. She's interested in jet propul-
2199
