Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 31, 1979
Campobello Conference on
Peace and Human Rights
Message Accepting the Conference's Human
Rights Award Medal. August 25, 1979
I am deeply honored to accept this fine
medal and regret that I cannot greet each
of
you in person who are participating in
the Second Annual Armand Hammer
Conference on "Peace and Human
Rights-Human Rights and Peace."
There is no cause with which I am
prouder to be identified than that of fos-
tering human rights for all people. I ac-
cept this honor not as a personal tribute,
but as an affirmation of our effort to sup-
port the brave and decent people every-
where who struggle for human dignity,
often against daunting odds.
It is especially fitting that your meet-
ing this year is on a beautiful island, for-
ever associated with Franklin D. Roose-
velt and his wife Eleanor. Their lives and
works embodied a selfless quest for peace
and human rights, not only for their fellow
Americans, but for all humankind.
Last December, the month of the first
Armand Hammer Conference in Oslo, we
celebrated the 30th Anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
the work of the United Nations Commis-
sion on Human Rights chaired by that
great humanitarian, Eleanor Roosevelt.
On that occasion I described the Univer-
sal Declaration as a beacon—a guide to a
future of personal security, political free-
dom and social justice. The Universal
Declaration remains, as Mrs. Roosevelt
said, "a common standard of achievement
of all peoples of all nations."
Organizations such as the International
Institute of Human Rights have helped to
ensure that this beacon has remained an
undimmed source of hope and inspiration
of our fellow humans suffering deprivation
and repression. No group of individuals
has contributed more to the achievement
of these standards over the years than the
Campobello Conference. Nobel Prize win-
men and women participating in this
ners, distinguished statesmen and women,
parliamentarians, scholars, international
civil servants-all have been tireless par-
ticipants in the struggle to achieve the
great dream of universal human rights.
But human rights cannot flourish in a
world at war or threatened by war, and
so peace remains a crucial goal for all who
seek human rights for all people. Last
June in Vienna President Brezhnev and I
signed the second Strategic Arms Limita-
tion Treaty. This is a key instrument for
1521
