July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the U.S. Army Advisory Group, III Corps Inter-American Council for
and Military Region 3).
From 1971 to 1973, he was Chief of the
Policy Branch in the Plans and Policy
Division, Supreme Headquarters, Allied
Powers, Europe. From 1973 to 1974, he
was Deputy Commanding General, Com-
bined Arms Combat Developments Activ-
ity, at Fort Leavenworth. He was director
of the European region for the Office of
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for In-
ternational Security Affairs from 1974 un-
til 1975, when he began serving in the
Canal Zone.
As Commander in Chief of the South-
ern Command, McAuliffe has been a
member of the Canal Zone Civilian Per-
sonnel Coordinating Board and the Pan-
ama Review Committee.
Education, Science and Culture
and Inter-American Economic
and Social Council
Accordance of Personal Rank of Ambassador
to Irving G. Tragen, Head of the U.S.
Delegation. July 31, 1979
The President today announced that he
has accorded Irving G. Tragen the per-
sonal rank of Ambassador while he serves
as head of the United States Delegation to
the meeting of the Inter-American Coun-
cil for Education, Science and Culture,
and the meeting of the Inter-American
Economic and Social Council.
These meetings are scheduled to be
held in Barbados from September 5 to 13
and September 18 to 22, respectively.
Tragen is the Deputy Permanent Rep-
resentative of the United States to the
Organization of American States.
1979 World Administrative
Radio Conference
Accordance of Personal Rank of Ambassador
to Glen O. Robinson, Chairman of the U.S.
Delegation. July 31, 1979
The President today announced that he
has accorded Glen O. Robinson the per-
sonal rank of Ambassador while he serves
as Chairman of the United States Dele-
gation to the 1979 World Administrative
Radio Conference. The Conference is
scheduled to be held in Geneva, Switzer-
land, from September 24 through Novem-
ber 30, 1979.
Robinson was a professor of law at the
University of Virginia and the Aspen
Institute in New York City before becom-
ing Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to
this Conference. He was a Commissioner
of the Federal Communications Commis-
sion from 1974 to 1976.
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. July 31, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the FBI Char-
ter Act of 1979, which will provide the
first comprehensive Charter for the func-
tioning of the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation. This legislative proposal will
govern all the investigative and law en-
forcement functions of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.
The foreign intelligence and counter-
intelligence functions of the Bureau will
be governed by a separate charter for the
entire foreign intelligence community.
This proposal was developed by the FBI
and the Justice Department and has re-
1334
