Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 8
run by MIT and by other distinguished
independent organizations have shown
that between 30 percent and 50 percent
of this is wasted. That not only hurts our
country, but it hurts the pocketbook of
every family involved.
And I hope that all of you will go
back-you are leaders, I know, within the
Sons of Italy organization—if all of you
would go back to your local organizations
and encourage every member to survey
your home, to get the power company to
help if they will, to see where energy can
be saved with storm windows and with
insulation around your hot water tank,
lower the temperature of your hot water
tank from 140-which most of it is, I'll
bet-down to 105 degrees, which is ade-
quately hot, to put the small restrictive
valves on your hot water faucets, to drive
55 miles an hour, to form a carpool or to
share a ride with a neighbor, to leave your
cars home 1 day a week whenever it's
possible and either walk or ride a bike or
get a ride with a neighbor.
These are the kind of things-they seem
like they're not very important, but they
are absolutely crucial to our country.
We will provide adequate fuel for
transportation and for heating in the
Northeast Corridor and throughout the
Northeast this winter. You can depend
upon that.
But I need for all Americans in this
room and listening to my voice on radio,
television, and news media to do your
individual part to make our Nation
strong, to remove this noose of energy
dependence on foreign countries from
around our neck, and to let our Nation,
which is already great, as I say, be even
greater in the future.
You've honored me by letting me come.
God bless every one of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:03 a.m. in
the Francis Scott Key Ballroom at the Balti-
more Hilton. In his opening remarks, referred
to Frank J. Montemurro, Jr., administrative
judge of the Family Court Division of Phila-
delphia, John J. Sirica, former United States
District Judge for the District of Columbia,
and Frank J. Battaglia, deputy commissioner
of police of Baltimore.
Meeting With President Ahmed
Sékou Touré of Guinea
White House Statement. August 8, 1979
The President met for 1 hour and 10
minutes today with President Ahmed
Sékou Touré of Guinea, who is in the
United States on a private visit.
The discussions covered a wide range of
matters of mutual interest, including
African and international problems, the
continuing improvement of bilateral rela-
tions, and Guinea's growing role in pan-
African affairs and with the nonaligned
countries.
President Touré will meet this after-
noon with Secretary of State Cyrus R.
Vance.
While in the United States, President
Touré will also consult with top-level offi-
cials of the United Nations, the World
Bank, and a number of U.S. banks and
corporations interested in promoting fur-
ther U.S. investment in Guinea. He will
also meet with Mayor Marion Barry of
Washington, D.C., Mayor Tom Bradley
of Los Angeles, and other officials on a
tour that will take him to Los Angeles,
Denver, Pittsburgh, and New York.
President Touré is accompanied by
1417
