July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I feel a great responsi-
bility on my shoulders as President of this
country. I have a lot of authority to deal
with the oil industry, not yet enough, but
I will guarantee you that we will not per-
mit the oil companies to hold back on
production, waiting for the gasoline
prices to go up.
also you'll see a great increase or improve-
ment in the accuracy of those reports.
Finally, I've asked the Department of
Energy and the Department of Justice to
check the oil industry to make sure there
are no improper or illegal acts. If there
are, they will be prosecuted to the ulti-
mate length of the law. I'm not going to
We now have the authority to require permit the oil companies or anyone else
accurate information from the oil com-
panies about imports, the amount of oil
they have on hand, and the amount that
they sell. This is new authority that we've
just gotten recently.
I have hired one of the finest account-
ing firms in the Nation to look at the De-
partment of Energy and its new responsi-
bility, to be sure that it is getting the most
accurate information now about the oil
companies, what they are producing,
what they can produce.
Six weeks ago they were only producing
at a rate of about 82 percent of capacity.
Now, because of proddings from us, the
production rate of the oil refineries is
about 91 percent. This is almost all they
can do under the present circumstances.
In addition, there's an independent
agency, not associated with government,
that gets data, information about oil. And
I have encouraged them-I announced
this this morning in Kansas City—to dis-
tribute this information every week to all
the news media throughout the coun-
try-newspapers, the weekly newspapers,
the magazines, radio, television-so that
you might become familiar with oil sup-
plies on hand and production from our
wells and refinery output, just like Amer-
icans do now about checking on the
weather reports. So, I think you'll see a
definite increase in the future, both in the
volume of information that we get and
distribute to you on the oil industry, and
to profiteer on the shortage of oil in this
country nor to cheat the American peo-
ple, and you can depend on it.
U.S. SPACE PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, Odus Rigdon, vice
president, CWA Local 3112, West Palm
Beach, Florida-born in Waycross,
Georgia, and proud of it. [Laughter]
I personally feel that the energy crisis
can be solved in space exploration. I
would like to know if you could tell us
today why you feel that the space pro-
gram is so important to us as Ameri-
cans? Where do you think we are today
in space exploration, and where do we go
from here?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. Almost exactly
10
years ago, as you know, the first Amer-
ican put his foot on the Moon. No other
country has been able to match this
achievement, and I would predict that
in our lifetime, no other country will be
able to do it.
Since then, we've had tremendous
space exploration flights past the other
satellites; the satellites have gone past the
other parts of our solar system-recently,
Jupiter, Saturn, and even Uranus. Now
we're shifting toward a more routine way
to deal with space with the space shuttle.
Before another year goes past, we'll be
seeing space shuttle flights. We'll put
them up into space, manned with a crew,
carrying a cargo. They'll cruise around
the Earth as many times they desire and
1250
