Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 20
stop in Dubuque, and I think he talked to
Captain Martin on the Delta Queen, and
the first thing we knew, John Culver said,
"I'll meet you in Dubuque.”
I have to admit that this Midwest
country is just as beautiful as Georgia,
and you've got the Mississippi River as a
bonus. And it's really been wonderful for
us.
Every time we've been through one of
the locks, we've had a large crowd of
people. Night before last, we got to Lock
8, I believe it was, at 3 o'clock in the
morning, and there was a large group of
people there to meet us-it was almost an
emotional thing. And then yesterday
morning at 8 o'clock, we arrived at a
lock, and it was pouring down rain. And
there were several hundred people there
in the rain-I think there were four um-
brellas with several hundred folks with
little babies and children and very senior
citizens who had been waiting there sev-
eral hours to pay their respects to the
President of our country. And I deeply
appreciate the friendship you've shown us.
We've got a wonderful country. God's
blessed us in every possible way. And I
know that the outpouring of friendship
that has been exhibited on this trip is a
true indication of your respect and your
thanks for the many blessings that God's
given us in the United States of America.
He's given us great productive land. The
number one farming State in the country,
as you know, is Iowa. If anyone disagrees
with that, speak up. [Laughter] If you
agree with it, speak up. [Applause] I be-
lieve you
have the highest percentage of
productive land in the whole country. And
I'm very grateful to be here with
you.
I want to say two things. One is that
we have a very serious problem. And the
second thing I'm going to say is that we
have the ability to overcome it.
The problem is with energy. Our coun-
try is too dependent on uncertain foreign
oil. We've now got to the point where
we are importing one-half of all the oil
we use. And you've seen, back in 1973 and
'74, what happened to our country when
that supply was interrupted from just a
few countries. And you've seen this year,
when the prices have gone up 60 percent
in 6 months, what can be done with prices
over which we have no control. We are
importing inflation and we are importing
unemployment every time we import for-
eign oil. My preference is, instead of im-
porting a barrel of foreign oil, is to pro-
duce a barrel of gasohol in Iowa. I believe
that's a better approach to our energy
problem.
We've already taken action since I've
been in office, with the help of the Con-
gress, of course, to cut our dependence on
foreign oil by 4 million barrels every day.
We've now proposed to the Congress a
way to cut another 42 million barrels a
day by 1990. But the whole process de-
pends upon the passage of a windfall
profits tax on the oil companies. The
choice is whether the oil companies keep
the enormous profits that come from in-
creasing prices of oil, or whether a part of
those profits shall be taken through a
windfall profits tax and distributed
among the people of our Nation to con-
serve energy, to cut out waste, to save en-
ergy, to produce other forms of energy
like gasohol, solar power, and so forth.
This is the important task that we have.
Every one of you can help-in your
habits, driving to and from work, whether
you share your automobile with others,
whether you walk sometimes instead of
ride, how you handle the use of heat in
your homes there are hundreds of things,
literally, that you can do to cut down on
the waste of oil. And I need your help and
your support with the Congress to pass the
windfall profits tax and give us a chance
to protect our Nation's security.
1475
