Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 15
church and voluntary charitable groups
that one had to look to for help.
And for many immigrant groups-
from Ireland and Italy and Poland and
Latin America-it was the Catholic
Church that stood as the one institution
that gave them an immediate sense of be-
longing to American society. The church
helped new arrivals put down roots so-
cially and economically, as well as spirit-
ually. In the process it helped not only
to build lives, but it helped to build our
Nation.
Today your organization remains at the
cutting edge of our Nation's great social
commitment. Without your voluntary ac-
tion, without generous participation of
other private citizens in communities,
churches, and organizations, we would
live in a society without a soul.
All the grants-in-aid, all the income
maintenance programs of the Federal
Government, and all the well-intentioned
and effective efforts of dedicated Federal
and other government employees could
never replace this heartfelt, voluntary ef-
fort that covers our Nation like they do.
But neither can voluntary agencies do the
job alone. To meet our society's needs, we
need to foster a true partnership, one
which involves government at all levels,
private enterprise, and unselfish volun-
teers.
This partnership of public and private
interest is a major element in my own ad-
ministration's domestic policy. It's also
been illustrated vividly in the resettlement
in our country of many thousands of In-
dochinese refugees. This step would not
have been possible without the help of the
voluntary agencies and, especially, Cath-
olic charities.
There is now developing, to the horror
of the world, a tragedy of profound con-
sequence in Cambodia, known now as
Kampuchea. Today I announced
a
United States pledge of $7 million, which
will be increased in the future, to help
feed the tens of thousands of starving hu-
man beings.
We have difficult obstacles to overcome
in the distribution of this food. And this
effort will be carried out by private chari-
ties and by organizations of the United
Nations, and together we must succeed.
If obstacles arise between the starving and
the food we offer, those obstacles need to
be highly publicized so that the officials
of south Vietnam will not dare perpetu-
ate the horrible circumstances which they
themselves have created.
These steps in Southeast Asia and in
other places around the world would not
have been possible without the help of
the voluntary agencies. On behalf of all
Americans, I thank you for your service
and salute your tremendous humanitarian
work in this area.
I might mention here another example
of successful public and private partner-
ship-in the fine work that your own
president-elect, Monsignor Fahey, has
been doing as my appointee on the Fed-
eral Council on the Aging.
There's one aspect of our national life
where we need to put our partnership to
even better use and I talked about it
when I was with you 3 years ago, in
1976-that is the problem of the families.
This is a subject of pivotal concern to all
of us and was especially during Pope John
Paul's American visit. Families are the
foundation of a healthy and a vibrant so-
ciety. They carry out the timeless tasks of
nurturing, supporting, and caring for
their own members, in many different cul-
tures and many different communities.
They provide irreplaceable strength and
shelter for one another.
Today, what Pope John XXIII called
"the first and essential cell of human so-
ciety"—that is, a family-is in trouble.
1927
