Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 7
Members are at home listening to con-
stituents. I'm sure that the message they
will hear is a clear call to enact the wind-
fall profits tax on the oil companies.
America needs the revenues from that tax
to finance a vast effort to increase energy
production and also to increase energy
conservation.
America needs those resources, those
revenues to improve mass transit. I took
the train this morning, not only because
it's the best way to come from Washington
to Baltimore but also because I wanted to
show my support for a strong mass trans-
portation system.
The windfall profits tax will also let us
build that kind of system and will help us
to ease the burden of increasing energy
cost that now falls on the shoulders of the
poorest among us. But we cannot do any
of that unless we are willing to place the
common good over the narrow special
interests.
This is a challenge I talked about in my
Sunday night television address. It's a
challenge I'm talking about from one end
of this country to another. It's a challenge
I'm calling on you to help me meet to-
gether, unified, with confidence in our-
selves, with confidence in each other, with
confidence in our Nation, in America.
You can help me and the Nation that we
all love by saving energy in your own
lives and in your own homes and in your
own communities and by getting the mes-
sage across to the representatives in Con-
gress that all of us must cooperate and to
mobilize the strength of America to
achieve energy security.
We have the greatest nation on Earth.
Let's make it even greater. Sempre avanti!
And now I'm ready for your questions.
QUESTIONS
NATIONAL HEALTH PLAN
Q. Mr. President, we're concerned
with what you think the possibility is of
having a national health insurance pro-
gram passed within this administration
and, if so, do you feel it will be the admin-
istration's bill or do you feel it would be
the bill of, say, others who've presented
bills?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's very impor-
tant that our Nation have a comprehen-
sive health program. The differences that
have been highly publicized between my-
self and Senator Kennedy on what shape
the legislation should assume, I think, have
been exaggerated. We've come a long
way. There are some differences that are
material, but I believe that we can over-
come those differences.
The Congress is responsible for doing
this. One of the comments that I made in
the swearing-in ceremonies for Patricia
Harris who will be the new Secretary of
HEW-is that part of her responsibility
will be to resolve the differences that do
exist between my own proposal-which
has been very carefully considered and is
a very sound proposal-and that of many
others who've been interested in national
health programs for a long time. So, I
predict that this will be passed during this
Congress, if not this year, then next year.
We've got the support of people like
Abraham Ribicoff, Senator Russell Long,
Senator Kennedy, and many others in the
Senate, and then we have equivalent sup-
port in the House.
It's not intended by either Senator
Kennedy or I that the program would be
effective immediately. It would go into
effect in 1983, but because of its far-
reaching impact and the need to be re-
sponsible on budget matters, we want to
phase it in very carefully. The first phase
will be to coordinate existing Govern-
ment programs. The second phase will
be to pursue aggressively a prevention
program to prevent disease and to build
on the things we're already doing so well
1411
