Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 19
ing the management of Federal legal
resources.
In addition to the matters specified in
that Executive Order, and subject to the
statutory responsibilities of the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management, the
Attorney General shall plan, coordinate,
and operate programs to provide suitable
training for Federal legal personnel. The
functions now performed by the Legal
Education Institute of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management shall hereafter be
performed by the Department of Justice.
JIMMY CARTER
Future Farmers of America
Remarks to the Organization's State
Presidents. July 19, 1979
MARK SANDBORN.ยน Mr. President, this
morning we have gathered at your beau-
tiful home as members of the Future
Farmers of America; as farmers and agri-
culturalists and as friends, but above all,
today we come as Americans.
We are so appreciative of your generous
hospitality in the face of the many chal-
lenges and responsibilities that you
have
facing you to take time to meet with those
people that you mean so much to.
All Americans feel a strong tie to you,
but we feel a special tie because of your
association with our organization. It is for
that reason that we would like to present
you with a plaque that we wanted to make
special by putting on it and including in it
something of your past that is a big part
of our present and a part of all Amer-
icans' futures. You see, Mr. President, you
are admired, respected, and loved wher-
ever corn is grown and future farmers
ยน National president, Future Farmers of
America.
meet. And so, today, on behalf of the
Future Farmers of America, I present you
with this plaque with the secretary's sta-
tion marker, a part from the opening cere-
mony, and the words from our organiza-
tion, which read, "Congratulations,
Jimmy Carter, from secretary of Plains,
Georgia FFA Chapter, to the President of
the United States. On behalf of the na-
tional FFA organization, we thank you
for your outstanding leadership, States
Presidents Conference, July 19, 1979."
And we say in the simplest and most sin-
cere way that we can, Mr. President,
thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. The first public words
that I ever said in a position of responsi-
bility was the secretary stationed by the
ear of corn, your duties there, "I keep an
accurate record of all meetings and corre-
spond with other secretaries wherever
corn is grown and future farmers meet."
Mark, I want to thank you and the
FFA leaders here and FFA members,
more than half million, all across the
country for this recognition and this
honor. I hope that there are other lowly
secretaries around the Nation who will
ultimately be President of the United
States. I can vouch for the fact that it's
good preparation for the highest elective
office in our Nation.
FFA members mean a lot to me person-
ally, and your organization means a lot
to our country now, in the past, and in
the future. The first organization that I
belonged to was a Baptist church; the
second organization was the FFA. And
both have and do mean a lot to me.
It's no secret around the Nation that
the FFA organization, the Future Farm-
ers of America, is one of my favorite or-
ganizations. I have spoken to local chap-
ters; I've spoken to State groups; I've
spoken to the national convention, as you
1267
