Dec. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Attorney General has assured the Presi-
dent the program will continue to be car-
ried out expeditiously in strict compliance
with due process standards.
As of December 20, more than 45,000
of the nearly 55,000 students interviewed
under the program were found to be in
the country legally. Some 6,500 were
found to be out of status, with the balance
requiring a further check of documents.
Energy Emergency in Oregon
Memorandum From the President.
December 27, 1979
Memorandum for the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency
Subject: Determination Under Section
110(f) of the Clean Air Act
Governor Atiyeh of the State of Ore-
gon petitioned me on December 22, 1979,
for a determination under Section 110 (f)
of the Clean Air Act that a regional ener-
gy emergency exists in Oregon of such
severity that a temporary suspension of
the federally promulgated new source
construction and permitting prohibition
under Section 110 and Part D of the
Clean Air Act and appropriate provisions
of Oregon's State Implementation Plan
is necessary to help alleviate potentially
high levels of unemployment caused by
possible curtailments of electricity supply
to the region. After considering the infor-
mation and views provided to me by Gov-
ernor Atiyeh, the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Energy, and the Administrator of
EPA, I am hereby making the requested
determination, subject to the conditions
listed below:
(1) This determination applies only to
the Harborton facility discussed in the
Governor's petition.
(2) This determination expires on Feb-
ruary 7, 1980. I will rescind this deter-
mination before that date if the potential
energy shortage is substantially eased in
the interim.
(3) Oregon's Department of Environ-
mental Quality will monitor the air quality
impact of operating the Harborton facility
and will require the termination of its op-
eration if air quality levels approach the
primary ambient air quality standards. In
no case would this declaration permit ex-
cesses of the health related primary ambi-
ent air quality standards.
(4) The Governor calls for a statewide
electricity conservation effort. The State
will submit to EPA and DOE biweekly
reports on electricity consumption levels
in the State, including the effects of its
electricity conservation program. This de-
termination is made in full recognition of
Oregon's excellent record in the area of
energy conservation.
(5) The operation of the Harborton
facility will not result in a reduction in the
electric energy output of other fossil fuel
fired generating facilities in the State of
Oregon.
(6) PGE will make maximum practica-
ble effort to purchase available electric
power from other regional utilities. State
regulatory authorities will seek to remove
regulatory impediments to power pur-
chase by PRE and allow timely recovery
of prudently incurred purchased power
costs.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERal Register.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
8:56 a.m., December 31, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on December 28.
2286
