Oct. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
we can take to provide greater economic
benefits to both countries from this rela-
tionship. It will also give further impetus
to the progress we have made in our
overall relationship since normalization
of our diplomatic relations earlier this
year.
I believe that the Agreement on Trade
Relations is consistent with both the letter
and the spirit of the Trade Act of 1974. It
provides for mutual extension of most-
favored-nation tariff treatment, while
seeking to ensure overall reciprocity of
economic benefits. It includes safeguard
arrangements to ensure that our trade
with the People's Republic of China will
grow without injury to domestic firms or
loss of jobs for American workers.
The Agreement also confirms for Amer-
ican businessmen certain basic rights and
facilities in establishing operations and
conducting business in the P.R.C. Other
provisions include those dealing with set-
tlement of commercial disputes; financial
transactions; government commercial of-
cently had discussions with senior Chinese
officials and firmly believe that Chinese
statements and the marked increase in
emigration reflect a policy of the Govern-
ment of China favoring freer emigration.
I have reviewed the circumstances of
emigration from the People's Republic of
China in light of all these factors, and
have determined that a waiver of the ap-
plication of subsections (a) and (b) of
section 402 of the Trade Act of 1974 will
substantially promote the objectives of
that section.
I urge that Congress act as soon as pos-
sible to approve the Agreement on Trade
Relations.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
fices; and protection for industrial prop- United States-People's Republic of
erty rights, industrial processes, and
copyrights.
I am also enclosing a copy of my report
to the Congress pursuant to section 402
(c) (2) of the Trade Act of 1974. I shall
issue today an Executive order waiving
the application of subsections (a) and (b)
of section 402.
In the past year and a half, Chinese
leaders on several occasions have called
for facilitating family reunification and
for simplifying the procedure for getting
permission to enter or leave China. During
this period we have noted a marked re-
laxation of Chinese emigration proce-
dures. Processing time has been reduced
for most cases and numbers of emigrants
have jumped dramatically. We have re-
China Trade Relations
Message to the Congress. October 23, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to section 402 (c) (2) of the
Trade Act of 1974, (hereinafter, "the
Act") I shall issue today an Executive
Order waiving the application of sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 402 of the
Act with respect to the People's Republic
of China.
I wish to report to the Congress that I
have determined that the requirements of
section 402 (c) (2) (A) and (B) of the Act
have been satisfied.
The White House,
October 23, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
2006
