Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
be the principal international forum for
implementing and interpreting the MTN
agreements and since GATT meetings,
including committee and working group
meetings, occur almost continuously, the
Trade Representative will have a limited
number of permanent staff in Geneva. In
some cases, it may be necessary to assign
a small number of USTR staff abroad to
assist in oversight of MTN enforcement.
In this event, appropriate positions will
be authorized. In recognition of the re-
sponsibility of the Secretary of State re-
garding our foreign policy, the activities
of overseas personnel of the Trade Repre-
sentative and the Commerce Department
will be fully coordinated with other ele-
ments of our diplomatic missions.
In addition to his role with regard to
GATT matters, the Trade Representa-
tive will have the lead responsibility for
trade and commodity matters considered
in the Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD)
and the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
when such matters are the primary issues
under negotiation. Because of the Secre-
tary of State's foreign policy responsibili-
ties, and the responsibilities of the
Director of the International Develop-
ment Cooperation Agency as the Presi-
dent's principal advisor on development,
the Trade Representative will exercise his
OECD and UNCTAD responsibilities in
close cooperation with these officials.
To ensure that all trade negotiations
are handled consistently and that our
negotiating leverage is employed to the
maximum, the Trade Representative will
manage the negotiation of particular is-
sues. Where appropriate, the Trade Rep-
resentative may delegate responsibility
for negotiations to other agencies with ex-
pertise on the issues under consideration.
He will coordinate the operational as-
pects of negotiations through a Trade
Negotiating Committee, chaired by the
Trade Representative and including the
Departments of Commerce, State, Treas-
ury, Agriculture and Labor.
The Trade Representative will be con-
cerned not only with ongoing negotia-
tions and coordination of specific, im-
mediate issues, but also very important-
ly-with the development of long-term
United States trade strategies and poli-
cies. He will oversee implementation of
the MTN agreements, and will advise the
President on the effects of other Govern-
ment policies (e.g., antitrust, taxation)
on U.S. trade. In order to participate
more fully in oversight of international
investment and export financing activi-
ties, the Trade Representative will be-
come a member of the National Advisory
Council on International Monetary and
Financial Policies and the Boards of the
Export-Import Bank and the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation.
In performing these functions, the
Trade Representative will act as the
principal trade spokesman of the Presi-
dent. To assure that our trade policies
take into account the broadest range of
perspectives, the Trade Representative
will consult with the Trade Policy Com-
mittee, whose mandate and membership
will be expanded. The Trade Representa-
tive will, as appropriate, invite agencies
such as the Export-Import Bank and the
Overseas Private Investment Corporation
to participate in TPC meetings in addi-
tion to the permanent TPC members.
When different departmental views on
trade matters exist within the TPC as
will be the case from time to time in this
complex policy area, I will expect the
Trade Representative to resolve policy
disagreements in his best judgment, sub-
ject to appeal to the President.
1731
