Aug. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
son, who is present, and that's the Attor-
ney General of the United States.
I will make you this offer. If the Sons
of Italy and other distinguished groups
around the country make recommenda-
tions for Federal judgeships and if you
cannot get an adequate hearing in Ben-
jamin Civiletti's office, you can come
directly to me.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. And I
think we have an eloquent salesman right
behind you there, Judge Frank J. Mon-
temurro.
THE PRESIDENT. I only have time for
one more question. And I'm looking for-
ward to it.
NEW ENGLAND ENERGY SUPPLIES
Q. E. Howard Molisani of Port Wash-
ington, New York. My question deals with
energy and its effect on the Northeast
Corridor. In that particular corridor, Mr.
President, there is a heavy concentration
of Italian Americans working and living
there. The energy, as far as oil is con-
cerned, heats up our industry, gives em-
ployment, and heats up our living quar-
ters. At the present time, I wanted to find
out whether there are any special pro-
grams being initiated for that particular
area, especially since that area is more
afflicted than most other areas of the
United States with the plague of unem-
ployment.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know the
exact amount of money being spent on the
Northeast Corridor. It's in excess of $2 bil-
lion, and we are trying to reach out in the
repair of the railroad system in the North-
east Corridor to bring in opportunities
for employment among those who have
high unemployment rates.
We also are particularly concerned
about the possible shortage of fuel for the
Northeast Corridor, not only in transpor-
tation but for home heating purposes.
One of the things which makes this region
of northeast America so vulnerable is
that about 80 percent or more of all the
oil used in that region is imported, and I
think about 80 or 83 percent of all the
homes in the northeastern part of our
country are heated with oil-very few in
the South, or even here as far south as
Baltimore.
We have pledged ourselves not only to
meet the transportation needs and ob-
viously the railroads are a crucial and
vital factor that will be served adequately
with distillate fuels-but also to build up
the reserve supplies for home heating to
an adequate level.
Last year, we had at the end of Octo-
ber, 233 million barrels of oil in storage,
in primary storage, for the heating of
homes in New England. This proved to be
adequate. This year I have promised to
million barrels of home heating oil, more
have built up by the end of October, 240
than we had last year just on the chance
that that would be a more severe winter
this year than we experienced in the win-
ter of 1978, 1979.
So, we have this as one of our major
concerns. We are monitoring the level of
supplies every day, and I have pledged
myself as President to make sure that
there is no shortage of home heating oil
for the Northeast area during this coming
winter.
I might say that it obviously helps, no
matter what the level of reserve supplies
might be, if every homeowner will do his
or her part not to waste energy. Forty per-
cent of all the oil, of all the energy used
in this country goes for the heating and
cooling and servicing of buildings—40
percent. And the estimates that have been
1416
