Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tected for the use and enjoyment of all
citizens. The bounty of nature—our farm-
lands and forests, our water, wildlife and
fisheries, our renewable energy sources-
are the basis of our present and future
material well-being. They must be care-
fully managed and conserved. The quality
of our environment must be nurtured by
wise decisions and protected from hasty
or unplanned actions. Clean air and
water remain essential goals, and we in-
tend to achieve them in the most efficient
and effective ways possible. And we have
a serious responsibility to help protect the
long-term health of the global environ-
ment we share with all humanity.
I am proud of the achievements of this
period. The program I offer today empha-
sizes continuity, but it also reflects a
keener awareness of certain serious emerg-
ing problems such as disposition of the
toxic wastes our highly technological so-
ciety produces.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS SINCE 1977
We have made great strides together
since I took office. With my strong sup-
port, the Congress enacted and I signed
into law:
• the 1977 Amendments to our two
fundamental laws for cleaning up
pollution, the Clean Air and Clean
Water Acts, including strict but en-
forceable standards and a strong wet-
lands protection program;
⚫ the 1977 Surface Mining Reclama-
tion Act, which established the first
federal environmental standards for
coal mining, and under which regula-
tions were developed with strong pub-
lic involvement;
the 1977 Federal Mine Safety and
Health Act, which established the
Mine Safety and Health Administra-
tion in the Department of Labor to
promulgate and enforce health and
safety standards in all mines;
the 1977 Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Act, which sets conditions on U.S.
nuclear exports to deter the spread
of nuclear weapons, and offers other
countries incentives to cooperate with
our safeguards against proliferation;
• indefinite deferral of other activities
which might lead to weapons prolif-
eration, particularly nuclear fuel
reprocessing and commercialization
of the breeder reactor;
the 1978 National Energy Act, with
specific policies and programs em-
phasizing energy conservation;
the 1978 Federal Environmental Pes-
ticide Control Act, which provided
for generic registration and control of
pesticides;
⚫ reauthorization, in 1978, of the En-
dangered Species Act, including new
procedures for resolving conflicts
under the Act;
• enactment of the National Parks and
Recreation Act of 1978 and other
legislation to preserve nationally sig-
nificant areas, adding 45 million acres
to the National Park System, 13 new
Wild and Scenic Rivers and Na-
tional Trails, and protecting more
than 4.5 million additional acres of
wilderness.
In addition, I issued Executive Orders
in 1977 and 1978 directing federal agen-
cies to improve their implementation of
the National Environmental Policy Act
under new regulations, which were issued
in 1978; examine the environmental
effects of federal actions abroad; preserve
and restore natural values of wetlands and
floodplains; protect our public lands from
damage caused by off-road vehicles; and
analyze the impacts of new federal policies
on urban areas. These directives are being
implemented.
1354
