Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 11
Jewish High Holy Days
Child Health Day, 1979
Proclamation 4683. September 11, 1979
Message of the President. September 11, 1979
By the President of the United States My Fellow Americans:
of America
A Proclamation
For over 50 years, this Nation has ob-
served Child Health Day. By setting aside
this special day each year, we reaffirm
our commitment to the improvement of
the health of our children. Excellence is
the only standard that is acceptable in
our efforts to promote good health, pre-
vent disease and disability, and improve
conditions that interfere with the ability
of each child to reach his or her potential.
In this International Year of the Child,
we have accelerated our assault on infant
mortality, childhood accidents, acute and
chronic diseases and handicapping condi-
tions. I am determined to assure that chil-
dren receive the expert care they need and
to which they are entitled. My goal con-
tinues to be excellence in providing for
the health needs of our children.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Monday, October 1,
1979, as Child Health Day.
I ask that you join me as we pledge
our continuing attainment in the pursuit
of excellence of health care for our Na-
tion's children.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:41 p.m., September 11, 1979]
As you celebrate Rosh Hashanah, the
beginning of the High Holy Days, Rosa-
lynn and I send our warmest greetings to
you as you gather together in homes and
synagogues to welcome a new year.
I know that your liturgy for this sacred
season includes prayers for reconciliation
between neighbors and affirmation of life
and recommitment, and at this time you
reflect on eternal questions concerning life
and death. The words of these services
echo universal human concerns.
With you, we recommit ourselves to
cherish the freedom of all peoples and to
strive peacefully for its realization. With
you, we pray, not for an escape from chal-
lenges, problems and decisions, but for the
wisdom, insight and courage to choose
wisely and bravely.
Let us strive to make common cause
with decent people of all faiths and na-
tions. Let us strive to preserve the values
of our democracy and to broaden the areas
of its blessings. Your religion, like mine,
seeks to help all people learn to live in
harmony with one another and with God.
May the coming year bring us closer to the
just and lasting peace for which we have
yearned and prayed so long and bring to
each of you new strength of faith and
purpose.
JIMMY CARTER
Meeting With President Mobutu
Sese Seko of Zaire
White House Statement. September 11, 1979
The President met this afternoon for 25
minutes in the Cabinet Room with Presi-
1627
