Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
AUDIENCE MEMBERS. Question!
Q. The question-quiet, you listened to
the other one, now you can listen to me.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. But you promised to
be briefer. Right?
Q. The question is, simply, what are
you going to do to contain hospital costs
in view of circumstances like I just
mentioned?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Let me point
out that our system of economy is based on
the free enterprise system, where com-
petition helps to control prices even in
times of inflation. In the last few years,
where hospital cost containment did not
exist, hospital costs have gone up about
twice the rate of inflation, because there is
not adequate competition in hospital care.
Quite often, a person pays hospital in-
surance for years, if they are fortunate
and are well. All of a sudden they feel
badly. Their inclination is to go into the
hospital, to stay a few days, if possible, to
get a good physical examination, to get at
least as much care as they need, and par-
tially to recoup what hospital insurance
premiums they've paid.
The hospital administrators quite often
are very eager to keep the beds full, be-
cause the more beds are full, the more
profits are made. It's more convenient for
a doctor to treat a group of patients in
the hospital than a group of patients out-
side the hospital. In many cases, the doc-
tors are the ones that own the hospitals
and derive a profit when the hospitals
are full.
Quite often, patients can be treated
much more cheaply with generic drugs
and much more cheaply in their own
homes and with out-patient care than
they can incarcerated in a hospital. And
what we're trying to do is to make sure
that hospitals don't profit from the ab-
sence of competition that I've described
for you, and that they do be given an
adequate means to pass on the inflation
rate that prevails in the rest of the society,
but not to continue to have excessive
charges above and beyond what the in-
flation rate would normally warrant.
That's the reason for hospital cost con-
tainment.
In the States that have it, it has
worked. The quality of hospital care has
not gone down. The profits are still there,
and the patients and the whole society
profits.
This hospital cost containment pro-
posal, if passed, would save the American
people $56 billion in the next few years;
the Federal Government, $22 billion;
local and State governments, $6 billion.
And the hospital care would still be ade-
quate; the profits for the hospitals would
still be adequate. I think we need it; I'm
going to fight for it and get it if we pos-
sibly can.
Q. A lot of the things you've said are
wrong, but we'll talk about that some
other time.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. This
will have to be the last question.
NATIONAL HEALTH PLAN
Q. Mr. President, I'm Bonnie Berstein,
director of senior services for West Hart-
ford, Connecticut. When you spoke about
your national health plan, you said that
doctors' fees will be publicly set, that el-
derly will not face doctors' bills not cov-
ered by Medicare. Who will pick up that
tab of the bills that are higher than those
"publicly set"?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we'll do several
things in that. One, of course, is that the
fees charged by the doctors will be pub-
licly posted; and insurance companies
1638
