Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
having more instead of being more—only
leaves us empty and depressed, lonely and
fearful.
We often see tragic results among those
we love disillusionment, cynicism, alien-
ation—sometimes leading to self-debase-
ment, crime, and violence. This does not
have to be. These times of rapid and com-
plex change demand that we turn to that
which does not ever change the spiritual
strength to grow together; to find unity
as a nation, as a human family—and I be-
lieve we will.
Our second opportunity is to recognize
that our values, our beliefs, our faith are
forged and made meaningful only
through action. We must be prepared―
both as individuals and as a society-not
only to deplore poverty, injustice, and the
smothering of human aspirations, but to
end them.
We know that material values and
spiritual values are interrelated and that
inequality of opportunity in life breeds
disillusionment and sometimes even strife
among human beings. We Americans can
act on that knowledge both within our
country and beyond our borders and I
believe that we will.
Our third opportunity is to remember
that the enhancement of human rights is
the compelling idea and goal of our time.
Through your own example, you've
shown the world that the power of the
human spirit cannot be subdued by the
power of the state. Your courage inspired
your native land, and it now inspires the
world.
You've shown how we can find mean-
ing within ourselves by reaching out to
others in a shared humanity. We believe
that the worthy goals of a society call upon
us to help others in a common pursuit of
freedom and human rights.
This, for us, has been the meaning of
America for more than two centuries. The
Pilgrims of New England, the Quakers of
Pennsylvania, the Catholics of Maryland,
the Jews, and many members of other
faiths and denominations who've found
safety in America have all been witnesses
to a fundamental fact-that where reli-
gious faith is free, human liberty, equality,
and justice may grow. This is a message
which is as vital today as it was 200 years
ago when our Nation was founded.
As a nation of faith and vigor, we are
committed to deliver the message of hu-
man freedom throughout the world-
and, Your Holiness, that we will.
Our fourth opportunity is peace. We
are dedicated to the belief that the natural
and proper desire of all human beings is
peace.
We seek a peace in Rhodesia, in Nica-
ragua, in Northern Ireland, in the Middle
East. We are committed to peace in every
part of the world. We are a great nation
that through self-confidence and faith
must share with others the security and
the beneficial influence which God's bless-
ings have offered to us.
We have the will to limit the growth
and spread of nuclear arms. We can bury
hatreds and heal political divisions and
control the terrible instruments of mass
destruction on behalf of humanity. It is
our duty and our destiny to walk with
those others like yourself who would guide
the world in the ways of peace—and we
will, because this Nation is not and never
can be afraid of peace.
Your Holiness, this is what your historic
journey has meant to us. It's fitting that
your path through America has brought
you at last to our Nation's Capital.
I welcome you to the White House, the
symbolic home of all our people. And on
behalf of every American of every faith, I
also welcome you into our Nation's heart.
God bless you for coming to our country.
We are proud to have you here.
THE POPE. Mr. President, I wish to
express my most sincere thanks for your
1828
