Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
cause Jews have never forgotten the Holo-
caust.
THE PRESIDENT. I know.
Q. And I can tell you of times when, on
my honeymoon, I went to a country club
and put down my golf clubs on the first
hole and went in to register, and there was
a sign that says, "No Jews allowed." And
so the fellow said, "It's off season. You
can go ahead and play." And I said, “Oh,
no I can't," and I left. But that incident
is not so much apparent today.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
blacks have suffered the same kind of dis-
crimination and other minority groups
have in our country.
I'm sure you realize I don't associate
myself with the statements that you made
earlier, that people allege that Jews con-
trol the press or this or that. I don't as-
sociate myself with that. And the dual
loyalty, I have no question about the in-
nate loyalty of American Jews for our
country. I also have a deep commitment
to Israel, which I hope accurately mirrors
the deep feelings of the Jewish Americans
who share the same concern. I've ex-
pressed that in answer to an earlier ques-
tion.
I am concerned about the division be-
tween black and Jewish Americans. I
might say that none of the blacks who
travel to the Mideast do it as a repre-
sentative of mine. We have myself, the
Vice President, the Secretary of State, and
Bob Strauss, who are authorized to ne-
gotiate from time to time, all under my
direct supervision. And we don't call on
private citizens to negotiate for us with
other national leaders throughout the
world.
Secondly, I don't have any authority,
nor do I want to have any authority, to
interrupt or to interfere with the right of
American citizens to travel where they
choose and to meet with whom they
choose. I would not want that authority;
I think it would be a violation of the basic
constitutional rights that are precious to
our Nation.
We have talked-I have talked pri-
vately with people like Elie Wiesel and
with Ed Sanders and with Ted Mann and
others about the best way to bring about
an understanding between black Ameri-
cans and Jewish Americans concerning
the complicated interrelationships and
sensitive matters concerning the Mideast.
Bob Strauss is the one on whom I depend
primarily, not only for Mideast negotia-
tions but for the alleviation of misunder-
standings and tensions between blacks and
American Jews. I and the Vice President
also do what we can to alleviate these
tensions.
My advice so far from American Jewish
leaders is not to inject the White House
into the dialog that ought to take place or
is sometimes taking place between the two
minority groups. But I would be willing
to do that in the future if necessary. I be-
lieve a better understanding between the
two would help to identify and to define
common ground. And there may be some
irresolvable differences because of points
of view-that shouldn't create a schism
between the two groups in our country
who've suffered most from discrimination.
MS. BARIO. Thank you,
sir.
NATIONAL SPIRIT AND THE 1980
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
Q. Mr. President, my name is Luke
Feck from Cincinnati. When you were at
Camp David you identified a malaise in
the American countryside, and when As-
sistant Secretary of Treasury Brill re-
signed, he talked about America's interest
in immediate self-gratification. The polls
show a decline of confidence in all institu-
tions. The American people, are they be-
coming more difficult to govern, and if
1861
