Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 9
There is also pride in the courage of
those who are in danger and sympathy for
them and for their families. But the most
important concern for all Americans at
this moment is safety of our fellow citizens
held in Tehran.
The President shares these feelings. He
is pursuing every possible avenue in a situ-
ation that is extremely volatile and diffi-
cult. His efforts involve many countries
and individuals. Many of these efforts
must of necessity be conducted without
publicity, and all require the calmest pos-
sible atmosphere.
The President knows that no matter
how deeply we may feel, none of us would
want to do anything that would worsen
the danger in which our fellow Americans
have been placed.
He calls on all Americans, public offi-
cials and private citizens alike, to exercise
restraint, and to keep the safety of their
countrymen uppermost in their minds and
hearts. Members of the families of the
American hostages with whom the Presi-
dent met this morning have asked to join
with him in this appeal. The President ex-
pects every American to refrain from any
action that might increase the danger to
the American hostages in Tehran.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement to reporters assembled in the Briefing
Room at the White House.
The President had met with the members
of the families at the State Department.
United States Assistance to
Central America and the
Caribbean
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. November 9, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Many of our neighbors in Central
America and the Caribbean are in crisis-
crisis marked by economic problems, ter-
rorism, and popular frustration. The reso-
lution of these problems in ways that will
preserve the independence and security
of these countries, while expanding de-
mocracy and supporting human rights, is
very much in the national interest of the
United States.
Prompt and effective U.S. assistance is
vital.
-Nicaragua's economy has been
crushed by bitter and prolonged strife. We
have been asked to help, and we are doing
so. But more is needed to restore public
confidence, private initiatives, and popu-
lar well-being.
-The Governments in El Salvador
and Honduras have pledged democracy
and moderation. These and other Central
American countries are embarked on ac-
celerated development efforts of direct
benefit to the poor. Assistance in these
efforts is essential in creating the condi-
tions under which democratic institutions
can grow and thrive.
-The countries of the Eastern Carib-
bean are young and struggling democra-
cies. They need help now for nation-
building and for economic development.
I am therefore today proposing action
to expand our support for development
and security in Central America and the
Caribbean. This will augment our exist-
ing development and security assistance
programs in these regions, which in turn
complement the contributions of several
other governments and international
agencies.
I have directed that, subject to normal
congressional notification procedures,
funds be reprogrammed for use in Cen-
tral America and the Caribbean. These
include:
-$5 million from the fiscal year 1980
Economic Support Funds for develop-
ment projects in Central American coun-
tries other than Nicaragua.
2103
