Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
Tokyo Economic Summit
Conference
Remarks to Reporters at the Conclusion of the
Conference. June 29, 1979
PRIME MINISTER OHIRA. Now, then, I
would like to open the joint press confer-
ence.
To this summit there have gathered a
great number of members of the press
from Japan and from outside Japan, and
for showing your interest in what goes on
in the summit, I would like to express our
appreciation. Because of security consid-
erations, we may have caused you many
inconveniences, but I hope you under-
stand this.
Our conference during the past 2 days
has been extremely useful, but in order
for the fruit of our discussions to be ap-
preciated in various parts of the world,
much depends on you members of the
press. I would be grateful for your coop-
eration.
I am going to shortly ask various heads
of state and government to speak, but as
the host, I would first like to give my
overall evaluation.
In this summit we have welcomed
three new members, of whom one is the
first woman Prime Minister to the sum-
mit and the other is the youngest Prime
Minister. The two new Prime Ministers
have contributed much to the success of
the conference with their charm and wis-
dom. The third new member is somewhat
older, me, and I would refrain from mak-
ing any comment.
Although nearly half of the members
in this summit are new, I believe our sum-
mit has been able to create an extremely
close human relation on the basis of the
spirit of mutual support of the summit,
which I believe is an important product
of our endeavor.
This summit has been held as it was at
the time when the attention of the world
is focused on the oil problem. In order to
respond to the situation, it has been said
that our summit will be a failure unless
bold and concrete measures are agreed
upon.
Shortly the communique will be dis-
tributed to you, but from the viewpoint
of both immediate measures and me-
dium- and long-term points of view, I
believe we have been able to reach con-
crete consensus that can respond to meet
the expectations of the world.
As the Prime Minister of Japan, to give
the specific goal of our effort to the year
1985 has taken considerable amount of
courage, but recognizing the fact that we
all live in a global community faced with
the oil anxiety, and recognizing the need
for placing our economy on a stable basis
well into the future, I felt it was necessary
for us to agree to that statement.
In areas other than oil, we have dis-
cussed questions such as inflation and em-
ployment, showing strong interest in pro-
tecting industrial democracies, from long-
term and fundamental points of view.
Although industrialized economies find
ourselves in respective economic difficul-
ties, the summit leaders have shown
strong interest in the relationship with
the developing nations. I have found this
very encouraging. The old economies of
the world are in the same boat. By shar-
ing the new sense of responsibility and
new sense of partnership, I would like to
see the constructive relationship and co-
operation be developed further.
Further, in the present summit, follow-
ing up on what was taken up in the last
summit in Bonn, we adopted a statement
on air hijacking, which I will now read.
"All the heads of state and govern-
ment"—excuse me, I take it back; I have
the wrong text in front of me. [Laughter]
1187
