Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
college-age children, but what form that
assistance should take.
I decided before I became President,
as a matter of fact, but after long ex-
perience in education and financing—that
the best approach was the one that we've
taken. We've increased the Federal con-
tribution to education, in the first 2 years
I was in office, by 60 percent above what
it had been in the past. We implemented
last year, 1978, a $12 billion* increase in
aid to make sure that every family in this
country, even one like your own, would
have an opportunity to put their children
through college, if the students are ac-
ademically qualified and do their work.
We've approached it on a broad base.
First of all is direct grants to students if
their parents don't have the financial abil-
ity to put them through; secondly is a
loan program to guarantee that the stu-
dents, on their own initiative, can finance
their college tuition and other costs and
then repay afterwards when they are able
to sustain their own income; and the third
one, of course, is a work-study program,
where the students can work part-time and
go to school part-time or go to the class-
room part-time, combining those two
efforts so that the work part of their life is
related in some way to the actual courses
that they are taking. But we've tried to in-
crease this tremendously.
The problem with going to tax credits
is that we have not found any formula
by which you could help the low- and
middle-income families. You have a much
greater financial benefit to the very
wealthy families at the expense of the
other taxpayers. So, this direct focusing of
help on grants, loans, and work-study pro-
grams is a much better and fairer way to
guarantee that the students can go to col-
lege.
*The President meant to say $1.2 billion.
[Printed in the transcript.]
I believe that if have a thorough
you
knowledge of what we do offer that there
won't be any reason for all four of your
children or the ones that you might have
in the future—I don't know how many
that would be [not] to go to college and
get a good education.
Good luck in the future and also now.
HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND FINANCING
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
Q. I'm Pat Adamski, and I live here in
Dolton. My question-
THE PRESIDENT. What's your first
name?
Q. Pat.
THE PRESIDENT. Pat.
Q. My question this morning is-as
you know, the mortgage market is getting
very tight. Fourteen States now either are
running short of or have no money. How
are you going to ease this problem, be-
cause this is going to affect people coun-
trywide-real estate agents, builders, and
people
people who buy and sell.
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard to answer
that question about the future. My hope
is that interest rates have peaked, along
with inflation, and will now be going
down.
High interest rates are caused by high
inflation. It's very difficult to have inter-
est rates lower than the inflation rate. So,
the best attack on interest rates is to do
what I've described earlier to get the in-
flation rate back down, with high yield
of farm products, adequate farm stor-
age, the working relationship between
labor, business, and government, for a
change, to hold down wages and price in-
creases, and to decrease the imports of oil.
As far as the homebuilding is con-
cerned, we've taken some action since
I've been President that has paid off very
well. In the past, when interest rates got
1948
