Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 27
The details of each deferral are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
September 27, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Octo-
ber 2, 1979.
President's Commission on
the Holocaust
Remarks on Receiving the Final Report of the
Commission. September 27, 1979
Mr. Chairman, the beauty of your
words and the solemnity of your thoughts
and the importance of the work of this
Commission are all very impressive.
Eight months ago, I asked Elie Wiesel
and a distinguished group of Americans,
some from the Congress, to take on an
awesome responsibility. Jim Blanchard of
Michigan and others said they couldn't
be here because there is a vote pending in
the House, but they have served well,
along with a broad cross-section of Amer-
icans who have gone into this effort with
a great deal of dedication and who have
produced a report that will solve problems
and picture for us proper actions in the
future.
This is an awesome responsibility that
you have performed. I asked this group to
recommend a fitting memorial in the
United States to the victims of the most
unspeakable crime in all of human his-
tory-the Holocaust. Rarely has a Presi-
dential commission faced a more sober-
ing or a more difficult or a more totally
important challenge. This event of the
Holocaust, the crime against humanity it-
self, has no parallel in human history. A
philosopher wrote that human language
itself breaks down when confronted with
the monstrous challenge of describing this
evil.
So, I want to pay a special tribute, on
behalf of our Nation, to all those who
have contributed to this effort and for the
tremendous service that you've per-
formed.
Your very work as a commission is part
of a living memorial to the victims of the
Holocaust. Your grappling with the
meaning of this event has helped bring
new understanding and moral vision to all
who must confront this question. Your
historic trips to the concentration camps
in Eastern Europe and to Babi Yar in the
Soviet Union have helped to arouse the
conscience of the world and to remind us
once again that we must never forget. And
I know our country appreciates the fact
that many of you went on those trips, not
at Government expense, but at your own
expense.
Out of our memory and understanding
of the Holocaust, we must forge an un-
shakable oath with all civilized people
that never again will the world stand
silent, never again will the world look the
other way or fail to act in time to prevent
this terrible crime of genocide.
In addition to the Jewish people who
were engulfed by the Holocaust simply
because they were Jews, 5 million other
human beings were destroyed. About 3
million Poles, many Hungarians, Gypsies,
also need to be remembered. To memori-
alize the victims of the Holocaust, we
must harness the outrage of our own
memories to stamp out oppression
wherever it exists. We must understand
that human rights and human dignity
are indivisible. Wherever our fellow hu-
man beings are stripped of their humanity,
defiled or tortured or victimized by re-
pression or terrorism or racism or pre-
judice, then all of us are victims. As
1773
