Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and the visits of hundreds of Israelis and
many Egyptians to both countries, not
only with no incidents but with warm feel-
ing, meeting the people of the other coun-
try. And anyone who was not in Haifa
when President Sadat was there recently
cannot imagine the spirit, the moving
spirit of the joy of the Israelis, not only
about the meeting but about what that
meeting represented the peace between
the two countries.
I know, Mr. President, that for the last
few months you did not deal that much
with our problems like you used to do
before, and I assume that you did have
other business to attend to. But though I
do hope that we shall reach an agreement
with the current negotiation-and I want
to remind my friends, Vice President
Mubarak and General Ali, that the gap
that we had between the two of us when
we started the negotiation, believe me, it
was wider than the gap that we have be-
tween us and the Palestinians when we
talk now about autonomy. So, I am hope-
ful about that. Still, what I want to tell
you, Mr. President, besides thanking you
again, to remind you that you are a party
in this business. And if somehow we shall
come against major difficulties, we might
ask you to extend your hand, your guiding
hand, to be involved again in the process
of peace so that we shall achieve it.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say in closing
that one of the most gratifying and some-
what surprising developments has been
the burgeoning friendship and the grow-
ing respect and cooperation that has de-
veloped directly between President Sadat
and Prime Minister Begin. This accu-
rately mirrors, in my opinion, the genuine
feeling that exists between the people of
Egypt and the people of Israel.
Good progress is being made. But,
Mr. Foreign Minister, as you suggested, in
the future, if an apparently insurmount-
able obstacle should be confronted in the
negotiating process, then I would be
deeply committed to becoming personally
involved again. In the meantime, how-
ever, Ambassador Bob Strauss, Secretary
Vance, and others can adequately repre-
sent the United States in adding our good
offices to the negotiating process.
We believe that a firm foundation now
exists for major progress to be made be-
tween Egypt and Israel and, in the future,
among others that will join the peace
process who live in the Mideast.
Thank you all for the constructive
work that's already taken place. God bless
you in future endeavors, which I'm sure
will be successful in bringing the peace
that we all cherish and for which we all
hope with all our hearts.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:19 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
National Forest Products
Week, 1979
Proclamation 4687. September 18, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Our Nation's forests are one of our
greatest resources, covering nearly one-
third of our land. The forests are "lands
of many uses" providing wood for a
multitude of products, protection of
watersheds, forage for livestock, food and
shelter for wildlife, wilderness areas, and
a tremendous range of recreation oppor-
1686
