Oct. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
If we could just change that 1 percent
and I have no doubt that we can, with the
help of people like Brendan Byrne and
Tom Bradley-1. percent change in that
percentage would save about 175 million
gallons of gas per year-175 million. And
that would take care of all the transporta-
tion in automobiles of New Jersey for 18
days.
And as you can well figure out, if one
car is filled and the ride costs are shared,
then a person can travel a whole week and
tap the family budget for the same thing
that it costs per day if one travels alone.
You've already begun some initiatives
in New Jersey that are important. Gover-
nor Byrne has spoken out forcefully for
vanpooling and carsharing. Local govern-
ments have already taken action. And
Prudential Insurance Company, for in-
stance, has one of the best carsharing pro-
grams in the whole Nation. Twenty-three
hundred people commute to work each
day in 208 vans, under the aegis of Pru-
dential Insurance Company, in the New-
ark area. Johnson and Johnson has
helped, AT&T has helped, Nabisco has
helped, Allied Chemical has helped, and
others.
This is a difficult thing to do without
some high degree of coordination and help
from local governments, from the State
and the Federal Governments. In the past,
we've really had more obstacles to ride-
sharing than we've had assistance or help
for ridesharing programs. And I have
started an initiative, encouraged by people
like Brendan Byrne and Tom Bradley, to
do more at the Federal level. We hope that
if we can be successful, we can save as
much as half a million barrels of oil per
day before this next decade is over.
We'll extend the 10-percent tax invest-
ment credit to vanpools. We'll guarantee
to multiple-rider vehicles that gasoline will
be available if there should be shortages in
the future. There will be a high priority
allocation of gasoline to vehicles that have
multiple riders. We'll issue an Executive
order upgrading the ridesharing efforts
for Federal employees.
We're already taking some very contro-
versial steps by charging some Federal
employees for parking privileges. In the
past they've got free parking privileges in
Washington. Space is at a premium, and
this encourages, as you can well see, one
passenger per car.
In our Department of Transportation,
we're trying to move toward special high-
way lanes for commuter passengers and
for public transit vehicles, and this would
amount to about $250 million a year in
extra help for these kinds of construction
projects in this next decade. And we also
anticipate granting interest-free loans for
the purchase of vans.
One problem has been that the insur-
ance companies need to reassess auto-
mobile insurance charges to make it at-
tractive for a person to have a van or a
station wagon or others that are shared by
other employees going to and from work.
And we'll seek model State laws, because
it's very difficult to have adequate van-
pooling projects if a city is near a State
line, unless there is some standardization
of State laws themselves.
We've also organized a National Task
Force on Ridesharing, and we have,
luckily, the national chairman here with
us this afternoon, whom I'll introduce in
just a minute. We've got an outstanding
young former mayor, Neil Goldschmidt,
who is now the Secretary of Transporta-
tion. I think in the city of Portland, which
he served before he came into my Cabinet
recently, has one of the finest energy con-
servation programs of which I have ever
heard. And he will be working intimately
with any local official group or private
employer group that needs help in evolv-
ing and implementing and continuing a
good rideshare program.
2022
