Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tacks from Cuba, and I wanted to know
why the President opposes Israel's right to
defend itself on its northern borders
against the PLO terrorist incursions into
Israel.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't. I think any
nation has a right to defend itself; ob-
viously, including Israel. Let me recapitu-
late just for a moment what has hap-
pened.
Two years ago, I met with Prime
Minister Rabin and then with Prime
Minister Begin and also with President
Sadat and others. There was a conviction
in their minds that never in their lifetime
would they have direct communication
with one another and no chance to nego-
tiate a peace treaty between them.
A year ago, almost exactly, we went to
Camp David and came down with the
Camp David accords, which set out not
only a basis for peace between Israel and
Egypt but also a basis for a comprehen-
sive peace settlement for the entire Middle
East, including all of Israel's neighbors.
Six months ago, we concluded the Mid-
east peace treaty. And a lot of people say,
you know, "What have you done lately?"
Well, the fact is that now we are looking
to President Sadat and Prime Minister
Begin to negotiate directly. They have
developed a very good respect for one an-
other. And it was a thrilling thing for me
to see Sadat sail into the Haifa Harbor
recently in an Egyptian yacht, escorted
by American and Israeli warships and
American and Israeli airplanes, and see
him received so well in Haifa.
A basis of the Camp David accords was
the right of Israel to defend itself, a right
of Israel to be secure. And along with that
was a commitment made by President
Sadat and myself and Prime Minister
Begin that the Palestinian question in all
its aspects would be resolved, that the
Palestinian people have a right to a voice
in the determination of their own future.
But, at the same time, Sadat agreed on
behalf of many Arabs that Israel would
have a right to defend itself. And I have
never questioned Israel's right to defend
herself against terrorism from the north or
against her neighbors from the east or
from the south.
The second thing I'd like to say is that
we give Israel-as a good investment for
our own security, because we derive great
benefits from Israel being strong and free
and at peace-great aid, the most aid we
give any other nation on Earth, because
we believe in Israel having the ability to
defend itself. In addition to that, as a re-
sult of the Camp David accords and the
Mideast peace treaty, I advocated to the
Congress, and the Congress agreed to in-
crease that aid by $3 billion. And we're
now working out with Defense Minister
Weizman, who was in Washington in my
office last week, how to spend that money
to give Israel the means by which they can
defend themselves.
But this Government and this President
will never abandon Israel. We will always
support Israel, and we will always make
sure that Israel has the means by which
to defend themselves.
I want to say one more thing, and then
I'll close this answer. Israel's got one
sure friend, and that's the United States
of America. And I look with great con-
cern and disgust at a growing clamor
around the world, even making the ridic-
ulous charge that Zionism is the same as
racism. That's an outrage and a disgrace
to human beings.
And I'm not asking you-Miss Teitel-
baum, right?—I'm not asking you to give
me your support or to approve everything
I do. But let me say this: It's important
for Israel, for a President like me, to have
your support in carrying out the agree-
ments made at Camp David and with the
1752
