July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Thank you very much.
MR. SANDBORN. Mr. President, before
you stands a group that eagerly accepts
constructive challenge. You asked us to
join our hands and our hearts in address-
ing the problem of the energy that
you
mentioned. We want you to know that we
have already joined our hands and hearts
in accepting your guidance and direction
in doing whatever we can as future
farmers.
We will directly accept your challenge
in two ways: first, by addressing the chal-
lenge you presented and encouraging
chapters across the United States to par-
ticipate actively in energy conservation;
but secondly, we pledge to you that we
will continue to train and develop the
kind of young people with leadership,
citizenship, skills, and abilities that have
made you great as President of the United
States and have produced such a great
leader like yourself.
Mr. President, we gladly accept your
challenge.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare
Resignation of Joseph A. Califano, Jr., and
Nomination of Patricia Roberts Harris To Be
Secretary. July 19, 1979
The President has accepted the resigna-
tion of Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare Joseph Califano. The Presi-
dent will nominate Patricia Harris, Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, to be Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.
The President said, "Secretary Harris
has established an admirable record of
efficient and compassionate leadership at
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. She has my full confidence
and support as she begins to assume the
responsibility for leading the department
which more than any other directly
touches the lives of those who must depend
most upon government."
Secretary Harris and Secretary Cali-
fano have already discussed plans for an
orderly transition. A successor to Secre-
tary Harris at the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development will be
named in the near future to ensure no
interruption in the operations of that
department.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 12:04 p.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Joseph A. Califano, Jr., as Secretary.
July 19, 1979
To Secretary Joe Califano
I accept your resignation with a
genuine feeling of appreciation and of
recognition for your notable accomplish-
ments as Secretary of Health, Education
and Welfare.
You have, indeed, demonstrated that
major public service can exemplify both
competence and compassion.
My desire is that you continue to serve
with my confidence and support until your
successor assumes the office. Your pledge
of a smooth, harmonious and orderly
transition is typical of your attitude and
performance.
1270
