Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
These revenues will come ultimately
from the windfall profits tax, but in order
to expedite the process and not delay the
payments until the windfall profits tax is
passed, they'll be paid out of general rev-
enue funds and then repaid when the
windfall profits tax is collected from the
oil companies.
I'd like to remind you again, however,
that the best way, the cheapest way, the
quickest way to cut down on costs, to
make our Nation more energy-secure, and
to reduce oil imports is conservation-
conservation. Every family can help. It's
one of the most important and patriotic
challenges that we've ever faced.
If we could just insulate, for instance,
all the buildings in our country ade-
quately, we would, in effect, have an-
other Prudhoe Bay supply of oil, equiva-
lent to the oil that we are deriving now
from the recent discoveries in Alaska.
The tax credits for insulation of homes
was passed a year ago and already in an
embryonic stage of use. Of this ability for
families to take credit on the income taxes
to insulate their own homes-which they
should do anyhow-about 10 percent of
the middle- and upper-class families, the
ones who pay the most income taxes, are
already participating. That percentage
will undoubtedly grow.
I'd like to point out one other thing to
you. We have established, to make sure
that energy supplies are distributed quick-
ly and equitably in your region, a fuel oil
management group. The headquarters for
this
will be in Boston. It's already
group
been constituted. It's comprised of rep-
resentatives from the Department of En-
ergy, the Department of Agriculture, the
Department of Transportation, and, to
make sure that in cases of heavy snowfall
or icing of waterways that we can over-
come those difficulties rapidly, the Coast
Guard and the Corps of Engineers.
The primary coordinating effort will
be through the Governors, so that if a dis-
tribution problem should arise during this
winter, this group is already in existence,
planning carefully to avoid mistakes and
to avoid interruptions in supply, but eager
to correct defects in the distribution when-
ever they should become apparent.
Our Nation is in a state of transition,
from a time when fuel was so cheap that
we never gave it a thought to a time when
fuel is becoming so expensive that we can
think of little else. And it's very important
that all of us-leaders with an effective
voice and effective influence-unite.
The delays have been unwarranted.
They've damaged our country. We should
have had a national energy policy 5, 6
years ago. The challenges have not been
easy to overcome. The questions have not
been easy to answer. The problems have
not been easy to solve. But it's too late
to try to find scapegoats, to try to affix
blame for delays. Now is the time for us
to work together, to recognize that we
have a common problem, a common chal-
lenge, that we face common questions.
I
All the Governors on this platform and
represent the same people. We're in it
together. We need not fear the future. It
may be that the early warnings and the
increasing prices, which were inevitable in
any case, have come at a time to restore
our Nation's integrity and to improve our
Nation's security.
We've been blessed beyond all other
nations, even in the field of energy. In its
totality, our country has about 24 percent
of all the energy supplies known on Earth.
The OPEC nations all put together have
about 5 percent. But ours are in forms that
have not yet been adequately tapped—
hydroelectric power, wood, coal, oil, geo-
thermal supplies, natural gas, shale, tar
sands. They are ready to be tapped by a
nation that can marshal its resources in an
effective way, which can unite with one
another and not be divided from one an-
other as we grasp for some selfish advan-
2058
