Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
Go ahead, Mrs. Tingle; you're on the
line with President Carter.
PRAYER IN SCHOOLS
MRS. TINGLE. President Carter, first,
we love you, your family, and Miss Lil-
lian. And the question is, our Nation was
built on trust in God, and a lot of our
young people don't know Him. And why
can't we have prayer in school?
MS. STAMBERG. Mrs. Tingle, we had
a little bit of trouble hearing you.
THE PRESIDENT. I think I understood
her. She said, "Why don't we have
prayer in school?"
MRS. TINGLE. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Mary, as you know,
I'm a Christian and a Baptist, and I be-
lieve very strongly in the separation of
church and state, which is guaranteed
under our Constitution.
MRS. TINGLE. I know.
THE PRESIDENT. I am in favor of vol-
untary prayer in school and the right of
each person to worship God in his or her
own way at any time one is motivated.
pray frequently in my own daily life as
President, more so now than I used to, I
might say.
I don't believe, though, that it's proper
for a government entity, either the Fed-
eral Government or local government or
even a school board, to require that chil-
dren worship in school. And sometimes
even a small child would be embarrassed
if, for instance, there are different faiths
represented in the classroom. Sometimes
the children don't worship God at all;
sometimes they might be Jewish or Chris-
tian, sometimes Catholics and Prot-
estants, sometimes in our modern-day
society even those who are Moslems. And
I think that to mandate or to require a
person to worship in school is not proper.
The Supreme Court has ruled on this,
and the Supreme Court ruling is basically
in accordance with what I've just de-
scribed to you as my preference.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you very much,
Mrs. Tingle.
The next caller is Mrs. Annette Lantos,
and she's calling from Hillsborough,
California. Good morning. It's morning
for you, isn't it, Mrs. Lantos? You're on
the line with President Carter.
RAOUL WALLENBERG
MRS. LANTOS. Mr. President, when my
husband and I were youngsters in Hun-
gary during World War II, our lives were
saved through the intervention of a
Swedish diplomat named Raoul Wallen-
berg. We later learned that Mr. Wallen-
berg, who also saved the lives of thou-
sands of other Jewish people like us, was
acting in behalf of the American State
Department. But unfortunately, Mr.
Wallenberg was arrested at the end of
the war by the Russians and has been in
a Russian prison ever since. And al-
though the Russians claim that he died,
there is an overwhelming amount of evi-
dence which indicates that he's still alive
in a Soviet prison. Could you do some-
thing, Mr. President, to help him get
released?
THE PRESIDENT. There's a limit to what
I can do. We have inquired into the Wal-
lenberg case with the Russians, both when
I was in Vienna this year with President
Brezhnev and other Russian leaders, and
through the Soviet Ambassador here in
Washington and also our Ambassador in
Moscow. On occasions, when Secretary
Vance has met with Foreign Minister
Gromyko, we've also inquired about the
Wallenberg case, along with the cases of
many others.
The Soviets maintain their claim that
Mr. Wallenberg is no longer alive, but we
1887
