July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
COAL AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Q. I'm Christina Bradford, and I at-
tend Bardstown Junior High School. Mr.
President, in your energy message, you in-
dicated an increase in the use of coal. My
question is this: Are you going to allow
the coal companies to take advantage of
this situation to weaken the Federal strip-
mining law? And what steps will you take
to assure the protection of the environ-
ment for future generations?
THE PRESIDENT. Recently I had a re-
port as a matter of fact, this past week-
from what's known as the President's
commission on coal. The Chairman of
that commission was Governor Jay Rock-
efeller, from West Virginia, and he and
a group of distinguished American lead-
ers, coal operators, environmentalists, rep-
resentatives of the miners, and others,
made a report to me-which is available
to all of you, by the way, if you want it—
on what we could do to increase the use
and the production of coal.
The basic premise on which they based
their study was that the environmental
laws of our Nation would be carried out
completely, that there would be no lower-
ing of standards that would affect the
quality of our land, our air, or our water.
If we meet those standards of quality of
life for Americans and carry out the laws,
environmental laws of our Nation, there's
an opportunity for us to double the
amount of coal that we produce and use,
burned cleanly and used cleanly, in the
next 6 years to 10 years.
This afternoon I met at a nearby pow-
erplant with about 50 or 60 of the leaders
in the Kentucky coal industry-operators,
railroad managers, coal miners, and
power producers, electric power produc-
ers. I told them that the worst mistake
that the coal industry could make was to
insist upon a lowering of the environmen-
tal standards of our Nation. If there's one
thing the people of our country fear about
coal, is that it is dirty and it will lower
the quality of our life. That is not true.
We can burn twice as much coal in this
nation and not lower our environmental
standards at all. That's what I believe our
Nation wants to do, and that's what I'm
determined to do with the help of people
in Kentucky and every other State that
produces coal in our country.
REGULATORY REFORM
Q. Mr. President, Gary Hutchins from
Bardstown, Kentucky. I would like to in-
quire as to what your administration is
doing at present to reduce Government
regulations which businesses are operating
on daily—and it's costing each consumer,
and I mean each man, woman, and child,
a hidden tax, actually, of $450 a The
year.
businesses in total are spending now in
excess of what our national defense budg-
et. So, what is being done to cut it down?
THE PRESIDENT. This has been one of
the most difficult things I've tried to do as
President. I am a small businessman my-
self, as you know, and went to the White
House with a determination to cut down
on regulations and forms, reports that are
required by the Federal Government by
private citizens. I think we've made a lot
progress already.
of
I remember one day, year before last,
when we eliminated a thousand OSHA
regulations in one day, and we've cut down
the number of forms and regulations, for
instance, in HEW, by more than 20 per-
cent already. But we've still got a long
way to go.
This was one of the questions raised this
afternoon by the coal industry leaders.
And I had the Chairman of our regula-
tory commission with me, Doug Costle-
we've got a group of Federal agencies
1346
