Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 31
INITIATIVES
1. Enhancing the Transfer of Informa-
tion. Often, the information that under-
lies a technological advance is not known.
to companies capable of commercially de-
veloping that advance. I am therefore
taking several actions to ease and encour-
age the flow of technical knowledge and
information. These actions include estab-
lishing the Center for the Utilization of
Federal Technology at the National
Technical Information Service to improve
the transfer of knowledge from Federal
laboratories; and, through the State and
Commerce Departments, increasing the
availability of technical information de-
veloped in foreign countries.
2. Increasing Technical Knowledge.
We have already made significant efforts
to assure an adequate investment in the
basic research that will underlie future
technical advances. This commitment is
reflected in a 25 percent growth in fund-
ing during the first two years of
of my Ad-
ministration. I am taking some additional
steps that will increase Federal support
for research and development:
First, I will establish a program to co-
operate with industry in the advancement
of generic technologies that underlie the
operations of several industrial sectors.
This activity will broaden the $50 million
initiative I announced in May to further
research in automotive research. Second,
in order to help harness the scientific and
technological strength of American uni-
versities, I have directed a significant en-
hancement in support of joint industry-
university research proposals. This pro-
gram will be modeled on a successful pro-
gram at the National Science Foundation,
and I have set a target of $150 million in
Federal support for it.
3. Strengthening the Patent System.
Patents can provide a vital incentive for
innovation, but the patent process has
become expensive, time-consuming, and
unreliable. Each year, fewer patents are
issued to Americans. At my direction, the
Patent and Trademark Office will under-
take a major effort to upgrade and mod-
ernize its processes, in order to restore the
incentive to patent-and ultimately de-
velop-inventions. I will also seek legisla-
tion to provide the Patent and Trademark
Office with greater authority to re-
examine patents already issued, thereby
reducing the need for expensive, time-
consuming litigation over the validity of a
patent.
For over thirty years the Federal agen-
cies supporting research and development
in industry and universities have had con-
flicting policies governing the disposition
of pertinent rights resulting from that
work. This confusion has seriously inhib-
ited the use of those patents in industry.
To remove that confusion and encourage
the use of those patents I will support uni-
form government patent legislation. That
legislation will provide exclusive licenses
to contractors in specific fields of use that
they agree to commercialize and will per-
mit the government to license firms in
other fields. If the license fails to com-
mercialize the inventories, the government
will retain the right to recapture those
rights. I will also support the retention of
patent ownership by small businesses and
universities, the prime thrust of legislation
now in Congress, in recognition of their
special place in our society.
4. Clarifying Anti-trust Policy. By
spurring competition, anti-trust policies
can provide a stimulant to the develop-
ment of innovations. In some cases,
however, such as in research, industrial
cooperation may have clear social and
economic benefits for the country. Unfor-
tunately, our anti-trust laws are often
mistakenly viewed as preventing all coop-
erative activity.
The Department of Justice, at my direc-
tion, will issue a guide clearly explaining
its position on collaboration among firms
2071
