Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
DR. LINDEN. Thank you.
THE
Linden.
PRESIDENT. Thank you,
NUCLEAR SAFETY
Dr.
Mr. Ybarrondo, I just had one question
to ask. To what degree are you working
with Dr. Kemeny and his committee?
They'll be coming to me now, within the
next month, with recommendations de-
rived from the Three Mile Island incident
about how nuclear power can be made
more safe and operating and design fea-
tures might be incorporated. Are you, or
others associated with you, working with
them on it?
DR. YBARRONDO. Indirectly, Mr. Presi-
dent. Some of the technical staff members
to the Kemeny Commission have con-
tacted us, and they have asked us to ex-
amine various options, for example, that
the operators took during the course of
the Three Mile Island incident.
Primarily, they're addressing the what-
if questions-"What if the operator did
this in lieu of something else?" And we
have been asked to make some computer
code calculations for them. Those calcula-
tions are in process.
THE PRESIDENT. Is the computer con-
trol technique cost-effective? Does it re-
place enough personnel so that a power
company looking for cost savings would
initiate it?
DR. YBARRONDO. I'm not sure that it
would specifically reduce the personnel
enough to result in significant cost savings.
But the use of the computer to look at
potential defects and to allow them to op-
erate the plant more efficiently, to de-
crease the downtime of plants due to
mechanical failures or human errors
would certainly be cost-effective.
THE PRESIDENT. One of the major
problems with nuclear power now is the
percentage of downtime, is it not?
DR. YBARRONDO. Yes, sir. It is.
THE PRESIDENT. What does that run-
30, 40 percent, that high?
DR. YBARRONDO. On the order of that.
The availability of the plant is not as high
as it could be.
THE PRESIDENT. So, if the Kemeny re-
port should recommend-I'm not antici-
pating increased personnel from which
could be derived increased safety, then
the computer use would be more attrac-
tive under those circumstances, would it
not?
DR. YBARRONDO. I believe so.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
DR. YBARRONDO. You're welcome.
ENERGY CONSIDERATIONS IN BUILDING
DESIGN
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to ask Mr.
Balcomb one question. I'm not putting all
the burden on you, but it seems that one
of the major unfulfilled opportunities is
to get the AIA-with all the architects in
the Nation and the major builders-to
commit themselves in just standard de-
signs of homes and public buildings to in-
corporate energy-saving features. To what
degree is this being done? It's one of the
things that I advocated in, I think, a na-
tional meeting of the architects in At-
lanta when I was Governor. But I just
wonder if the architects as a group are
pursuing this without the customer asking
for it necessarily. Can you answer that for
me?
DR. BALCOMB. The AIA themselves
have instituted a small program of semi-
nars, directed specifically at their mem-
bers, to teach them about passive solar
design and energy conservation options.
There are other signs. The recent April
issue of Progressive Architecture, which
is the leading magazine in that field, was
1537
