Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
lieve I've got confidence in you, then you
are not going to have confidence in me.
I've made some mistakes since I've been
President. As I said last night, many of
the people said, "Mr. President, you're
not out among the people enough, you
don't listen to us enough. You've been so
bogged down in managing the Govern-
ment that you haven't been leading our
Nation." Well, I listened to that, and I've
learned my lesson.
So, for the rest of the time that I'm in
office, I'm going to spend more time
among you, I'm going to listen to your
voice, I'm going to work closer to you.
During the campaign, I had to do that,
because otherwise I would never have
been elected. If I hadn't come to San
Diego to listen to you and to talk to you
then and to bare my heart to you, I would
not have been elected.
So, the best thing I can do is to put my
faith in the American people, and God
willing, I will act to the best of my human
ability so that you can always have con-
fidence in me. I'll do the best I can. If
you will join me, I guarantee you we'll
have the greatest nation on Earth, like we
always have.
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES
Q. That's a tough question to follow,
Mr. President. Ray Cordova, Local
11571, Long Beach, California. And I am
experienced in the controlled 78 degrees
right now, as you notice.
Mr. President, I have a brief state-
ment as well as a question that addresses
itself to the 7-percent wage guideline.
When I have a member of my local who
is being paid $4 or less an hour, caring for
three children, whose spouse has aban-
doned her, is eligible for food stamps, eli-
gible to draw welfare payments, no child
care facilities that are affordable to her,
but because of pride and dignity, attempts
to work and be a productive citizen, but
then, Mr. President, she is told that 7 per-
cent is the guideline.
We are experiencing double-digit in-
flation, and we cannot justify to our
members 7 percent. So how, Mr. Presi-
dent, when labor is hamstrung with 7
percent, do you intend to have business
live within 7 percent?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this kind of
question really concerns me, as you've al-
ready noticed. It's not the first one I've
had today.
I've tried the best I could to stay away
from mandatory wage standards. My own
belief is that the system of free enterprise,
the great union organizations can best
handle their affairs through equal au-
thority at the bargaining table.
As President, I evolved what I thought
was the best standard I could devise. In
the past, our inflation rate has been run-
ning 7, 72, 8 percent for about 10
years. In '74 it did get up to about 13
percent, as you remember, when OPEC
clamped down on the price of oil. When
we set the voluntary wage and price
guidelines, that was a reasonable figure,
and as the inflation rate built up, differ-
ent labor organizations negotiated differ-
ent kinds of contracts. We've tried to be
reasonably flexible in giving our approval
to the contract. I don't have any author-
ity to tear up a contract. I don't have any
authority to reverse what has been nego-
tiated. And as I've said before, I'm deep-
ly concerned about excessive restrictions
that hurt the working people of our
country.
In the fall, with this new rise in infla-
tion that's been brought about by a dou-
bling, almost, of the price of oil, we'll have
to accommodate the new circumstances,
and I think the cost-of-living clause in
some of the contracts have helped.
1257
