Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 23
me to expect increased stability in the
Far East.
I think we have made great progress
since the Vietnam war. And our whole
thrust has been to ensure peace, to respect
the individual rights of people in the Far
East, to do what we can to decrease ten-
sion, to eliminate combat with respect to
the national borders, and to ensure that
those people who live there have the right
to self-determination.
We have been concerned about the in-
vasion of Kampuchea by the South Viet-
namese; they have continued presence
there with large military forces. And we
are especially concerned about the plight
of the refugees who are now being forced
out of Vietnam in increasing numbers.
These are issues that we will be discussing
with the Japanese leaders and with the
other leaders on my visit to Japan.
JAPANESE DEFENSE EXPENDITURES
Q. You said earlier that the level of the
Japanese defense expenditures should be
decided upon by the Japanese themselves,
but I would like to pursue this question by
putting it into a more American prospec-
tive. In your view, Mr. President, will
Japan be able to fulfill the defense goals,
as expected by the United States, to have
a more equitable and more effective secu-
rity bilateral relationship, by adhering to
the policy of maintaining defensive ex-
pending to 1 percent per GNP?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, because
of the dynamic growth of Japan's na-
tional product, the actual level of ex-
penditures within the 1-percent guideline
has been increasing substantially. Japan,
in my opinion, has spent its defense funds
very wisely. And we have confidence that
the Japanese military strength is adequate
to provide for the defense of Japan.
ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned some
kind of a collective or concerted effort be-
ing made which would be discussed at the
Tokyo summit meeting. Could you outlinc
more specific approaches or specific prod-
ucts to cope with the energy shortage
situation, corrective measures?
with Japan ideas on building design, the
THE PRESIDENT. We will be sharing
efficiency of automobiles, new types of
machinery and the use of such machinery,
other measures that can let the consump-
tion of energy be much more efficient.
Secondly, we will explore with Japan
the increased technological ability of the
consumption of energy to be more effi-
cient, safer, and more compatible with
clean air and water.
Third, we will be exploring with Japan
the financing and the sharing of basic re-
search data in nuclear power; the con-
version of coal to liquids and gaseous
fuels; more efficient burning of combusti-
ble materials; increased use of solar en-
ergy in all its forms, including hydroelec-
tric; the production of methanol and
other materials from replenishable grow-
ing plants, animal waste; the conversion
of solar energy directly into electricity, for
instance; new forms of the use of geother-
mal power; the sharing of basic research
on metals, friction. These kinds of ideas
can be explored jointly by Japan and the
United States and, of course, with other
nations.
In some instances, these experimental
efforts are quite expensive, and there is no
reason, if Japan is taking the leadership
role in a certain area of experimental
work, for the United States to duplicate
what Japan is already accomplishing. The
exchange of basic research data and the
sharing of the financing of pilot projects
1149
