Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 24
she said, "Since the 7-year deadline passed
and women still don't have the right to
vote, let's not bring up the issue."
And when Rosa Parks and Martin
Luther King, Jr., began to move for equal
rights in our country without respect to
race, they didn't give up after 7 years
of
educating the American public about the
needs to eliminate the intense and debil-
itating racial stigma, not just on blacks but
on all of us, because there had been legal
discrimination still not removed com-
pletely from the consciousness of America.
And I believe that 7 years has passed.
We've got an extension now, and there's
the same identical issue, that is, human
rights, applicable to seeking equal rights
for women. I'm determined to succeed.
We've been waiting long enough for it.
1980 has got to be the year.
We have this afternoon gone through
a list of 10 States where equal rights can
be ratified by State legislatures in 1980.
I think we must go all-out to prevail in
these difficult tests of strength.
On the one side: the general populus,
a heavy majority of Americans, a heavy
majority of Governors, seven Presidents
in a row, both parties, a heavy majority
in the Congress, people who know what's
right and who believe in fairness-dedi-
cated to the ratification of ERA; on the
other side: a minority representing no
party, not representing a majority of any
elected group of people, but basing their
stand on intense feelings which they ex-
emplify in every contest, and benefiting
from inertia, benefiting from delay, bene-
fiting from confusion, benefiting from
rumor, benefiting, quite often, from polit-
ical timidity, benefiting, however, from a
tight, close-knit, well-organized, dedi-
cated, opposition force.
The only way to deal with that kind
of opposition is to have a tight, well-knit,
well-organized force to present the facts
to the American people and to analyze,
State by State, where are the crucial
votes? How can we approach the Mem-
bers of the House and Senate in these 10
States or perhaps a few more? And what
can we do to let the people in those States
involved know the facts about the equal
rights amendment?
We've got to assess the problem. We've
got to divide up the responsibility. We've
got to organize our own forces effectively.
We've got to share information. We've
got to put aside the inclination that we
all have to find a scapegoat on which to
blame a temporary setback. We've got to
honor the capabilities of one another.
We've got to share information about
progress.
And we need never to be deterred. Our
course is a proper one; our cause is right.
And I predict that next year we will win.
I'm determined to do so if you'll help me.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:51 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Liz Carpenter and Ellie Peterson, honorary
cochairs and founders of ERAmerica.
International Human Rights
Award
Remarks on Accepting the Award from the
Synagogue Council of America.
October 24, 1979
First of all, I hope that before all of you
leave you'll stop by, and if Ed Sanders ยน
will place the acrostic here, I would like
for you to know how beautiful it is. And
the shofar is symbolically extremely im-
portant to me, because there's no doubt
that the rest of the world needs to be
awakened from its slumber about the im-
1 Senior Adviser to the President and the
Secretary of State.
2009
