Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
involved in volunteer work for other peo-
ple for more than 250 years in our coun-
try. And I mentioned to them about the
profound impact of the visit of Pope John
Paul II to our country. It was kind of an
outpouring of awareness of the kind of
ethical and moral and spiritual character-
istics which never change in the hearts
and minds of American people, but some-
times get buried under the transient or the
temporary problems or inconveniences
that we, as extremely fortunate people,
have in our country.
And I think that was a good reminder
that we ought not to be discouraged, that
we ought to be inspired to look to the fu-
ture with confidence, and to reach our
hand out to a neighbor and say, “Let's
work together to make the greatest nation
on Earth even greater in the future."
Thank you very much for letting me
be your President and for letting me visit
you here.
years you'll be moving up to the next floor.
[Laughter]
I predict that if Jane Byrne stays as
your mayor, and I think she will, this out-
pouring of affection and appreciation
which you
have demonstrated for her will
continue.
This afternoon I was in Kansas City-
Kansas City, Missouri-in a county court-
house, Jackson County. It's a famous
courthouse, because 8 years before he be-
came President, Harry Truman was a
county judge.
As I stood there this afternoon in a
small crowd on the main floor of the
courthouse, I thought about him as Presi-
dent and what he meant as a Democrat.
Harry Truman believed in Democratic
Party unity. Harry Truman stayed close
to the people. Harry Truman was plain-
spoken. He said what he thought, and the
people listened. Harry Truman was not
always popular, because he did what was
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:53 p.m. at the right, regardless of public opinion polls.
Jackson County Courthouse.
Chicago, Illinois
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner for Mayor
Jane Byrne. October 15, 1979
This is unbelievable. When Jane Byrne
raises a crowd, I'm always eager to come
and speak. I've never seen such a tremen-
dous outpouring of support and Demo-
cratic enthusiasm and harmony and com-
mitment and courage and anticipation for
the future as you've demonstrated here
tonight.
You might feel bad about sitting in this
room-you'll be hearing the speeches on
television later on-but it took me and
Rosalynn and many of you 2½ years to
get the place we wanted to live in in
Washington, D.C. So, maybe before 22
Harry Truman was a man of his word.
When he said something, you could be-
lieve it.
Harry Truman recognized that we had
a nation, during the last part of the
Second World War and during the few
years afterwards, which was shot through
with very serious problems, but he never
gave up. He tapped the reserves not only
of the Democratic Party but of the people
of our country.
He believed in families; he believed in
neighborhoods; he believed in communi-
ties. And he saw that, in spite of problems
which change from one day to another
or divisions among people which cause hot
debates in a free country, that there was
an undercurrent, a reservoir, a founda-
tion, a base of innate courage among the
American people, and there were princi-
ples which never change, principles of
honesty, integrity, dedication, concern
1932
