Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 6
used for purposes of taxation, investiga-
tion, or regulation, or in connection with
military or jury service, the compulsion of
school attendance, the regulation of immi-
gration, or with the enforcement of any
national, State, or local law or ordinance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of Novem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred seventy-nine, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America the
two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:14 p.m., November 6, 1979]
Department of Transportation
Nomination of Susan J. Williams To Be an
Assistant Secretary. November 6, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Susan J. Williams, of Mc-
Lean, Va., to be Assistant Secretary of
Transportation for Governmental and
Public Affairs. She would replace Ter-
rence Bracy, resigned. Williams has been
serving as Acting Assistant Secretary of
Transportation since last July.
She was born July 31, 1940, in Philadel-
phia, Pa. She received a B.A. from Upsala
College.
From 1962 to 1965, Williams was an
editor at the Center for Applied Linguis-
tics, and from 1965 to 1973, she was an
education consultant to the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
From 1962 to 1965, Williams was an
cial assistant to D.C. Delegate Walter
Fauntroy. From 1977 to 1979, she was
Director of Congressional Relations for
the Transportation Department, and from
March to July 1979, she was Deputy As-
sistant Secretary for Governmental and
Public Affairs.
Williams was a founder and vice
chairman of the Northern Virginia Demo-
cratic Women's Political Caucus. She is
vice chairman of the Commission for Chil-
dren of Fairfax County, Va.
National Council on the
Handicapped
Nomination of Howard A. Rusk To Be a
Member and Designation as Chairman.
November 6, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Howard A. Rusk as
a member of the National Council on the
Handicapped and to designate him as
Chairman on confirmation.
Rusk, 78, has been a professor and
chairman of the Department of Rehabili-
tation Medicine at New York University
School of Medicine since 1946. He has
served as a consultant on rehabilitation to
the United Nations Secretariat and to the
city of New York. He is the author of
several books and has received numerous
awards and honors.
The National Council on the Handi-
capped was established in November 1978
by Public Law 95-602 to establish general
policies regarding Federal activities affect-
ing the handicapped and review the activ-
ities of the Rehabilitation Services Admin-
istration and the National Institute of
Handicapped Research.
National Institute of
Handicapped Research
Nomination of Margaret Joan Giannini To Be
Director. November 6, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Margaret Joan Giannini, of
Pelham Manor, N.Y., to be Director of
2089
