Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Conservation of resources takes care
and planning, and requires a partnership
between various levels of government, and
public and private actions. The following
initiatives for protection and wise man-
agement of our coastal resources, public
lands, wildlife and rivers and trails re-
flect this understanding.
National Coastal Protection
America's coast lines are extraordinar-
ily varied, productive and beautiful. Con-
gress recognized the need for special
protection in the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act of 1972, which established a
voluntary Federal-State partnership for
the conservation and management of
coastal resources. Under this partnership,
many states have already made notable
progress. They have passed comprehen-
sive coastal management laws; adopted
new measures to protect wetlands, barrier
islands, mineral resources, historic sites
and other important coastal resources;
worked out better management of hazard-
ous areas; and streamlined Federal, State
and local actions affecting the coast. By
the end of 1979, 75 percent of the U.S.
shoreline will be covered by Federally-
approved state coastal zone management
programs.
The coastal zone is subject to unusual
pressures, both from natural causes and
human activities. The land and water re-
sources which support the environments
and economies of coastal communities are
in danger of depletion. The opportunity
for our citizens to enjoy beaches, bays,
and marshes is often threatened. I support
efforts to improve our understanding of
these coastal issues, and I heartily endorse
the designation by conservation organiza-
tions of the year 1980 as the "Year of the
Coast."
To help achieve the balanced, compre-
hensive and wise management intended
by the Coastal Zone Management Act, I
am announcing three initiatives to con-
tinue and improve our resource protection
policy.
First, I will submit to Congress legisla-
tion to reauthorize Federal assistance to
state coastal zone management programs
under the Coastal Zone Management Act.
Under this extension, each state would be
guaranteed a total of five years of federal
assistance at current levels after a state
management program is approved and
before federal support is gradually phased
down. This will help ensure that recently
developed state and local coastal zone
management efforts become fully estab-
lished and accepted functions of govern-
ment.
Second, I will recommend enactment
of new amendments to the Coastal Zone
Management Act that will establish a
national coastal protection policy. Work-
ing through the states, the goals of this
policy will be:
⚫ to protect significant natural re-
sources such as wetlands, estuaries,
beaches, dunes, barrier islands, coral
reefs, and fish and wildlife;
• to manage coastal development to
minimize loss of life and property
from floods, erosion, saltwater intru-
sion and subsidence;
⚫ to provide predictable siting processes
for major defense, energy, recreation
and transportation facilities;
• to increase public access to the coast
for recreation purposes;
⚫ to preserve and restore historic, cul-
tural and aesthetic coastal resources;
and
ensure
⚫ to coordinate and simplify govern-
ment decisionmaking to
proper and expedited management
of the coastal zone.
1362
