Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 28
DEADLINE FOR RELEASING AMERICAN
HOSTAGES
Q. Mr. President, can this crisis go on
indefinitely, or ought the Ayatollah
Khomeini understand that at some point
the American people may demand and
other nations may expect that you move
forward to resolve it by whatever means
you find necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. It would not be pos-
sible or even advisable for me to set a
deadline about when or if I would take
certain action in the future. This is an
ever-present consideration on my mind.
I'm carrying out all of the duties that nor-
mally fall on a President's shoulder,
which are adequate, but I never forget
one moment that I'm awake about the
hostages whose lives and whose safety de-
pend on me. And I am pursuing every
possible avenue to have the hostages
released.
Any excessive threats or any excessive
belief among the Iranians that they will
be severely damaged by military action, as
long as these negotiations are proceeding
and as long as legalities can be followed,
might cause the death of the hostages,
which we are committed to avoid. So,
that's one of the questions that I cannot
answer: to set down a certain deadline
beyond which we would take extra action,
that might result in the harm or the death
of the hostages.
We are proceeding, I guarantee you,
in every possible way, every possible
moment, to get the hostages freed and,
at the same time, protect the honor and
the integrity and the basic principles of
our country. That's all I can do, but I
am doing it to the best of my ability, and
I believe we will be successful.
U.S. STRENGTH ABROAD
Q. Mr. President, many Americans
view the Iranian situation as one in a
succession of events that proves that this
country's power is declining. How can
you assure Americans tonight that our
power is not declining abroad, and how
are you reassessing priorities for the
eighties in terms of foreign policy?
THE PRESIDENT. The United States
has neither the ability nor the will to
dominate the world, to interfere in the
internal affairs of other nations, to im-
pose our will on other people whom we
desire to be free, to make their own deci-
sions. This is not part of the commitment
of the United States.
Our country is the strongest on Earth.
We're the strongest militarily, politically,
economically, and I think we're the
strongest morally and ethically. Our
country has made great strides, even
since I've been in office. I've tried to
correct some of the defects that did exist.
We have strengthened the military alli-
ances of our country, for instance. NATO
now has a new spirit, a new confidence, a
new cohesion, improving its military ca-
pabilities, much more able to withstand
any threat from the east, from the Soviet
Union or the Warsaw Pact, than it was
before.
We've espoused again the principles
that unite Americans and make us ad-
mired throughout the world, raising the
banner of human rights. We're going to
keep it high. We have opened up avenues
of communication, understanding, trade,
with people that formerly were our ene-
mies or excluded us-several nations in
Africa, the vast people and the vast coun-
try of the People's Republic of China. In
doing so, we've not alienated any of our
previous friends.
2173
