Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 3
We also have other things that I'll
mention very briefly. We want peace. I
thank God that in the last 22 years we've
not had a single American lose his or her
life in combat anywhere in the world.
And I would like to go out of office after
I've served as President with that record
still intact. We want peace.
We also want to control nuclear wea-
pons. And I'm very grateful that the great
labor organizations represented here have
endorsed the SALT II treaty, which the
Senate is now considering.
We also need a national health insur-
ance program. And I know that you know
that this has been something that every
President has espoused or at least talked
about since Harry Truman was in office.
It hasn't yet come into being, but the
Congress now has a proposal which, when
passed, will have implemented by 1983 a
national health insurance program, com-
prehensive health coverage for our Na-
tion. It's a major social challenge.
Well, the point I'm trying to make is
that there has to be a degree of harmony,
a degree of cooperation. And in all the
enlightened social progress for which we
have struggled in the past and for which
we are struggling now, none of which is
easy, the labor movement has been in the
forefront. I'm grateful for your help and
grateful for your support.
I listen very carefully. A few minutes
ago I was on the telephone with Mr.
George Meany,2 my friend. I wish he
could be here tonight. He was planning
to come, but he has just a slight virus at-
tack. He had a little fever last night, and
because it was threatening rain, he and
I both agreed it might be better for him
not to come out tonight.
But he's a fine man. He was kind of
reading me my report card on the tele-
phone. [Laughter] He said if I wouldn't
2 President of the AFL-CIO.
tell what was on it, he wouldn't tell either.
[Laughter]
But there are three things that a Pres-
ident always has in mind, you know-na-
tional security, always present; the Con-
gress, always present; President George
Meany, that's the third one. [Laughter]
And I think he and the other great
labor leaders have been a stabilizing and
an inspirational factor for all the Presi-
dents who have served, either Republican
or Democrat. And I'm sorry he's not here
tonight, but it is a great time, I think, for
all of us maybe to express our admiration
of President George Meany by a round of
applause. And I'm sure that Lane Kirk-
land will tell him about it. [Applause]
Now I just want to introduce two more
people. One is a great Secretary of Labor,
Ray Marshall. Ray, we are proud to have
you tonight.
And the other one is the young man
who's going to entertain us tonight. I was
in Hannibal, Missouri, with Rosalynn
and Amy and a group of folks on the
Delta Queen a couple of weeks ago, and
we were watching a little skit put on
by Tom Sawyer and Becky Thatcher and
Aunt Polly and Huckleberry Finn. And
one of the things that Tom Sawyer did
was kind of philosophize. And he said
that work was something that a body is
obliged to do, and recreation is something
that a body does when he is not obliged
to do it.
Well, I think one of the great things
about the trade union movement that has
made you great are the things that you
were not obliged to do. And I've been
impressed with your unselfishness, the
fact that many times you would take a
stand or espouse a cause or fight a battle
when there's not any direct benefit in it
for you, but there's a benefit for others
who are not quite so secure or quite so
organized or quite so prosperous. But you
1595
