Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
best efforts to the resolution of those
problems.
The United Nations today is not the
United Nations of 34 sessions ago, yet I
believe it is a reflection of the world in
which we live. And anyone who wishes to
accomplish anything in that forum or,
indeed, if we wish to resolve many of the
foreign policy problems which face us, we
have to live and deal with the United
Nations of today and the world of today,
and not the ideal which we may have set
many years ago.
Yet, the ideal is important. And I look
upon the Charter of the United Nations
very much as I have always looked upon
the Constitution of the United States: It
is something that we work toward. And
as long as, it seems to me, that there is a
commitment toward the goal of those
principles set down in the Charter or
those principles set down in the Consti-
tution, I am prepared to devote my best
efforts to achieving those goals-frus-
trated sometimes, to be sure; angry some-
times, more than the press realizes, to be
sure [laughter]—but nevertheless trying
as best I can to move ahead and always
recognizing that no accomplishment in
our lives is that of a single individual.
Many of you here have worked very
long and very hard with me over the 19
or so years that I have been in Washing-
ton and working in foreign affairs. On
some occasions, I cannot say that I en-
joyed some of the things that I have done,
but I hope that I have learned the full
measure of the responsibilities which I
will need in the days ahead.
I am heartened by an observation
which, I think, Ambassador Young has
made, but which I would like to make
also. In the many years that I have ob-
served American foreign policy, I know
of no instance where we have gotten such
strong support in the United Nations, in
our efforts to live in the world as it is to-
day, than we have gotten from the Presi-
dent of the United States and the Secre-
tary of State.
It has been with that support that we
have been able, in the last 22 years, to
turn our image in the United Nations
from one in which everyone knew what
we were against, but very few people
knew what we were for. We are no longer
the abominable “no man." [Laughter] We
stand for and work for positive goals in
the United Nations.
And I hope that the partnership which
was formed 22 years ago and which con-
sisted, in many instances, of Andy Young
on the outside and Don McHenry on the
inside-I hope that that partnership will
continue outside in a new place. But
nevertheless, I look forward to the sup-
port which Ambassador Young and all
of you can give us in this responsibility
which we are about to undertake.
And so, may I conclude by thanking
you, Mr. President, for the confidence
which you have shown in me, and thank-
ing you, the American people, for the
confidence which you have shown, and
reminding you that I can't do it alone.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Departments of Transportation
and Housing and Urban
Development
Remarks at the Swearing In of Neil
Goldschmidt as Secretary of Transportation
and Moon Landrieu as Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development. September 24, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. This is really a happy
day for me and for the country. Don't you
agree? [Applause]
1718
