Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
now converted into steam and used by
the industry. They have better instru-
ments to control the generation of power.
And with more research and develop-
ment, they will be able to substitute raw
materials derived from coal and shale oil
to replace as the feedstock for that in-
dustry the oil that is currently being used.
Our second speaker was Dr. Henry
Linden, who's president of the Gas Re-
search Institute. The U.S. energy con-
sumption is of the order of 80 quads, and
one-quarter of that today comes from
natural gas. Dr. Linden suggested that the
contributions of natural gas will grow in
the next 20 years from 20 quads to 30
quads, and that's equivalent to an addi-
tion of 5 million barrels per day.
The largest source of this growth will
come from the so-called unconventional
natural gas.
These are resources that are
plentiful, perhaps as plentiful as the con-
ventional gas that we've been used to, but
they haven't been tapped in the past be-
cause of technological or economic rea-
sons. Much of this gas occurs in tight
formations, formations which are so im-
permeable that the gas doesn't flow
readily to the producing wells. As a re-
sult of research and development pro-
grams, methods have been developed to
fracture rocks, to make rocks more per-
meable so that the gas is more readily
available in the future.
Dr. Linden estimates that there may be
as much as 1,200 quads of natural gas,
conventional and unconventional, avail-
able to us, and this is of the order of 40
to 50 years of supply at the current rates
of usage.
Our third speaker was Dr. Lawrence
Ybarrondo, who's Director of Water Re-
actor Research at the Idaho National En-
gineering Laboratory of the Department
of Energy. He is an expert on nuclear re-
actor safety.
Nuclear energy accounts for some 13
percent of our electric power generation.
And in some places, such as Chicago, 50
percent of the electric power comes from
nuclear energy. In 1978 this was equiva-
lent to about 1.6 million barrels of oil per
day. However, nuclear reactor safety is
the key element to the future of nuclear
power. And Dr. Ybarrondo described how
science and technology can further in-
crease the safety of existing reactors and
facilities. For example, he proposes to im-
plant more sensors in the reactor and in
the plant so that we can have better
knowledge of the state of the facility on
a continuing basis. These larger numbers
of sensors, measuring the physical prop-
erties, the temperatures, the pressures, and
the flow rates and so on, will be monitored
by computerized systems which collect,
organize, and display the data instantane-
ously on the state of the plant.
The computers can verify the plant
readiness to cope with any potential emer-
gency. In the case of an emergency, this
system would allow the operators to make
constructive choices of what to do, and
the computer would predict the outcome
of all of these various choices.
This technology is actually state of the
art; it's being done today in other indus-
trial sectors-the aerospace industry and
so on. It's being done today on test reac-
tors in Idaho. So, this is certainly an im-
portant avenue for improving our reactor
safety.
The fourth speaker this morning was
Dr. Douglas Balcomb, who is in charge of
solar programs and conservation at the
Los Alamos National Laboratory. Some
30 percent of our energy use goes to heat
and cool residential and commercial build-
ings and to provide hot water, so conser-
vation and the use of the Sun in this area
is extremely important.
1534
