Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
time is indefinite; it can go on for many,
many years.
I have a very brief demonstration of
what photovoltaic technology may be.
This is a very simple illustration of this
principle. This material has now been
made into a solar cell by the addition of
those impurities. It's placed in the top of
this cube, and wires have been now placed
from the top and the bottom of the solar
cell to a little electric motor inside the
cube. And if we turn on the light, which
would simulate the Sun, we see that there
is a direct conversion that goes on. And by
simply cutting off the light, the electricity
stops.
This principle has been developed, it's
very modular in nature-the more solar
cells we add together, the more power we
derive. There is no complex interaction
between the solar cells, which makes it
look like as we increase the number of
solar cells, we're going to get less power
than you would anticipate; quite simple,
electrical summations of these solar cells
together.
Now, I have some slides I'd like to very
quickly show you to further develop this
thesis.
In this first slide we see a cutaway of
what a solar cell really is. This is a very
simple, thin piece of material covered with
a window in order to protect the surface
of it from contamination, dust, and make
it easy to clean. A solar cell by itself, as we
have seen, is not in itself able to sustain a
complete system, that is, that when the
Sun goes away. Of course, we must have
energy in order to provide the energy in
the evening, for instance. And this is done
by a conventional technique such as a
storage battery.
A solar cell, such as this, plus some
means of controlling the amount of energy
which is coming out to charge the battery,
is something that we would conventionally
be able to use, for instance, in our home.
And this is one of the very interesting as-
pects of what photovoltaics may offer.
That is the distributed form of energy con-
version that people may put on to their
houses. It would take, for instance, about
500 square feet of a solar array on a south-
facing roof in order to provide enough
energy to power a typical American home.
At present cost today, it costs on the
order of around $50,000 for that size of a
power system, and therefore, in today's
technology and today's economics, that's,
of course, quite impractical. But it doesn't
have to be there, and we'll develop this
thesis further.
The technology of solar cells became
quite developed during the space age, and
one of the best examples of that tech-
nology was in the use of solar cells in
powering our Skylab space station. This
was nominally a 24-kilowatt power system.
It was in orbit for over 6 years, and in that
period of time it was the only source of
power for the entire Skylab—a much more
complicated kind of a power system than
ever we would need in our home.
In that 6 years, there was unmeasurable
degradation of that power system in the
hostile environment of space.
Solar cells since 1973 have had a great
interest in its application relative to ter-
restrial purposes, and here we see it being
used on a tower in the Gulf of Mexico for
navigation aids in order to operate lights,
to blow horns, and to warn oncoming
ships about its presence.
It's used frequently in isolated areas,
such as this particular system which is in
the Mojave Desert, which is used by the
California Highway Patrol for radio relay
purposes. It is being used quite success-
fully. It is being used now in developing
countries. In this particular application,
it is being used in Senegal in order to
pump water, where people in the past
1555
