Dec. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tory management and cost-effective deci-
sionmaking, elimination of unnecessary
regulatory burdens, enhanced opportuni-
ties for meaningful public participation,
and reduction of redtape and unnecessary
delay in the regulatory process. This is the
type of balanced reform effort which will
streamline the Government's efforts to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of
our citizens, without wasting public or
private resources.
The President hopes for speedy and
responsible action in the full Judiciary
Committee and in the Senate Govern-
mental Affairs Committee, where Senator
Ribicoff has introduced and held hearings
on similar legislation.
United States-Peru Treaty on
Penal Sentences
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. December 20, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty between the
United States of America and Peru on the
Execution of Penal Sentences, which was
signed at Washington on July 6, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Treaty.
The Treaty would permit citizens of
either nation who had been convicted in
the courts of the other country to serve
their sentence in their home country; in
each case the consent of the offender as
well as the approval of the authorities of
the two Governments would be required.
This Treaty is significant because it
represents an attempt to resolve a situa-
tion which has inflicted substantial hard-
ships on a number of citizens of each
country and has caused concern to both
Governments. The Treaty is similar to
those currently in force with Bolivia, Can-
ada and Mexico. I recommend that the
Senate give favorable consideration to this
Treaty at an early date.
The White House,
December 20, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Council on Wage and Price
Stability
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. December 20, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 5 of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the
Congress the nineteenth quarterly report
of the Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility. The report contains a description
of the Council's activities during the
second quarter of 1979 in monitoring
both prices and wages in the private sec-
tor and various Federal Government
activities that may lead to higher costs.
and prices without creating commensu-
rate benefits. It discusses Council reports,
analyses, and filings before Federal regu-
latory agencies. It also describes the
Council's activities of monitoring wages
and prices as part of the anti-inflation
program.
The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility will continue to play an important
role in supplementing fiscal and monetary
policies by calling public attention to
wage and price developments or actions
by the Government that could be of con-
cern to American consumers.
The White House,
December 20, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
2272
