July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
would be required extra if we don't pass
SALT. That $21 billion in a given level of
budget would have to be taken from, may-
be some of the social programs-housing
and so forth-in which you are deeply
interested.
So, I'd say an increase above what we
need in defense expenditures and a gen-
eral preservation of peace, increased trade
that provides jobs, would be an additional
tangible benefit.
We've got superb black leaders who
have been briefed thoroughly on SALT
and who are now speaking around the
country on behalf of SALT just because a
SALT treaty would help the people who
look to them for leadership. One from
your own region has been especially help-
ful, Jesse Jackson. Jesse's making speeches
now to colleges and high schools and
other fora around the Nation, telling
them why as a black leader he knows that
SALT is best for minority groups.
So, I think if you would be interested,
when Jesse gets back from South Africa,
he would be prepared, after thorough
briefings here in the White House from
me and others, to explain this even more
thoroughly than I can at this moment.
Q. Mr. President, to follow up your
answer to that question, you said, for ex-
ample, that without the treaty, Les Aspin
estimates that we have to spend another
$21 billion on arms. And yet, what seems
to be building up, movement that seems
to be building up among the critics of
SALT, is that as a condition of agreeing
to SALT that there has to be a very sub-
stantial increase in weapons involving
particularly the strategic side, and ap-
parently a good deal more than you
committed yourself to in your original
presentation of the SALT II arguments.
Do you feel now that in the light of
this kind of building argument that you're
going to have to make a very hard com-
mitment to a substantially larger increase
in defense spending and particularly on
the strategic weapons involvement in or-
der to meet that kind of criticism and get
this thing sold?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me respond by
giving you three points.
First of all, my ultimate responsibility
as President, above everything else, is to
guarantee the security of my Nation, and
the defense budgets that I have proposed
and will propose will be adequate for
that purpose.
Second, no matter what level of de-
fense expenditure we might have $140
billion, $160 billion, $180 billion, it
doesn't matter-under any level of ex-
penditure for defense purposes within
reason, we are better off with the SALT
treaty than without it. I could give you
the reasons, but I won't go into that,
because it'll take too much time.
And the third thing is that, habitually,
Presidents have—including myself—have
been more inclined toward a strong de-
fense budget than has the Congress in the
ultimate analysis. The Congress is the one
that makes the final judgment about
budget levels.
I've had two budgets that have been
made effective since I've been Presi-
dent-one, fiscal year 1978 and then this
fiscal year 1979. The Congress has re-
duced the defense expenditures or au-
thorizations that I have requested, I think
roughly $5 billion during just those 2
years alone.
So, because of those three factors, I
think that the answer is that SALT is
needed regardless of defense expendi-
tures. I will provide adequate defense rec-
ommendations to the Congress. The like-
lihood is that if I tried to escalate defense
requests substantially above what they are
needed just to get Senate votes, which I
1328
