Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
management, including cost-sharing and
assistance to states for comprehensive
water resources planning. I look forward
to cooperation with the 96th Congress in
this area.
NATIONAL HERITAGE POLICY ACT
I strongly support the establishment of
a comprehensive Federal program to
identify and protect significant natural
areas and historic places. I will soon pro-
pose a National Heritage Policy Act which
would help Federal agencies, State and
local governments, Indian tribes and citi-
zens identify potential heritage areas;
establish a new National Register of Nat-
ural Areas to supplement the existing
National Register of Historic Places; and
protect areas listed on either Register, or
eligible for listing, from adverse federal
actions. This important legislation would
support the Heritage Conservation pro-
gram already established by the Secretary
of the Interior in 1977.
SAVING THE WHALES
With U.S. leadership, the nations of
the world are making encouraging prog-
ress toward protecting the great whales.
At the July 1979 meeting of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission (IWC), pro-
posals by the United States and other
countries for a moratorium on commer-
cial whaling led to dramatic improve-
ments. By the necessary three-fourths
majority, IWC members voted to:
End whaling from factory ships on
the high seas (except for hunting of
the relatively numerous minkes) and
allow whaling only from coastal
stations;
• Reduce killing of the commercially
valuable but jeopardized sperm
whales by more than three-quarters,
with world quotas down from 9360
sperm whales to 2203;
• Establish a whale sanctuary in most
of the Indian Ocean where no hunt-
ing of any of the great whales will be
allowed for 10 years.
I am wholeheartedly committed to
strong action to guarantee the survival of
the great whales. The progress made in
this year's IWC meeting shows that many
other nations share the American com-
mitment. I will continue to press for bet-
ter scientific understanding of these mag-
nificant and highly intelligent creatures
and will maintain the effort to halt com-
mercial whaling.
IMPLEMENTATION OF 1978 NATIONAL
PARKS AND RECREATION ACT
Following passage of the National Parks
and Recreation Act of 1978, the Admin-
istration has sought to speed the acquisi-
tion of new park land before it is spoiled
or priced out of reach. We shall continue
to do that.
Among the most significant and imagi-
native actions included in the 1978 legisla-
tion is the program to establish a million-
acre Pinelands National Reserve in New
Jersey. The Department of the Interior
will support local and State efforts to pro-
tect the Pinelands and its unique scenic
and natural resources while maintaining
private ownership ond a sound local tax
base. The Administration strongly sup-
ports this new Federal, State and local
partnership in the Pinelands, and will
work hard to see that federal agencies
cooperate with State and local govern-
ments to ensure its success.
POLLUTION CONTROL
Making the Clean Air and Clean Water
Acts work is an important commitment of
my Administration. We will continue the
1359
