Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tor at Louisiana State University Law
School. In 1952 he served as deputy city
solicitor of Philadelphia.
From 1953 to 1955, Shestack was first
deputy city solicitor. In 1953 he was also
an instructor at the University of Penn-
sylvania Law School. Since 1955 he has
been with the firm of Schnader, Harrison,
Segal and Lewis; he has been a partner
since 1956.
Shestack is president of the Interna-
tional League for Human Rights, a non-
governmental international human rights
organization with consultative status at the
United Nations and with affiliates in some
35 nations. He is founder and cochairman
of the Lawyers Committee for Interna-
tional Human Rights, a public interest law
association which deals with international
human rights problems. He has chaired a
number of international human rights
conferences.
Shestack was a founding member of the
Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights
Under Law and has served on the board
of directors of the Mexican-American
Legal Defense Fund. He was a founder
of the section of individual rights and re-
sponsibilities of the American Bar Asso-
ciation and served as chairman of the
section in 1969-70.
In 1973 he became the first chairman
of the Commission on Mentally Disabled
of the American Bar Association, where
he established projects to help provide
legal services and promote rights for the
mentally disabled. He served on the first
Indigent Defendants and is on the board
of directors of the American Jewish
Committee.
Price Advisory Committee
Appointment of Six Members.
December 10, 1979
The President today announced the
selection of six prominent public sector
representatives to serve as members of the
anti-inflation program's Price Advisory
Committee.
The President announced on Septem-
ber 28 that an advisory panel would be
named in order to broaden public par-
ticipation in the design and implementa-
tion of the voluntary price standard.
Panel membership was enlarged from five
to six to ensure greater public input.
A Pay Advisory Committee, with six
representatives each from the business,
labor, and public sectors, was named on
October 16. That panel, which is chaired
by Harvard University economist John T.
Dunlop, has been meeting regularly to
discuss possible changes in the voluntary
pay standard.
The Price Committee will advise the
Council on Wage and Price Stability on
the development of policies to encourage
anti-inflationary price behavior. The
policies are intended to slow the rate of
inflation and assure equitable distribution
of the burden of restraint. The Commit-
tee may recommend modifications of the
steering committee to organize the legal price standard, new or revised interpreta-
services program of the Office of Eco-
nomic Opportunity and then became a
member of the OEO National Advisory
Committee to the Legal Services Program.
Shestack is chairman of the ABA
Standing Committee on Legal Aid and
tions of the standard, or make any other
recommendations on the standards that it
considers necessary to assure fairness and
equity.
The Committee's first meeting is
scheduled for Thursday, December 13,
2218
