Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
own mind the trends in Soviet influence
the last 10 or 15 years, say-just to get
out of my own administration and to
make it a bipartisan thing-versus the
Soviet Union, I'm very encouraged.
The Soviets did win an advantage in
Afghanistan. That Soviet-endorsed gov-
ernment is in substantial danger, and
that's significant. But when you compare
that with our new relationship with India,
compared to what it was 5 years ago, or
our new relationship with Egypt, the
strongest and most powerful Arab coun-
try, compared to what it was during the
time of the Aswan Dam construction,
when Egypt was absolutely committed to
the Soviet Union and was dependent on
the Soviet Union for military and eco-
nomic aid, and now are completely
friends with us and have prohibited
Soviet technicians and others from com-
ing into the country—that's a major
change in the Mideast itself.
The People's Republic of China, a
fourth of the people on Earth-it wasn't
long ago that they were endorsed and
supported by and were the closest of allies
with the Soviet Union. Now we have a
new and burgeoning friendship with the
people of the People's Republic of China,
and we have not lost our financial and
economic and friendly relationships with
the people on Taiwan.
I could continue to go, but those are
major countries. There have also, obvi-
ously, been some setbacks. I don't deny
that.
I think that the present commitment
that I have given to defense has reversed
a longstanding trend. For 15 years, our
country was making no real increase in
defense expenditures. In fact, when I
came into office, our real commitment to
defense was less than it was in 1963. This
year, the current fiscal year, we have ac-
commodated all the impact of inflation,
and we have at least a 3-percent growth
in defense expenditures.
I think we have restrengthened NATO,
which was very weak, not only militarily
but politically. There's a new spirit and a
new dynamism and a new cooperation in
NATO that did not exist before.
On strategic weapons systems—if you
take our sea-based missiles and you assess
the dramatic progress being made with
the Trident submarines and the new Tri-
dent missiles, that's a quantum step
forward. The air-breathing leg of our
triad, with the new generations of cruise
missiles coming along that's a major
technological and strategic breakthrough.
And with the MX missile that I an-
nounced this morning on land-based, silo-
type missiles-this is the first time that we
have ever seen a single missile acquire such
a tremendous importance. And it not only
gives our country a better defense or at-
tack capability, it also contributes to sta-
bility, because you've got a lot more de-
fense with a lot fewer missiles.
So, I think that if you look at other
factors-our espousing human rights, the
economic strength of our country, our
overall trade relationships-in almost
every measure, I do not see our country
as being affected detrimentally, as con-
trasted with the Soviet Union.
We recognize that they are a military
nation; they put a lot more emphasis on
military weaponry than do we. And we
are much more inclined to support the
status quo, to put down regional con-
flagrations and conflicts than are the So-
viet Union. They espouse a revolutionary
political thesis, and to them the change
of governments quite often is in their
advantage. We generally are inclined to
support the government that's in power,
unless it is so obnoxious to our own stand-
ards and principles that we cannot accept
it.
So, the Soviets are inclined to stir up
1612
