Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 27
almost two meters of rain each year. We
do some irrigating, and near my farm,
but not on my farm, are produced other
crops like vegetables and tobacco, but
most of the crops produced on my farm
are very large fields and the crops that I
have enumerated to you.
I might point out that we are very
proud of the sale of American farm prod-
ucts to Japan. I forgot to mention that we
also produce soybeans on our farm. As a
matter of fact, there are more acres of
land in the United States which produce
food for the Japanese than there is land
in Japan which produces food for Japa-
nese. So, we are very proud of an oppor-
tunity to sell you our farm products, and
it gives a great opportunity for trade back
and forth between our nations.
Thank you very much for letting me
talk about my favorite subject of farming.
FAMILY LIFE
Q. Welcome, Mr. President, to the city
of Shimoda. I am the mother of a first
grader, as well as a year-and-a-half girl.
This is a very friendly atmosphere. I
really enjoy talking to you, Mr. President.
I would like to ask you, sir, for a young
mother like me, who has responsibility for
the next generation, as a mother you are
a father, of course, Mr. President-but for
a mother, what do you expect us mothers
to do for the next generation? That is my
question, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. In a day of women's
liberation, it's getting more difficult to
distinguish between the responsibilities of
women and men. My wife gives me advice
on matters of a broad range. She shares
the responsibilities with me, both for my
business affairs and also political affairs,
and so she and I have an equal partner-
ship which I think is very typical of Amer-
ican life.
My own impression in being here in
Shimoda and listening to the questions
thus far is of the intense interest of this
community and Japanese people in gen-
eral in the family and the growth of chil-
dren and the cohesion of the family struc-
ture. I think to provide support for a hus-
band, to share his burdens and responsi-
bilities and achievements, to keep a stable
family group, to accommodate the varied
interests and characteristics of children, to
give them a better life and a better oppor-
tunity than we ourselves had when we
were growing up, to try to acquaint them
with the outside world and the principles
of a good life-those are things which are
obvious to me as a father. I'm sure they're
obvious to you as a mother.
But ultimately, a nation's strength rests
very heavily on the strength of individual
families and individual communities.
That's the root of our progress and the
root of the stability of life which lets us
accommodate and overcome serious prob-
lems and obstacles. That's one of the rea-
sons Japan has made such great progress;
that's one of the reasons that you are one
of the greatest nations on Earth, the
strong family.
U.S. TRADE WITH JAPAN
Q. It is indeed a great honor to be able
to see you, Mr. President.
I am with a farming family; I'm 25
years old, producing the Japanese tanger-
ine, oranges.
In Japan, at this moment, we have
the import agriculture products such as
oranges. As a result of the development of
the agricultural products import, we tan-
gerine producers are having hard times
because of the import of oranges and
other agricultural products from the U.S.
So, in this connection, I would like to
have your thinking about this.
1177
