Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nation is able to address them. But for us
to use those temporary or transient incon-
veniences or serious problems as an excuse
to lash out at one another and to try to
grasp a selfish advantage for ourselves or
to turn against our own Government or
to turn against our own free enterprise
system and condemn ourselves, that's
what I deplore.
And so, I think we do have a serious
problem in our country with a lack of con-
fidence in the future and some tendencies
toward disunity. But when we analyze the
reasons for unity and the need for us to
work together and the blessings that we
have, I think that's an accurate means for
Americans to derive an honest opinion of
our own country.
PRESIDENT'S LEADERSHIP QUALITIES
MS. STAMBERG. President Carter, to
what extent does that lack of confidence
that you say we're exhibiting in the fu-
ture of the country depend on a confi-
dence in you and your ability to govern?
your ability to govern?
THE PRESIDENT. A lot.
MS. STAMBERG. You've seen your rat-
ings in the polls are very low, and real
questions are being raised about your own
leadership abilities.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure. I think that has
a lot to do with it. It's not only a lack of
confidence in the President but an even
lower confidence, for instance, in the Con-
gress and a very low confidence in the
news media, in the churches, in the
schools. And people have become more
uncertain, as I pointed out in my Sunday
night speech in July.
A part of it is because of present in-
conveniences and divisions and competi-
tion. Part of it, however, is derived from
historical events-Vietnam war, Water-
gate embarrassments, and so forth-that
America is now beginning to heal. But I
think the fact that we have been able to
weather the leaving of this office, in which
we are sitting, by an incumbent Presi-
dent under embarrassing circumstances,
the fact that we have been willing to face
the first experience in American history
when we were not successful in a war,
in Vietnam, and still have a strong coun-
try is a sign that we ought not to be dis-
couraged, but that we ought to be en-
couraged.
Our basic institutions that we some-
times doubt-government, the Presi-
dency, the Congress-have survived and
have prevailed. And I don't think our
system of either economics or our social
system or our government system has any
equal anywhere on Earth. We ought to
remember that.
Ms. STAMBERG. But are you saying,
though, that your low ratings in the polls
are a result of general public lack of con-
fidence in the institution itself, or in your
own ability to be President, to provide
leadership?
THE PRESIDENT. I think both. I don't
think that all of my low ratings in the
polls are attributable to a general lack of
confidence. Part of it is because of people's
opinion about me.
This has not been a unique circum-
stance. All previous Presidents have had
very low ratings in the polls at one time
or another. Without being apologetic
about it, we have never failed. And I hope
I never fail, as long as I'm in this office, to
address a necessary and difficult question
just to avoid criticisms or a lower rating
in the poll.
There's no way to benefit, for instance,
from addressing the energy question.
You're condemned by producers of oil,
you're condemned in some ways by con-
sumers who, once the issue is raised, say,
"Well, why doesn't the President do some-
thing about it?" We're trying. And I
think that this is inherent in this office.
I didn't come here looking for glory or
looking for everyone to approve what I
did; I came here to do a job for our coun-
1918
