Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 13
country, but we must do so. These have
been the goals of Leonel Castillo as Di-
rector of the Immigration and Naturali-
zation Service. Leonel has made the INS
more efficient and more responsive, so that
suffering people, trying to obey the law,
would not have to wait years for a simple
answer to a basic question. He took on
one of the toughest, most thankless jobs
there is in the United States, and he did
it well. And all of us ought to thank him
for it.
I know that Leonel is disappointed at
some things which have not yet been done
in the not much more than 2 years that
he has served so well, but I am very proud
of his accomplishments.
For too long both the legislative and
the executive branches of Government
have ignored our immigration policies
and the problems that were building up
throughout our land. Undocumented
aliens have feared that any solution at-
tempted would be at their expense, and
a great many other people have just
found it easier not to think about this
problem as long as it was others who
suffered and not themselves.
Together in the last few months, we
have tried to face up to these difficult
problems and to seek real solutions. We
are making some progress. We've not yet
gone far enough. And we are consulting
closely with the Mexican Government
officials for the first time, and other coun-
tries who are involved. And I promise you
that this effort which has been initiated
so well by Leonel Castillo, by the Immi-
gration and Naturalization Service, will
not terminate with his departure. He will
continue to help us, and the progress that
he started will continue as well.
Some parts of our policy are very con-
troversial-human rights at home also
means justice, tempered with mercy.
Last week, I commuted the sentences
of the last four Puerto Rican nationalists
who attacked President Truman and
wounded five Members of Congress more
than 25 years ago. I did this for humane
reasons.
AUDIENCE MEMBER. Why?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll tell you why. I did
this for humane reasons and because I
agreed with Congressmen Garcia and
Corrada and with Franklin Lopez and
others here tonight, that the time that
they had served, more than 25 years, was
long enough.
I'd like to make it clear that an im-
portant principle was involved. These na-
tionalists were imprisoned for criminal
conduct, not for their political views. Like
other Americans, they're entitled to the
freedom of speech guaranteed by the Con-
stitution. And I can say to you that our
country is strong enough so that we can
honor the principle of freedom of speech,
and we need not fear those who speak out
with ideas with which we may disagree.
On the important issue of the future
status of Puerto Rico, I will support what-
ever decision is made by the people of
Puerto Rico because I believe-[ap-
plause] because I feel that Puerto Ricans
have enough judgment to make a decision
about their own future for themselves, and
I will honor their judgment.
We must look now to the present and
its needs, and to a better future for all
Puerto Rican citizens, whether they live
on the island or whether they live here
on the mainland. And we seek to fulfill
human rights here at home, and we will
continue to speak out for human rights
abroad.
From the day that I took office, I have
sought to place at the top of my agenda
and to awaken the conscience of the world
1663
