Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
including jail sentences for the principal
violators.
• Establish a Wildlife Section in the
Land and Natural Resources Division
which will be staffed principally by at-
torneys who will be trained to be wild-
life law enforcement specialists with re-
sponsibilities similar to those of the Jus-
tice Department's white-collar crime
"economic crime enforcement specialists".
Please give these assignments your
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
im-
Memorandum for the Secretary of the
Treasury
In my Environmental Message of
August 2, 1979, illegal trade in fish and
wildlife was identified as a significant en-
vironmental problem. Recent criminal
and civil investigations have indicated
that this trade runs to tens of millions of
dollars a year and can introduce serious
diseases. It is
is important that we
strengthen the individual and collective
abilities of agencies to deal with this
problem.
We must establish a coordinated fed-
eral wildlife enforcement program. To
improve the effectiveness of this program,
I am submitting legislation that strength-
ens wildlife enforcement laws. I am also
directing agencies to take certain individ-
ual actions and to form two task forces to
coordinate their activities.
I therefore direct that your Depart-
ment:
Assign a representative to a wildlife
law enforcement committee chaired by
the Department of the Interior which will
include representatives from the Depart-
ments of Treasury, Justice, Agriculture
and Commerce. The committee will re-
view agency enforcement experiences,
priorities and problems, expedite review
of agency trade regulations, help coor-
dinate federal trade enforcement policies
generally and keep
informed.
agency heads
agency
Assign a representative to a plant
enforcement task force, chaired by the
Department of Agriculture, which will
include representatives from the Depart-
ments of Agriculture, Justice, Interior
and Treasury. The task force will in-
vestigate the illegal trade in plants and
will bring appropriate prosecutions.
Assign representatives as appropriate
to interagency teams, chaired by the De-
partment of the Interior, which will audit
wildlife import documents to discover
fraudulent documentation.
Recognize that violations involving
commerical quantities of wildlife, plants
or their derivatives are so significant as
to be considered white-collar crime and
consequently the Department of Treasury
will assign a high priority to pursuing
investigations of this nature.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Wild and Scenic Rivers
and National Trails
Memorandums From the President.
August 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized the important
natural, historic, and recreational values
of our Nation's river corridors. It is im-
portant for the federal agencies to set an
example of sound management for state,
local, and private landowners by taking
an aggressive role in protecting Wild and
Scenic Rivers which flow through public
lands.
1379
