Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 16
you will help not only with the racial dis-
crimination that still exists in some areas
of our life but also will help to get the
equal rights amendment passed for this
country.
The thing that I appreciate about you
is that you're not just confining your in-
fluence to a few things. You look around
you, close by, to make families stronger.
You look down at the little ones around
you and say, "I want these children to
have a better education than I had a
chance to have." You look up and remem-
ber that our inspiration comes from God
and that there are some things in this
world that never change, and they're the
most precious things of all. And you look
outside of your own homes to make better
you
communities and a better nation. And
help with things like the elderly, things
like jobs, better transportation, better
housing. Whenever there's a need, your
minds and your hearts and your hands
have been dedicated to meeting that need.
And you're also dedicated to peace.
We've got to have a SALT agreement
completed this year, because as you well
know, if a nation goes to war, the poor
and the black have always been the first
ones to go. And I believe that one of the
most important things that all of you
could do is to induce the Members of the
Senate of the United States to ratify the
SALT agreement, because we do not want
to have a hundred million American citi-
zens killed by nuclear weapons. And that's
an important task for us all.
I appreciate your going to the Hill
today. When you speak, the Congress
listens. And you have talked to them today
about a very important consideration for
matters overseas.
Before I came in this house as Presi-
dent, we had very little interest or involve-
ment in the affairs of Africa. We have
changed that.
I pointed out earlier that you're not
afraid to speak out, and as you know, I
chose an Ambassador to the United Na-
tions that was not afraid to speak out.
Andrew Young spelled out the policy not
only for our country, but his voice was
heard, and his advice was followed, and
his policies were adopted by many other
nations on Earth.
And now we have a growing commit-
ment to Africa to guarantee that racial
discrimination is wiped out, that majority
rule exists, and that we never again in the
future have to face the burdens of apart-
heid, which is a disgrace for the human
race. We are now making progress in
Namibia. Meetings are going on this
week that give us some hope for the in-
dependence and the autonomy of that
country. And in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, as
you know, we are also seeing good
progress.
When I came into office, we had the
so-called Byrd amendment, which forced
us to trade with an unacceptable govern-
ment in what was then known as Rho-
amendment, and sanctions were imposed
desia. The Congress eliminated the Byrd
by us, by Great Britain, and by other coun-
tries. We've seen the benefits of it, because
the pressure of those sanctions have
caused the reluctant parties to come by
now and negotiate what we hope will be
a time of freedom for the new nation of
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia.
Some of the Members of the Congress
want the sanctions to be lifted, but I think
we ought not to lift those sanctions until
we have a British Governor-General in
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and we have the
electoral process well underway. And if
you'll help me, we're going to hold those
sanctions off until we get those two things
done.
The last thing I want to say is this.
2137
