Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 29
except in an open debate that's part of
democracy, and work toward the future.
We've done it in many ways.
Your Governor has been a superb ex-
ample of what can be done. I remember
when I was inaugurated President, the
State in this country that had the highest
unemployment rate was Rhode Island.
The unemployment rate in Providence,
Rhode Island, was more than 10 percent.
Now it's less than 6 percent. The unem-
ployment rate in the entire State of Rhode
Island was 92 percent. Now it's less than
6 percent.
There was a transformation taking
place in your State and in your local com-
munities that was very difficult. But be-
cause of good cooperation and the analy-
sis of a common problem and the sharing
of information, the tough arguments at
times about how best to reach a goal, we
have been successful jointly.
We've tried to organize the Federal
Government to meet your needs more
efficiently, when there was cooperation. I
remember the devastating snowfall and
ice storm that occurred in your State. It
was one of the biggest burdens placed on
their communities in years. But there was
a good sharing, without recrimination,
without blame, without casting stones,
and we shared the responsibility along
with the private citizens here and pre-
vailed.
One great opportunity that we have as
well now is to bring prosperity to our
downtown urban areas in large cities and
also middle- and small-sized cities. There
is a sharing of responsibility here. The
Department of Transportation has been
working with your Governor and local
officials to bring about a relocation of the
Providence, Rhode Island, station com-
plex and move it closer to your State
Capitol. This will be a successful project
that will give your downtown area a stim-
ulus that will give you a better life for all
people in this region in the years to come.
These are the kinds of cooperative efforts
that pay rich dividends for us all.
I'd like just to mention two other things
that extend far beyond Cranston or Prov-
idence or Rhode Island, even Washing-
ton. Ours is a strong nation. We are a na-
tion at peace. I'm the first President in 56
years that has served so far without a
single American being killed in combat
overseas. This is not a personal triumph
for me, but it's an indication that our Na-
tion is a peace-loving nation. But we are
a peace-loving nation that understands
that peace can only be ours if we are
strong, and we will stay strong.
There's not only a requirement for mil-
itary strength, which we will maintain
second to none, but there's also a require-
ment that the American people be strong,
that we again have that word I used be-
fore-unity-and confidence in one an-
other and a common purpose, because the
best way that we can have peace is for
any potential adversary to know that
America is militarily strong, economically
strong, politically strong, that we have
the will and resolve to protect ourselves,
but also that we are a nation which is
morally strong, that our ethical standards
are high, that the principles on which our
Nation was founded still prevail.
I think we've had a remarkable demon-
stration of that just recently. When the
Holy Father came here, Pope John Paul
II, the reception that he received in our
country was unanticipated and startling
in its significance. I had a few minutes
with him privately in the Oval Office,
after we greeted the Members of the
House and Senate, the Cabinet, the Su-
preme Court Justices, and others, and I
asked if he was surprised. He said yes.
And I said I was, too. "I knew that you'd
be received with open arms and with
friendship and hospitality in our country,
but I never dreamed that you would have
12 million people assembled in Grant
Park in Chicago," the biggest group of
2061
