Sept. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mrs. Roybal just told me that Ed¹ is
feeling very well. His message was one of
great encouragement to us, and I am look-
ing forward to continuing my work with
him as soon as he is released from the hos-
pital, perhaps tomorrow.
Tonight we are enjoying good food,
good hospitality, good friendship, good
company, and good plans for the future
and good memories of the past. But as we
gather together in a spirit of celebration
and good fellowship, we must never forget
that we are here because of something
that's larger and much more important.
Everyone in this room is a part of three
great struggles, struggles that have defined
the history of our time. I'm talking about
the struggle for human rights at home and
abroad. I'm talking about the struggle for
basic social and economic justice, and I'm
talking about the struggle for a peaceful
Earth.
The actions that I take as President of
the United States of America are aimed at
advancing, with you, these three great
causes. The lives of many in this room
have literally been dedicated to these
causes. And in these battles, the members
of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus
have been, as you know, just where they
belong, always in the frontlines of the
struggle. I've been proud to stand with
you for the last 22 years, and I'm proud
that we've stood together in a common
cause.
Ed Roybal and his colleagues Bob
Garcia, Baltasar Corrada, and Kika de la
Garza, and others who have joined the
Spanish Caucus have made their voices
heard far beyond their own districts.
They've fought for the rights of all His-
panic Americans, whether their back-
ground is Mexican or Cuban, Puerto
Representative Edward R. Roybal of
California.
Rican, Central American, or South Amer-
ican. They've fought for jobs, for political
participation, for better education, and for
an end to prejudice, discrimination, and
bigotry.
All Americans, not just those who hap-
pen to speak Spanish, have benefited from
their efforts. And on behalf of all Ameri-
cans, I thank them, and I thank you.
The road we travel together is long
and it is hard, but we are moving. And
we are going to keep on moving and keep
on pushing until the magnificent ideals of
this Nation are a reality for all who live
within its borders.
Tonight, I want to report to you very
briefly on the progress we have made to-
gether within this Government and with-
in this Nation in the cause of liberty, of
justice, and of peace.
This Nation was founded on a passion-
ate commitment to basic human rights,
but for too many years our Government,
our Nation, has seemed to have lost touch
with this basic source of strength. It's
been said often, and said rightly, human
rights begin at home. And I'm determined
that the provisions of the United States
Constitution and the laws of our land
shall apply to all who live within the bor-
ders of our country, whether they are citi-
zens or not.
Months ago I urged all the Governors
of our country, and I have now signed an
order to all of the heads of the depart-
ments and agencies in our own Govern-
ment, directing them to see that undocu-
mented aliens are treated fairly and hu-
manely in every instance. And I'm direct-
ing Federal officials to give full coopera-
tion to officials of other nations who seek
their help in investigating any allegation
of discrimination or deprivation of those
basic human rights which we hold so dear.
We have not yet stamped out all the
vestiges of bigotry and brutality in our
1662
