Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
religious faith on Earth which condones
the sustained abuse of innocent people.
We are deeply concerned about the in-
human and degrading conditions imposed
on the hostages. From every corner of the
world, nations and people have voiced
their strong revulsion and condemnation
of Iran and have joined us in calling for
the release of the hostages.
Last night, a statement of support was
released and was issued by the President
of the United Nations General Assembly,
the Security Council, on behalf of all of
its members. We expect a further Security
Council meeting on Saturday night, at
which more firm and official action may
be taken to help in obtaining the release
of the American hostages. Any claims
raised by government officials of Iran will
ring hollow while they keep innocent peo-
ple bound and abused and threatened.
We hope that this exercise of diplomacy
and international law will bring a peace-
ful solution, because a peaceful solution
is preferable to the other remedies avail-
able to the United States. At the same
time, we pursue such a solution with grim
determination. The Government of Iran
must recognize the gravity of the situa-
tion, which it has itself created, and the
grave consequences which will result if
harm comes to any of the hostages.
I want the American people to know
and I want the world to know that we
will persist in our efforts, through every
means available, until every single Amer-
ican has been freed. We must also recog-
nize now, as we never have before, that
it is our entire Nation which is vulnerable,
because of our overwhelming and exces-
sive dependence on oil from foreign coun-
tries. We have got to accept the fact that
this dependence is a direct physical threat
to our national security, and we must join
together to fight for our Nation's energy
freedom.
We know the ways to win this war:
more American energy and the more effi-
cient use of what we have. The United
States Congress is now struggling with this
extremely important decision. The way to
victory is long and difficult, but we have
the will, and we have the human and the
natural resources of our great Nation.
However hard it might be to see into
the future, one thing tonight is clear: We
stand together. We stand as a nation uni-
fied, a people determined to protect the
life and the honor of every American. And
we are determined to make America an
energy-secure nation once again. It is un-
thinkable that we will allow ourselves to be
dominated by any form of overdepend-
ence at home or any brand of terrorism
abroad. We are determined that the
freest nation on Earth shall protect and
enhance its freedom.
I'd be glad to answer questions.
QUESTIONS
WORLD REACTION TO IRANIAN SITUATION
Q. Mr. President, the Ayatollah Kho-
meini said the other day-and I'm using
his words he doesn't believe you have the
guts to use military force. He puts no
credibility in our military deterrent. I'm
wondering, how do we get out of this
mess in Iran and still retain credibility
with our allies and with our adversaries
overseas?
THE PRESIDENT. We have the full sup-
port of our allies, and in this particular
instance, we have no adversaries overseas.
There is no civilized country on Earth
which has not condemned the seizure and
the holding of the hostages by Iran.
It would not be advisable for me to ex-
2168
