Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
urban development and urban redevelop-
ment. There's a good example just a few
blocks from here at the Grand Central
Terminal, where a $10 million Federal
grant will help tie in several forms of pub-
lic transit with a new mall, a new hotel,
and a surrounding area of shops and
offices.
During the fuel shortage this summer,
which shook our Nation up, we kept the
trains running and the buses fueled and
rolling. And we will keep them rolling in
the future if we have additional energy
shortages. America's public transportation
systems will continue to have the fuel that
they need.
When I was looking for a new Secre-
tary of Transportation, some of you came
forward and made suggestions which I
took. I looked all over America for a
person who could come to Washington as
a strong advocate of public transit and
who understood very clearly the role that
public transportation must play in the life
of a community. I found that person in
Neil Goldschmidt, who worked as a
leader in our Nation's transportation
problems, working with other mayors and
local and State officials all over this coun-
try, and whose commitment to mass
transit produced extraordinary results in
Portland during his term as mayor.
And since he's been there, he's made
some very wise decisions, one of which I'm
pleased to announce today. And that is
that the new administrator of our urban
mass transit program will be Ted Lutz,
who's one of you. And he was chosen, as a
matter of fact, the Rail Man of the Year.
And I'm very proud of him, because he's
got practical experience on how to coordi-
nate government programs with local
needs, how to cut through redtape, how to
get to the heart of a program and a prob-
lem and to find a resolution and an
answer.
We've made a strong start, but I'm here
today, after 22 years in office, to tell you
that we've got a long way to go, a lot more
to do, much more.
Our Nation's investment in public
transit during the 1970's came to a total
of $15 billion, and now we must take a
quantum jump. With the energy propos-
als that I have presented to the Congress,
the Nation, our Nation, will invest $50
billion in public transportation during the
decade of the 1980's. We need it, and we
will have it. Our goal during that time is
to add 15 million passengers per day to
the buses, the streetcars, and the trolleys
and subways of our cities and our
communities.
We will double the production of buses,
the only form of mass transit in 97 per-
cent of America's cities. We will step up
the modernization and the refurbishment
of existing rapid transit systems. For ex-
ample, New York: Its subway system is
the senior citizen of underground rail
travel. The IRT is 75 years old this year.
It has survived, and we are proud of our
senior citizens. But when Ed Koch and
Harold Fisher and I get through with it,
with the tools we are fighting to get from
the Congress, it's not going to look a day
over sweet 16. [Laughter] And we will also
speed up the construction of new rail lines
already approved or underway in other
major American cities.
We'll build subways and elevated trains,
trolleys, people-movers, commuter trains.
We'll repair track beds, modernize sta-
tions, improve signaling and control sta-
tions, replace aging railcars, expand the
size of fleets, extend lines into new areas
and encourage new technologies. In short,
we will reclaim and we will revitalize
America's transit systems.
Over the long term-and this is very
important the energy savings will be
massive. Those savings will result not only
1742
