Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 31
together, we can forge a long-term part-
nership that will reduce inflation and keep
it down. We must also face our energy
challenge, conserve the energy we use now
and develop new supplies of energy to
fuel our farms and factories, to move our
goods and people, to provide the warmth
and light for our homes.
Our Nation can surmount these prob-
lems. Throughout our history, American
workers have overcome challenges in ways
that brought new progress and prosperity.
By confronting our current challenges we
can provide better lives for all Americans.
Americans value work and the oppor-
tunity to contribute to their communities
and their Nation. Let us pause today to
give thanks for the abundance of our bless-
ings and to rededicate ourselves to meet-
ing the challenges of our time.
Federal Civilian and
Military Pay Increases
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Federal Pay Comparability Alternative Plan.
August 31, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Under the Pay Comparability Act of
1970, an adjustment in Federal white
collar pay will be required on October 1,
1979.
I have reviewed the report of my Pay
Agent and recommendations of the Ad-
visory Committee on Federal Pay relative
to a pay adjustment. Their findings indi-
cate that an average 10.41 percent in-
crease, at a cost of about $6 billion, would
be required to achieve full comparability
with the private sector.
However, pay comparability for Fed-
eral civilian employees and the military
must be viewed in the light of the current
economic situation. Inflation continues to
be the single greatest threat to our econ-
omy and is a national problem of fore-
most concern. In considering last year's
Federal pay increase, I relied heavily on
the pay standards the Administration was
considering to guide decisions of all em-
ployers in determining pay increases. I am
continuing that practice for this year's
increase.
Accordingly, under the authority given
to me by the Pay Act to propose an alter-
native pay adjustment which I consider
appropriate in the light of "economic con-
ditions affecting the general welfare," I
have determined that an alternative plan
consisting of an overall 7 percent increase
and a partial exemption from the full
effect of the limitation for the lowest-sal-
aried civilian employees is appropriate for
the Federal increase. This increase will
be within the pay standard being devel-
oped by the Council on Wage and Price
Stability that will apply to all employees
in the country for 1980. It is somewhat
higher than the increase anticipated by
my 1980 budget. However, last January
when my budget was submitted, we ex-
pected significantly lower rates of infla-
tion than we have actually experienced.
I believe that the loyal and outstanding
service given to the country by the Gov-
ernment's civilian and military personnel
warrants recognition of that changed cir-
cumstance and of the new pay standards.
for 1980.
Accordingly, I strongly urge the Con-
gress to support the alternative plan
which is attached.
The White House,
August 31, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
1529
