Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 11
to reverse the downward trend in U.S.
defense efforts. This is demonstrated by
an examination of the trends in real de-
fense expenditures since the mid 1960s. At
NATO Summits in May 1977 and 1978
we persuaded our allies to join with us in
endorsing a goal three percent real annual
growth in defense outlays and an ambi-
tious Long Term Defense Program for the
Alliance. Together these represented a
turning point, not only for the United
States, but the whole Alliance.
For our part, we moved promptly to act
on this resolve. We authorized production
of XM-1 tanks; we greatly increased the
number of anti-tank guided missiles; we
deployed F-15s and additional F-111s to
Europe, along with equipment for addi-
tional ground forces. We reduced the
backlog of ships in overhaul and settled
contractual disputes that threatened to
halt shipbuilding progress. In strategic
systems, we accelerated development and
began procurement of long range air-
launched cruise missiles, began the de-
ployment of Trident I missiles, and have
begun the modernization of our ICBM
force with the commitment to deploy the
MX missile in a survivable basing mode
for it.
These and other initiatives were the
building blocks for a determined program
to assure that the United States remains
militarily strong. The FY 1980 budget
submission of last January was designed to
continue that program. In subsequent
months, however, inflation has run at
higher levels than those assumed in the
cost calculations associated with that de-
fense program. Accordingly, I plan to send
promptly to the Congress a defense budget
amendment to restore enough funds to
continue in FY 1980 to carry out the Ad-
ministration's defense program based on
our current best estimate of the inflation
that will be experienced during the fiscal
year. Although the detailed calculations
needed to prepare an amendment are still
in progress, I expect that the amount of
the amendment will be about $2.7 billion
in Budget Authority above the Adminis-
tration's January 1979 budget request.
Correcting for inflation is not enough in
itself to assure that we continue an ade-
quate defense program through FY 1980.
We must also have the program and the
funds authorized and appropriated, sub-
stantially as they were submitted. There-
fore, in the course of Congressional con-
sideration of the second budget resolution,
I will support ceilings for the National
Defense Function for FY 1980 of $141.2
billion in Budget Authority and $130.6
billion in outlays. I will also request that
the Congress support the Administration's
FY 1980 defense program and, in partic-
ular, that the Appropriation Committees
actually appropriate the funds needed to
carry it out.
Furthermore, in FY 1981 I plan a fur-
ther real increase in defense spending. The
Defense Department is working on the de-
tails of that budget. It would, therefore, be
premature to describe the features of that
budget beyond noting that it will continue
the broad thrust of our defense program,
and that I intend to continue to support
our mutual commitment with our NATO
Allies.
While this defense program is adequate,
it is clear that we could spend even more
and thereby gain more military capability.
But national security involves more than
sheer military capability; there are other
legitimate demands on our budget re-
sources. These competing priorities will
always be with us within the vast array of
budget decisions both the Congress and
the President are called upon to make.
Defense outlays are actually lower in con-
stant dollars than they were in 1963, and
a much lower percentage of the gross na-
tional product (5% compared with 9%).
There are those that think this has caused
1629
