Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 1
I won't go into detail, because this was
a very difficult and very complicated
negotiation. But I thought we made some
historic decisions there. It may be that
this meeting will go down in history as
one that has affected the lives of almost
every person on Earth.
We have very serious problems with
energy. We decided first of all to set rigid
targets on imports, to cut down on the
unwarranted control of our lives by the
OPEC nations. Since December, the
OPEC countries have increased the price
of oil an average of more than 60 percent,
from $12.50 per barrel back in Decem-
ber to as high as $22 a barrel now.
We have got to take action. We can
take action. Our country is strong enough
to take action to make us energy inde-
pendent in the future. And all of our na-
tions bound ourselves together to cut down
on imports, to remove the unwarranted
increases in price resulting from the dis-
tribution system, and to commit ourselves
individually and collectively to develop
new sources of energy and to develop our
own existing sources of energy so that we
can rest with assurance that we will take
dedication which we've shown so far, we
have an excellent chance to do that.
You have geothermal energy, and ob-
viously from the sugarcane wastes there
can be ethanol, methanol made to take
care of gasoline replacement.
So, I'm very excited about what has
gone on here and what will go on. Photo-
voltaic cells from solar power directly
are another tremendous potential source
of power for Hawaii. So, you are really in
the forefront of what can be done on a
nationwide basis.
I'd like to just add one other thing and
then I'll close.
I had planned to stay 2 or 3 days here to
get some rest and to be with you, my
friends. I believe, however, that the eco-
nomic problems of our Nation and the en-
ergy problems of my Nation require me
to go on back to Washington.
Between 1973 and 1977, we did abso-
lutely nothing as a nation to meet the
rapidly changing energy shortages and
the rapidly changing energy price in-
creases. In 1977, as you know, I presented
to the Congress a comprehensive energy
care of our own energy needs in the policy. Had it been passed expeditiously,
future.
There is no other place in our country
which has best exemplified this than the
State of Hawaii. On the big island,
Hawaii, on Kauai as well, now almost 50
percent of all the energy used comes from
biomass, primarily from sugarcane.
There'll be a new ocean temperature
energy project that will begin in just 2 or
3 days, the first of any size anywhere, and
this is another very great credit to this
island.
I talked to Sparky Matsunaga the last
few minutes before we landed. I would
like to see the State of Hawaii become
completely energy independent by the
year 1990. And if all of us continue to
work together with the same spirit and
many of our energy problems now would
not exist.
The Congress has not yet passed a
single piece of legislation, a single line
of legislation, dealing with oil. Now with
apparent energy shortages, with gas lines
the Congress is beginning to move. We are
moving as partners.
The windfall profits tax will establish
a multibillion dollar fund, an energy se-
curity fund that will let us develop alter-
native sources of energy and existing
sources of energy to be expanded in the
years ahead, to give us a better rapid tran-
sit system, and to meet the special needs
of the poor.
We also are moving toward higher tech-
nology in energy and a means by which we
1219
