Oct. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. The troops in Cuba
have been there for a long time. I've not
read Secretary Kissinger's speech; I've
read news reports of it. Its basic premises
are compatible with my own: that the
presence of a Soviet combat unit there is
a serious matter, which I think we have
addressed as best we could; secondly, that
this is not the most important matter of
all, that above and beyond that, it's im-
portant to recognize and to do what we
can to contain Cuban interventionism or
adventurism around the world. As you
know, this began primarily with the en-
trance of more than a 10,000 body of
troops from Cuba into Angola in 1975,
before I was President.
We do look upon this as a major threat.
I have not seen any reports that Sec-
retary Kissinger recommended different
moves from the ones that I outlined
to the Nation on the evening of Octo-
ber 1. So, we do share a common con-
cern. I think that our response was meas-
ured and appropriate. I do not favor the
Soviets extending their arm of influence
to the Cubans or anyone else around the
world.
This has been part of the history of the
Soviet Union. We attempt to meet them
and compete with them adequately, in
my opinion, on a peaceful basis. And in
my judgment, if we can control the mili-
tary expenditures and have equality,
have arms control, in my judgment, we
can compete with the Soviets on a peace-
ful basis with an excellent prospect for
victory.
The Soviets represent a totalitarian na-
tion; we are committed to peace and
freedom and democracy. The Soviets
subjugate the rights of an individual hu-
man being to the rights of the state; we
do just the opposite. The Soviets are an
atheistic nation; we have deep and fun-
damental religious beliefs. The Soviets
have a primary emphasis on the military
aspect of their economy; ours is much
more broadly based to give the benefits
of economic growth to individual human
beings. So, I believe that in addition to
that, our raising a standard of human
rights and the honoring of national aspi-
rations, not trying to interfere in the in-
ternal affairs of other countries, gives us
an additional advantage in a peaceful
competition with the Soviets.
So, I don't have any fear of or any
trepidation about that intense competi-
tion with the Soviets on a peaceful basis.
I obviously want the same thing that
President Brezhnev wants, that is, the
avoidance of a nuclear war. So, we have
some things in common, the avoidance
of war. We have other things in common,
a willingness to compete.
We've got advantages over them that
I hope to utilize in the future as we have
in the past.
JESSE JACKSON; FLORIDA CAUCUSES
Q. Mr. President, how do you think
you'll fare in Florida? And also a second
question-
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't hear the first
one.
Q. How do you think you will fare in
Florida for the Florida caucus poll? And
Jesse Jackson in response to his meetings
also, will you plan on talking to Reverend
with Yasser Arafat?
THE PRESIDENT. Do I have my choice
between those two questions? [Laughter]
Q. I'd like you to answer both, if you
would, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I have no plans to
talk to Reverend Jackson-I presume
you mean about his recent trips to the
Middle East. He has, or will make a re-
port to Ambassador Strauss, who is our
Mideast negotiator.
1838
