Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
and will be protected in the energy pro-
posals now pending before the Congress.
NOTE: The statement was released at Albu-
querque, N. Mex.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and Broadcasters.
October 10, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. We've had more than
[almost]¹ 50 sessions with leading news
executives and news men and women from
outside Washington since I've been Presi-
dent, an average of every 2 weeks. I think
between 1,500 and 2,000 have come here
for private meetings with my staff and
with me and, on occasion, with my wife
and some members of the Cabinet.
It's been very helpful to us, and what
I ordinarily do is just outline some of the
important concerns or projects that are
ongoing that are my direct responsibility
and then spend the time we have together
answering your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We had a leadership breakfast this
morning with the Democrats from the
House and Senate. I do this twice a
month. Once a month I have a leadership
breakfast with the Republican leaders of
the House and Senate. This morning we
discussed the top priority of the year,
which is to get SALT II ratified; sec-
ondly, to get the energy package com-
pleted. We got about 65 or 70 percent of
it last year. This year we're dealing with
the subject of oil. And then the third thing
is to deal directly with inflation, primarily
the hospital cost containment.
There are obviously many other pieces
of legislation that are important, concern-
1 Printed in the transcript.
ing appropriations, budget, and reduction
of regulations, and so forth. But those are
the three top priorities-SALT, energy,
and hospital cost containment.
We've had a good record with the Con-
gress since I've been in office. The percent-
age of important proposals that I've made
to the Congress which has been passed has
been as high as any recent administration
in the first 3 years. President Johnson's
term is probably the only time that there
was a better percentage of success. And
some of the things we haven't passed in
the years gone by, months gone by, like
the portions of the energy bill, we're com-
ing back again and again until we get
them passed by the Congress.
I have in addition to legislative respon-
sibilities those of foreign policy and de-
fense, and I believe we've had a good
session so far in the General Assembly of
the United Nations.
Secretary Vance has been up there al-
most 2 full weeks, which gives him the
chance to participate in the debates, em-
phasize particular aspects of foreign pol-
icy, like peace in Lebanon, and to have
literally dozens of private sessions with the
heads of state or foreign ministers of coun-
tries around the world. The United Na-
tions environment is a very good forum
through which for 15 minutes or for sev-
eral hours the Secretary of State can deal
with foreign leaders in a convenient fash-
ion and also a fairly private fashion.
I have been up there once for 2 or 3
days and, I think in those 2 or 3 days, met
24 heads of state who came there, some to
meet with me, others on routine business.
We have, in addition, ongoing negotia-
tions on Namibia, on Rhodesia, on the
Middle East, and constant relations on a
daily basis with our allies around the
world-military, politics, economics—and
are trying to alleviate suffering among
refugees and starving people and in hu-
1855
