Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
chairman of the NAHB Land Use Policy
Committee. In 1974-75 Janis served as
president of the board of trustees of the
Florida International University Founda-
tion. He was chairman of the Dade
County Community Relations Board in
1972.
Louisville, Kentucky
Remarks Following a Tour of the Cane Run
Generating Station of the Louisville Gas &
Electric Company. July 31, 1979
President Royer, Governor Carroll, Sena-
tor Huddleston, Senator Ford, Congress-
man Mazzoli, and my fellow workers:
It's good to be with you.
One of the interesting and exciting
things about being President is to have a
chance to travel throughout our great
country and to see the challenges which
confront us all being met successfully by
dedicated men and women like you.
This powerplant, burning American
fuel, American coal, both safely and
cleanly, is kind of a testimony to the tech-
nological genius of America and to the
dedication of American working men and
women. It's a signpost toward a future of
energy security, prosperity for our people,
and national strength.
As a people, we are now embroiled in a
struggle to meet the challenge of the
energy crisis. Most Americans don't even
know that we import foreign oil. We ac-
tually import about half all the oil we use,
which takes more than $50 billion of
American money and sends it to foreign
nations.
We also know that the oil supplies from
foreign countries are not dependable.
Back in 1973, 1974, primarily because of
political considerations, the oil-supplying
nations, the OPEC nations, had an em-
bargo against our country, and some of
those countries refused to sell us oil. We
still face that possible challenge to our
country. This is a struggle not just for the
forms of energy we use but for our Na-
tion's very independence, for our eco-
nomic freedom as Americans.
As President, I will not permit our
country to fall further and further each
passing year into a dark and dangerous
dependence on undependable foreign oil.
I have pledged to you that our Nation
will never import one drop more foreign
oil than we did in 1977. With your help,
America will keep that pledge, and I
know you'll help me.
It's absolute folly for the United States
to ship billions of dollars overseas each
year to bring tankers of foreign oil to our
shores, while beneath our feet, in your
great State of Kentucky and others, lie
more than 300 years of coal reserves just
waiting to be mined and waiting to be
used. It's folly that here in Kentucky, and
in other States, we have idle mine capac-
ity, mines not being used, because our
Nation has failed so far to develop crea-
tive ideas to use our vast coal potential.
The United States is the Saudi Arabia
of coal. In all the world, the United
States owns 31 percent of all the coal
reserves. We are blessed with the largest
reserves in the whole world. And I'm
determined to see our coal supplies light
the way of our country toward a future
of energy security. I want to see America's
coal mines producing not only new en-
ergy supplies for our country but new
revenues for our economy, new jobs for
the American people, and new security
for our Nation.
I have proposed and the Congress is
now acting on the most massive peacetime
investment in the history of our country-
a program to cut our oil imports in half
and to change forever the way we use our
1337
