Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
have an adequate, financial, encouraging
program to insulate your homes; we are
shifting from oil to more available fuels-
natural gas in some instances up here.
The most important thing we must do
now is to ensure that the windfall profits
tax passes, so that it can give us energy
security. We can put the era of gas lines
and precarious winters behind us.
Of all the groups in this country, you
are the best equipped to teach America.
how to endure and how to prevail. You're
the best trained troops we have for win-
ning the energy war.
Look just for a moment, in closing, at
the victories we've already won together.
Before I became President, as I traveled
around our country, the main concern ex-
pressed to me by elderly Americans was
the fear that the social security system was
in danger of bankruptcy, the Disability
Insurance Trust Fund was to be depleted,
bankrupt in 1979, and the Old Age and
Survivors Insurance Trust Fund would be
bankrupt by 1983.
With Nelson Cruikshank's help and
with your strong support in the Congress,
we now have legislation which assures the
soundness of the social security system,
and we will keep the social security sys-
tem secure. You can depend on that.
This is a fight we've won together. It
was not easy. Members of the Congress
who voted for this program have suf-
fered politically, but it was the right thing
to do; it was the courageous thing to do.
This is not the only victory we've won.
We've won protection against unwar-
ranted mandatory retirement when I
signed last year the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act. We have won bet-
ter and more efficient Government serv-
ices when I signed last year the Compre-
hensive Older Americans Act, a landmark
ยน Counselor to the President on Aging.
piece of legislation that helps every re-
tired person in our country. And we've
also won important victories in pension
reform,
reform, housing for the elderly, rural
clinics, mental health care, food stamps,
and helping the elderly handicapped.
This is a good record. We can be proud of
it. And today I want to pledge that to-
gether we're going to add two more vital
victories to that record in the field of
health care.
The first victory which you and I are
going to win together is to establish in
this country a comprehensive national
health insurance plan for which this coun-
try has been waiting all our lives. Ever
since Harry Truman was President, we've
been talking about it; now's the time to
do it.
Under this health care program, the 24
million older Americans now receiving
Medicare will, for the first time, have a
limit on out-of-pocket expenses. After the
very first day of hospitalization, senior citi-
zens will be entitled to an unlimited num-
ber of fully subsidized hospital days.
There will also be doctor fees publicly
set for physicians for both Medicare and
Medicaid, for health services rendered.
Senior citizens will not face doctors' bills
beyond those covered by Medicare.
In addition, over 10 million poor
Americans will be given health coverage
for the first time. Pregnant mothers, new-
born children will be covered. Cata-
strophic medical bills will be covered for
all Americans. We are ready to enter a
new era in the United States in health
care. If you'll help me, we'll implement
this program in the Congress.
And finally, I'm absolutely determined
to get hospital cost containment passed
through the Congress. The key votes are
going to come in the next few days. I hope
every one of you will help in every way
possible. My proposal to control the sky-
1633
