Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
have had to carry the water on their heads
many miles to the village.
It's being used in the United States for
water pumping-in this particular case, on
a Navajo Indian reservation in Arizona.
An even more sophisticated application of
photovoltaics is coming along again on an
Indian reservation in Arizona, the Papico
Indian reservation, in which a photovol-
taic array is providing a great deal of the
energy requirements of this particular
Indian tribe, not only for water pumping
but, as indicated here, for refrigeration,
for operating lights, for their communica-
tions, and so forth.
Progress in the use of photovoltaics has
been very good and has been stimulating
a great deal of interest in terms of looking
at it for near-term types of needs when the
price comes down further than it is at the
present time. We'll talk about that price in
just a minute. Such things, for instance,
as large irrigation purposes. This is a 25-
kilowatt system which is being studied in
Meade, Nebraska, in order to irrigate
these cornfields, which are immediately
behind this photovoltaic array.
I'd like to now talk a little bit about
what has happened in terms of photo-
voltaic technology and begin to develop a
dialog associated with why we believe that
that technology can be improved and why
it may eventually reach a point where it
might be useful for large scale terrestrial
applications.
To summarize, however, before we get
to that one point. This generally tells us
about the major characteristics of what
photovoltaics are. It's the direct conver-
sion of Sun's radiation to electricity. Its
intrinsic reliability seems to be very well
demonstrated by the many applications
that it has been experiencing over the past
20 years since it became of very serious
interest. That it is modular, as we have
indicated, that there is a relative absence
of environmental impacts, in fact, par-
ticularly a silicon photovoltaic array
would be amongst the most benign of all
types of power systems that we could con-
sider. It has a large technology base, it has
based a lot of its technology on the billions
of dollars which have been developed and
invested in the semiconductor industry
over the past 30 years.
What has happened as far as price is
concerned? And what we see is a very
complex type of a graph. It is what we call,
in engineering terms, a log-log plot. It's
something that we have to be
very careful
about interpreting, but it's plotted in order
to try to show what kind of relationships
have existed between the price of the
product and the quantity of the solar ar-
rays which have been produced and com-
mercially sold in the United States. And
when we plot them on a log-log plot, we
see that there's a relatively straight line
being formed. The question, of course, is
can that line continue?
We note that this is now a number
when it is plotted in constant 1975 dollars,
it is a cost now which has gone from the
space type solar array systems which were
greater than maybe $300 per watt, to
prices now less than $10 per watt. But the
question is, is how far down can you ex-
trapolate that kind of a technology. Do
we really believe that it can go much fur-
ther than it is at the present time? And I
think that the likelihood that it can with
existing technology is not good.
That things have progressed greatly be-
cause of the advent of mass production,
larger quantities of sales have indicated
the value of significant investments in
mass production kinds of equipment and
those things have been primarily respon-
sible for the kinds of improvements that
we've got. But in order for us to go much
further, we're going to have to bring on
new technologies, technologies which are
1556
