Sept. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
professor since 1965. He was elected to the
National Academy of Sciences in 1969
and is a member of numerous professional
associations.
National Lupus Week, 1979
Proclamation 4680. September 10, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Lupus erythematosus is an increasingly
serious connective tissue disease, affect-
ing 500 thousand Americans, mostly
young women. There are an estimated
50,000 new victims each year stricken
by this disease.
In the systemic form, lupus attacks the
entire body and its diverse organ systems,
destroying connective tissue in the kid-
ney, heart, and other vital organs. A
major feature of the disease is redness of
the skin, particularly the appearance of
a butterfly-like rash that is often sensi-
tive to light. Additional manifestations
of lupus include fever, arthritis, pleurisy,
pneumonia, blood abnormalities, heart
disease, and central nervous system dys-
function. As its name suggests, this "lu-
pine" disease ravishes the total body in a
relentless clinical course and frequently
costs its victims their lives in early
adulthood.
awareness of the disease, better diagnos-
tic methods, and development of more
effective drug therapies.
The outlook is far from bleak, but
greater awareness of the disease and new
approaches for improved treatment and
diagnosis are needed in order to elimi-
nate lupus as a cause of human suffering
and to improve the quality of life in our
society for its victims.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim the week of Sep-
tember 16 through September 22, 1979
as National Lupus Week. I invite the
Governors of the States, the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico, and officials of
other areas subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States to issue
issue similar
proclamations.
I urge the people of the United States
and educational, philanthropic, scien-
tific, medical, and health care organiza-
tions and professions to provide the nec-
essary assistance and resources to dis-
cover the cause and cure of lupus ery-
thematosus and to alleviate the suffering
of all persons struck by this disorder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this tenth day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:51 p.m., September 10, 1979]
Although the cause of lupus is not
known, the prognosis for patients has
vastly improved in recent years. In 1955
the survival rate for lupus victims was
50 percent four years after diagnosis. Strategic and Critical Materials
Now, more than 80 percent of lupus
patients are treated successfully during
the ten years after their disease has been
identified. This increased survival is due
to a number of factors including greater
Executive Order 12155. September 10, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent of the United States of America by
the Strategic and Critical Materials
1620
