Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
My good friend Chairman D. W.
Brooks reminded me of my stature as
President. He talked about fishing, and
then he was kind enough to mention rab-
bits in the same comment. [Laughter]
He joined with Chairman Henry Bow-
den in pointing out that when he had been
to have lunch with me at the White House,
that he had always had just a sandwich.
And Henry Bowden pointed out that I
had not changed my habits, that when he
had lunch with me the last week that I
was Governor, he also had just a sandwich.
[Laughter]
Bishop Cannon did much better. As
you can well imagine, being the gracious
man of God that he is, he did not over-
look an opportunity to pay true tribute
to the highest elected officer of our land.
He carefully chose, among all the events
of my past, my interview with Playboy
and described it-[laughter]-with some
degree of relish and enthusiasm. It was in-
deed a delightful lunch for me.
I'm truly honored by Emory, an insti-
tution which, to a Christian, cannot fail
but have a special meaning, an institution
which is great in its own right, which is
dynamic in its attitude toward the pres-
ent and the future, an institution which,
in a modern, fast-changing, technological
world, would set aside the time and invite
the President to a special occasion, that
is, the dedication of a church, a place to
worship God.
I'm going to make my speech brief.
Former Attorney General Griffin Bell has
given me a report, which may be apocry-
phal, about an event in the life of John
Wesley. When asked what estate he would
leave for posterity, he replied, "Just four
silver teaspoons, and the Methodist
Church." One of the persistent and most
difficult challenges in our lives is to bal-
ance values, the transient against the per-
manent, and the less important against
those which are vital.
In breaking ground for the William R.
Cannon Chapel and Religious Center, we
honor the things in life that are most pre-
cious, things that cannot be seen and
which cannot be measured. We can meas-
ure the grandeur of a person's house or
the size of a bank account or the acreage
of one's land, or how fast one's net worth
increases each year. We tend to dwell too
much on such things, for they tell us very
little about the real meaning of life. For
that, we must turn to things which can-
not be seen or which cannot be measured,
to things like honesty, integrity, the
strength of conscience, the love of God,
service to others, humility, wisdom.
These things are invisible. They're be-
yond measurement, but they comprise
life's true wealth. In these things, Bishop
Billy Cannon is a very
Billy Cannon is a very rich man, and his
life has also brought richness and mean-
ing to the lives of thousands of others, in-
cluding my own.
I happen to be a Baptist, but I've been
surrounded by Methodists all my life-
my mother, my wife, some people. And
when I was enjoying the highest official
day of my life, being inaugurated as Pres-
ident of the United States of America, I
chose, to give the invocation, a Georgian,
Bishop Billy Cannon.
What's true in measuring values for an
individual is also true for a nation. We can
measure gross national product, imports
and exports, the growth of industry and
manufacturing. We can see with our own
eyes how many tanks we have, how many
nuclear warheads in our arsenal. We can
be thankful for such strength and grateful
for material blessings. But we know that
these are not the most important charac-
teristics of a nation's life. They do not
hold us together as a unique people. They
1562
