Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 29
listed in Enclosure 1 will be clearly iden-
tified in Export Administration Regula-
tions published in the FEDERAL REGISTER
as being subject to export controls for
foreign policy purposes.
With reference to section 4(c) of the
Act, adequate evidence has been pre-
sented demonstrating that, notwithstand-
ing foreign availability, the absence of
these controls would prove detrimental
to the foreign policy of the United States.
Revisions of the regulations are being
issued with an effective date of Jan-
uary 1, 1980, to comply with section 6(a)
(2). They will be reissued in final form
later in 1980, in order to take into con-
sideration public comments received
pur-
suant to section 13(b) of the Act.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Enclosure 1]
EXPORT CONTROLS FOR FOREIGN POLICY
PURPOSES EXTENDED FOR THE PERIOD
JANUARY 1 THROUGH DECEMBER 31,
1980
I. All countries except members of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Ja-
pan, Australia, and New Zealand:
A. A validated license is required for
the export of crime control and detection
instruments, equipment, and related tech-
nical data.
B. Applications for validated export li-
censes will generally be considered favor-
ably on a case-by-case basis unless there
is evidence that the government of the im-
porting country may have violated inter-
nationally recognized human rights and
that the judicious use of export controls
would be helpful in deterring the develop-
ment of a consistent pattern of such vio-
lations or in distancing the United States
from such violations.
II. South Africa and Namibia only:
A. A validated license is required for
the export of:
1. All U.S.-origin commodities and
technical data for military and po-
lice entities;
2. Aircraft and helicopters and items
controlled pursuant to the South
African arms embargo for all con-
signees; and
3. Computers for government con-
signees exceeding performance levels
permitted for shipment at national
discretion under multilaterally
agreed security export controls.
B. Applications for validated export li-
censes will:
1. Be denied for military or policy en-
tities except, on a case-by-case basis,
for medicines, medical supplies, and
medical equipment not primarily
destined to military or police en-
tities or for their use; and
2. Generally be considered favorably
on a case-by-case basis for:
a. Aircraft and helicopters for which
adequate written assurances have
been obtained against military, para-
military, or police use; and
b. Computers which would not be
used to support the South African
policy of apartheid.
III. Libya, Iraq, People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen, and Syria only:
A. A validated license is required for the
export of aircraft valued at $3 million or
more and helicopters over 10,000 pounds
empty weight.
B. Applications for validated export li-
censes will generally be considered favor-
ably on a case-by-case basis for such air-
craft and helicopters for civil use if is-
suance of the licenses would be consist-
ent with the policies set forth in subsec-
tions 3(4), 3(8), and 3(10) of the Act
and subject to the requirement in sub-
2291
