Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
morning-a board, a mobilization board
that will cut through redtape. Now when
you have a decision to make about build-
ing a new powerplant or a new oil re-
finery or a place to produce electricity or
a pipeline, you have to wait 5 or 6 or 7
or, sometimes, 8 years to get a decision to
either build it or don't build it. What we
are trying to do is to get the Congress to
shortcircuit that long delay and let the
decision be made without delay. If it
lems, put a task force together now to
solve our problems, because we want to
work. We're proud people down here.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Is this particular
mine shut down because Cleveland Elec-
tric is ordinarily buying the coal from
your mine?
Q. Our contract's with Cleveland.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. Now,
Cleveland Electric has promised us in
ought to be built, build it. If it ought writing that they would purchase the coal
not to be built, don't build it. But the
thing is to make the decision and get
moving.
Our country's basic security-I'm not
exaggerating this-is in danger. So, we've
got to have a stronger America, we've got
to cut down our overdependence on for-
eign oil, and we've got to make sure at the
same time that American jobs are created
and American energy is used to give our
country back its strength, its confidence
and its unity and its prosperity and a good
life. That's what we're trying to do, not
only for energy but for jobs and also in-
flation at the same time.
It's a good program. I need you all to
help me with it. Will you help me with
it? [Applause] Thank you.
COAL SUPPLIES
Q. Mr. President, I'm a mineworker
from Hyatt Point, Ohio, North American
Coal Number 6, Local 1810. And my
mine's been shut down since August 31-
there's 900 people employed down
there and the reason, on account of our
stockpiles are too big; they're not burning
our coal.
And all your plans seem fine, you know,
for the future, but us coal miners, we
want to work now, not 10 years from now.
And I'd like to suggest that you put a
task force to solve the steelworkers' prob-
derived from your mine. We understand
that the shutdown is likely only to last
about 4 weeks. That may or may not be
true. I'm not vouching for that. That's
the information I got this morning. And
we are very eager to remove every obsta-
cle so that within the law, of course, on
environmental quality, that Cleveland
Electric, its two plants, and all the other
plants can begin to use more and more
Ohio coal.
We are going through a changing time,
because for years these particular ques-
tions have not been addressed and the
energy industry-oil, coal, natural gas,
and others; coal miners, coal workers,
powerplants, electric-generating plants—
have not known what to expect next.
We've never had an energy policy in this
country. But I believe that after this year,
after the Congress acts and after we work
out a relationship with the State of Ohio
and the power companies, that you won't
have this off-again, on-again kind of pro-
duction of coal.
I would like to see your mine working
full-time, all the mineworkers employed,
Cleveland Electric using your coal on a
sustained, permanent basis, with a clear
working-out of the problems that pres-
ently exist.
We're working on it. It can't be done
instantaneously, but I guarantee it will
1645
