Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the legislation. If it was of great danger to
the level of expenditures in the future or
would encourage unwarranted projects
being built, then I would veto it.
Q. In the Minnesota area, it's the flood
control projects, three of them, where you
have asked for a doubling of the local
effort versus what Congress has acted
upon.
THE PRESIDENT. In general, the local
and State officials have been amenable to
that local and State effort. It gives them
some authority or influence over the de-
cisions, which they haven't had in the
past. It's been almost exclusively a Fed-
eral Government bureaucracy and the
administration and Congress decision.
The costs are relatively low. But I think
this would prevent projects being ap-
proved with the wild support of cham-
bers of commerce and so forth, when
they don't have to bear any of the cost
at all at the local level. So, I think a
proper sharing of responsibility and cost
is the best approach, as we've put forward
to the Congress.
But the thing I don't want to do is to
participate in conjecture about what kind
of bill might ultimately get to my desk
after it goes through the tortuous legisla-
tive procedures and say I will or will not
veto something that I haven't seen.
CANADIAN OIL EXPORTS
Q. Mr. President, you'll be traveling to
Canada early next month. At that point
will you be trying to restore some of the
cutbacks we've experienced in Canadian
crude oil to this country?
THE PRESIDENT. That will be on the
agenda. We will be discussing environ-
mental questions, fishing rights questions,
the future supplies of oil and natural gas,
maybe even some sharing of electric power
that might be generated on each side of
the border, and a clearer understanding of
what we might experience in the future.
As you know, Canada, like our own
Nation, has a very serious problem of be-
ing, in effect, two nations, one a major
producing nation, and the other one a
major consuming nation. And sometimes
it's delineated geographically. On the east
coast of Canada, there's a fairly substan-
tial shortage of oil, as you know. On the
western part of Canada, in the north,
there's sometimes a surplus of oil.
My understanding from the Canadian
authorities is that over a period of the
next number of years, until they can hope
to get tar sands and shale production, that
they are going to have to be importing a
little more oil than they have in the past.
So, I think for the Americans to believe
that we'll have large supplies of oil com-
ing from Canada in the future would be a
fruitless hope. But that will be one of the
issues Prime Minister Clark and I will
discuss.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, do you think the
American people, in their daily lives and
daily habits, are sufficiently aroused about
the gravity of the energy shortage? Have
they given up enough? What's going to
excite them about getting involved in
carpools?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the last few
months, since the California gas lines and
some on the east coast, there's been a new
interest in and concern existing among the
American people themselves. For instance,
I think last year, in the winterization of
homes we had about a 9-percent partic-
ipation rate in getting tax credits for
weatherizing homes among the families of
our country.
I've been pleased the last few weeks,
maybe the last few months, about the
response of the American people. One
indication of this is that we have meas-
ured about 1 mile per gallon higher effi-
ciency among all the automobiles in the
Nation during this summer than we had
2050
