Nov. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
4. Blocking property and property in-
terests of the Government of Iran, its
instrumentalities and controlled entities
and the Central Bank of Iran will enable
the United States to assure that these re-
sources will be available to satisfy lawful
claims of citizens and entities of the
United States against the Government of
Iran.
5. This action is taken with respect to
Iran for the reasons described in this
report.
The White House,
November 14, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Convention on the
Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation on Agriculture
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. November 14, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Conven-
tion on the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation on Agriculture (the Conven-
tion) which was signed at Washington on
March 6, 1979. For the information of the
Senate, I also transmit the report of the
Department of State with respect to the
Convention.
The Convention is a revision of the
1944 Convention on the Inter-American
Institute of Agricultural Sciences. It clar-
ifies the 1944 Convention and strengthens
and broadens the mandate of the Inter-
American Institute of Agricultural Sci-
ences (the Institute).
Membership in the Institute under the
Convention is open to states which are
members of the OAS and the existing In-
stitute, or other American states whose
admission is accepted by the Inter-Ameri-
can Board of Agriculture.
Under the Convention, the Institute
will consist of three principal organs—the
Inter-American Board of Agriculture, the
Executive Committee, and the General
Directorate. The Inter-American Board
of Agriculture will be the highest organ
of the Institute and will consist of one
representative from each Member State.
The new Convention stipulates that such
representatives should preferably be per-
sons connected with agriculture or rural
development. This Board will be respon-
sible for setting policy and budgetary
priorities of the Institute.
To reflect the changed responsibilities
of the Institute, its name has been
changed to the Inter-American Institute
for Cooperation on Agriculture.
The Convention will enter into force
when two-thirds of the states parties to
the 1944 Convention have deposited in-
struments of ratification. Correspond-
ingly, the 1944 Convention will cease to
be in force for those states for which the
new Convention is in force.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Con-
vention and advice and consent to rati-
fication.
The White House,
November 14, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Trade Sanctions Against
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia
Memorandum From the President.
November 14, 1979
Presidential Determination No. 80-6
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Maintenance of
of Sanctions
Against Zimbabwe-Rhodesia Under Sec-
tion 408(b) of the Department of State
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1980 and
1981
2120
