Sept. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
"(c) Executive Order No. 11912, as
amended, relating to energy policy and
conservation, and Proclamation No. 3279,
as amended, relating to imports of petro-
leum and petroleum products, are further
amended by deleting "Administrator of
the Federal Energy Administration",
"Federal Energy Administration", and
"Administrator" (when used in reference
to the Federal Energy Administration)
wherever those terms appear and by sub-
stituting "Secretary of Energy", "Depart-
ment of Energy”, and "Secretary", respec-
tively, and by deleting "the Administrator
of Energy Research and Development" in
Section 10(a) (1) of Executive Order No.
11912, as amended.".
The White House,
September 10, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:53 p.m., September 10, 1979]
International Energy
Conservation Month,
October 1979
Proclamation 4681. September 10, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The United States is the largest user of
energy in the world and since 1978 has
become increasingly dependent on im-
ported oil to meet its domestic needs.
While considerable progress has been
made in reducing the rate of growth in
demand for energy, much more remains
to be done if the United States is to meet
its responsibility to reduce its demand for
petroleum on the world market.
Energy problems facing us in the
United States are similar to those facing
other industrialized nations, as well as
many of the world's less developed coun-
tries. The fundamental problem domes-
tically and internationally is that demand
for petroleum is increasing faster than
the capacity to produce it.
As the world's major consumer of en-
ergy,
it is essential that the United States
become a leader in conserving energy by
curtailing unnecessary and wasteful uses,
by improving the efficiency with which we
use energy for essential purposes, and by
switching from increasingly scarce petro-
leum and petroleum products to more
abundant alternate sources.
To this end, I have announced a pro-
gram of import quotas to see that the
commitment we made at the Toyko Sum-
mit will be achieved.
We must also reduce our imports
through vigorous and sustained conserva-
tion of energy. This task has already be-
gun. The National Energy Act I pro-
posed, which was enacted last November,
includes:
--a $300 residential energy conserva-
tion tax credit, which the taxpayer
can claim for the purchase of insula-
tion and other energy-saving meas-
ures;
-a residential insulation service which
local utilties must provide beginning
in the fall of 1980, to provide energy
evaluations of homes and to arrange
loan financing for installation of
insulation;
-a 10% investment tax credit for
equipment used to conserve energy
by improving the efficiency of in-
dustrial plants;
-weatherization grants for low-income
households;
-a 5% reduction in annual energy use
1622
