July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. This event, my desig-
nation of Hamilton Jordan as chief of
staff, has been one of the most grossly
distorted of my career in politics. Hamil-
ton Jordan will be chief of staff-chief of
the White House staff. Because of Hamil-
ton's knowledge of me, his closeness to
me, his superb leadership capabilities, the
trust that other people in the White
House have in him repeatedly since I've
been President, the other top members of
my staff have asked me to let Hamilton
be chief of staff. Had he been willing
earlier, he would have already been chief
of staff, like a year or a year and a half
ago.
Recently I asked Hamilton again to
take over the job of chief of staff. He's
agreed to do it. He has my full support,
he has the full support of all others who
work in the White House with us. He will
not be the chief of the Cabinet; I will be
chief of the Cabinet. He will not be the
chief of the Congress; the Congress is an
independent body. We'll have the same
relationship with the Congress, with the
same people that we have all the time.
Hamilton Jordan will be chief of the
White House staff. That's his responsibil-
ity, assigned by me. That's the job he will
fulfill, and I have absolutely no doubt,
based on his past experience and my
knowledge of him, that he will do a superb
job.
RELATIONS WITH THE NEWS MEDIA
Q. Mr. President, you were reported
to have told some of those whom you saw
at Camp David about reservations that
you had about the Washington press
corps. It was reported that you have ex-
pressed those reservations, to use a mild
word, even more strongly to the Cabinet
last Tuesday. Tonight you appear, to-
night, before the Washington press corps
and others. You are reported to have said
you wanted to speak more to the press
outside Washington.
To put the question simply: What bugs
you about the Washington press corps?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sure that if I said
that the Washington press corps was a
group of superbly qualified, highly ob-
jective, extremely intelligent analysts of
the American news scene, that all of you
would agree completely-[laughter]—if I
said it.
I have nothing against the White
House press corps nor the Washington
press. My own judgment is that for the
first 22 years, when I felt it was ex-
tremely important for me in effect to get
acquainted with the American people,
to get acquainted with the Washington
scene, that I have had, I think, between
50 and 60 press conferences exclusively
with the White House press corps. Now I
will continue to have interviews with the
White House press corps, as we are doing
tonight, but not twice a month.
In lieu of that, and I don't think with
any reflection on the White House press
corps, my decision is now to go to differ-
ent places around the country. I'll be go-
ing to Louisville, Kentucky, area next
week. And then sometimes to Miami and
Bangor, Maine, and San Francisco, and
perhaps Des Moines, Iowa, to have press
conferences there and to answer ques-
tions both from professional members of
the press and also from American people
in a townhall meeting format. The Wash-
ington press corps will accompany me,
the White House press corps, and I will
answer questions from you, too.
But I think it's better for me not to
have all the questions focused on me by
a group that's almost exclusively oriented
within Washington as a prime place of
1306
