Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 13
types of trade with Cuba under Treasury administration of blocked PRC assets
license.
should continue through the period of the
extension of the authorities.
The Foreign Funds Control Regula-
tions, 31 CFR Part 520, continue to block
the property of Czechoslovakia and the
German Democratic Republic pending a
claims settlement of private American
property following World War II. The
Regulations also continue to block such
assets of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania as
a reflection of the U.S. policy of nonrec-
ognition of the forcible incorporation of
those countries into the USSR.
I have determined that the authorities
for these four regulatory programs should
be extended because the results attendant
upon the lapse of these authorities would
be unacceptable in light of present U.S.
foreign policy objectives. Their extension
would be in the national interest of the
United States for the following reasons.
(1) Current trade and financial em-
bargoes against Cambodia, Cuba, North
Korea, and Vietnam should continue
until such time as the policies of those
countries make it appropriate for us to
modify our restrictions on trade and finan-
cial transactions with those countries.
(2) The Transaction Control Regula-
tions are needed to support controls to
which we have agreed with our allies with
respect to the export of strategic goods to
Communist countries.
(3) Freezing of Vietnamese and
Cuban assets and controls over the re-
maining World War II assets of the Ger-
man Democratic Republic and Czecho-
slovakia should continue until American
claims against these countries are settled.
Controls over the remaining World War
II assets of the Baltic States should con-
tinue as a reflection of the U.S. policy of
nonrecognition of the forcible incorpora-
tion of these countries into the USSR.
(4) To implement the US-PRC
Claims/Assets Agreement, authority for
In light of these considerations, pursu-
ant to Public Law 95-223, I have ex-
tended the exercise of these authorities
for another year, until September 14,
1980.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
United Nations Day, 1979
Proclamation 4684. September 13, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Thirty-four years after its founding "to
save succeeding generations of mankind
from the scourge of war", the United
Nations remains mankind's last best hope
for building a world community based on
justice, tolerance for diversity and respect
for the rule of law.
The United Nations has no magic for-
mula for solving the increasingly complex
problems of our revolutionary age. Yet it
remains the symbol, and the standard, of
mankind's desire to turn away from an-
cient quarrels and live in a world in which
all people can share in the fruits of pros-
perity and peace.
More than ever, the international com-
munity is challenged by problems of
global dimension which can be solved
only through world-wide cooperation and
dialogue. The 100 new nations which
have joined the United Nations since its
1657
