Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
program will be designed to achieve en-
vironmentally sound, fiscally responsible,
and economically efficient investment, de-
velopment, protection, and resource use.
This new program planning process will
supplement BLM's current unit-by-unit
planning. It will invite State and local
governments and interested citizens to par-
ticipate in making better informed choices
among the alternative programs.
The Secretary will give special atten-
tion to protecting areas of BLM-adminis-
tered lands with nationally significant
wildlife, natural, scientific, cultural, or
scenic resources. An example is the Birds
of Prey area, located along the Snake
River in the Idaho desert, that has North
America's richest concentration of birds
of prey, including dense nesting popula-
tions of falcons, eagles, and other raptors.
• Finally, I am directing the Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of Agri-
culture to work together to coordinate
their Departments' natural resource poli-
cies and programs, particularly those of
the Bureau of Land Management and the
Forest Service. I am requesting the two
Secretaries to develop within six months
a detailed statement of coordination ob-
jectives and a process and timetable for
achieving them.
Wildlife Law Enforcement
A massive illegal trade in wild animals,
wild animal parts and products, and wild
plants has been uncovered in the last year
through investigations by the Department
of Justice, the Fish and Wildlife Service,
the Customs Service and the Departments
of Agriculture and Commerce.
This illegal trade in wildlife and plants
has several very serious consequences. It
can introduce exotic diseases, threatening
agriculture. It creates a market for thou-
sands of species of wildlife and plants
taken in violation of the laws of foreign
nations, ultimately threatening the sur-
vival of these species. It is a danger to
the survival of hundreds of species listed
on the Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species, to which the U.S.
is a signatory nation.
I am therefore submitting to Congress
a bill to overcome obstacles inhibiting
enforcement efforts.
In addition, I am directing the De-
partments of Agriculture, Commerce, In-
terior, Justice, and Treasury to investi-
gate this trade aggressively and to prose-
cute violators of the law. I am directing
the Department of the Interior to coor-
dinate this effort, through an interagency
Wildlife Law Enforcement Coordinating
Committee which will review enforcement
experiences, priorities and problems. I
am also directing the Department of Agri-
culture to chair a task force to investigate
the illegal trade in plants and to prose-
cute where appropriate.
I am further directing that the follow-
ing specific steps be taken: The Treasury
and Commerce Departments will raise
the priority of wildlife enforcement cases;
the Agriculture Department will place
greater emphasis on coordinating its wild-
life enforcement program with its disease
quarantine program, and will begin hir-
ing special agents to investigate the il-
legal plant trade; and the Department of
Justice will establish a Wildlife Section
which will be staffed principally by at-
torneys trained as wildlife law enforce-
ment specialists.
Wild and Scenic Rivers
Our Nation's river corridors are a rich
concentration of natural ecosystems, sce-
nic beauty, and historic and recreational
values. Since my Environmental Message
of May 1977, eight rivers totalling 695
miles have been added to the National
Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and nine
1364
