Nov. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The specter has been raised of other
American diplomatic hostages being
placed on trial. Such a step would be a
further flagrant violation of elementary
human rights, religious precepts, and in-
ternational law and practice. Worldwide
outrage at the detention of the hostages
would be greatly heightened by any at-
tempt to put these diplomatic personnel
on trial.
NOTE: On November 18, three persons were
released from the American Embassy and flown
to the U.S. Air Force hospital in Wiesbaden,
Federal Republic of Germany. On the follow-
ing day, the Iranian captors released 10 more
persons, who joined their colleagues in Wies-
baden before they all were returned to the
United States.
Regulation of Small Businesses
and Organizations
Memorandum From the President.
November 16, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
The Administration has made a firm
commitment to strengthen the small busi-
ness sector of our economy. In further-
ance of that commitment, I want you to
make sure that Federal regulations will
not place unnecessary burdens on small
businesses and organizations. Regulatory
programs are important to the safety and
health of the Nation; their goals, how-
ever, can sometimes be achieved in ways
that minimize the burden on small busi-
nesses and organizations.
I want you to take the following steps:
• Ensure that any new rules and regu-
lations issued by your agency will be ap-
plied whenever possible in a flexible man-
ner, taking into account the size and na-
ture of the regulated businesses and orga-
nizations while fulfilling the social and
economic goals of the underlying statutes.
• As you review existing regulatory and
reporting requirements, take particular
care to determine where, within statutory
limits, it is possible to tailor those require-
ments to fit the size and nature of the
businesses and organizations subject to
them.
Identify those rules and regulations
in the semiannual agenda required by Ex-
ecutive Order 12044, and in the Regula-
tory Council's Calendar of Federal Regu-
lations, for which flexible alternatives and
plans for implementation are being con-
sidered.
Assign responsibility for overseeing
the examination and implementation
process to the agency official you desig-
nated in accordance with my June 14,
1978 memorandum on the White House
Conference on Small Business, and en-
sure that that official works closely with
your agency's representative to the Reg-
ulatory Council.
• Report the results of the above ex-
amination and plans for implementation
by December 15 to the Office of Advo-
cacy of the Small Business Administra-
tion. The Small Business Administration
will work closely with the Regulatory
Council and the Office of Management
and Budget to ensure that agency-specific
actions are consistent with and supportive
of the government-wide regulatory re-
form program.
These measures will continue our pro-
gress toward achieving important regu-
latory goals without unnecessarily bur-
dening the small businesses and organiza-
tions that are such a vital force in our
Nation's life.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on November 19.
2142
