Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
those we love and to celebrate family life.
We must continue this attention to
families all year round, however. Through
the coming White House Conference on
Families, our new Office on Families, and
through new approaches that would en-
courage more adoptive and foster parents,
governments and citizens together can
learn to become better family advocates
of the American family. We must nurture
the family as it has nurtured us.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in accordance with a joint resolution of
Congress, do hereby proclaim the week
of November 18, 1979, as National Family
Week and call upon all the American
people to observe this week with appro-
priate activities in their homes and com-
munities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixteenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:57 p.m., November 16, 1979]
National Council of
Negro Women
Remarks at a White House Reception.
November 16, 1979
I'm sure none of you have husbands
whose wives come in late. [Laughter]
It's a wonderful opportunity for me
and Rosalynn to have you here in the
White House. This is an exciting time for
us. I know from experience that you have
been part of the tremendous improve-
ments that have been made in American
life.
All the Presidents have lived in this
house except George Washington, who
was the first one.
And nothing could be accomplished in
our Nation, through government, if it
weren't for dedicated and courageous
people who know how to work together
for the improvement of the lives of those
who are not quite so fortunate as the lead-
ers, like yourselves.
One of my favorite women has said
that without volunteers, America would
not have a soul. And when Rosalynn said
that, I listened very carefully. [Laughter]
And I would say that without the 27
organizations represented here this after-
noon, America would not have a major
part of its soul.
Your president and I have a lot in com-
mon. Dorothy's from the South; so am I.
She left the South; so did I. I'm intend-
ing to go back; I don't know about her.
Her mother and my mother were nurses.
She and I spent a lot of time, have been
a lot of times to Baptist churches. [Laugh-
ter] She and I both have had a long day.
Right, Dorothy? And we have one more
thing in common. She's been your presi-
dent, and she's been reelected, and I'm
looking forward to next year to—[laugh-
ter]-
The most important thing about all of
you in the National Council of Negro
Women is that where your hearts are and
where your hands are are where the peo-
ple live who need help and a better life.
Your founder, Mary McCloud Bethune,
had two things in mind-jobs and educa-
tion. And that's been the root of the
changes that have benefited the lives of
those in our country who have felt the
burden of discrimination.
You have felt discrimination because of
two things-one, because you're women;
one, because you're black. We've made
great progress in both areas, but we've got
a long way to go. And I hope that all of
2136
