Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 2
Representative, we're going to do our very
best to keep faith with those who labored
so hard to make it possible.
But for all that we know of these recent
accomplishments, however impressive, we
know that they're only the beginning,
they're only the prelude to the challenges
which await-challenges which compel
an enlightened policy, dedicated to fair
trade in every expanding global market-
place. We have such a policy in this ad-
ministration.
That policy may be summarized as fol-
lows: The United States must be more
ambitious, more aggressive, more asser-
tive, more imaginative, and more re-
sourceful in matters related to interna-
tional trade. We must win for the people
of this Nation a larger share of the overall
world marketplace for goods and services,
even as we retain our commitment to
fostering increased trading opportunities
for all the nations.
Stop and think of history, my friends.
Where at any point in history has a nation
done a better job of helping others than
what this country did in the Marshall
plan for the European Community and
what it did for Japan? And yet for all that
it's done to them in improving their situ-
ation to the point of making it difficult,
sometimes, competitively on the market-
place, the fact of the matter is, had we
not one it, do you realize where we
would be?
And so, we have seen over this history
of time the leadership of the United States
of America. And when you hear people
talking about problems-while every per-
son, I'm sure, is proud of their country—
what other place in the world would you
rather live, and what other person has
tried harder to do right by this world and
by its own people than has the United
States of America? For it's been Jimmy
Carter who has understood what these
agreements will mean in terms of jobs for
our people, in terms of a standard of liv-
ing, yes, in terms of competition.
This country should not ever fear fair
competition, because we also want to be
fair to the consumers in order to promote
the best possible price for our people. It
will lead to broader choices for them. It
will lead to an easing of inflation, through
a more favorable balance of trade. It
could lead as well to a lessening of ten-
sions among nations, as we come to de-
pend more and more on one another in
a very interdependent world.
And so here again, we must learn in
this area, when people expect us as the
United States of America, as one country,
to so manipulate our own economy that
we have no problems, they do not under-
stand the free enterprise system. The free
enterprise system anticipates there would
be good times and bad times. If govern-
ment tries to make every bad time a good
time, the system breaks down. And yet, it
has been this system of free enterprise,
through private ownership of property,
that has brought the Western World to
the standard of living that it now enjoys.
And that's what we're recommitting our-
selves, under the President of the United
States, in this whole area of trade.
This policy requires fair international
trading rules, rules which can be assured
through timely implementation, a scru-
pulous enforcement of the new agree-
ments of the Tokyo Round. And I want
to tell you, the day is past when we can
afford to make sure that we always as-
sume our obligations without asserting our
rights. And I want to tell you, one of the
1811
