Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
MR. LYDON. A quick followup. I wasn't
talking about sort of the grinding dis-
appointments of everyday life, but, for
example, the more articulate disappoint-
ment of the environmental groups, with
your decision on the Tellico Dam, for
example, who felt not just that it was a
little disappointment, but they had mis-
judged your whole emphasis or that you
had misled them.
The President. Last year, among the
coalition of environmental groups, I was
given the award as the outstanding en-
vironmentalist in the Nation. And it was
exploitation and destruction, perhaps.
And I think that our environmental rec-
ord is very good. I don't have any apology
to make about that.
But a President has to make decisions
that are close calls and which almost in-
variably alienate some interest group at
that particular time. The totality of a rec-
ord, though, is one that has to be assessed
by a particular interest group, and some-
times I just have to say, well, that interest
group will have to be against me. I'm do-
ing what I think is best for this country.
MR. LYDON. Could I sneak in one quick
local environmental question? You know
we have enormously valuable fishing
pointed out by them—not by me, but by grounds off the Massachusetts coast on
them—that not since Theodore Roosevelt
had there been a President who had done
as much to preserve environmental qual-
ity and to protect the precious qualities of
life of American people. Just a couple of
months ago, I was given the Environ-
mentalist of the Year Award by the
Florida Coalition of Environmentalists.
On that one decision, I can't say that
it attracted the approval of environ-
mentalists. It was a difficult thing for me.
I had fought that dam for 22 years. The
Congress had passed approval of that
dam over my opposition. They had
already attached an amendment to a con-
tinuing resolution which I could not veto,
perpetuating the Tellico Dam.
I was and am now interested in making
sure that the Endangered Species Act is
passed, and I believe that we picked up
a lot of support that we would not have
gotten because of that particular incident.
Also, the small endangered fish had been
transferred to another place where they
are thought by the specialists to be
ently protected.
pres-
In Alaska, for instance, in spite of con-
gressional intransigence we have taken
action, which is going to stand, to protect
115 million acres of valuable land from
Georges Bank.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. LYDON. The Interior Department
is still determined to sell oil-drilling leases
on October 29 against some public and
private suits in the State.
The question is why the Interior De-
partment has not taken more formal no-
tice of the blowout in the Gulf of Mexico
and why you, with the environmental
sensitivities that you have or have had,
have not spoken on that matter
specifically.
THE PRESIDENT. If I had to choose be-
tween protecting the fisheries industry off
Massachusetts or having oil exploration, I
would say zero oil exploration. I would
protect the fisheries industry, because it's
permanent. That's not the choice we have
to make. We can have both if it's handled
properly.
We have very carefully assessed the
regions on the Georges Bank and ex-
cluded from any leasing the most valuable
areas, and I think Cecil Andrus, the Sec-
retary of Interior, has done a very good
job. I haven't studied the maps and the
charts-I haven't been out there but I
trust him.
1995
