Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Having rapid deployment forces does
not necessarily mean that we will use
them. We intend for their existence to
deter the very developments that would
otherwise invoke their use.
We must always remember that no
matter how capable or advanced our
weapons systems, our military security de-
pends on the abilities, the training, and
the dedication of the people who serve in
our Armed Forces. I'm determined to re-
cruit and to retain, under any foreseeable
circumstances, an ample level of such
skilled and experienced military person-
nel.
To sum up, the United States is taking
strong action: first, to improve all aspects
of our strategic forces, thus assuring our
deterrent to nuclear war; second, to up-
grade our forces in NATO and in the
Pacific, as part of a common effort with
our allies; third, to modernize our naval
forces and keep them the best in the
world; fourth, to strengthen our rapid de-
ployment capabilities to meet our respon-
sibilities outside NATO; and fifth, to
maintain an effective force of highly
trained military personnel.
We must sustain these commitments in
order to maintain peace and security in
the 1980's. To ensure that we press for-
ward vigorously, I will submit for fiscal
year 1981 a budget to increase funding
authority for defense to more than $157
billion, a real growth of more than 5 per-
cent over my request for fiscal year 1980.
Just as in 1979 and in 1980, requested
outlays for defense during fiscal year 1981
will grow by more than 3 percent, in real
terms, over the preceding year. We will
sustain this effort.
My 5-year defense program provides a
real funding increase that will average
more than 4½ percent each year. I intend
to carry out this program. With careful
and efficient management, we should be
able to do so within the budget increases
I propose. If inflation increases or exceeds
the projected rates that we now expect, I
intend to adjust the defense budget as
needed, just as has been done in 1980
fiscal year.
Much of this program which I've out-
lined to you will take 5 years or more to
reach fruition. The imbalances it will
correct have been caused by more than a
decade of disparity. This cannot be
remedied overnight, so we must be will-
ing to see this program through. To en-
sure that we do so, I'm setting a growth
rate for defense that will be tolerable for
our country over the long haul.
The most wasteful and self-defeating
thing that we could do would be to start
this necessary program, then alter it or cut
it back after a year or two when such an
action might become politically attractive.
The defense program that I'm proposing
for the next 5 years will require some sac-
rifice-but sacrifice that we can well
afford. It will not increase at all the per-
centage of our gross national product de-
voted to defense, which will remain steady
at almost exactly 5 percent per year.
We must have a long-range, balanced
approach to the allocation of Federal ex-
penditures. We will continue to meet
such crucial needs, of course, as jobs and
housing and education and health, but
we must realize that a prerequisite to the
enjoyment of such progress is to assure
peace for our Nation. So, in asking con-
gressional support for our defense efforts,
I'm asking for consistent support, stead-
fast support-not just for 1980 or 1981,
but until these commitments have been
fulfilled.
Sustained American strength is the
only possible basis for the wider, truly
reciprocal détente which we seek with the
Soviet Union. Only through strength can
we create global political conditions hos-
pitable to worldwide economic and politi-
2236
