Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
are bused maybe on the other side of the
city or to other parts of the county. Now,
you mentioned a few minutes ago, we
should learn how to cut back on our gas
situation. Do you think it's feasible to con-
tinue the busing of students? And it's also
a tremendous tax burden on the taxpayer.
THE PRESIDENT. My own experience
has been and my own belief is that man-
datory busing ought to be minimized.
There are requirements under the law,
as you know, against any sort of discrim-
ination or preventing students from get-
ting the same quality of education within
a given city or within a given school dis-
trict. That's got to be honored.
My hope is that the present dispute
concerning the integration of the schools
or the elimination of discrimination in
the schools in the Chicago region can be
solved harmoniously. And I don't know
where the best place might be to do it.
I have a feeling that to have the deci-
sion made by the local Federal court
might very well be better for Chicago and
the preservation of its neighborhoods and
the honoring of the civil rights of people
than to have it as a debate between the
local school system and the Department
of HEW. I'm not sure; that's my belief.
I don't know what will come out.
We are operating under Federal laws
concerning school districts and busing
and integration, the elimination of depri-
vation of basic civil rights, and we're try-
ing to work out an agreement. If that
agreement can't be worked out between
HEW and the local school board, then the
normal transfer would be to the Federal
court. And I've seen the Federal courts in
the South, 10, 15 years ago, do outstand-
ing jobs in trying to relieve these conflict-
ing tendencies and pressures for the best
interests of the students. I have confidence
that that will be done in this case.
I don't have any authority over it, as
you know, as President. But I believe that
everyone wants to work it out so that there
can be a satisfactory solution for black
parents, for those who speak Spanish or
other languages, for those who have
strong ethnic commitments, and for those
who want to preserve neighborhoods,
those who want higher quality education.
So, what happens in the future will be
very closely observed by me, and I'll do
the best I can to reach the ultimate goal
of honoring people's rights and having
better education. But don't consider it
to be a catastrophe if the case is moved
into court. I think there it can be consid-
believe that ultimately the solution will be
ered very calmly, very carefully, and I
satisfactory to you.
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR HIGHER
EDUCATION
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
Q. I'm Arlene Zuiker, from Dolton,
Illinois. And as an elementary school-
teacher, on behalf of the children, I'd
like to thank you for coming to Dolton
so they can see participatory democracy
in action.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Q. Mr. President, my husband and I
are both employed, and our combined in-
comes put us in the above-average group,
which does not allow for grant-in-aid eli-
gibility for our four college-age children.
Yet by the time we pay tuition for these
four children, our income drops to the
poverty level, practically. Question: Is
there any hope in this inflationary period
to have a tax credit for educating our
most important natural resource, the
youth of America?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is not
whether to give assistance to a family with
1947
