Aug. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Department of Energy
Remarks at the Swearing In of
Charles W. Duncan, Jr., as Secretary.
August 24, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. There's no way to over-
emphasize the importance of this event,
because of the significance to every
American, in fact, every person, almost,
throughout the world, accrued from the
performance of duty as Secretary of
Energy.
Fifteen years ago, the average
Ameri-
can didn't think much about the prob-
lems that might arise from the energy
question or the energy situation. But re-
cently, in the last few years, this has be-
come a burning issue for every person.
Our country has been well served, and
I would like to ask James Schlesinger first
to come to the stage.
No one who hears my voice could argue
with the statement that Jim Schlesinger
is a man of intelligence, competence, and
also the utmost integrity. He's a man who
served our Nation well in one of the most
difficult jobs imaginable, that is, the for-
mation of and the administration of the
Department of Energy. He's done this to
the credit of himself, my own adminis-
tration, the United States Government,
and the people of our country.
In addition to that, he has served well
in other posts of extreme importance to
our country. In time of peace and in time
of war, Jim Schlesinger has always been
available to a President who needed his
superb capabilities to meet a difficult is-
sue or to answer difficult problems or to
solve difficult questions.
Jim has been the Secretary of Defense,
as you well know, and his statements then
and his actions, his recommendations
have proven in the last few years of recent
history to have been wise and sound.
I particularly want to congratulate him
for his service as our chief intelligence
officer when he was Director of Central
Intelligence.
In 1953, President Harry Truman ini-
tiated an award which I would like to
make to Jim Schlesinger. This is the Na-
tional Security Award, given to a person
who has contributed notably to our Na-
tion's security in the intricate, highly se-
cret realm of intelligence. I'd like to read
the citation:
"The United States of America to all
who shall see these presents, greeting. This
is to certify that the President of the Unit-
ed States of America has awarded the
National Security Medal to James R.
Schlesinger for outstanding contribution
to the national intelligence effort. Given
under my hand in the City of Washing-
ton, this 24th day of August, 1979."
Signed Jimmy Carter, President of the
United States of America.
Jim, congratulations to you.
I see an expression of approval and ap-
preciation on the faces of those who ob-
serve the ceremony, and I see an expres-
sion of relief and anticipation on Jim
Schlesinger's face [laughter]—as we ap-
proach the next ceremony.
One of the very early acts of my un-
official life after I was elected President
was to invite Jim Schlesinger to come
down to Plains and talk to me about the
very serious problem that our Nation was
experiencing in not having a national en-
ergy policy, in having more than 50 sep-
arate agencies of the Federal Government
responsible for the administration of
various, sometimes conflicting energy
laws. We didn't have a Department of
1514
