Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 23
troduce, at the close of his words, Judge
Parker, who will administer the oath of
office to Don McHenry. And then, if Don
has no objections, I would like for him to
respond to you.
Andy Young.
AMBASSADOR YOUNG. Thank you very
much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President,
Mr. Secretary.
It really gives me great pleasure to be
here to see, in some sense, the passing on
of a baton. In a very real sense, I think,
I ran my part of the race, and while I
wasn't getting tired, my time was prob-
ably over. [Laughter] And I really and
truly have no regrets. In fact, I'm quite
proud to be able to pass on the baton of
responsibility at the United Nations to
Don McHenry.
Let me hasten to say that I didn't
recommend Don for this job, not because
I have any reservations about his compe-
tence or the fact that, as the President
says, he does bring more knowledge of the
United Nations and of our foreign policy
to this job than perhaps any other person
we've ever had in the position, but be-
cause I happen to know how rough the
next General Assembly is going to be. And
I really didn't feel free to wish that on a
friend of mine. [Laughter]
But one thing about being Ambassador
to the United Nations and maybe this
is also true for the first time in our Na-
tion's history-never has the United Na-
tions had the kind of commitment from
the President of the United States and
from the Secretary of State and the entire
State Department that it has in this
administration. And there has been a
commitment to doing many of the things
that are in the national interest of this
great Nation through the multilateral
diplomatic forum of the United Nations.
And there has been a tremendous
amount of teamwork that has existed be-
tween the staff at the United Nations and
the Assistant Secretaries. In fact, even in
passing on to Bob Strauss, the former
Deputy Permanent Representative of the
United Nations, Cy Vance suggested that
there was a sense of continuity and inter-
relationship between the United Nations
and the rest of the decisionmaking ap-
paratus of our foreign policy. And so, Don
will move in as a very important part of
what I feel to be a very great team.
And it's my pleasure at this time to ask
Judge Parker if he will administer the
oath of office to my good friend, Don Mc-
Henry.
[At this point, United States District Judge
Barrington Parker administered the oath of
office.]
AMBASSADOR MCHENRY. Mr. Presi-
dent, Mr. Vice President, Judge Parker,
friends:
I am very proud of this moment. I feel
in one sense as if I am continuing a jour-
ney for which I have prepared for a long
time, and at the same time I am very
conscious of that warning which Andy
gave and of which I am well aware. We
probably face the most difficult General
Assembly that we've ever faced in the
last 10 years or so.
I should say that I approach this op-
portunity and this responsibility with
every intention of doing the best I can,
with a very competent and dedicated staff
and supported and working with the other
members of the foreign policy team here
in Washington.
I do not expect that in our time, the
immediate time, that we will be able to
magically come up with solutions to all of
the problems which face us. Indeed, we
will be lucky if we can come up with the
solution to a very few. But I believe in the
importance of diplomacy. I believe in the
importance of trying very hard, with
imagination and hard work, to resolve
problems, to bring people to devote their
1
1717
