Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
1-503. Office of Personnel Manage-
ment. There is hereby delegated to the
Director of the Office of Personnel Man-
agement the function of prescribing regu-
lations conferred upon the President by
the proviso contained in section 625 (b) of
the Act.
1-504. International Communication
Agency. The International Communica-
tion Agency shall perform all public infor-
mation functions abroad with respect to
the foreign assistance, aid, and develop-
ment programs of the United States
Government.
1-505. Development Loan Committee.
There is hereby established a Development
Loan Committee in accordance with sec-
tion 122(e) of the Act which shall consist
of the Director of IDCA, who shall be
Chair, the Administrator of the Agency
for International Development, the Chair-
man of the Board of Directors of the
the Export-Import Bank of the United
States, the Assistant Secretary of State for
Economic Affairs, the Assistant Secretary
of the Treasury dealing with international
finance, the Assistant Secretary of Com-
merce for Industry and Trade, and the
officer of the Agency for International
Development dealing with development
financing.
1-506. Development Coordination
Committee. (a) In accordance with sec-
tion 640B of the Act, there is hereby es-
tablished a Development Coordination
Committee (hereinafter referred to as
the Committee). The Committee shall
consist of the Director of IDCA, who shall
be Chair; the Administrator of the
Agency for International Development,
the Director of the Institute for Scientific
and Technological Cooperation; the Un-
der Secretary of State for Economic Af-
fairs; the Under Secretary of the Treasury
for Monetary Affairs; the Under Secre-
tary of Commerce; the Under Secretary
of Agriculture; the Under Secretary of
Labor; the Under Secretary of Energy; a
Deputy Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations; an Associate Director of the
Office of Management and Budget; a
representative of the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs;
the President of the Export-Import Bank
of the United States; and the President
of the Overseas Private Investment Cor-
poration.
(b) Whenever matters within the ju-
risdiction of the Committee may be of in-
terest to Federal agencies not repre-
sented on the Committee under subsec-
tion (a) of this section, the Chair of the
Committee may consult with such agen-
cies and may invite them to designate
representatives to participate in meetings
and deliberations of the Committee.
(c) The Chair of the Committee may
establish subcommittees of the Commit-
tee and designate the chairs thereof.
(d) Subject to the foreign policy guid-
ance of the Secretary of State, the Com-
mittee shall advise the President with re-
spect to coordination of United States
policy and programs affecting the devel-
opment of developing countries, includ-
ing programs of bilateral and multilateral
development assistance.
(e) All agencies and officers of the
Government shall keep the Committee
informed in necessary detail as to the
policies, programs and activities referred
to in subsection (d) of this section.
(f) Nothing herein shall be deemed to
derogate from the responsibilities of the
Secretary of State or the Secretary of the
Treasury, or from responsibilities vested
1796
