Oct. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Secretary Juanita Kreps will now pro-
vide some additional words about the pro-
gram and answer questions from you.
Unfortunately for me and for our Na-
tion, this is one of her last days in office.
And I want to take this opportunity to
commend her on her fine work on this
program, typical of a superb performance
that she has exhibited for us in this coun-
try as Secretary of Commerce, and I am
particularly grateful to her for the great
work that she's done in the last 34 months.
She's already promised to make her advice
and counsel and services available to us
when she retires from this public job. But
there's no way I can adequately express
my personal thanks to her and the thanks
on behalf of a grateful nation.
Secretary Juanita Kreps.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:37 a.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Following the President's remarks, Secretary
of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps, Frank Press,
Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy,
and Jordan Baruch, Assistant Secretary of
Commerce for Science and Technology,
held a news conference on the program.
Industrial Innovation Initiatives
Message to the Congress on Administration
Actions and Proposals. October 31, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Industrial innovation-the develop-
ment and commercialization of new prod-
ucts and processes-is an essential element
of a strong and growing American econ-
omy. It helps ensure economic vitality,
improved productivity, international com-
petitiveness, job creation, and an improv-
ed quality of life for every American.
Further, industrial innovation is necessary
if we are to solve some of the Nation's
most pressing problems-reducing infla-
tion, providing new energy supplies and
better conserving existing supplies, en-
suring adequate food for the world's pop-
ulation, protecting the environment and
our natural resources, and improving
health care.
Our Nation's history is filled with a
rich tradition of industrial innovation.
America has been the world leader in
developing new products, new processes,
and new technologies, and in ensuring
their wide dissemination and use. We are
still the world's leader. But our products
are meeting growing competition from
abroad. Many of the world's leading in-
dustrial countries are now attempting to
develop a competitive advantage through
the use of industrial innovation. This is a
challenge we cannot afford to ignore any
longer. To respond to this challenge, we
must develop our own policies for foster-
ing the Nation's competitive capability
and entrepreneurial spirit in the decades
ahead. This Message represents an im-
portant first step in that direction.
I am today announcing measures which
will help ensure our country's continued
role as the world's leader in industrial in-
novation. These initiatives address nine
critical areas:
Enhancing the Transfer of Informa-
tion
Increasing Technical Knowledge
Strengthening the Patent System
Clarifying Anti-trust Policy
Fostering the Development of Small
Innovative Firms
Opening Federal Procurement to
Innovations
Improving Our Regulatory System
Facilitating Labor/Management Ad-
justment to Technical Change
O Maintaining a Supportive Climate
for Innovation.
2070
