Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Department of Housing and
Urban Development
Nomination of Victor Marrero To Be Under
Secretary. November 1, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Victor Marrero, of
the Bronx, New York, to be Under Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Development.
He would replace Jay Janis, who has been
appointed Chairman of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board. Marrero has been a
commissioner of the New York State Divi-
sion of Housing and Community Renewal
and vice chairman of the New York State
Housing Finance Agency since 1978.
He was born September 1, 1941, in
Santurce, P.R. He received a B.A. from
New York University in 1964 and a J.D.
from Yale Law School in 1968.
From 1968 to 1969, Marrero was assist-
ant to New York Mayor John V. Lind-
say. From 1970 to 1973, he was assistant
administrator and neighborhood director
with the South Bronx Model Cities Office,
and from 1972 to 1973, he was district
manager of the South Bronx Office of the
Mayor's Office for Neighborhood Govern-
ment.
In 1973 Marrero was executive director
of the New York City Department of
Planning. From 1974 to 1975, he was spe-
cial counsel to Comptroller Harrison J.
Goldin. In 1975 he was first assistant
counsel to Gov. Hugh L. Carey. From
1976 to 1977, he was chairman of the
New York City Planning Commission.
Marrero is a founder and first chair-
man of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense
and Education Fund and of the South
Bronx Community Housing Corp. He is a
public member of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board Savings and Loan Advisory
Committee.
Financial Institutions
Deregulation Legislation
White House Statement on Senate
Approval of the Legislation.
November 2, 1979
The President applauds the Thursday
night Senate action which would give an
important break to small savers. The bill
approved by the Senate contains major
recommendations that the President sub-
mitted to Congress in May.
The President proposed and now,
under the leadership of Banking Com-
mittee Chairman Senator William Prox-
mire, the Senate has agreed that major
deregulatory reforms in the financial area
are needed: the phaseout of federally
imposed deposit interceilings that limit
the interest that savers earn on their sav-
ings accounts, the reversal of an appellate
court decision that would have prohibited
the proconsumer automatic transfer
system, and the validation nationwide of
proconsumer NOW accounts and share.
draft accounts at credit unions.
"The Senate has taken a significant
step," the President said, “to provide
equity for savers in our country and to as-
sist depository institutions in competing
more effectively for funds." The President
urged that the House-Senate conference
committee members "act promptly to re-
turn to both Houses for final approval
legislation that will provide this critically
important relief to small savers."
Will Rogers Day, 1979
Proclamation 4698. November 2, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
November 4, 1979, is the one hundredth
anniversary of the birth of America's lead-
2078
