Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
may God's blessing be with you and with
your work. To the President of the United
States, Mrs. Carter, and the people of the
United States.
THE PRESIDENT. I wish I had time to
recognize all the great Irish leaders who
are here. I'm very delighted that Mr.
George Meany is present and Tip
O'Neill; Joe Garrahy, Governor; Bren-
dan Byrne, Governor; Leonard Bern-
ers in support of this legislation. The un-
certain nature of our energy supplies can-
not be overemphasized; but this action,
together with the continued steady prog-
ress of the energy mobilization board and
the windfall profits tax, is a step toward
regaining control of our Nation's future."
White House Statement on Approval of
the Treaty by the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. November 9, 1979
stein, right in front of me here; and my Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty
mother, who's a real honorary citizen of
Ireland. And I've asked my mother, in
the absence of my wife, to join us in the
receiving line. We look forward to meet-
ing every one of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:50 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Energy Security Corporation and
Synthetic Fuels and
Conservation Programs
White House Statement on Senate
Approval of Legislation. November 9, 1979
The President this morning expressed
his pleasure with the Senate's actions in
approving a strong synthetic fuels and
conservation program and the establish-
ment of an energy security corporation.
While refinements in the bill will have
to be made, the most important elements
of the President's program are intact and
strong. The President said, "The Senate
has ensured that there will be a strong
synthetic fuels program and a significant
institution to carry it out. The bill's con-
servation program is a strong, substantial
initiative. I congratulate Chairman
Jackson, Senator Johnston, and Senator
Domenici for their able and dedicated
work.
"My administration will continue its
close cooperation with congressional lead-
The President is deeply gratified by
the vote of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee to favorably report the SALT
II treaty to the Senate floor. We are par-
ticularly grateful for the thoroughness
with which the committee has explored
all aspects of the treaty.
The President would like to express
special appreciation to Senators Church
and Javits for their leadership during the
extended hearings and markup of SALT
II.
It is the President's hope that all Sen-
ators will explore the SALT II treaty and
related issues with the same intensity as
the members of the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee. We believe after such
study Senators will reach the conclusion
that SALT II is in the best interests of
the United States and will vote to ratify
the treaty.
American Hostages in Iran
White House Statement. November 9, 1979
The seizure of more than 60 Americans
in our Embassy in Tehran has provoked
strong feelings here at home. There is out-
rage. There is frustration. And there is
deep anger.
2102
