Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lieve that before the Congress adjourns
this year, they will pass the windfall profits
tax and they will pass a law setting up a
production corporation to produce syn-
thetic fuels and others that we need, and
also the production board that will make
the decisions quickly on major energy
energy
projects.
So, let's don't blame one another now.
Let's look to the future, and I believe the
Congress will act this year, provided, pro-
vided all of you let the Members of Con-
gress know how you feel.
I don't have time for another question.
Q. I want to give you something to
take back. I've mailed them to the White
House twice.
THE PRESIDENT. And they sent them
back to you?
Q. And nobody will take them over
there. May I give them to someone?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course.
Q. You should have them, believe me.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'll be glad to
take them.
Let me say this in closing. This has
down with me in the plane from Atlanta,
he and his wife, Adele. And the tourist in-
dustry, I don't believe, will suffer, because
people know that with more efficient auto-
mobiles and better transportation systems
and more care in preserving what we do
have, that we can have that enjoyable life.
And my guess is that over a period of time,
work habits and work hours will be modi-
fied to give us more leisure time.
So, it may be that out of all of this
struggle and strain and debate and argu-
ment and casting rocks at one another,
we'll come up with an energy policy that
will be adequate, that will give America a
better life, and make-
better life, and make as I said many
times on the river-and make the greatest
nation on Earth, the United States of
America, even greater in the future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:36 p.m. in
the Thomas Jefferson High School gymnasium.
Following the town meeting, the President
met privately with two of the questioners.
been a good session for me. I've learned Tampa, Florida
from you, and I hope you've learned a
little from me. And I think the main feel-
ing that I have is that there's a belief that
if we all act together, we can have a better
life, a happier life, a more productive life,
our country's security can be greater, our
Nation can be unified more, families can
be closer together.
Question-and-Answer Session With Florida
Newspaper Editors. August 30, 1979
So, it may be that facing this particular
crisis or challenge of energy can go a long
way toward healing some of the problems
that our Nation has had too long.
I think for us to recognize that we've
got to save and not waste is really com-
patible with what the Bible teaches. God
doesn't want us to waste what He gives. I
think the fact that we have to now share
with each other is a very good principle
on which to base a family's style of living.
And I believe that Florida will prosper.
I was talking to your Governor, who rode
THE PRESIDENT. I think I will wait to the
end of the session to shake hands with
everybody.
You say you may not want to?
[Laughter]
Let me say first of all that I am thank-
ful that all of you would come here to
meet with me this afternoon. This has
been one of a series of visits that I have
made to different communities outside of
Washington in the last 6 weeks or 2
months. The main purpose of the visit is
to dramatize the need for citizen interest
in and understanding of the energy ques-
tion, particularly the aspects that are part
of their own lives and also, of course, legis-
lation before the Congress.
I think that the present awareness by
1578
