Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 30
would not do, the Congress would not
approve them.
MS. BARIO. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very
much.
We've got a larger crowd than we
ordinarily have. If you don't have any
objection, I'd like to get an individual
photograph with you before I leave. I'll
stay a few extra minutes, if you can. It is
a little warm.
I thank you very much for being here.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:18 p.m.
in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office
Building. Patricia Y. Bario is a Deputy Press
Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on July 28.
United States-Panama Treaty on
Penal Sentences
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. July 30, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice
and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Treaty between
the United States of America and the Re-
public of Panama on the Execution of
Penal Sentences which was signed at Pan-
ama on January 11, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Treaty.
The Treaty would permit citizens of
either nation who had been convicted in
the courts of the other country to serve
their sentences in their home country; in
each case, the consent of the offender
would be required.
This Treaty represents the fulfillment
of a commitment undertaken by both na-
tions in the Panama Canal Treaty of
1977. It would complement the wide
range of protections and benefits afforded
United States Government personnel un-
der the Panama Canal Treaty and related
agreements during the life of that Treaty,
and would establish a mechanism for
other nationals of both countries to serve
their sentences in their home countries. Its
ratification would provide our personnel
stationed in the Republic of Panama fur-
ther assurance that their interests will be
fully protected upon the entry into force
of the Panama Canal Treaty.
I recommend that the Senate give
prompt and favorable consideration to
this Treaty.
The White House,
July 30, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Camp David Meetings on
Domestic Issues
Remarks at a White House Luncheon for
Participants in the Meetings. July 30, 1979
As I stand up here and look at this
group of faces, all of whom joined me at
Camp David in a time of absolute frank-
ness, with no rules on what we should dis-
cuss, no limits on the depth of analysis,
I am a little bit timid, a little bit nervous.
At Camp David yesterday morning we
had a new chaplain, who serves Fort
Ritchie—the first time he's ever preached
to the President—and he told a story that
illustrated the way I feel in some ways,
about this itinerant barber who had drift-
ed all over the country out west, cutting
hair and giving shaves. He finally settled
in this one town and he opened his own
shop. And he was extremely nervous that
the people wouldn't like him and he'd
have to get back on the road.
1329
