Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 7, 1979
Atlanta, Georgia
Remarks at the Presidential Energy
Technology Seminar. August 30, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, everybody.
It's good to be home.
SUMMARY OF FIRST SESSION
DR. PRESS. Mr. President, we have
convened this energy technology seminar
at your request. We've gathered the Na-
tion's leading experts to brief you on how
American science and technology can
contribute in the years ahead to help al-
leviate our energy problems. The Govern-
ment research and development budget
in energy is of the order of $4 billion per
year, and the energy security trust fund
will increase this substantially. Industry,
universities are making substantial in-
vestments in energy research and develop-
ment.
This, then, is a report on what the
dividends of these research and develop-
ment investments are likely to be. I be-
lieve you will see that domestic sources
of energy can become available in the
years ahead that will help reduce our
energy dependence on foreign imports,
will strengthen our economy, and will im-
prove our national security.
So far, we've been running some 2 hours
in these energy briefings, and I would
like to spend a few minutes summarizing
what has already been said this morning.
Energy conservation plays a key role
in our energy strategy. It reduces our de-
pendence on imported oil. It is cost-ef-
fective. It yields results more quickly than
developing new energy supplies.
Dr. Edward Jefferson, who's the vice
president of duPont Company-Dr. Jef-
ferson, would you stand?-gave us a pres-
entation this morning on the remarkable
progress in conservation by American in-
dustry. In the past 4 years, there has been
a saving of some 1 million—the equiva-
lent of 1 million barrels of oil per day
due to industrial conservation. And the
chemical industry has one of the best
records in conservation.
This is important, because the chemical
industry uses some 8 percent of our total
energy consumption. In 1978 alone, that
industry has saved 130 million barrels
of oil through conservation, and their
goal is to effect a 30-percent reduction in
energy required per pound of product by
1985.
And Dr. Jefferson described some of
the measures that that industry has taken
to achieve this goal; for example, the co-
generation of power and steam. In the
generation of electric power, there's been
a lot of waste heat. That waste heat is
1533
