Aug. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
And my question is, do you think that
in the future there will be Federal aid for
the installment of solar heating in homes
like there was for the insulation?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. There already is,
as a matter of fact-and I'm glad you
asked that question. We have a very good
program already passed by Congress that
gives those who install solar heating or
other solar uses in their home a tax break.
And all you have to do is-you can get up
to $2,200 in tax credits for the installation
of solar heat or other solar uses in your
home.
MS. SHIMA. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. In the future, by the
way, when we get the windfall profits tax
passed, we'll have additional programs
that would do things like let your utility
companies, either those who sell you
natural gas or electricity, provide for each
family home a long-term loan at reason-
able interest. And you could take that loan
and weatherize your house, make it more
efficient, do other things that would help
with the energy problem, and then the
loan would not have to be repaid until
the house was actually sold.
Obviously, this costs a little money, and
that money would come from a tax on
the oil companies. The choice is, should
we let the oil companies keep all that
enormous profit that comes from higher
prices for oil, or should we tax part of
it with the windfall profits tax, and let
the money be used for Americans for more
solar energy, for better and more efficient
homes, and for a better quality of life?
I think we ought to get the windfall
profits tax passed, and I want all of you
to help me get the Congress to pass that
tax so we can have a better and more
energy-secure nation, including the use of
gasohol from Iowa and Illinois, as well as
solar power.
MS. SHIMA. Thank you. Have a nice
trip back to Washington, D.C.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. JACKSON. The next caller is Keith
Royal in Davenport, Iowa.
ENERGY LEGISLATION
MR. ROYAL. Yes. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Keith.
MR. ROYAL. Since I'm a high school de-
bater and last year's topic was the energy
crisis, I'd like to ask you two questions.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
MR. ROYAL. First, of all, why do you
feel that Congress has delayed so long on
your energy proposals? And secondly, if
Congress is the major blame, why do you
feel that's the problem-like, is it a prob-
lem within the party, or something like
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've had a very
severe energy problem, as you know, since
1973-when we had the OPEC embargo,
where they stopped shipping oil to us com-
pletely, and the price went up.
We really live in two nations here as
far as oil goes. One is the oil-producing
States-they derive a great deal of benefit
from producing oil and distributing it to
the rest of the country-and the other
States, of course, or the other kinds of
people, are the oil-consuming people of
our country.
In the past, in the Congress, the oil com-
panies have had a tremendous influence
in the Congress. Since I became Presi-
dent, I have tried to build up an opposing
force, made up of the consumers of our
country, to meet, for the first time, this oil
lobby in Washington, and it's been a very
difficult thing to do.
When we passed the energy bill of 1977
last November, the votes were almost ex-
actly even in the House and the Senate.
1490
