Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 22
negotiating, knowing that this is in the
best interest of our country, there was a
public opinion poll run, I think, by Gallup
under the Foreign Affairs Institute-it
was not a Government poll-that showed
that only 8 percent of the American peo-
ple favored a new Panama Canal treaty.
But my predecessors, ever since President
Johnson, all the knowledgeable people in
the State Department--mine and the pre-
vious administrations-knew that we had
to have a new Panama Canal treaty. And
for me to espouse that and to work with a
great deal of commitment to get two-
thirds vote in the Senate was patently a
losing political proposition.
Also, when you have uncontrollable
things happen-I could control it; I could
have avoided it. I didn't have to put for-
ward an energy policy. When you have an
uncontrollable situation like inflation-in-
flation has been with us for 10 years. It's
fluctuated between about where it is now,
which is about the same as it was in 1974,
down to maybe 62 or 7 percent. The
President is naturally held to be respon-
sible for the state of the economy. I think
the fluctuations in the state of the econ-
omy are one thing which hurt President
Ford just before the election in November
of 1976.
But a President is responsible for the
inconveniences or the disappointments or
the concerns of the American people. And
you're constantly involved in contention
and debate. And as you know, the press-
and without criticizing the press-is not
going to emphasize the successes or the
agreements or the cooperative attitudes or
the achievements.
The first year I was in office, for in-
stance, I put forward maybe 15 major pro-
grams in which I was personally involved.
I
guess at the end of the year, we had got-
ten 92 or 10 of them passed, but the em-
phasis was on the ones we didn't get. And
even those that we got passed, the em-
phasis was on-when a subcommittee
would vote no, it would be a headline on
the front page. If, the next day, the full
committee voted yes and then the bill
passed, there would be no notice of it.
Another thing is that you have achieve-
ments that are not recognized-and this
is the last thing I'll say about this. When
Kennedy was President, I think it's gen-
erally accepted that in all the domestic
achievements that he had, a trade bill—
where trade barriers were stricken down
and an ethical standard for promoting
trade was passed-was his major achieve-
ment. We passed one this year that is
broader and, I think, superior in every
way to the one that was passed in 1962 or
1963. In the Washington Post, which is a
major focal point here for the promotion
of news stories, there was not a single word
when the Congress passed that bill.*
So, you know, it's hard to mold an ap-
proving public when you have those kinds
of varied responsibilities to meet. I'm not
saying this to deplore the situation, but
to tell you that this is the way it is, par-
ticularly in an off year. Now, when we
face an election year, it'll be time for the
American people to make an assessment,
an inventory of what has been done-and
I think we've got a superb record—a pro-
jection of what we hope to accomplish in
the future, and then, of course, your own
character assessment, the reputation that
you have for being steady in an emer-
gency, the organizational structure or
commitment of your supporters. Those
things become much more important than
the relatively transient public opinion
polls.
*The President meant there was no separate
news story. Passage of the trade bill was given
two paragraphs on page 3 in the congressional
digest for that day. [Printed in the transcript.]
1713
