July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
North and South Korean Governments Apollo 11 Anniversary
can a framework for peaceful coexistence
between the North and South be estab-
lished and progress toward eventual
reunification of Korea be achieved. The
United States is prepared to assist in that
diplomatic effort. It is the judgment of
the United States that further reductions
of our combat elements in Korea should
await credible indications that a satisfac-
tory military balance has been restored
and a reduction in tension is underway.
-Third, in recent months we have
normalized relations with China and
deepened defense cooperation with Japan.
Concurrently we have witnessed the
steady growth of Soviet military power in
East Asia and the eruption of renewed
conflict and new uncertainties in South-
east Asia. Under these circumstances, it is
believed that these adjustments in our
Korean withdrawal plan-together with
the recent stabilization of our base agree-
ment with the Philippines, initiation of
defense planning discussions with Japan,
and increased support for the security of
ASEAN countries-will serve wider U.S.
strategic security interests by reassuring
our principal allies of our steadiness and
our resolve.
Over time we will continue to adjust
the detailed features of our contribution
to the security of the Republic of Korea
to reflect growing ROK economic and
military strength and changes in the in-
ternational situation. At present, how-
ever, these modifications in our with-
drawal plans will best assure the mainte-
nance of our security commitment, pre-
serve an adequate deterrent, nurture the
resumption of a serious North-South
dialog, and stabilize a favorable U.S.
strategic position in East Asia.
NOTE: Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, read the
Remarks at a Ceremony in Observance of the
10th Anniversary of the Moon Landing.
July 20, 1979
MR. ARMSTRONG. Mr. President, we're
delighted that you would take the oppor-
tunity to note this occasion that is very
meaningful to those of us who were
charged with the responsibility of meet-
ing a national goal. And nothing matches
success like more success, and the 10th an-
niversary of that occasion is very pleasant
for all of us today.
We would like to present to you a flag
that was carried on our flight 10 years
ago and a replica of the one that was
planted there 10 years ago today, pre-
sented to you with our very good wishes
and hopes for the future.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. FROSCH. We'd like to add to this
the first copy of a piece of the history of
Apollo inscribed to you from the crew.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is a great
honor.
This 10th anniversary, even, is a great
moment for our Nation and for the world.
Ten
years ago, all humanity watched with
wonder as two brave men-Neil Arm-
strong and Buzz Aldrin, on my right—
stepped boldly onto the Moon while a
third brave astronaut, Mike Collins, was
in lunar orbit. The touchdown of Apollo
II Eagle in the Sea of Tranquility was a
stunning achievement, without precedent
in human experience. These three astro-
nauts, representing the spirit of our en-
tire Nation, fulfilled the age-old dream of
mankind of venturing beyond Earth to
the surface of another world.
As we honor these three bold adven-
turers today, we take pride in our Nation
and in the unequaled technological
statement to reporters assembled in the Briefing ability that made this great endeavor
possible and which still exists. The pio-
Room at the White House.
1276
