Aug. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
This will require a total commitment by
you to continue bargaining until an all-
out exhaustive effort has brought about
an end to this strike.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical telegrams
addressed to E. H. Ryan, Peavey Co., Minne-
apolis, Minn.; Anthony Corvino, Continental
Grain Co., New York, N.Y.; Gerald Mattson,
International Multifoods, Minneapolis; Felix
Ricco, Cargill Co., Wayzata, Minn.; Donald
Friborg, General Mills, Minneapolis; Harold
Schuler, Con-agra, Omaha, Nebr.; Douglas
Larson, Farmers Union GTA, St. Paul, Minn.;
Dale Benson, Archer-Daniel-Midlands, Deca-
tur, Ill.; Joseph Devich, American Federation
of Grain Millers, Superior, Wis.; Frank Hoese,
American Federation of Grain Millers, Minne-
apolis; and Mike Miller, American Federation
of Grain Millers, Minneapolis. Copies of the
telegram were also sent to David Roe, president,
Minnesota AFL-CIO, St. Paul; and John
Schmitt, president, Wisconsin AFL-CIO,
Milwaukee.
Director Horvitz beginning on Tuesday,
August 21, in the Minneapolis offices of
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service.
In addition, I have asked the parties
to continue bargaining until an all-out
exhaustive effort has ended this strike.
I share your deep concern about this
lingering dispute and will appreciate any
assistance you may offer, should Director
Horvitz call upon you.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical telegrams
addressed to Gov. Al Quie of Minnesota and
Gov. Arthur A. Link of North Dakota.
The text of the telegram was released at
Bloomington, Minn.
AFL-CIO, Wabasha, Minnesota
The text of the telegram was released at
Bloomington, Minn.
Labor Dispute in the Grain
Industry
Telegram to the Governors of Minnesota
and North Dakota. August 18, 1979
Following our conversations yesterday
aboard Air Force One regarding the cur-
rent work stoppage between the American
Federation of Grain Millers and the grain
companies in Duluth, Minn., and Su-
perior, Wis., I have today directed the
head of the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service, Wayne L. Horvitz,
to become personally involved in these
negotiations, and to provide whatever
assistance he feels is necessary to help bring
about an immediate end to this dispute.
In this effort I have also called upon
all parties directly involved to participate
in a resumption of negotiations with
Remarks on Arrival at the City.
August 18, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. There is no doubt in my
mind that all of us enjoy the privilege of
living in the greatest country on Earth.
We are a nation which has indeed been
blessed by God with blessings which ex-
ceed those of any other peoples on Earth.
We're a nation of freedom. We're a na-
tion of strength, of courage, of vitality.
We're a nation which has always been
able and eager to meet any challenge, no
matter how difficult it might have been,
to solve any problem, no matter how com-
plex it might be, or to answer any ques-
tion which confronts the people of the
United States of America.
I'm very proud to be the highest
elected official in the greatest country on
Earth, and I think what you've done here
this morning in Wabasha, Mayor Meisch,
and all of you, is a tremendous testimony
to what our country can be in the future
if we are indeed united.
1468
