June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
their lives for principles in which we still
believe, the principle that people should
be permitted to live in peace, free of the
threat of successful aggression, and the
right to live in freedom.
We have since that time maintained
peace, a fragile peace, not ever completely
free of challenge or danger. But America
is a nation that is strong. We maintain
our strength, not because we love war or
because we desire war, but because we are
committed to peace. And we know that
peace can only be maintained with
strength.
As I shook hands with the fine young
men this morning, they all gave a slogan
that is typical, I think, not only of you
but of our country as well-"Fit to Fight."
I have no doubt that you are fit to fight.
And I can assure you, as President, that
our Nation is also fit to fight, and we will
avoid combat by maintaining our strength.
We believe in certain very precious
principles equality, justice, freedom, the
preservation of basic human rights, and
we also believe in standing by our allies.
You represent the finest of America,
and I am deeply proud to be the Presi-
dent and to be Commander in Chief of
men and women like you.
Thank you for honoring me by this cere-
mony this morning. God bless every one
of you. Thanks from the bottom of my
heart.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:10 a.m. at
Robertson Memorial Field after reviewing the
troops. Following his remarks, the President
had breakfast in the messhall with members
of the 122d Signal Battalion, and then re-
turned to Seoul.
The President had arrived in Seoul on the
evening of June 29. He was met at Kimpo In-
ternational Airport by President Park Chung
Hee and then went to Camp Casey, where he
stayed overnight at the residence of Gen.
Robert C. Kingston, Commanding General,
2d Infantry Division.
Seoul, Republic of Korea
Toasts at the State Dinner. June 30, 1979
PRESIDENT PARK. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
This evening, we are honored to have
as our guests the leader of our closest ally
and the champion of world peace, Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter of the United States,
and Mrs. Carter. It gives me a great
pleasure to extend to them a heartfelt
welcome on behalf of all my fellow coun-
trymen.
I am very happy that this afternoon I
had a sincere and fruitful exchange of
views with President Carter on many
matters of mutual interest and concern in
a very friendly atmosphere.
President Carter's state visit to the Re-
public of Korea at this time, I believe,
will provide a momentum for further
strengthening the traditional bonds of
friendship between our two countries and
will offer encouragement to all peace-lov-
ing nations whose interests are linked to
the United States policy toward Asia.
I also believe that President Carter's
visit to Korea, one of the most conspicu-
ous conflict areas of the world today, will
give him a valuable opportunity to deepen
his understanding of the heart of the
problem in this area.
It is noteworthy that recently a series
of important changes have been taking
place in Asia and the Pacific. The devel-
opments include the improvement in the
Sino-American relations, the Sino-Jap-
anese relations, conflicts in Indochina,
with their repercussions, and the fluid
Sino-Soviet relations.
In the vortex of these changes, many
Asian nations are striving harder for their
national security and economic develop-
ment by fortifying their spirits of self-
reliance.
1202
