Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
plan that I support, that previous Presi-
dents have advocated-none have been
able to get through-and that the Con-
gress and the House and Senate, including
Senator Kennedy, will be proud to see im-
plemented in our country.
We're working together. There are a
few differences. Both plans are good. I
believe mine can and will pass.
HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, my name is John J.
Stevens of Amherst, New Hampshire.
We've had reports that you had a meet-
ing this morning with a number of insur-
ance executives in this insurance city. Are
we to understand that
you assured them
that any national health plan which you
plan to propose to Congress will not inter-
fere with their business? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I have not met with
any
insurance executives. I will meet with
them after this meeting, and I will not
give them that assurance.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. [Laugh-
ter]
NATIONAL HEALTH PLAN
Q. Mr. President, I'm Delbert Smith.
I'm from central New York, a little town
named Eaton. Would it not be less ex-
pensive and more practical, less costly,
to have a complete coverage, such as they
have in some of the other nations, than
to try to bolster up the present system,
which I understand your present plan
calls for?
THE PRESIDENT. Our plan is a com-
plete one. It is phased to be implemented
step by step. It's the kind of proposal that
has already aroused substantial support
from people who in the past have blocked
the passage of any health legislation, as I
said, since the time of President Truman.
The final plan, which we have pre-
sented to the public and to the Congress,
is nationwide. It is comprehensive, it is
adequately all-inclusive, it's fiscally sound.
And it has an excellent chance to pass
though the Congress. I have no doubt that
the judgment that I've made on it is the
proper one for you, for me, and for the
country.
NURSING HOME CARE; SCOPE OF COVERAGE
Q. I'm Patricia Barey from Windsor,
Connecticut. And I would like to ask if
the national insurance plan would cover
elderly patients in nursing homes and,
also, to ask, why is it so difficult now for
the patients to obtain hospital coverage?
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. No, none of the com-
prehensive national health insurance
plans include the long-term care in nurs-
ing homes, neither mine, Senator Ken-
nedy's, nor any others, so far as I know.
We all agreed that the best way to handle
that is through a more comprehensive
proposal dealing with different facets of
financing, the licensing of nursing homes,
and the Medicaid-Medicare extension to
chronic care, including drug programs.
As far as the coverage of persons-
that's a difficulty that you described-I
believe that the program that we've put
forward to the Congress will be all-in-
clusive for certain categories and, obvi-
ously, will include all Medicaid and
Medicare patients in the future. There
would be no exclusion at all.
Let me pause to ask Nelson Cruikshank
if there's a special consideration that I
need to describe.
MR. CRUIKSHANK. No, that's correct,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Nelson says
that my
answer's correct. I'm glad to hear it.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. He's my expert on the
subject.
1635
