Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 5
tages, forget about the innocent people
bound hand and foot, overlook the con-
tinued outrage to law and standards of
human behavior. We are told to forget
all that and focus on the hatred of one
man. We are not going to forget, and the
American people are not going to get their
priorities confused.
How are our hostages being treated?
The facts are there for all to see, and the
simple fact is that 50 human beings are
being held at inhuman conditions, con-
trary to all civilized standards, in order
to prove a political point. They are not
permitted regular visitors. They are iso-
lated and not allowed to speak, except to
their captors. As far as we know, the
hostages have not been allowed to receive
mail or messages. There has never been a
systematic accounting of the numbers and
welfare of the hostages.
The so-called students have not per-
mitted any outside observers even to see
these people for 10 days. They are refus-
ing to let international organizations, such
as the Red Cross, into the compound.
They refuse visits by religious organiza-
tions. They refuse representatives of neu-
tral states. Even prisoners of war are
guaranteed certain standards of human
treatment. But these standards are being
dragged in the dirt every day by a group
of kidnapers, with the acquiescence of
the government.
November 4. It was many days before we
even learned, indirectly, that he was being
held. That man, like the rest, has now
been held for 31 days-tied up, denied
contact with his family, denied exercise,
denied access even to the comfort of
religion.
We hear a great deal about the crimes
of the Shah, but that is not the issue. The
issue which disturbs the American people
is that 50 of our fellow citizens are being
abused, in violation of international law.
These are our brothers and sisters.
Yesterday, the United Nations Secur-
ity Council passed a resolution which
called as the first most important prior-
ity, as it should-for the release of the
American hostages. That is the issue. It is
the only issue, and we're not going to
forget they must be set free.
NOTE: The Vice President spoke at 12:01 p.m.
to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Commission on Proposals for the
National Academy of Peace
and Conflict Resolution
Appointment of Three Members.
December 5, 1979
The President has appointed three per-
sons as members of the Commission on
We are hearing daily propaganda Proposals for the National Academy of
about the alleged crimes of our people in
Tehran, most of whom volunteered to
serve their country at a difficult and
dangerous time. We are not and will not
respond to that propaganda.
I would note that one of those being
held as a so-called spy in Tehran is, in
fact, a private American citizen who sim-
ply happened to be visiting the Embassy
on business at the time of the attack on
Peace and Conflict Resolution. They are:
ARTHUR H. BARNES, president of the New
York Urban Coalition and vice president
of the Institute for Mediation and Conflict
Resolution, a private, nonprofit organiza-
tion that mediates community disputes and
teaches the techniques of mediation, negotia-
tion, and arbitration;
ELISE BOULDING, a professor of sociology at
the Institute of Behavioral Science at the
University of Colorado, an expert, lecturer,
and writer in the field of peace research;
2195
