Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 31
come into the White House every week to
talk about SALT, to talk about inflation,
to talk about hospital cost containment,
different issues that are important.
Rosalynn doesn't arrange those meetings
in the initial stages, but she is responsible
as the hostess to make sure that when they
are there that they have maybe light hors
d'oeuvres or some lemonade or tea or
something of that kind.
She has under her all of the persons
who take care of the official visits. The
State Department pays for the actual cost
of a state banquet, for instance, but
Rosalynn's staff members are the ones that
arrange the banquet, decide on the menu,
arrange for entertainment, and so forth.
We have picnics on the grounds for all
the Members of Congress on occasion, or
for certain other groups. For instance,
Monday we will have between 1,000 and
2,000 labor representatives who will come
there to celebrate Labor Day. It will be a
picnic type. Her staff has to do all of those
things in addition to taking care of her
travel and other minor things of that kind.
So, she needs somebody that is competent.
I think if you would compare-and I
wish you would take the occasion to do
it-if you would compare the size of her
staff with her predecessors, you would find
that it is modest. It is probably smaller
than any recent First Lady's staff in spite
of the fact that she is probably the most
active of the ones who have served there
in the last 12 or 15 years. So, I don't have
any apology to make for it. The pay scales
are set, as you know, by civil service and
Government standards. But we have cut
the staff considerably.
Q. Do you think that level job is the
same as Hamilton's and Brzezinski's-I
mean, that's the same pay as Hamilton
Jordan?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct. That
is the top-level staff. I have a certain num-
ber of assistants.
SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY
Q. Mr. President, Ted Kennedy has
never said that he wanted to be President,
and for 10 years the country seems to have
had a fascination with him in the White
House. He insists he is not running for
President, and still he leads in all the polls.
When you see all of that, read that in the
newspaper, what do you think the coun-
try's fascination with him is?
THE PRESIDENT. I have heard Senator
Kennedy say that his avowed commitment
not to run was one of the things that made
him attractive-being reluctant to be a
candidate is an attraction in itself. I have
heard him say
that if he should announce
as a candidate-which he doesn't intend
to do that his standing in the polls would
undoubtedly drop a good bit.
There is also a great admiration and ap-
preciation and respect throughout this
country—particularly among Democrats,
but I think among all Americans-for
what the Kennedy family has done, with
their older brother being killed in the war
and with President Kennedy being as-
sassinated in office and with Robert Ken-
nedy being assassinated in the last stages of
the primary campaign in 1968. And I
think Edward Kennedy has done a superb
job as Senator.
He is the last remaining brother, and I
think all of these reasons-his own reluc-
tance, the admiration and respect for his
entire family, and his own competence
and attractiveness as a political figure-
would accrue to his benefit. I don't be-
grudge him that admiration and that
respect.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
Q. Mr. President, you have been re-
ported as making a statement saying quite
explicitly what you would do to Senator
Kennedy if he should run against you. I
1581
