Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
have energy tomorrow, because they will
have wasted it all?
THE PRESIDENT. That's good.
In addition to advertising, there are
many other things that can be done. I
spent yesterday and the day before yes-
terday on the telephone calling different
Members of the Congress around the
Nation, just to see how they had spent
their home working vacation, talking to
people and listening. And for the first
time in the history, I guess, of our Na-
tion, the people believe that there is an
energy problem. In the past, it's been
very frustrating, because as you probably
know, I've been on television, I made
speeches to the Congress, and it was hard
to get people to realize or to believe that
we ought to do something. Now people
believe it.
When I went down the Mississippi
River the other day, I made, I think, 48—
somebody said-little short speeches on
energy to let people know that we have a
problem and that doing something about
it can be productive and pleasant and
good for an American.
The reason I came to Tampa was be-
cause in Hillsborough County there are
many buildings that have been designed
in a very efficient way to save energy, in-
cluding this school building and others
that I won't name. The whole county has
saved energy, and I wanted the American
people, through the national press that's
covering this meeting, to know that some
communities in our Nation are already
doing a good job.
The President's voice in a forum like
this can convince people that every one of
you ought to go home and sit down with
your wife or your husband or mother,
father, children, and say, "What can we do
in our family to save energy and also, at
the same time, to save money and also, at
the same time, to help my country?"
The first and easiest way to cut down
on oil imports, which rob us all, is to
save. Then, the next thing is to turn to-
ward the kinds of energy that never give
out. The most obvious is solar power.
Another one is derived from solar power.
That's the production of energy from
growing crops or from lumber or waste
timber products.
We had a session this morning at Geor-
gia Tech, all morning. People came there
from all over the Nation, about 400 peo-
ple, to describe to me new ideas about
energy. And Georgia grows three times
more energy in our woods every year than
we use in the whole State, and if we just
took the pine tree tops and the pine
needles and the bark and changed that
into energy, we could more than meet
that we waste-I mean the waste part.
We'd have more energy than we need,
and the same with animal products. So,
think the thing is to, secondly, turn toward
renewable energy supplies.
The third way to turn is to energy sup-
plies that we have an awful lot of. We've
got enough coal to last us 600 years, and
we're now finding ways to burn coal
cleanly so it doesn't mess up the air. And
we ought to turn to coal. We've got addi-
tional supplies of oil and natural gas that
we've not yet found in our country, so we
don't have to import. We need to turn to
those. Geothermal supplies-underneath
the ground itself there's extremely hot
steam and water. We can tap that. We're
already doing that. So, that's the next
thing to do.
The last way to do is to turn toward
things that cost a lot but that might be
used to fill in the gap, like synthetic fuels.
It costs a lot of money. You can make oil
out of shale rock and make oil out of coal,
but to the extent that we save and use
solar power and turn to our renewable
supplies, we can cut down on the amount
of synthetic fuels we use.
But for the American people to get ed-
ucated and to believe we've got a problem
is the first major step. But we will do
1575
