Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sep. 14
for the effective performance of its improving the management and perform-
functions.
1-302. Each member of the Council,
who is not otherwise a full-time employee
of the Federal Government, shall receive
no compensation from the United States
by virtue of their service on the Council,
but all members may receive the trans-
portation and travel expenses, including
per diem in lieu of subsistence, authorized
by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703).
1-4. General Provisions.
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.
I), except that of reporting annually to
the Congress, shall be performed by the
Director of the Office of Personnel Man-
agement in accordance with guidelines
and procedures established by the Admin-
istrator of General Services.
1-402. The Council shall terminate on
December 31, 1980, unless
extended.
The White House,
September 14, 1979.
sooner
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:15 p.m., September 14, 1979]
President's Management
Improvement Council
Memorandum From the President.
September 14, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: President's Management Im-
provement Council
One of the highest priorities of my
Administration has been, and remains,
ance of the Federal government. Together
we have made some significant progress
toward that end. Civil Service Reform,
regulatory reform, cash management im-
provements, paperwork reduction, Fed-
eral grant reform, and our efforts to pre-
vent fraud and waste are producing
substantial improvements in the opera-
tions of the Federal government.
I recognize that you are already doing
many things to improve management in
your departments or agencies. Yet as I
meet and talk with individual citizens and
groups, I am constantly reminded that
there continues to be widespread distrust
of
government, and widespread dissatis-
faction with how well the Federal govern-
ment does its job. I believe that there are
further management improvements which
need to be undertaken, and I seek your
commitment to take a fresh look at man-
agement problems in your agency.
I would urge you to give special atten-
tion to the problems of delivery of service
to the public. There continue to be many
instances throughout government of slow
response to client needs, backlogs of work,
overly complicated procedures, and insen-
sitivity or indifference in dealing with the
public. In many cases improvements can
be made in practical, down-to-earth ways
by line managers and supervisors, if they
have your strong backing to do so.
As part of this renewed commitment to
Federal management, I have, by Execu-
tive Order, established the President's
Management Improvement Council. This
Council, co-chaired by the Directors of the
Office of Management and Budget and
the Office of Personnel Management, con-
sists of representatives from Federal agen-
cies and State and local government, ex-
ecutives from the private sector and labor
organizations, and academic leaders. Its
1669
