Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
PRESIDENT GIS CARD D'ESTAING. Ladies
and gentlemen, I think that we can say
that the Tokyo summit has indeed
achieved the aims that had been set. The
leaders of the major industrialized na-
tions, also the major consumers of oil,
have done what might have been expected
of them.
Faced by difficult situations, they have
demonstrated their sense of responsibility
and their courage and I am speaking, of
course, of my partners-by agreeing to
enter into specific commitments after dis-
cussions that at times were difficult. But it
must be recognized the subject and the
situation are both difficult, too.
For the first time since the onset of the
energy crisis 6 years ago, we agreed to
adopt a joint attitude, a common attitude
on three essential points. And indeed,
what was expected of us? A commitment
on limits of imported oil, a massive effort
to develop alternative energy sources, and,
lastly, an effort to eliminate practices con-
ducive to excessively high prices on the
oil markets.
Now we have agreed to limit quantities
of oil that are imported, in the short term,
in 1979 and in 1980, and also in the me-
dium term, 1985. We jointly agreed on
quantified targets, country by country. As
far as the European Community is con-
cerned, these targets, of course, comply
with the targets and aims defined in
Strasbourg.
Secondly, efforts to develop alternative
energy sources. First of all, those that are
available-coal and nuclear generated
electricity, and a very substantial program
for the technological development of new
energy sources. Lastly, eliminating prac-
tices that have led to speculative increases
in prices on some markets.
So, I think that it can be said that our
countries have taken the decisions that
they were able to take. But we know that
this is only one part of the problem, be-
cause we do not hold the key to the energy
problem among ourselves alone. And I
hope that our sense of responsibility will
be met by an equal sense of responsibility
by those who also hold part of the key to
the problem. And as Acting President of
the Council of the European Economic
Community, I would like to emphasize
the role that has been played by the Com-
munity.
First of all, by arriving at an agreement
in Strasbourg last week among the nine
members of the Community, which was
part of our preparations for the Tokyo
meeting, and then by arriving at an agree-
ment among the seven of us here, that
this, of course, presupposed that our part-
ners were prepared, ready, and willing to
collaborate, that is to say, Japan, the
United States, and Canada.
Now, there remains a great deal for
us to do, it cannot be denied, in order to
define the paths to be followed by the
world economy. Growth that at the same
time is energy saving, growth that is per-
haps more steady, less spectacular. We
are going to have to work a lot; we are
going to have to invent a lot; we are
going to have to improvise; we are going
to have to change a number of the habits
that grew up when times were easier. But
we have tackled the problems in an
orderly fashion and standing together.
And this is what our Tokyo agreement
means to us.
And I would like to add, with your
permission, Mr. Chairman, three com-
ments. Firstly, I would like to express our
concern with regard to the situation of
non-oil-producing, developing countries.
Their situation is very much more diffi-
cult, very much more painful, very often,
than ours. And this is why in discussions
over the past 2 days, we have sought to
bear their situation in mind, and we must
1189
