Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
number of months, as we deal with the
problems that confront us all, particularly
in evolving an energy policy for our
Nation, that we will keep in mind the
common goals and the common purposes
that bind us together.
I just spent a little more than 2 hours
with the Governors of the Western States
trying to study the special problems of this
beautiful part of the Earth and how many
of our energy needs can be met from the
oil and natural gas and uranium and coal
and solar, opportunities that exist here,
and how on a permanent basis we can
meet the needs of our country in the
future.
you
Each region is different, each county is
different, each tiny part of the Earth is
different from the others, and I think
have a special insight into how these tiny
portions of America can be combined to-
gether to make the greatest nation on
Earth even greater in the future.
I'm pleased to be with you and I'm
honored. I met Aliceann Fritchler Whol-
beruck earlier tonight. You have an excel-
lent executive secretary. She's worked, as
you know, with the county organizations
in the past, and I think that she will be a
good one to bridge whatever gap might
still remain between those of you who are
responsible for development of the finest
things of life and those who've been
elected to serve at the local level of gov-
ernment, which by far is the most impor-
tant level.
I hope that you will not ever be timid
in letting your views be known to me and
to the members of my administration with
whom you work, who want to do a good
job for you, and I know you want to do a
good job for the same nation that I serve.
Thank you for letting me interrupt
your meeting. God bless you, everyone.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Albuquerque
Hilton Inn.
Water Resources
Statement by the President. October 10, 1979
State systems for allocating and man-
aging water resources have evolved over
decades in the Western United States.
These systems recognize the high value
and relative scarcity of water. Their con-
tinuation is essential to stability and
equity in the West. With the exception of
unique Federal and Indian water rights,
the States must allocate their water re-
sources in the manner best suited to
themselves.
I have proposed a major domestic
energy production effort which we as a
nation must undertake to reduce our
reliance on imported oil. We hope to es-
tablish an energy mobilization board to
ensure that decisionmaking on energy
projects does not get tied up in redtape.
At the same time, I strongly believe that
we must preserve the essential and his-
toric role of the States in the process of
allocating water among competing needs.
I have and will continue to support legis-
lative language to make it clear that fed-
erally supported energy development
should be accomplished without preemp-
tion or change of State water laws, rights,
or responsibilities.
With proper planning and sensitivity
to all of the human and natural resource
problems associated with energy projects,
we can produce the energy we need with-
out jeopardizing agricultural and com-
munity water use. We can also maintain,
as we must, the high quality of the West-
ern environment.
We must respect the rights and respon-
sibilities of our State governments—and
when the issue is priorities of water use in
a State, the State must and does have the
ability to say no through existing State
water allocation systems. This right must
1854
