Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
vironmental problem. Recent criminal
and civil investigations have indicated
that this trade runs to tens of millions of
dollars a year and can introduce serious
diseases. It is important that
strengthen the individual and collective
abilities of agencies to deal with this
problem.
we
We must establish a coordinated fed-
eral wildlife enforcement program. To
improve the effectiveness of this program,
I am submitting legislation that strength-
ens wildlife enforcement laws. I am also
directing agencies to take certain individ-
ual actions and to form two task forces to
coordinate their activities.
I therefore direct that your Depart-
ment:
• Establish and chair a wildlife law
enforcement committee which will in-
clude representatives from your Depart-
ment and the Departments of Treasury,
Justice, Agriculture and Commerce. The
committee will review agency enforce-
ment experiences, priorities and prob-
lems, expedite review of agency trade
regulations, help coordinate federal trade
enforcement policies generally and keep
agency heads informed.
Assign a representative to a plant
enforcement task force, chaired by the
Department of Agriculture, which will
include representatives from the Depart-
ments of Agriculture, Justice, Interior
and Treasury. The task force will inves-
tigate the illegal trade in plants and will
bring appropriate prosecutions.
Chair and assign representatives as
appropriate to interagency teams which
will audit wildlife import documents to
discover fraudulent documentation.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Attorney General
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, illegal trade in fish and
wildlife was identified as a significant en-
vironmental problem. Recent criminal
and civil investigations have indicated
that this trade runs to tens of millions of
dollars a year and can introduce se-
rious diseases. It is important that we
strengthen the individual and collective
abilities of agencies to deal with this
problem.
We must establish a coordinated fed-
eral wildlife enforcement program. To
improve the effectiveness of this pro-
gram, I am submitting legislation that
strengthens wildlife enforcement laws. I
am also directing agencies to take certain
individual actions and to form two task
forces to coordinate their activities.
I therefore direct that your Depart-
ment:
Assign a representative to a wildlife
law enforcement committee chaired by
the Department of the Interior which will
include representatives from the Depart-
ments of Treasury, Justice, Agriculture
and Commerce. The committee will re-
view agency enforcement experiences, pri-
orities and problems, expedite review of
agency trade regulations, help coordinate
federal trade enforcement policies gener-
ally and keep agency heads informed.
Assign a representative to a plant en-
forcement task force, chaired by the De-
partment of Agriculture, which will in-
clude representatives from the Depart-
ments of Agriculture, Justice, Interior and
Treasury. The task force will investigate
the illegal trade in plants and will bring
appropriate prosecutions.
Assign representatives as appropriate
to interagency teams, chaired by the De-
partment of the Interior, which will
audit wildlife import documents to dis-
cover fraudulent documentation.
• Seek stiff penalties for persons who
engage in illegal wildlife or plant trade
1378
