Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1980
rocketing increases in hospital costs, in-
creases that fall so heavily on older Amer-
icans with fixed incomes, is a crucial part
of the health program and the program
to control inflation. The States repre-
sented here in New England already have
such plans, and they're working well.
I'd like to remind you that in the year
2000, the Americans born in the first year
of social security will turn 65. They will
owe a great debt to you. It's not too much
to ask the rest of us that we repay some
of this debt now. You who have strength-
ened this country, changed our society,
and have yourselves endured, know that
we still live in the greatest and most free
democracy in the world. Your will can
be made our Nation's will if you make it
known to your elected representatives.
I trust you to do that now, as you always
have done in the past. I trust you to fight
for a just distribution of the resources of
this great country, from windfall profits
to social security. And, above all, I trust
you to help me prove that this land is big
enough, rich enough, and humane enough
for it to be both free and fair.
To summarize, we must carry forward
our vision of a greater America. We must
work together for a rebirth of the Ameri-
can spirit. We must restore confidence in
ourselves, our neighbors, and in our coun-
try. We must revitalize basic human
values, which do not change. We must
regenerate a sense of unity among the
different people in this country. And we
must define new and exciting goals for
America. Together, that's the kind of na-
tion we will continue to build. Together,
that's the kind of land we will leave our
children.
Your courage and your commitment,
your experience and your wisdom will
help to see this dream of a greater
America come true. As we have in the
past, our Nation will still depend on you.
God bless you. And now, I'd like to
answer some questions.
QUESTIONS
NATIONAL HEALTH PLAN
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
Q. I'm Jim Peace from Cape Cod in
Massachusetts. Your hospital cost con-
tainment bill is having a difficult time;
we will help you get that through. How-
ever, why introduce piecemeal legislation
that is inflationary, rather than the entire
package as contained in the Kennedy bill?
THE PRESIDENT. For the last 20 or 30
years, the Congress has been assessing,
with frequent proposals, how to get passed
a comprehensive, nationwide health in-
surance program. We have assessed the
possible means of implementing this na-
tionwide insurance program in every pos-
sible way.
I've spent hours with Senator Kennedy,
with Senator Long, with Senator Ribi-
coff, and others. There's no doubt in my
mind that the proposal we put forward
will not only be less costly but has enough
support in the Congress finally to pass.
Its ultimate results will be equal to at
least the coverage described in any health
insurance program. And it's focused upon
a phased implementation, which will
meet the most urgent needs that I've out-
lined this morning.
First, both proposals, mine and Senator
Kennedy's, have a lot in common. Both
will be first implemented in 1983. The
difference, in my opinion, is that mine
can pass. And as the propositions go
through the Congress, I have no doubt
that there'll be negotiations, decisions by
subcommittees in the House and Senate,
and that we'll eventually come out with a
1634
