Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
agree it is a very big problem. Anytime-
my feelings are when somebody declares
war on energy, you put all the money
and all the effort into solving that imme-
diately. We have right now a solar house.
I won't quote anything on it, but I believe
that I have the best design for a passive
solar house that had so many things to
offer people. Nowadays, people my age
can't even dream of buying a house.
That I was on TV, we got 15 calls;
people wanted to buy our house. I had
to tell every one of them, "I'd like to
sell you a house, but I can't sell it to you
because we don't get any Government
support." The governmental agencies
pass the buck, the people want the house,
and I-you know, it's gotten to the point
where the project is ready. Today we can
start on the prototype; next year we can
offer passive solar houses using the green-
house effect. That was a finalist position.
So many wonderful things that I just
don't understand what's wrong. [Audience
reaction] Well, I'm sorry. I've worked so
long on this project, and it's very depress-
ing.
And it's gotten to the point where I'm
beginning to wonder exactly what is hap-
pening in the Government when we can't
even offer something to the people; when
billions of dollars are spent on research
and all we're talking about is just a very
small amount of money to build our first
prototype.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me ask you one
question.
Q. The question is-
THE PRESIDENT. Let me ask you one
question, and then I'll give you an an-
swer. Do you think it's a good idea?
Q. Yes, sir. I do. The American In-
stitute of Architects judged it a winner
in the Florida competition and a finalist
in the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. If you will come to
the White House, I will look it over my-
self. And then I'll try to use my influ-
ence [laughter]—to get you an appoint-
ment with the Secretary of Energy,
Charles Duncan.
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. And then I'll ask him
to refer you to the Small Business Admin-
istration. [Laughter] I don't think you're
going to have to go any further. If you've
got a good idea, I guarantee you that you
will get every hearing, including from me.
Q. When can I be up there to see you?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Whenever you want
to come. Keech right here will make an
appointment for you. Okay?
Q. I'd like to give you also something
to take with you, if I could.
THE PRESIDENT. I will also read your
material on the way home tonight.
Q. Thank you.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Hello. Mr. President, with regards
to the energy problems that we're facing
today in America, I don't feel that the
problem is in the quantity, but rather in
the attitudes of the American public. I
feel that no matter how much energy
sources we have available, if they're not
used wisely, we'll always be wanting. And
my question to you is, what can be done,
short of expensive advertising, to help
the American public see the true cost of
energy? And when I say the true cost, I'm
not speaking only of the dollar amount
but of the as far as conservation, as far
as to our wildlife, to the resources, to the
air, to everything.
What can be done short of advertising,
the way that we've been doing before, to
push different things that are very worth-
while? What can be done to help the
American public see that this is a worth-
while effort and if we don't take steps to-
day, the few people that do have energy
today because they can afford it, won't
Keech LeGrand, White House staff ad-
vance person.
1574
