July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I think the reasons for my replacement
of the Cabinet are something that I don't
care to discuss publicly. I have nothing but
gratitude and admiration for the people
that have served in my administration and
left.
I expect Mrs. Harris to carry out the
provisions of the laws of this country, to
represent our Nation in the courts when
suits are brought concerning equal oppor-
tunity in all its phases, and to be respon-
sible for the health of Americans. And she
will have my support just as the previous
Secretary had.
I have no doubt that she will do an ex-
cellent job both in the administration of
that very complicated bureaucracy—
Health, Education, and Welfare and I
have no doubt that she has a basic com-
mitment to the service of the constituent
groups that are uniquely dependent upon
government, particularly HEW. And I
have no doubt that she will be a superb
teamplayer, able to work with me, to work
with the White House staff, to work with
the Congress, and to work with other
Cabinet members to carry out the policies
of
my administration, once those policies
have been established by me.
VALUE OF THE DOLLAR
Q. Sir, you said earlier that you think
that the U.S. dollar is sound. The dollar
seems to be taking a pounding on the
foreign exchange markets, and it's ap-
proaching the low levels that once be-
fore you had to launch a dramatic rescue
program last November.
In addition to that, you've just named
Paul Volcker, a conservative Republican,
to head the Federal Reserve Board. How
do the poundings that the dollar is un-
dergoing on the exchange markets and
your naming of Mr. Volcker square with
your earlier description?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no incompati-
bility at all. Mr. Volcker, by the way,
happens to be a Democrat. But he, I
think, is a conservative in that he be-
lieves in controlling inflation and he be-
lieves in maintaining a sound dollar.
I can't guarantee what the exact value
of the dollar might be in months ahead.
We don't freeze the value of the dollar.
That's determined by international mone-
tary considerations. What I said was that
the basic value of the dollar will be deter-
mined not by the identity of a President
or even the identity of the Chairman of
the Federal Reserve; it will be shaped by
how effectively our Nation moves to meet
the energy challenge. There is some pres-
ent doubt that the Congress will pass the
proposals that I have put forward. I
have no doubt that the dollar will in-
crease in value when the Congress has
passed the programs that I proposed.
And, obviously, the dollar will be ad-
versely affected if inflation should
increase.
My prediction is that inflation will de-
crease in the months ahead. And I'm
sure that the dollar would be adversely
affected if I abandoned my commitment
to a responsible Federal budget and start
on wild spending programs when they
are not needed.
So, basic decisions made of fiscal
soundness in our Government is a much
more important factor in shaping the
value of the dollar than is the identity
of officials who might serve in a transi-
ent time.
STANDBY GASOLINE RATIONING PLAN
Q. Mr. President, the House of Rep-
resentatives today amended a standby
rationing plan bill to give either House
the authority to veto any rationing plan
that you would come up with. Now, is
1310
