Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 13
you, that we are looking forward to hear-
ing the report from you and your col-
leagues on the situation with respect to
Cambodian refugees in Thailand, and
any other recommendations or questions
you may have of this group, which repre-
sents, I think, the cream of the private
voluntary effort. After your comments we
will be hearing from all of these various
agencies active in Cambodia on the ques-
tions posed earlier, and we are looking for-
ward later in the day to discussing our con-
clusions further with you.
Mrs. Carter, it's with real pride and
great satisfaction that I'd like to present
you.
MRS. CARTER. Thank you very much.
I'm very pleased to have you all here
today. I welcome you.
And I did go to Cambodia. And I'm
very happy to have this opportunity to re-
port to you about my trip, and also to
thank you for what you have done already
and for what you continue to do, and to
work with you on ways that we can better
help those who are suffering in this area of
the world.
As the President has said, I went to
Thailand on his behalf to express the pro-
found concern of the people of our coun-
try for the tragedy that is unfolding in In-
dochina. My visit was very brief, but I
think I can say positively that it was one of
the most significant events of my life. I
came away filled with admiration for the
representatives of your organizations who
are there struggling with this massive
problem of relief for thousands and thou-
sands of human beings who are starving
and homeless and ill and bereaved. And I
came away also, as Jimmy said, filled with
gratitude for the efforts of the people of
Thailand and for the Government of
Thailand.
And I'm sure that every person in this
room knows what faces us in the coming
weeks. The problem is one that is not go-
ing away anytime soon. We will be faced
with it for a long time. While our interna-
tional efforts have brought vast improve-
ments--and I saw in the refugee camp at
Sakeo some beginnings of hope for those
few who have been brought back from the
very edge of death. The camp, since the
time that the Senators was there, has
really made progress; in fact, some people
told us that a miracle had happened in the
last few weeks. The camp is only about 3
weeks old, but people are being fed and
are being taken care of in that camp now.
And you will have a further report on that
from some of those who went with me.
But the picture in the near future looks
very bleak, because a wave of new refugees
are expected to come across the border
into Thailand from Kampuchea—a num-
ber estimated anywhere from 100,000 to
250,000, maybe 300,000—that are now
right at the border, that are expected to
come now that the dry season is here and
the fighting has begun again. They will be
pushed over into Thailand.
And for those of us who have seen with
our own eyes the dimension of the problem
and the terrible suffering and starvation,
the thought of so many more people in the
same situation who will be coming into
Thailand is almost more than you can
bear, when you are there and look at it.
I'd like to tell you briefly about my trip.
I was accompanied by some of those here
that are here at that head table, who will
be reporting to you also. Some of us
worked together; some of us dispersed so
that we could gather more information,
because we were only there for a few
hours, a day, 2 days.
We went to the refugee camps in Thai-
land, Kampuchea, that I have already
talked about, Sakeo. We witnessed the
disease, the dislocation of persons, suffer-
ing, starvation. We saw many, young and
old. We saw children separated from their
parents, afflicted with malaria and mal-
nutrition.
In the camp at Ubon, for refugees from
2115
