Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 17
palities to support the issuance of tax-
exempt, low-interest-rate industrial reve-
nue bonds.
The bonds will finance on a lease-
purchase-type basis the widespread use of
individual solar systems. People can then
pay for the solar system over long periods
of time at Btu rates equal to utility rates,
and the money market, not the govern-
ment's budget, will be the only limit on
available funding.
For example, a $400 million bond
issue will provide more than enough
money to install solar tapwater heating
systems on all of the housing units in St.
Paul. Direct heating solar systems can
now produce more Btu's per dollar in-
vested than nuclear and coal electric
generating systems.
So, continue to challenge us, Mr. Presi-
dent. Give solar the same money market
access and fast write-off and other tax
advantages that coal and nuclear power-
generating utilities enjoy, and we'll in-
sulate and solarize and do everything
that we haven't done yet and should do
and do our best to see that you never
have to find another $400 million to
clean up a plant like Three Mile Island.
Thank you.
MAYOR LATIMER. Mr. President, you
probably noticed, although we believe
strongly in local control and citizen par-
ticipation, that the prospect of Federal
moneys continues to have some interest
to us. Do you get that feeling? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. With the windfall
profits tax, we will have that money
MAYOR LATIMER. All right.
Our final and perhaps our briefest
speaker-[laughter]. You can tell, Mr.
President, that in St. Paul they know the
next speaker, and they know that he's not
going to be brief, but he promised me he
would be. His name is Tod Lefko.
THE PRESIDENT. If I miss my boat, he's
going to have to swim with me. [Laughter]
ENERGY PLANNING PROCEDURES
MAYOR LATIMER. Mr. Lefko is impor-
tant to this city, because he helped to
formulate the neighborhood participa-
tion process that we have been working
under so successfully. He teaches at the
university. He has about all of the quali-
ties you could look for, except he can't
seem to get elected to office. [Laughter]
MR. LEFKO. Thanks, George.
Mr. President, and fellow citizens, how
can we translate public awareness of
what can be into public action or what
should be? The issue of energy is
before us. In St. Paul, the possibility of
solutions are enhanced because of our
style of decisionmaking. In St. Paul, de-
cisions are approached in a philosophically
and pragmatically different manner than
many other cities.
We begin with four philosophical
bases: first, a belief in local responsibility
and application of pragmatic planning.
We have a tradition of identifying and
facing problems and not waiting for Fed-
eral action. Next, if we have a secret, it
is that we are process-oriented. We have
learned that issues must not be faced as
a crisis, and we've developed processes for
integrated decisionmaking.
Third, in St. Paul the choice is not be-
tween the new and the old. We realize
that the future is a balance. There's some-
thing just and proper about talking about
energy alternatives in this building. And
if
you want to see what the true and best
demonstration of St. Paul is, here it is.
Fourth, we see energy as but a part of
a larger system, tied to economic devel-
opment, housing, integrated planning,
education, and movement toward self-
1465
