Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
portance of the preservation of human families, to be able to speak without fear
rights.
of restraint or punishment.
This is an honor for me for several
reasons—not a personal honor, but an
honor to the office I hold and the princi-
ples which I espouse as the leader of this
country. The fact that the reformed, con-
servative, and orthodox Jews of our Na-
tion, in complete harmony with one an-
other, have decided to give me this award
is extremely significant in itself. I know
you represent, under the aegis of worship-
ing the same God, differences of views,
but I think the exemplification which
bring to this ceremony is that the commit-
ment to human rights transcends differ-
ences among American people.
you
I campaigned for this office for 2 years
or more, and everywhere I went, with
every opportunity I had, I promised that
if I was President that I would emphasize,
to the highest degree of my ability, our
Nation's commitment to human rights.
It's one reason that I was elected. When
I made my acceptance speech at the
Democratic Convention, when I made my
Inaugural speech, human rights was a
focal point for my basic summary of this
Nation's foreign policy.
Human rights takes on a broad range
of meanings. And we've had some notable
successes in the last 22 to 3 years: Prison
doors have opened to release literally tens
of thousands of those who've been incar-
cerated for years, even decades. We've
seen a massive shift in countries around
the world and particularly, I think, in this
hemisphere toward giving people the basic
human right of shaping their own future,
of choosing their own leaders, of modify-
ing and establishing the policies of their
own government.
We've espoused the cause of human
rights in trying to honor the desire of
people to be free, to leave the Soviet
Union, to escape persecution, to reunite
Increasingly we've extended the help-
ing hand of a highly blessed nation to
those who suffer. We've taken a leader-
ship role in helping the refugees from
Southeast Asia-and later on today, I'll
be making another major announcement
and commitment of our country to alle-
viate the hunger, which is preying so
heavily on my own heart and mind, on
yours, and on the hearts and minds of
people throughout this country.
It has not always been easy, even in this
country, to maintain a strong commitment
to human rights. As Pat Derian, sitting on
the front row, responsible for this position
in the State Department, so well knows,
there are always delegations who come to
me or to her or to Secretary Vance and
say, "This particular dictator has been a
valuable ally of ours, and when the
United States makes a critical remark
about political prisoners who are being re-
strained or in jail or punished or executed,
it tends to shake our relationship with that
country." We've had to withstand those
kinds of pressures, and I believe that in
many instances we've been successful in
that effort.
Leaders of the business community-
I'm sure none of you here-have sent dele-
gations to me with a very forceful politi-
cal presentation: "How can we possibly
disturb our possible sales abroad or our
profits abroad by making statements about
apartheid or about some other depriva-
tion of human rights?" I hope that our
Nation will always stand resolved. And
I'm encouraged by your recognition that
I, as President, have accurately repre-
sented what our Nation is, what we hope
to be in the future, and what we expect
and demand, as a matter of fact, from na-
tions all over the world.
This has not required any courage on
my part, although there have been some
2010
