Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 16
tention to affirmative action-and that is
apparently a conflict. But under Griffin
Bell it has not been a conflict, because as
we've moved out and explored the iden-
tity of those who could serve superlative-
ly as Federal judges, among women and
among representatives of minority groups
who have suffered from discrimination
for too long, we have never deviated from
the highest possible standards of merit.
And I'm deeply grateful for that achieve-
ment of the Attorney General as well.
With the ceremony today, I express my
gratitude to Attorney General Griffin Bell,
my regrets that he has decided to leave
this post, my confidence that he will con-
tinue to help me and this country in the
future to perpetuate what he's initiated
here, and also to express my gratitude to
the man who will be sworn in today, Ben-
jamin Civiletti.
Under Ben Civiletti, as the new Attor-
ney General, we will build on the stand-
ards of excellence that have been estab-
lished here in the Justice Department. He
will be the highest law enforcement officer
in our land, entrusted, with complete con-
fidence, with the responsibilities which I
have just described so briefly: integrity,
compassion, sensitivity, fairness, equity,
justice as a tangible thing, but also an ac-
curate image of it, because the people of
our country, particularly those who are
poor or inarticulate or deprived must have
an accurate sense that the system of justice
works for them and not against them. And
there is no doubt in my mind that Ben-
jamin Civiletti is eminently qualified to
have both the substance of justice and an
accurate image that our Nation's Govern-
ment represents the essence of fairness
and justice for all.
He's a courageous man, and this is a
job that requires courage. And I'm very
deeply grateful to him for being willing to
serve.
I look forward to the ceremony, now
imminent, wherein the Chief Justice of
the United States will give the oath of
office as Attorney General to a fine and
distinguished public servant who has al-
ready proven his qualities to be exem-
plary, Ben Civiletti.
Thank you very much.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. We are de-
viating from the program just the slight-
est bit, Mr. President.
Thank you for your remarks. We all
work for you. You are really, under the
Constitution you are the Attorney Gen-
eral. The President, under the Constitu-
tion, is the only person charged with the
duty to faithfully execute the laws. And
so, as Attorney General, and as others here
at the Department, our job is to assist
the President in faithfully executing the
laws.
Chief Justice Burger is a great friend, if
not the greatest friend in our country of
judicial administration. He honors us to-
day with his presence, and before we have
the swearing-in ceremony, he wants to
say a few words.
CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER. Thank you,
Mr. Attorney General.
Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General-
to-be, Mrs. Civiletti:
I accepted the Attorney General's in-
vitation to make a few brief remarks be-
cause I thought it might help to remind all
the young lawyers in the Department of
Justice that this is a pretty good place to
start. It is 26 years ago that I began here,
and I retain the fondest recollections of
this
great Department.
From the time I was a student up to
the present, and when I was a student,
my fellow townsman, William D. Mitch-
ell, was appointed Solicitor General
first, and then Attorney General. From
that time down to the present, I have met
1441
