Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Congress under the most difficult circum-
stances to deregulate the price of natural
gas. It's a phased deregulation over a long
period of time to deregulate the price
of oil, and oil-controlled prices will be
off in September of 1981, in 28 months
after we initiated it.
We have deregulated the airline indus-
try to the great advantage of Florida. You
all have really benefited. The tourism
rate has gone up, and a lot of people are
using airplanes and so forth. We are try-
ing to get the Government's nose out of
business.
I think the oil companies have needed
to have some predictability, because the
darn thing was in a furor 2½ or 2 years
ago. Nobody knew what was going to
happen next. Now the oil companies, if
they got natural gas, now know in 1984,
January 15, that the degree of regulation
and the price are going to be such and
such, and they can make their plans
accordingly.
One other point. I had the president
of Atlantic Richfield Company come up
to Camp David to give me advice on the
energy speech I made that Sunday night.
He said just the fact I had decontrolled
the price of oil had encouraged that par-
ticular company, which is fairly large, to
double their rate of exploration of oil
above any level that they had ever had
in the past. And that board of directors
had met just before he came to Camp
David. They had never spent more than
a billion dollars a year for oil explora-
tion. They decided for 5 years continuing
they would spend $2 billion per year on
searching for oil.
So, I think just the predictability about
what the price and the degree of regula-
tion of oil is a very attractive feature,
and I don't believe that the oil companies
can deliberately hold back large quan-
tities from the market for a long period
of time in order to wait for a higher price.
AMBASSADOR ANDREW YOUNG
Q. Mr. President, what is your reac-
tion to the ABC News story that the Gov-
ernment bugged Andy Young's apart-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. That story is abso-
lutely false. ABC came to the Attorney
General, reported that story to the At-
torney General, asked him if it was true.
He gave them a flat statement on his word
of honor that it was a false story. ABC
then came to the White House, talked to
Jody Powell, and Jody told them that it
was a false story. They ran the story any-
how, which I thought was a very irrespon-
sible demonstration of journalism.
I saw it on television. I was called about
it, and I had it replayed so I could watch
it. I then called the Attorney General last
night and told him to get a direct written
statement from every single intelligence
agency about that subject. They all have
assured me that there has been no elec-
tronic surveillance of Andy Young's apart-
ment, no bugging of Andy Young's apart-
ment, no tap on Andy Young's telephone
by any intelligence agency of our country.
And I don't know what ABC is going to
do about it. They knew the story was
denied by the White House and the At-
torney General.
It is a serious crime, it is a felony to put
a tap on an American citizen's telephone,
to bug an American citizen without a writ-
ten permission from the Attorney General
or the President. Obviously there was no
written permission.
So, it is a false story. I don't think any
of it should have been published.
One other question.
1586
