July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
try it, I hope that I would be caught and
that the American people would demon-
strate their lack of confidence by their
actions on election day.
AMTRAK
Q. Mr. President, Saul Kohler, Harris-
burg Patriot News. With your admonition
to the American people to conserve every
drop of oil and with your request that
we do without unnecessary automobile
trips, why does the White House persist in
cutting Amtrak service, both on the com-
muter and on the long lines basis? By
commuter basis, I mean by cutting out
tickets at commuter rates.
THE PRESIDENT. What we proposed on
Amtrak several months ago was to elim-
inate those Amtrak services where the
cost per passenger mile exceeded those by
automobile or other means. These were
routes and scheduled trips where people
had almost abandoned them. It doesn't
help to run a full-sized train at 10 percent
capacity day after day and maintain a
schedule whether you have the passengers
or not.
With the advent of the gasoline lines,
first in California and then later on the
east coast, there's been a substantial in-
crease in the use of Amtrak services, both
commuter and longer distance travel. Now
the Congress has passed-not exactly
what I proposed, but a modification of
that. Our proposal was that there be $65
million set up in extra funds, and that
those funds would be oriented to support
additional Amtrak services above what we
originally proposed if the passenger use
level warranted continuation of that
service.
So, I think the additional use of Am-
trak brought about by an awareness of
gasoline shortages has been accommo-
dated with a change in administration
position. But it doesn't save fuel to have
an empty train running, if a full train is
more economical.
Q. Should the need arise, will you
loosen the Amtrak schedules further?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we already
have. Yes, if the need arises, we will, but
it's got to be measured on an individual
route basis. There's no reason to run an
empty train just because it's a train.
ENERGY POLICIES
Q. Mr. President, in north Missouri,
we're somewhat isolated from the direct
impact of inflation because of good crops
this year. However, the people there want
some good news, if they can get it, from
Washington as far as short-term solutions
to the energy problem.
Do they have to wait to 1984 or to
1990 to see the solutions of the impact?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think so at
all. I met with some distinguished oil
executives, for instance, at Camp David
during the 10 days I was there, with con-
sultation and with other people like the
head of the Audubon Society, represent-
ing environmentalists and consumers, the
president of MIT, who's done most of the
work, more work than any other institu-
tion, I believe, on alternate sources of
energy-I had a broad range of people.
One major oil executive said that just
the decision that I made to decontrol the
price of oil over a phased period from
now until the end of September 1981 had
been enough of an incentive in his own
company to make this change. They had
never before expended more than a billion
dollars a year on exploration for new oil
and gas. As soon as I decided to decontrol,
on a phased basis, oil prices, they had a
board of directors meeting and decided to
spend $2 billion a year for 5 years, more
than they would ever have done otherwise.
1326
