Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 25
their residence and interest, and I would
like to let my voice be heard and felt and
the questions be heard by me and felt
from various places in the country.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
Q. Mr. President, if I
may follow
through on part of the thrust of Helen's
[Helen Thomas, United Press Interna-
tional] earlier question; as you know,
there have been suggestions that in order
to restore the confidence that you have
talked about in the country, and in order
to restore confidence in the Presidency,
that perhaps you might consider with-
drawing yourself from politics next year,
turning your attention primarily to gov-
erning the Nation. Now, although recent
suggestions come from a Republican
Member of the Senate-you have in re-
cent months advocated the concept of a
one-term, 6-year Presidency. I wonder if
you might have considered not entering
the 1980 campaign.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's a compli-
ment to me that Republican leaders are
advocating that I not run again. I have
considered all the options, and my de-
cision will be announced later on this
year.
VALUE OF THE DOLLAR
Q. Mr. President, are you planning to
install any foreign exchange controls or
capital controls in order to protect the de-
cline of the dollar, and are you planning
any further appointments from the cor-
porate section?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not contemplate
taking action of that kind. I think the
dollar is sound. In the long run, the prin-
ciples which will decide the value of the
dollar are determined by how effective
we are in dealing with the energy ques-
tion, how effective we are in dealing with
the inflation question, how much we act
to resolve the adverse balance of pay-
ments, how we deal with the Federal
budget deficit, and so forth. The basic un-
derlying economic factors will be what
causes the value of the dollar, not some
contrived action that I might take to in-
terfere with the normal operation of the
international monetary scene.
I have just announced today that I'm
appointing Paul Volcker, a highly quali-
fied
person, internationally respected as a
knowledgeable man on monetary systems,
on whom I can depend. There's no doubt
that he will work harmoniously with me,
with Bill Miller, who will be the new
Secretary of the Treasury. And I believe
that this new team will be very effective.
I would like to reserve the right to make
future appointments from the corporate
world or the academic world or the jour-
nalistic world or from among mayors and
Governors or Members of the Congress.
But I can't exclude the corporate sector.
But I can't say now where I'll make future
appointments from.
Yes, sir. In the back row.
NICARAGUA
Q. Mr. President, I wonder, in looking
at Nicaragua, if we are in danger of
another Cuba there, and what the White
House plans to do in terms of taking some
positive steps to assure their safety?
THE PRESIDENT. It's a mistake for
Americans to assume or to claim that
every time an evolutionary change takes
place, or even an abrupt change takes
place in this hemisphere, that somehow
it's the result of secret, massive Cuban in-
tervention. The fact in Nicaragua is that
the incumbent government, the Somoza
regime, lost the confidence of the Nicara-
guan people. There was a broad range of
forces assembled to replace Somoza and
1307
