Dec. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
JAMES HOWARD LAUE, director of the Center
for Metropolitan Studies at the University
of Missouri-St. Louis, an expert in the
field of conflict resolution, especially as it
applies to community conflict of all types.
This Commission was created by Pub-
lic Law 95-561 on November 1, 1978, to
determine the feasibility of establishing
a National Academy of Peace and Con-
flict Resolution to assist the Federal Gov-
ernment in accomplishing the goal of pro-
moting international peace.
President's Cancer Panel
Appointment of Two Members and
Designation of Chairman. December 5, 1979
ap-
The President today announced the
pointment of two persons as members of
the President's Cancer Panel. They are:
Bernard Fisher, director of oncology
and professor of surgery at the Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh and a specialist in
breast cancer. Fisher serves on several
committees of the National Cancer Insti-
tute and is on the editorial boards of a
number of journals on cancer.
Joshua Lederberg, president of the
Rockefeller University in New York City,
an expert in genetics, and winner of the
1958 Nobel Prize in medicine for studies
on the organization of the genetic ma-
terial in bacteria. Lederberg has also been
designated Chairman of the President's
Cancer Panel.
Fiscal Assistance to
State and Local Governments
White House Statement on the House
Government Operations Committee's
Approval of Legislation.
December 5, 1979
The House Government Operations
Committee today reported, by a vote of
27 to 12, legislation that would provide
countercyclical aid to State and local
governments and targeted fiscal assistance
to the most distressed cities and counties.
The bill was introduced by the leadership
of the House Government Operations
Committee and is supported by the ad-
ministration.
The legislation would provide up to $1
billion to State and local governments if
the economy goes into a recession. It also
would provide $250 million to cities and
counties that experience high unemploy-
ment. The legislation would provide es-
sential aid to most needy cities, counties,
and rural towns, and help them maintain
essential police, fire, and sanitation serv-
ices, and prevent layoffs of essential em-
ployees.
The President expressed his apprecia-
tion to Chairman Jack Brooks and Chair-
man L. H. Fountain for their cooperation
and fine work on this legislation and his
hope that the legislation will move quickly
through the House Rules Committee and
the House floor, so that the Congress can
complete action on this legislation by the
end of this year.
United Nations
Nomination of H. Carl McCall To Be
Alternate U.S. Representative for Special
Political Affairs. December 6, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate H. Carl McCall, of New
York City, to be the Alternate Repre-
sentative of the United States for Special
Political Affairs in the United Nations,
with the rank of Ambassador. He would
replace Richard Petree, who has been
appointed Deputy U.S. Representative in
the Security Council.
McCall is a New York State senator.
He was born October 17, 1935, in Boston,
Mass. He received an A.B. from Dart-
2196
