Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
sharing of responsibility and an enhanced
trust between us.
We are moving toward a possibility of
drastically reducing nuclear weapons in
the future if we can get SALT II rati-
fied. Both President Brezhnev and I, I
think the people of America and the peo-
ple of the Soviet Union want to see drastic
cuts made in nuclear armaments below
what they are now, even below what they
will be under SALT II.
We have in addition—and the last
point I'd like to make a major respon-
sibility on Earth. People look to us to
maintain stability and to prevent war.
We have been at peace for the first term,
I might say, of a President in 40 years.
No American has lost a life in combat
since I've been here in the Oval Office. I
pray that that might be the record that
I leave here when I have finished my
service as President.
But we cannot afford to become weak.
The surest way to end peace and to cause
war is for a potential adversary of our
country to believe that we are weak in
military strength or in the will to protect
ourselves.
I hope that the expenditures that we
presently are making on armaments, on
military personnel salaries, even the future
expenditures will be a good investment.
And a good investment is a weapon which
is never fired. I hope that no person ever
dies because we get into a war.
MR. SHEAHEN. We certainly appreciate
the job that you're doing in keeping peace.
It's an enormous job. I can't even imagine
how difficult it is.
But can't you you mentioned that the
United States only spends 5 percent of
our gross national product on defense,
which is true. But I understand that
Germany spends substantially less, 3 per-
cent, Switzerland only 2 percent, Japan
less than 1 percent. Isn't it time for them
to-why should we assume this tremen-
dous burden? Why can't our allies take
care of some of it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't comment
on those exact figures. Japan is the one
that I do know about. When we occupied
Japan after the Second World War, under
General MacArthur and Harry Truman,
who was President, we required the
Japanese to limit themselves on military
capability strictly to an ability to defend
their own country. And at that time there
was established a limit on how much
would be spent on armaments.
We have some troops in Japan, not a
large number, and we provide part of the
protection for Japan. I think this is a good
and stabilizing factor. And of course, they,
in addition to their own forces, pay a sub-
stantial portion of the cost of maintaining
American troops in Japan.
It's a complicated thing, Al; it's not
simple. But I believe that over a long pe-
riod of years the trend has been distinctly
downward in our own country in the por-
tion of our wealth that we spend on de-
fense. I personally believe that what we
are spending now is an excellent invest-
ment, and I don't see any way that we
could possibly lower our resolve or our
commitment to a strong defense. That
would be the best way to lead toward a
war, which would cause an enormous ex-
plosion in defense expenditures. I think
this is an insurance policy that really pays
rich dividends for our country.
MR. SHEAHEN. Thank you, Mr.
President.
MS. STAMBERG. Thank you, Mr.
Sheahen.
A call now, a little closer to home, Presi-
dent Carter, from Baltimore, Maryland,
Dr. Edward Davens. Go ahead, Dr.
Davens.
1905
