Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
constituents may love you as a person,
but
they think poorly of the institution of
which you are a part and which you rep-
resent.
You know how easy it is for us to reap
the benefits of the Democratic Party and
our own incumbency in high office and, at
the same time, to attack in a subtle way
the system or the government in order to
derive transient political advantage. It's
the simplest job for us to tend to a certain
home base or some narrow constituency,
while giving national interests less atten-
tion. And because of this temptation,
party unity sometimes goes lacking and
our Nation suffers, because national pri-
orities are sometimes met at a snail's pace.
Look, for example, at the energy prob-
lem. Is it real? It certainly is. But it's
taken 22 years-I'm not exaggerating
22 years to get the people of this country
to face the fact that our very Nation's
security is in danger. Is the energy prob-
lem understood? My mail says that, to an
increasing degree, it is understood by the
the American people and that the Ameri-
can people are crying out now for action,
bold action, and action without any fur-
ther delay.
Americans will not long permit and not
long suffer those who do permit the drain
of billions of dollars going overseas to pay
for oil-next year $70 billion sapped out
of the American economy. Along with
those dollars go jobs, and with those mil-
lions of barrels of oil every day, we im-
port inflation. United Democrats can now
and are making good progress toward
giving our Nation, finally, after long
years of neglect, a comprehensive national
energy policy that will heal our troubled
land, bind us together in a spirit of unity
and accomplishment and also hope and
confidence to the future, cut down on in-
flation, put our people back to work, and
let our Nation be secure. I'm proud of the
progress made so far.
I'm also convinced that Americans
want nuclear weapons controlled. The
SALT treaty must be ratified. And I tell
you, it is easy to find a reason, if one is a
U.S. Senator, not to support SALT.
I could have written a better SALT
treaty had I done it unilaterally, without
consulting the Soviet Union. This treaty
was hammered out over 7 years by three
Presidents. It's fair; it's balanced. It con-
tributes to our Nation's security. It lets us
monitor what the Soviets are doing. It
puts a limit and an actual decrease of 10
percent on Soviet missile launchers. It
keeps us in a role of leadership for the
Western World. It holds NATO together.
It contributes to world peace. It gives us
authenticity and influence in preventing
non-nuclear weapons from turning to-
ward that horrible option.
But if SALT is rejected by the U.S.
Senate, that will be a terrible blow to our
country and to our party and to our secu-
rity and to our unity and to our influence
in the world and to our alliances and to
our own future and to world peace. It is
extremely important. And I hope that
every single Democrat who listens to my
voice will put the ratification of the SALT
II treaty at the top of your priority and
help me get this done. We must not betray
Americans who want peace. We must not
betray Americans who look to us for
leadership. We must not play politics with
nuclear arsenals.
I know that Americans want a nation
at peace and a strong America. A strong
America is the best guarantor of peace
for our own country and for the world.
I tell you quite
I tell you quite frankly, I believe in a
united nation, and I believe in a strong
defense. And as long as I'm in the White
House, this Nation is going to have a
1770
