Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
wise management of agricultural lands,
and will guide my Administration's over-
all soil and water conservation recom-
mendations to the Congress. Reports will
be updated every 5 years and I will re-
ceive annual reports of progress and pro-
gram effectiveness.
I am directing the Secretary of Agri-
culture, in consultation with the Chair-
man of the Council on Environmental
Quality, to build on the RCA process
and to undertake a further detailed and
systematic study of possible conservation
incentives. The study will search for ways
to modify or coordinate agricultural as-
sistance programs already in existence in
order to reduce soil erosion. Moreover, it
will also look for conflicts or inconsisten-
cies between farm income programs and
soil conservation programs and will rec-
ommend measures to eliminate these con-
flicts where possible.
The results of this study will be sub-
mitted to me in January 1981. This re-
port will provide me with specific ad-
ministrative and legislative recommenda-
tions to reduce soil erosion and to im-
prove soil stewardship in order to main-
tain the Nation's long-term agricultural
productivity, building on the policy rec-
ommendations contained in the RCA
1980 program.
A second critical land issue for Amer-
ica's farmers and consumers is the avail-
ability of agricultural lands—particularly
prime farmlands and their conversion
to other uses. In June, the Admin-
istration initiated an important new
effort to address this issue. The Secretary
of Agriculture and the Chairman of the
Council on Environmental Quality are
co-chairing an interagency study of fac-
tors affecting the availability of land for
agricultural uses. The study will evaluate
the economic, environmental, and social
effects of the conversion or retention of
agricultural lands and will make recom-
mendations for consideration by federal,
state, and local governments by January
1981.
Many members of Congress are par-
ticularly interested in these two critical
issues affecting the stewardship of our
nation's agricultural lands. I hope that
the Administration and the Congress will
work together to develop and implement
appropriate actions, based on the results
of these studies.
Integrated Pest Management
For all their benefits, chemical pesti-
cides can cause unintended damage to
human health and the environment.
Many pests have developed resistance to
chemical pesticides, escalating the cost of
pest control by conventional methods.
This resistence to pesticides has also de-
creased our ability to control some pests,
which has reduced agricultural yields
from what they would otherwise be.
Integrated pest management (IPM)
has evolved in recent years as a compre-
hensive pest control strategy which has
important health, economic, and environ-
mental benefits. IPM uses a systems ap-
proach to reduce pest damage to
tolerable levels through a variety of tech-
niques, including natural predators and
parasites, genetically resistant hosts, en-
vironmental modifications and, when
necessary and appropriate, chemical pesti-
cides. IPM strategies generally rely first
upon biological defenses against pests be-
fore chemically altering the environment.
The Federal government-which
spends more than $200 million a year on
pest control research and implementation
programs should encourage the devel-
opment and use of integrated pest man-
agement in agriculture, forestry, public
health, and urban pest control. As a result
1368
