Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 21
monopoly power and revenues in some
markets to gain advantage over competi-
tors in others. Any monopoly facilities
used in providing competitive services
should be available to all competitors at
the same rates and terms. In addition,
changes in companies' structures will be
needed, such as mandating fully separate
subsidiaries. Where such changes are
made, the employment, pension, and
union rights of the employees should be
protected.
• Restrictions based on out-of-date
market divisions should be removed. The
line between telecommunications and
data processing has become blurred; new
equipment and services involve both.
Existing controls based on this distinction
have produced years of regulatory pro-
ceedings and are delaying the use of new
technologies. In addition, the rules that
divide some communications services be-
tween domestic and international com-
panies are outmoded and need change.
These problems should be solved through
open competition by all, without extend-
ing the scope of regulation. To ensure
fair competition, creation of fully sep-
arate subsidiaries, including separate ac-
counts and marketing, will be needed, and
some of the restrictions on international
service will have to be removed gradually.
• Universal availability of basic tele-
phone service at affordable rates must be
maintained. Overall long-distance rev-
enues currently contribute to keeping
some local and toll rates affordable. This
is done through complex accounting
processes largely determined by the tele-
phone industry. Because of the develop-
ments of the last decade, this system is in
trouble. The industry is considering
changing it in order to match the new
competitors' rates, and that could mean
significant rate increases in some rural
areas.
These are important public policy de-
cisions and should not be left solely to the
industry. We need a new system, which
would be administered openly by public
officials. The legislation should provide
for a charge on all long-distance serv-
ices including those of the new competi-
tors-which use local exchanges. This
"access charge" would cover the actual
cost of using local facilities, provide sup-
port for local service, and finance pro-
tection for rural residents against large
toll rate increases.
These provisions should be drawn to
encourage the FCC, state regulators and
the telephone companies to take long-
term steps to support universal service.
Such steps include prices based on actual
use; low "lifeline" rates for basic service;
and use of new technologies that can pro-
vide low-cost service over long distances.
In addition, the rural telephone com-
panies and cooperatives should be encour-
aged to help extend to rural Americans
the benefits of all the new communications
technologies. As my policy statement on
rural communications said last January,
the current rules that restrict rural tele-
phone companies from offering cable TV
services should be removed.
• Appropriate jurisdictional bound-
aries should be set. The current boundary
between Federal and state regulatory
jurisdictions the state line-is incon-
sistent with technological realities. The
bill should set new, clear boundaries:
service within local exchanges should be
regulated by the states, while service be-
tween exchanges should be under Fed-
eral control.
The FCC should be given the au-
thority to develop efficient means of as-
signing non-broadcast frequencies. Many
of the new telecommunications systems
use radio frequencies, such as satellite
1
1701
