Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
full year of operation, the program will
have $10 million in reprogrammed re-
search funds available, double the cur-
rent amount for acid rain research.
It is important to emphasize that such
a long-time acid rain research program
will not delay application of necessary
pollution control measures to meet the
mandate of the Clean Air Act. In addi-
tion, interim results from the acid rain
research program will be made available
to the public, to states, to industry and to
the federal government agencies respon-
sible for developing measures to reduce
air pollution.
CONTINUED AND COOPERATIVE EFFORTS
The preservation of our environment
has needed to become a special concern
to our country at least since the ending
of the Western frontier. A former Presi-
dent put it clearly:
"The conservation of our natural re-
sources and their proper use constitute
the fundamental problem which under-
lies almost every other problem of our
National life. We must maintain for
our civilization the adequate material
basis without which that civilization
cannot exist. We must show foresight,
we must look ahead. The reward of
foresight of this nation is great and
easily foretold. But there must be the
look ahead, there must be a realization
of the fact that to waste, to destroy, our
natural resources, to skin and exhaust
the land instead of using it so as to in-
crease its usefulness, will result in un-
dermining in the days of our children
the very prosperity which we ought by
right to hand down to them amplified
and developed."
That was President Theodore Roose-
velt speaking in a State of the Union Mes-
sage more than 70 years ago.
That message needs to be repeated and
heard just as clearly today. Above all-
it needs to be delivered.
My Administration will continue to
lead in conserving our resources and re-
ducing risks to the environment through
sound and efficient management. But all
our citizens must join the effort by con-
tributing energies and ideas.
Only with your cooperation can we
maintain our advance towards protecting
our environment. Only together can we
hope to secure our world for the life to
come.
The White House,
August 2, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
National Coastal Protection
Memorandum From the President.
August 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of Com-
merce
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized the special pro-
tection that we accord coastal resources
such as wetlands and barrier islands
through the federal/state partnership
established by the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act. It is important to develop ef-
fective management organizations for
dealing with coastal zone issues so that re-
sponsible planning and sound decisions
can be made on resource protection and
development proposals. I also recognized
the fact that our experience in implement-
has revealed areas where improvements
ing the Coastal Zone Management Act
can be made in identified aspects of fed-
eral programs which at times conflict with
those of the Coastal Zone Management
Act. I stressed the need for a systematic
review of all federal programs significantly
1373
