Oct. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
quate weapons or because we don't have
the courage and the unity to defend our-
selves, that's when we'll have to use our
weapons and that's when we'll have loss
of life.
One of the greatest things that I've
experienced as President-the first time in
40 years is that since I've been in the
White House, we have not lost a single life
of a young American in combat, and I
pray to God that we'll have that record
when I go out of office.
So, to summarize: peace with all na-
tions on Earth, through strength here at
home.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
Q. I'm Pershing Broome, of Phoenix,
Illinois. I'm also on the faculty here at
Thornridge High School. And I, too,
would like to welcome you to Thornridge.
THE PRESIDENT. It's a pleasure.
Q. I believe during your campaign for
the Presidency some 3 years ago, you pro-
posed to take the "E" out of HEW. I also
believe that the Congress has voted to do
just that. Do you plan to sign the bill to
make this effective?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely. I'm very
proud of that legislation. I'll tell you why,
just briefly.
When I was in State politics, my main
interest was in education. When I was
elected to the State Senate, I had one re-
quest when I got to Atlanta. That was to
be put on the education committee. I was
on a local school board for 7 years before
I went to the State Senate. And when I
became Governor, I spent about 25 per-
cent of my time trying to make sure that
education for our students was improved.
Since I've been President, that has not
been the case. Education in Washington
gets lost. I doubt that 2 percent of the
people in this room could tell me who is
specifically responsible for better educa-
tion from the Federal point of view.
So, I believe that a separate depart-
ment that can focus not on social pro-
grams, not on arguments and so forth and
lawsuits, but on better classroom educa-
tion is a very important step forward.
The second thing is this: We wrote into
the law a requirement that the bureau-
cracy be reduced. The law says that we've
got to have 500 fewer employees in the
new department of education than we
have now. With increased efficiency, we
can do that. The law also requires that
no increase in personnel in the new de-
partment can be approved unless the
President, the Office of Management and
Budget, and also the Congress specifically
votes to increase personnel. So, we've tried
to build in there a protection against in-
creased bureaucracy.
The third thing that the law says is
that local people, not the Federal Govern-
ment, shall have control over the policy
and the curriculum of the schools. I want
to keep the Federal Government's nose
out of the business of the local school
system.
So, I'm proud of the new law, as you
can well see, and I believe it's going to be
better for education all over the country.
Thank you, sir.
SCHOOL BUSING
Q. Mr. President, I am Marcella Kuer-
sten, of South Chicago Heights. And it
is indeed a privilege to be here today.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, ma'am.
Q. Young families, when they buy
homes or go out to rent, usually buy a
home that is near a school. Then they find
out when their children go to school, they
1946
