July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I think there's been a much more sharp-
ened interest lately in what I had to say,
which is gratifying to some degree. It puts
a responsibility on me to soberly consider
what I impart to the American people
and how I perform my own duties here in
the White House.
I think the changes that have been
made in the Cabinet recently have been all
for the good. Some of them were overdue.
I had a judgment to make about whether
to have this done rapidly and get it con-
cluded, recognizing that there would be
some sharp shock waves going through
Washington and perhaps the rest of the
country, or to let it drag out, with columns
and editorials and public speculation
about who would go next or who would
stay, and so forth. My judgment was to go
ahead and do it and get it over with. And
all of the departures have been harmoni-
ous as far as my relationship with the
former Cabinet members is concerned. I
think the appointments that I have made
and will very quickly make to conclude
the filling of the vacancies demonstrate
that these are very fine and competent
people who will be taking office. And I
have no doubt there will be a more ade-
quate teamwork in the future than there
has been in the past.
I think it's best for me to answer your
questions.
QUESTIONS
VISIT OF POPE JOHN PAUL II
Q. Mr. President, Father Shmaruk
from Boston, from the Planet. It's been
reported that Pope John Paul II will meet
with you at the White House in the fall.
This has to do with world politics. What
subjects generally do you hope to discuss
with him, and how do you evaluate his
unique position in terms of world politics,
human rights, and peace?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the visit of
the Pope to our country is one that will
be welcomed by American people of all
religious faiths. There's no doubt in my
mind that he will get an overwhelmingly
friendly welcome and an enthusiastic wel-
come. I expect to meet with him in the
White House in a private fashion. My
belief is that his desires to come to our
country, not on a political mission, but
on one involving religion, morals, and
ethics. I look forward to meeting with
him.
I don't have any way yet to know what
subjects we will discuss. I have exchanged
several letters with him since he's been
in his present office, and he and I have
had a good and friendly relationship. Sev-
eral members of my family have been
there, both political family and immediate
family. We do share a common desire for
peace, for the broadening of the bene-
ficial effects of religion throughout the
world, and also on such major matters as
human rights. But I don't know now this
early how to describe the agenda any more
definitely than that.
I wrote him a letter this morning, by the
way, and sent it to him.
RELATIONS WITH THE CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, I've been here for 24
hours, talking with Democrats, both in the
Senate and also in the Congress itself.
And the Democrats there from west
Texas, where I'm from, and Oklahoma
and New Mexico right now want to be dis-
associated with you because of the wind-
fall profits situation, also the fact that
we've had a 65-percent cutback in energy,
in diesel fuel in our area.
What about these good representatives
the people have confidence in, saying right
now that they don't back your policies and
1322
