Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 30
in my district, that they feel that there's
what I call strangulation by regulation.
And the manifestation of that strangula-
tion is paperwork. And if we can do away
with some of that paperwork, then they're
going to be then aware of the fact that
something is being done to eliminate that
regulation.
John, thank you very much.
Thank you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:53 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Executive Order 12174. November 30, 1979
Another thing is that Tom Steed, at our Federal Paperwork Reduction
very first meeting, made the point that
paperwork is like weeds: You can cut it
down; it'll grow back. So, you've got
to get to the root cause, and that's what
this does and also what this legislation
will do.
So, thanks a lot for your dedication,
your personal interest in it, and making
certain that this administration is carry-
ing out the mandate. And I'll say that
as a Republican, because I'm the one that
gives it the bipartisan-[laughter]—like
Tip O'Neill said when I gave him the re-
port-he said, "How'd a Republican get
to be Chairman of this Commission?"
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Because of your good
work.
I might say that it's a great pleasure
for me to sign the Executive order now.
Frank, this Executive order was originally
five pages long. [Laughter] And it's now
24 pages long. So, we've already started
on the good work.
[At this point, the President signed the Execu-
tive order.]
Well, that's a major step forward to get-
ting redtape and paperwork burden off
the shoulders of the American people, and
I'm very grateful to all of you. Good luck
to you.
One other point is—as a very important
postscript-John Culver just said that our
legislation that would provide for reduc-
tion in regulations, our deregulation leg-
islation, is moving forward and they'll
take a major stride, I think, next week.
PAPERWORK
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in order
to establish procedures that eliminate all
paperwork burdens on the public above
the minimum necessary to determine and
implement public policy and ensure com-
pliance with Federal laws, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1-101. Agencies shall minimize the
paperwork burden-i.e., the time and
costs entailed in complying with requests
for information and recordkeeping re-
quirements-imposed on persons outside
the Federal government. Forms should be
used only to the extent necessary to gather
the basic information required to fulfill
an agency's mission. When forms must be
used, they should be as short as possible
and should elicit information in a simple,
straightforward fashion.
1-102. Each agency shall designate an
existing official to be responsible for min-
imizing both the agency's use of forms and
the paperwork burden resulting from pro-
posed legislation and regulations.
1-103. Agencies shall pay particular at-
tention to the special burdens faced by
individuals and small organizations in re-
sponding to requests for information. To
minimize these burdens agencies should,
whenever possible, forego uniform or uni-
versal reporting requirements and rely
2179
