Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 6, 1979
Elmendorf Air Force
Base, Alaska
Remarks at a Reception. June 23, 1979
I really thank you for coming out this
afternoon to meet me. I told Bob Strauss
that I was going to stop, the first stop on
the way to Tokyo, in Alaska to see my
friends, and he said, "Well, that won't
take long." [Laughter]
I think if anybody in the last 22 years
has thought about Alaska and studied
about Alaska, it has been your President.
There are two maps in the world with
which I have become thoroughly famil-
iar. One is in the Sinai, and I think you
know which one the other is. [Laughter]
This is a State of unbelievable beauty,
as you know, and it's a State where the
conflicts of the world peculiarly are
focused.
I go from Washington to Tokyo to
meet with the leaders of France, Ger-
many, Italy, Great Britain, Japan, Can-
ada to talk about the most burning issue
of our time, and that is energy, develop-
ment of the quality of life, rapid change,
whether or not people can govern them-
selves in a time of crisis and change that
sometimes escapes us, a time of division,
a time of argument, a time of debate, a
time of soul-searching, a time of patri-
otism, and in our country, a time of great-
ness.
I've just come back from concluding
an agreement with the Soviet Union. It's
not the first wonderful agreement we've
worked out with Russia, as you well
know. [Laughter] But the times press on
us. And I think Alaska, our most beauti-
ful State, is also a State where the youth
and the vigor and the dynamism and the
strength of our Nation is most vividly
demonstrated.
I recognize acutely, being a politician
who hungers after the friendship and the
approbation of Americans, how deeply
disturbed you all have been on one side or
the other about the Alaska lands legisla-
tion and the frustration that you feel in
this relatively remote State from Wash-
ington that the decisions are made by
those who don't know you well enough
and who are too far away to hear your
voice clearly.
You're not the first people in this Na-
tion who've felt that way. I come from
the South, as you know, and there have
been decisions made in Washington with
which we had violent disagreement. Once
1161
