Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 27, 1979
Citizenship Day and Constitution
Week, 1979
Proclamation 4670. July 23, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
On September 17, 1787, in Independ-
ence Hall, Philadelphia, our Founding
Fathers adopted the Constitution of the
United States. With this great document
as its cornerstone, our country has become
the finest example in all history of the
principle of government by law, in which
every individual is guaranteed certain in-
alienable rights. The strong beliefs of its
authors in the worth of the individual
and the rights to be enjoyed by all citizens
have made the Constitution not only an
enduring document but one which finds
new life with the passing of years and
continues to inspire
to inspire freedom-seeking
freedom-seeking
people all over the world.
period beginning September 17 and end-
ing September 23 of each year as Consti-
tution Week and to issue a proclamation
calling for the observance of that week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
call upon appropriate Government offi-
cials to display the flag of the United
States on all Government buildings on
Citizenship Day, September 17, 1979. I
urge Federal, State and local officials, as
well as leaders of civic, educational and
religious organizations to conduct mean-
ingful ceremonies and programs on that
day.
I also designate as Constitution Week
the period beginning September 17 and
ending September 23, 1979, and urge all
Americans to observe that week with ap-
propriate ceremonies and activities in
their schools, churches and in other suit-
able places in order to foster a better un-
derstanding of the Constitution, and of the
rights and duties of United States
citizens.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-third day of
July, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
On February 29, 1952, by joint resolu-
tion (36 U.S.C. 153), the Congress
designated September 17 as Citizenship
Day, in commemoration of the formation
and signing of the Constitution as a re-
minder of the privileges and responsibili-
ties of citizenship. By a joint resolution of
August 2, 1956 (36 U.S.C. 159), Congress [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
authorized the President to designate the
JIMMY CARTER
10:18 a.m., July 24, 1979]
1297
