Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
environmentally sound care and manage-
ment of the earth's forests and to the well-
being of people affected by them.
I am directing you to evaluate your de-
velopment assistance programs in light of
the following objectives and to give high
priority to programs which would advance
these objectives:
• necessary preservation of natural for-
est ecosystems and their rich complex
of plant and animal life;
multiple uses of highly diverse trop-
ical forests, including management of
natural stands, development of eco-
logically sound forest plantations, and
combined agriculture and forestry;
• increasing yields in family-scale trop-
ical agriculture to relieve pressures on
forest lands that are not suitable for
cultivation;
developing integrated projects for re-
forestation, more efficient fuelwood
use, and alternative energy sources.
Please give this assignment your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Acid Rain Research Program
Memorandum From the President.
August 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of Agri-
culture, the Secretary of the Interior, the
Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of
Commerce, the Secretary of State, the
Administrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, the Director of the Na-
tional Science Foundation, the Chairman
of the Council on Environmental Quality,
the Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, acid rain was identified as a
major global environmental problem.
However, our knowledge of possible ef-
fects and specific causes of acid rain are
inadequate for determining what kinds of
controls would best mitigate the problems
caused by acid rain. It is important that
we undertake efforts to describe the
magnitude of acid rain effects, to develop
a more thorough understanding of its
causes, and to identify measures which
can mitigate acid rain impacts.
To meet these goals, we must establish
a comprehensive federal acid rain re-
search program. In order to increase the
program's effectiveness as well as to re-
duce its costs, research should be coordi-
nated with states and private research
efforts, particularly large industry efforts.
Finally, in undertaking the federal acid
rain research program, we should work
closely with Canada, Mexico, other na-
tions, and international organizations
which are concerned about acid rain.
I therefore direct that:
• A standing Acid Rain Coordination
Committee be established comprised of
policy representatives from each of your
agencies.
• The Committee shall be co-chaired
by the Department of Agriculture and the
Environmental Protection Agency. The
Council on Environmental Quality shall
serve as the Executive Secretary of the
Committee.
• The Committee shall plan and man-
age a comprehensive acid rain assessment
program. A Federal Acid Rain Assess-
ment Plan shall be completed by Janu-
ary 1, 1980. The Plan shall identify neces-
sary coordination mechanisms to ensure
that the results of the assessment program
will be incorporated in agency planning
and decisionmaking.
• The Committee shall seek coopera-
tion of state and private research efforts,
particularly industry research programs,
which are conducting acid rain research
1389
