Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 17, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
August 10, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's a pleasure to
have you here. I always hate to interrupt
Jody. [Laughter] If you've got him sweat-
ing, I don't want him to stop.
One of the most enjoyable and also the
most productive things that we've done
since I've been in office is to have these
meetings with editors and news directors
from around the country. We've sched-
uled them every 2 weeks, and we have
anywhere from 30 to 65 people at each
session.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
I know that you're eager to get to the
questions of me, but I'd like to cover
one subject first. You've heard a lot about
the windfall profits tax. You're going to
hear a lot more about it in the future. It's
extremely important to our Nation for
this tax bill to be passed by the Senate.
It's already been passed by the House in
a fairly reponsible fashion.
It's designed, first of all, to give us an
opportunity to develop new sources of
energy; secondly, to improve our rapid
transit systems in their various forms;
third, to guarantee equity, because with-
out the windfall profit tax, there would
be enormous unwarranted profits going
to the oil companies which they have not
earned. And the last-and the most im-
portant thing, perhaps, of all from a hu-
manitarian point of view-is to give aid
to low-income families who will be im-
pacted, no matter what else happens, by
the rapidly increasing price of oil and
other energy forms.
We will present to the Congress either
before or by the time they return from
their working recess a specific proposal.
But we are advocating that in this com-
ing fiscal year that $1.6 billion be allotted
to the poor families of our country, and
in the following years, $2.4 billion per
year-$1.6 billion this first year, $2.4 bil-
lion from then on. The only legitimate
source for these funds is the windfall
profits tax. And my hope and my ex-
pectation is that an aroused public will
insist upon a fair action by the Congress
to pass this tax itself.
We have varied needs for it, but this is
one that will be put forward on its own
when the Congress returns. We've ob-
viously got the other elements of the
energy program to pursue when the Con-
gress returns, the SALT treaty to be rati-
1425
