Aug. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
or known, and very often known well,
every Attorney General of the United
States.
There has been no finer man—and I
can echo the President's praise of Griffin
Bell-there has been no finer man, no
man more dedicated to professional excel-
lence and professional integrity, and a fair
administration of justice, than this man
who has been my friend and colleague for
many years, and I salute him and con-
gratulate him on the splendid administra-
tion he's given this great Department of
Justice.
And now, Mr. Civiletti, are you pre-
pared to take the oath of office?
[At this point, Chief Justice of the United
States Warren E. Burger administered the oath
of office.]
ATTORNEY GENERAL CIVILETTI. Mr.
President, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice
President, former Attorney General Bell—
[laughter]-Mrs. Bell, Senator Thur-
mond, Chairman Rodino, Mr. Dunlap,
distinguished guests and officials in the
Government, fellow Cabinet members,
Senators, outstanding Italo-Americans,
members of my former law firm, which
I see back there, and friends and fellow
employees, men and women in this great
Department:
First, I would like to introduce all of
you to the people who have been most
important in my life. You know one of
them already, Gail Civiletti. I'm priv-
ileged to have my mother and father here
today, Ben and Virginia Civiletti. Would
you please stand? My sister, Pamela Ha-
ber. Would you please stand, Pam? My
children—Ben Civiletti; Drew Civiletti,
the famous Oriole baseball commentator;
and Lynn Civiletti.
¹ Georgia attorney James Dunlap, who head-
ed a group which presented the Department of
Justice with the official portrait of Attorney
General Bell. The portrait was unveiled at the
swearing-in ceremony.
As the President has said, I will attempt
to follow and to build on the great work
that Attorney General Bell has done in
this Department, as he in turn built on the
foundations that were laid by Attorney
General Levi. And we are aided in that
process, he in his work and I will be in
my work, by the fact that there are men
and women in the Department who have
not only been here under Attorney Gen-
eral Levi and Attorney General Bell, but
will be here under Attorney General
Civiletti, and probably many of his suc-
cessors.
The leadership changes and we can
assist or accelerate, or in some sad in-
stances, we can detract from the Depart-
ment-but the heart and soul of the De-
partment of Justice are the career men
and women and lawyers who are here,
year in and year out, of high competence,
great ability, integrity, and little recogni-
tion. And I recognize them and believe
traditions which the President has men-
that they truly represent the finest in the
tioned.
The themes that Attorney General Bell,
seems to me, has followed, and which I
have had only a small part to play in
developing, but which I believe in, are,
one, the access to justice, increasing it,
developing it, strengthening it; the pro-
fessionalism and training, the competence
of the lawyers, the staff, paralegals within
the Department in every possible way;
and, thirdly, what the President men-
tioned to me when he asked me to be-
come Attorney General: the independ-
ence and integrity of the Department-
as Judge Bell says, the neutral zone con-
cept with regard to the initiation and
handling of cases.
The President said that he thought one
of the most important legacies of his ad-
ministration to the American people
would be that concept of independence
and integrity of the Department of Justice
in the handling of prosecutions and cases
1442
