Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 17
priations to fund the work of the Com-
mission, although authorized, have not
been sought or received, but entities
within the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare have authority and
funds which may be available to carry on
activities identical to those to be under-
taken by the Commission. Therefore, in
order to permit these entities to support
the conduct of those activities by the Com-
mission, and under the authority vested
in me as President by the Constitution of
the United States, it is ordered:
1–101. There is established the Presi-
dent's Special Commission for the Study
of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Bio-
medical and Behavioral Research. The
Special Commission established by this
Order shall be constituted in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of Title
III of Public Law 95-622, except that it
shall receive financial support, to the ex-
tent permitted by law and subject to the
availability of funds, from the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare.
The Administrator of General Services
shall provide administrative support serv-
ices to the Special Commission on a reim-
bursable basis.
1-102. The Special Commission estab-
lished by this Order shall terminate upon
enactment and availability of appropria-
tions for the Commission established by
Public Law 95-622, and in any event, un-
less extended, no later than two years
from the date of this Order. No funds
transferred by the Department of Health,
Education and Welfare pursuant to this
Order shall be expended by either Com-
mission following termination of the
termination of the
Special Commission.
The White House,
December 17, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:39 a.m., December 18, 1979]
Conservation of Petroleum and
Natural Gas
Executive Order 12185. December 17, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent of the United States of America by
Section 403(b) of the Powerplant and
Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978 (92 Stat.
3318; Public Law 95-620) and Section
301 of Title 3 of the United States Code,
in order to encourage additional conserva-
tion of petroleum and natural gas by
recipients of Federal financial assistance,
it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. Each Federal agency, as that
term is defined in Section 103 (a)(25) of
the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use
Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 3297), shall effect-
uate through its financial assistance pro-
grams the purposes of that Act relating to
the conservation of petroleum and natural
gas.
1-102. Each Federal agency which ex-
tends financial assistance shall review
those programs of financial assistance and
identify those which are most likely to
offer opportunities for significant con-
servation of petroleum and natural gas.
1-103. Within two months, and an-
nually thereafter, each agency shall pub-
lish for comment a list of those programs
which it has identified as likely to offer
significant opportunity for conservation.
The public shall be given 60 days to sub-
mit comments, including suggestions for
rules which would effectuate the conser-
vation purposes of the Act.
1-104. After receiving public comment
and suggestions, and after consulting with
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, each agency shall publish
proposed rules designed to achieve con-
servation of petroleum and natural gas
in connection with the receipt of financial
assistance.
2261
