Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
City Club to inspire the business com-
munity to work more closely together to
make this a truly great city; at Terrell
Junior High School, at the Children's
Museum, and many others. She has been
there, and she works with you on projects.
We've tried to learn about the Nation's
problems by learning about yours and to
learn about some solutions to those prob-
lems by trying to solve yours and mine-
how to improve health care, how to have
better public housing, how to care for
alcoholics, how to care for the mentally
afflicted, how to promote employment,
how to enhance the beauty of the city.
And we've invited literally hundreds of
people like you to come to join in with us
at the White House, and we've invited
volunteers who work with Rosalynn, and
other workers, to come to the White
House so we could thank them and en-
courage them to be better citizens of the
District of Columbia.
We're one of you, and we're part of the
city, and I don't want you to ever forget
that you've got official friends and per-
sonal friends who live at 1600 Pennsyl-
vania Avenue.
country if they were invited specifically to
visit some of the places that I've just
named, where Rosalynn goes and many
others where she has not yet been. We
cannot have a Federal city of affluent of-
ficials, lobbyists, lawyers, and others, serv-
ing in the midst of another city, a very
different city of the poor, the lonely, the
sick, the homeless, the jobless, the old—a
city of disadvantaged citizens and dis-
franchised citizens.
This city has already proved a major
point for our country: that black and
white citizens can live and work together
and can build an effective Democratic
Party together, yes, but also you've proven
that you can build a greater community
together. You are building a community
that proves what America-the land of
opportunity—really means.
Because of you, this unique national
city-international center and home-
town is a vigorous community, ready to
accept the full responsibilities-along
with the full rights of citizenship.
and
Like you, I'm proud to be a Democrat,
I am also proud to be a
Washingtonian.
Washington does share the problems of
other cities, but Washington is also
unique. Washington should be a model of
how problems can be solved creatively
and compassionately so that every citizen
of the District will have a share in both
the present and the future, not just of this
city, but of our Nation. And I think we've Aid for Kampucheans
got a tremendous untapped resource in
the Congress. And I think you and I col-
lectively ought to encourage the Members
of the Congress to get to know more about
the District, not just the places of enter-
tainment and where to eat, but also to
learn about the life of people who live
here who are not rich, but who are
struggling for a place under the Sun in
life.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 p.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
I believe it would help you all over the
Statement Announcing United States Relief
Effort Pledge. October 15, 1979
A human tragedy of horrifying propor-
tions is unfolding in Kampuchea, with
millions of people facing illness or death
from starvation. Every member of the in-
ternational community has a duty to help
avert further mass suffering in Kam-
puchea. This is beyond politics. It is a
1924
