Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. No. Chris has
traveled with me a lot during 1976 and
the campaign-even when my name
wasn't even on the public opinion polls, I
never was worried. And I was perfectly
willing in 1976 to meet any candidate who
wanted to run against me, and for a while,
earlier than that, we thought that Senator
Kennedy might be a very likely prospect.
That doesn't bother me at all.
I've always made a practice, when I was
Governor or when I was a candidate for
President or since I've been in office, to
take advantage of every reasonable oppor-
tunity to let my views be known to the
public. And that's really what I want to do
up here is to let the people of New Eng-
land, who watch this program, know what
we're doing about inflation, what we're
doing about jobs, what we're doing about
home construction, what we're doing
about the energy shortage and home heat-
ing oil and so forth. And I believe that's
the most important aspect of my relation-
ship with you all.
I would hope that the political ques-
tions could wait until later, because nei-
ther of us are announced candidates, but,
of course, the press is preoccupied with
the subject and, I think, perhaps even
more than the people are.
Last Saturday afternoon, I had a 2-
hour telephone call-in show on public
radio. I guess I got about 40 questions.
There was not a single question about the
political contest. The questions were about
the things that government might do or
not do that affect their lives. So, I think
the injection of political questions almost
invariably comes from the press, not by
me.
Ms. RICHARDSON. Of course, Mr. Car-
ter, we are in Kennedy country right now,
and there is an obsession with politics in
New England, as you know. Being pre-
occupied with it, if I can be for one more
question-
THE PRESIDENT. You might.
Ms. RICHARDSON. can you beat
Senator Kennedy in Massachusetts in the
primary here?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to
predict that any more than he would be
likely to predict that he could beat me in
Georgia. I'll do well in Massachusetts,
and I think I'll win throughout the coun-
try.
I think the Florida results are a fairly
good indication. Florida is a cosmopolitan
State in that people from all over the Na-
tion move to Florida. And there were just
flat predictions by everyone that Dade
County, Miami area, would be heavily for
Senator Kennedy. We carried the dele-
gates in Dade County almost 2 to 1. And
I'm perfectly willing to meet anybody who
runs against me.
I'm an incumbent President. I ran
against an incumbent Republican when
everybody had a chance to run. I won the
election. We've got a good record, and I
think the people will ultimately decide not
on the basis of personal popularity or
charisma or speaking ability and so forth,
but on the basis of whether or not a Presi-
dent in office, who's a Democrat, who's
done an adequate job, to be trusted to lead
the country 4 more years.
And I think the opportunity for me to
go throughout the Nation and for the
Cabinet officers and the Vice President
and members of my family and others who
are interested and tell the record of what
we've done and what we anticipate doing
tunity. It'll be an educational process; it'll
for the next 4 years is an excellent oppor-
give us a chance to learn about problems
that we haven't solved and ideas we hadn't
thought about, and to realize the programs
that are successful and those that are not
successful.
1986
