Aug. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
is such a challenging and complex issue
that we absolutely must have the finest
possible administrator for this increas-
ingly important position.
I think the prices of oil and gas must go
toward the market price. We have taken
steps in the Congress to decontrol the
prices of both natural gas and oil in a
carefully phased, predictable way. This
has resulted and is resulting in a fairly
rapid increase in the cost of energy to
mirror worldwide considerations over
which we have no control.
I know that many of you here today
represent the energy industry, and I
would like to call on you this afternoon to
put aside differences and to join with me
and with the new Secretary of Energy
and with the Members of Congress in
supporting the proposals that we have laid
before the Congress for the benefit of our
country. I would like to ask the repre-
sentatives of the oil and natural gas in-
dustry, and others, to support the wind-
fall profits tax, which has been carefully
devised for equity and fairness, which will
give us a basis for becoming more energy-
secure.
I know that you have and all Ameri-
cans have a great confidence in Charles
Duncan, who will now be sworn in as
Secretary of Energy. He has served in the
most distinguished way in the private en-
terprise system of our country, a superb
manager, sound judgment, great intelli-
gence, a good educational background,
one who understands the complexities of
our social and economic system through-
out this country. In addition to that, in
Government, he has built an admirable
record as a Deputy Secretary of Defense.
His own boss, the Secretary of Defense,
Harold Brown, has told me many times
that Charles Duncan was completely
qualified to be the Secretary of Defense
or for any other job including, he has told
me, the President of the United States.
[Laughter] I'm not sure which job Harold
Brown placed on top. [Laughter]
But I am grateful to Charles Duncan,
who is here this afternoon to be sworn in
to this important position.
And now, Judge Patricia Wald will ad-
minister the oath of office to Charles
Duncan as the Secretary of Energy for
the United States of America. I'm very
proud to participate in this ceremony.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, United States Circuit Judge
Patricia M. Wald administered the oath of
office.]
SECRETARY DUNCAN. Mr. President,
Judge Wald, distinguished guests, and
ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you, Mr. President, for those
very kind remarks, and I want to thank
all of you for having joined my family
and me on this most significant day in
my life.
As I look around the room, I see so
many people that I know so well that
it's impossible to make the personal com-
ments that I'd like to, but I'd be very
remiss if I didn't say to my former col-
leagues in the Department of Defense, so
many of whom are here, that the last 22
years have been the most interesting that
I've spent. The Nation is indeed fortunate
to have so many capable and dedicated
men and women, both military and civil-
ian, managing our national defense. And
I say to you, Harold Brown, my mentor
and my friend, that my relationship with
you and the personal pleasure of working
with you has exceeded my greatest ex-
pectations.
1516
