Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 16
and investigations, and that he was ex-
tremely proud of Judge Bell's work in
developing, strengthening that concept
which has been with the Department for
many, many years. And he was confident
that I could carry it forward.
Of course, there are a few refinements
or modifications, things that I will perhaps
do somewhat differently, additional
themes that I will stress. Within those
themes and beyond them, I think one of
the most important functions within the
Department of Justice, within its many
functions and duties and responsibilities,
is to represent well not only all citizens of
the United States but to represent the dis-
advantaged, whether they be minorities,
handicapped, the aged, those who can-
not well represent themselves, who, with-
out the Department of Justice and the
Government to look for their rights with
care and attention, they will lose their
rights or not know of them or not be able
to exercise them.
Secondly, I believe in strong and effec-
tive law enforcement. If the Attorney
General is not an advocate for strong and
effective law enforcement, who can be?
It is vital not only to protect public safety
and the lives and property of all persons
but also to safeguard the social environ-
ment just as we must protect the physical
environment, because only through effec-
tive enforcement and the resulting
achievement of public safety and peace
can our society truly and fully engage in
the pursuit of happiness.
In addition to making possible the
exercise and enjoyment of all other rights,
the pursuit of the right and the enforce-
ment of personal safety and freedom from
crime does not require compromise or
sacrifice of constitutional rights or civil
liberties. As the Department of Justice's
proposed legislative charter for the FBI-
which is a dominant goal and priority of
our efforts in Congress—just as it demon-
strates, strengthening law enforcement
and enhancing civil liberties are consist-
ent and complementary and mutually
supportive goals.
Third, a mission and duty within the
Department, which is primary, is the pro-
tection and the defense of the free enter-
prise system, preservation of competition.
And I'm happy to say that I think we're
alive and well in that regard under John
Shenefield's leadership of the Antitrust
Division.
I think that the progress we've made in
increasing the confidence and the tools
by which the men and women of the De-
partment are able to undertake these tasks
has been remarkable. With the Attorney
General's advocacy institute, with training
programs throughout the Department of
Justice, we are now training, in 1 year,
more lawyers, more paralegals, more in-
vestigators than, 3 years ago, we were
training in 4 years. But I think we have a
way to go. We must work faster, we must
decide cases and investigate them thor-
oughly, but with expedition—justice
delayed is justice denied. And we must
have the courage to end cases, to end in-
vestigations, whether it be through suc-
cessful and vigorous prosecutions, or be it
in closing a case that does not merit the
exercise of the prosecutorial or the civil
power to bring suit.
I want to thank my staff in the Deputy
Attorney General's Office. I selected it
over some period of time. Some people
wondered if I'd ever get a staff together.
But I did it with care, and they have
worked with diligence, with my total re-
spect and confidence, and they have per-
formed, day and night, any task, either
which they thought needed doing or
which I assigned to them. They have kept
me from many errors, and since you
all
know the errors I've made, you know
what a hard job they've had and how
well they've done.
1443
