Oct. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ernment's programs to protect the Amer-
ican people from unnecessary radiation
exposure from medical, occupational, and
environmental sources and to enhance
public understanding of radiation and
radiation protection.
Equal Rights Amendment
Remarks at a White House Reception for
Supporters of the Amendment. October 23,
1979
Rosalynn helped me write my speech
this afternoon. [Laughter] She said she
was going to introduce me and then made
my speech for me. [Laughter]
I think all of you can look at the
women behind me on the stage and see
that the broadest possible support exists
for ERA, not only in a peripheral or super-
ficial way
but in the deepest possible way.
Lady Bird Johnson, I think, personifies
the finest in political service and the en-
hancement of the beauty of our lives in
every possible manner in our country.
Lynda Robb a politician in her own
right, a strong ally of her husband, a force-
ful leader in her own life, daughter of a
great President-understands the sensi-
tivities of America and also the needs of
our country, helping to give me advice
as chairman of our advisory committee on
women's affairs.
Liz Carpenter, a real tough infighter.
[Laughter] Ellie Peterson, who pointed out
to me that the Republican Party had ERA
in their platform 4 years before the Demo-
crats. [Laughter] But this is not a partisan
issue. And I would like to remind this
group, as Lynda Bird Robb reminded me
this afternoon, that I am the seventh con-
secutive President who has endorsed the
ratification and the passage of the equal
rights amendment. This is not a transient
thing. It is a permanent, deep commit-
ment of many people, including all of you,
and a deep need for our country.
This afternoon, I met with my advisory
committee. They had spent all day analyz-
ing 10 States where we have a good oppor-
tunity to get the remaining needed States
to ratify the equal rights amendment.
And we've made a very important deci-
sion, which Rosalynn has already men-
tioned, and that is that in 1980 we are
going to ratify the equal rights amend-
ment to the United States Constitution.
This is a human rights issue. As I've
told many of you before, some of you be-
fore, the first conversation I had with the
Ambassador from the Soviet Union, just
a get-acquainted session which lasted
about an hour, we had a good exchange
of ideas and views. And finally we began
to talk about basic human rights, because
I had made such an issue of the human
rights issue itself in my Inaugural address
and in my campaign. And his response,
which took me aback somewhat, "You
don't even have equal rights for women in
the United States." Ambassador Dobrynin
told me that. It's not the only time he's
ever mentioned it. [Laughter] And I be-
lieve that this is, to a major degree, an
indictment of our country.
This is not an athletic contest to see
whether or not the equal rights amend-
ment is ratified. There were those who
said a few months ago that the extention
of the time available to ratify equal rights
was not fair, there was a violation of some
dreamed up, unwritten rule.
I don't believe Americans felt that way
in the 1860's, when slavery was a major
issue in our country. I don't believe any
reasonable person said, 7 years after our
Nation was founded, “Since we still have
slavery after 7 years, let's never change it."
And when Susan B. Anthony was seeking
the right of women to vote, I don't think
i
2008
