Dec. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
a sense of trust and confidence in our own
Government.
With calm, strong, and effective lead-
ership, with a prosperous and expanding
economy, with inflation and energy short-
ages behind us, with people believing
with people believing
again, we can set our course for the kind
of future about which we have all
dreamed. I will discuss these themes with
you, and I will do it effectively, but I will
not do it tonight.
I was scheduled tomorrow to begin a
week-long political tour to set the tone
of the reelection campaign for 1980. It
was also, to be frank about it, a money-
raising trip. While there are certain clear
advantages to campaigning as President,
they are symbolic and historic rather than
financial. The President, like all other
candidates, needs campaign contribu-
tions.
My campaign travels must be, for a
time, postponed. I must remain here,
near the White House, because of the
situation in Iran. While the crisis con-
tinues, I must be present to define and to
lead our response to an ever-changing
situation of the greatest sensitivity and
importance.
I am proud—but not surprised at the
quiet unity of the American people over
Now I must devote my concerted efforts
to resolving the Iranian crisis. The over-
riding fact is that 50 of our fellow Ameri-
cans have been unjustifiably thrust into
agony and danger, and I have a personal
responsibility to get them out of that dan-
ger as fast as possible.
During this crisis I will, of course, con-
tinue to perform the many other tasks
that are part of my job as President. And
though I cannot yet campaign, myself, we
will carry out our campaign duties as
best we can under the circumstances. Vice
President Mondale, my wife, Rosalynn,
and members of my family, and other
friends and supporters across the Nation
will have to replace me until I can be on
the campaign trail myself. Until then, I
need your understanding, your help, and
your support.
Thank you, and good night.
NOTE: The President's remarks were video-
taped on December 2 in the Map Room at
the White House for broadcast on December
4 on the CBS television network. Time for the
broadcast was purchased by the Carter/Mon-
dale Presidential Committee.
As printed above, the item follows the trans-
cript of the remarks, which was released on
December 4.
Remarks by the Vice President on the
Treatment of the Hostages.
December 5, 1979
the past 4 weeks as we have faced this American Hostages in Iran
outrageous situation together. Not since
Pearl Harbor, some 40 years ago, have we
felt such a nationwide surge of determi-
nation and mutual purpose. But I must
warn you that this crisis may not be re-
solved easily or quickly. It is possible that
in the days ahead, our patience and sense
of unity may waver as frustration builds
up among us. I am determined to do
everything I can to have the hostages re-
leased as soon as possible.
At the height of the Civil War, Presi-
dent Abraham Lincoln said, "I have but
one task, and that is to save the Union."
Over the past several weeks, we have
been hearing a drumfire of propaganda
out of Tehran, some of it from people
calling themselves students, some of it
from the government-controlled radio
and television in Iran, and some of it
from various officials or people in author-
ity. The message is very clear. It says
over and over that the world and the
American people should ignore the hos-
2194
