Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
will act together. These were the prom-
ises I made 3 years ago, and I intend to
keep them.
Little by little we can and we must re-
build our confidence. We can spend until
we empty our treasuries, and we may
summon all the wonders of science. But
we can succeed only if we tap our great-
est resources America's people, Amer-
ica's values, and America's confidence.
I have seen the strength of America in
the inexhaustible resources of our people.
In the days to come, let us renew that
strength in the struggle for an energy-
secure nation.
In closing, let me say this: I will do my
best, but I will not do it alone. Let your
voice be heard. Whenever you have a
chance, say something good about our
country. With God's help and for the sake
of our Nation, it is time for us to join
hands in America. Let us commit our-
selves together to a rebirth of the Ameri-
can spirit. Working together with our
common faith we cannot fail.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House. His re-
marks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
Kansas City, Missouri
ideas, the concerns, the dreams, the
hopes, the determination of many Ameri-
cans. Your own president, Charlotte
Williams, came to Camp David to help
me write that speech.
Last night I spoke to you about the
deep wounds our society has suffered and
about my absolute conviction that we
have the power and the will to heal these
wounds and to restore the unity and con-
fidence of America. I promised last night
to keep on discussing our Nation's most
serious problems with Americans. And I
also promised to keep on acting with the
people to tackle these problems.
And today, I've come to Kansas City to
meet with you to do both-to discuss the
energy problem and to get you to help
me succeed. I want to know, will you help
me succeed? [Applause]
My belief is that almost all Americans
feel the same way. Just as the energy
shortage has forced us to face our deepest
fears and divisions, so our goal of an en-
ergy secure America will help us to re-
build our strength and our confidence as
a people. We are coming to understand
that the reasons for our energy crisis go
beyond gas lines and wasteful habits to
a loss of confidence that divides us and
threatens us and which, for years, too
many years, has prevented Presidents and
the Congress and a great nation from act-
ing courageously to meet this energy chal-
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the lenge. That is why we must decide here
National Association of Counties.
July 16, 1979
Senator Tom Eagleton, Senator Jack
Danforth, Congressmen Ike Skelton and
Harold Volkmer, President Charlotte
Williams, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
You may have heard that I spoke to
the Nation last night on television.
[Laughter] That speech encompassed the
and now that we can and will regroup,
we can and will unite, we can and will
restore our confidence, we can and will
win the battle to solve our energy prob-
lems and restore our Nation's security and
keep us strong.
There are no easy answers. That is why
I will continue to explore new ideas and
I will open new fronts and I will develop
new points of attack. That is why I will
seek more and more Americans, allies to
1241
