Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 20
U.S.C. 3181 et seq.)) the Federal co-
chairman shall serve as the Council mem-
ber. Representatives of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget shall participate in
the deliberations of each Council.
1-105. Each member of each Council
shall designate an alternate to serve when-
ever the regular member is unable to
attend any meeting of the Council. The
alternate shall be a principal official in the
Region at the deputy or equivalent level,
or the head of an operating unit of the
agency.
1-106. When a Chairman determines
that matters which significantly affect the
interests of agencies which are not repre-
sented on the Council are to be consid-
ered by that Council, the Chairman shall
request the regional director or other
appropriate representative of the affected
agency to participate in the deliberations
of the Council.
1-204. Each Council shall attempt to
identify significant problems with Federal
policies and actions and, if such problems
cannot be resolved in the Region, refer
such problems to the appropriate agen-
cies and the Interagency Coordinating
Council.
1-3. General Provisions.
1-301. The Interagency Coordinating
Council, in conjunction with the Office
of Management and Budget shall, con-
sistent with the objectives and priorities
established by the President, establish
policy with respect to Federal Regional
Council matters, provide guidance to the
Councils, respond to their initiatives and
seek to resolve policy issues referred to it
by the Councils. The Interagency Co-
ordinating Council shall also provide pol-
icy guidance to the Federal Cochairmen
of the Regional Action Planning Com-
missions on intergovernmental matters
1-2. Federal Regional Council Func- pertaining to activities undertaken by the
tions.
1–201. The Federal Regional Council,
as the major interagency mechanism in
the field, shall ensure that Federal pro-
grams are implemented in a manner
which is consistent with overall Govern-
ment policy, and shall be responsive to
State, tribal, regional, and local govern-
ment concerns.
1-202. Each Council shall develop a
mechanism for sharing information about
major agency decisions or actions among
agencies in the field, and shall ensure a
timely and consistent Federal response to
State, tribal, regional, and local concerns
or inquiries about such actions.
1-203. Each Council shall establish
practical and appropriate liaison func-
tions with State, tribal, regional, and local
officials, and shall implement regular pro-
cedures to inform elected officials about
Government policies and initiatives.
Federal Regional Councils.
1-302. The Office of Management and
Budget shall provide direction for and
oversight of the implementation by the
Councils of Federal management im-
provement actions and of Federal aid
reforms.
1-303. Each Agency represented on a
Council shall provide, to the extent per-
mitted by law, appropriate staff for com-
mon or joint interagency task forces as
requested by the Federal Regional Coun-
cil Chairman or by the Interagency Co-
ordinating Council.
1-304. Each Council member shall be
provided administrative support by the
member's agency.
1-305. Administrative support required
by the Council shall be provided by the
Chairman's agency.
1-306. The Federal Regional Councils
are encouraged to work with Federal
Executive Boards, Federal Executive As-
1289
