July 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ical sociologist who has written extensively
on allocation of health resources. She is a
member of the ethics committee of the In-
stitute of Medicine, and of the Institute of
Social Ethics and Life Sciences.
Mario Garcia-Palmieri, professor and
head of the department of medicine of the
University of Puerto Rico. He was for-
merly secretary of health for Puerto Rico
and is chairman of the Latino Caucus of
the American Congress of Cardiology.
Albert Rupert Jonsen, professor of
ethics in medicine at the University of
California School of Medicine at San
Francisco, and chairman of the bioethics
group for the five University of California
schools of medicine. He served as a mem-
ber of HEW's National Commission for
the Protection of Human Subjects of Bio-
medical and Behavioral Research for 4
years.
Patricia A. King, associate professor of
law at Georgetown University. She is a
member of the National Commission for
the Protection of Human Subjects of Bio-
medical and Behavioral Research, the In-
stitute of Society, Ethics and the Life Sci-
ences, and the Washington Area Seminar
on Science, Technology and Ethics.
Mathilde Krim, an associate member of
the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer
Research and coordinator of its Interna-
tional Laboratories for the Molecular
Biology of Interferon Systems. She is on
the board of directors of the National Bio-
medical Research Foundation, and is a
member of the National Endowment for
the Humanities' advisory committee on
science, technology, and human values.
Donald N. Medearis, chief of children's
service at Massachusetts General Hospital
and Charles Wilder professor of pediatrics
at Harvard University. He is a specialist
in infectious diseases of children.
Arno G. Motulsky, professor of medi-
cine and genetics and director of the
Center for Inherited Diseases at the Uni-
versity of Washington. He is an expert in
genetics who has been responsible for
many advances in genetic screening, test-
ing, counseling, and education programs.
Fritz C. Redlich, professor of psychia-
try at the University of California at Los
Angeles, and former director of the Be-
havioral Sciences Center at Yale Univer-
sity.
Anne A. Scitovsky, chief of the health
economics division of the Palo Alto Medi-
cal Research Foundation and an expert
on the economics of medical care. She is a
consultant to the National Center for
Health Services Research.
Charles J. Walker, a Nashville, Tenn.,
doctor in private medical practice. He is
on the board of governors of the Matthew
Walker Community Health Center, and
the board of trustees of Fisk University.
Management of Federal Legal
Resources
Executive Order 12146. July 18, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1.1 Establishment of the Federal Legal
Council.
1-101. There is hereby established the
Federal Legal Council, which shall be
composed of the Attorney General and
the representatives of not more than 15
other agencies. The
other agencies. The agency representative
shall be designated by the head of the
agency.
1-102. The initial membership of the
Council, in addition to the Attorney Gen-
1264
