Aug. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
entitled to harvest fish in America's
fishery zone. This "American-built" re-
quirement will protect the massive capital
investment that American fishermen and
shipyards have made in anticipation of
the FCMA. This amendment does not
encompass vessels engaged in activities
other than fish harvesting, such as fish
processing. Additionally, it does not
change existing law with respect to the
definition of fisheries, except to the extent
that it expands the existing interpreta-
tion of the definition's geographical scope
to the full 200-mile Fishing Conservation
Zone.
Concerning section 2 of the act, it is
my understanding that this amendment is
not intended to affect foreign fishing
under the Fishery Conservation and
Management Act, the Governing Inter-
national Fishery Agreements, or other
fishery agreements to which we are party.
It is also my understanding, in light of
the provisions of the Covenant to Estab-
lish a Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, in Political Union with
the United States of America, that section
2 of the act will not preclude the use of
foreign-built vessels by fishermen of the
Northern Mariana Islands for fishing in
the Fishery Conservation Zone or the
landing of catch by such vessels.
For many years now the United States
has been active in trying to gain interna-
tional recognition of the need to protect
great whales. We are justly proud of the
contributions to this effort made by many
concerned citizens and conservation or-
ganizations. There is much to be done
before heavily hunted species of whales
again safely flourish in the oceans. The
law that I am signing today demonstrates
to the world America's determination to
save the great whales.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 917 is Public Law 96–61,
approved August 15.
United States Representative
to the United Nations
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Ambassador Andrew Young. August 15, 1979
To Ambassador Andrew Young
I accept with deep regret your resigna-
tion as Ambassador to the United Na-
tions, to be effective when your successor
assumes the duties of your office. Subse-
quently, your continuing support for the
policies of our nation will be extremely
valuable.
You have earned the gratitude of all
Americans with your superb performance
in a most difficult assignment. You have
helped to prove, thanks to your dedica-
tion and sensitivity, that our country is
sympathetic to the deepest social and po-
litical aspirations of increasingly awak-
ened human beings throughout the world.
You have proven that we are sensitive to
the demands for world peace and racial
justice, and have earned for us the friend-
ship, trust and respect of many nations
which had previously considered the
United States to be suspect and unworthy
of such a relationship. You have truly ex-
emplified the finest attributes of the
American character.
You can be justifiably proud of the
many achievements of yourself and your
assistants and staff in the United Nations.
You have my best wishes and personal
thanks.
Your friend,
Dear Mr. President:
JIMMY CARTER
August 14, 1979
It has been an extremely exciting and
rewarding opportunity to serve as your
Ambassador to the United Nations. I have
appreciated the support and encourage-
1436
