Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
It's a battle that I do not intend to
lose, did not intend to lose, and I believe
with your help, we can win. Will you help
me? [Applause]
Now, I don't want to mislead you.
There are no easy answers. And some of
the things that I propose are going to take
a long time, like the synthetic production
of fuels. But there are two things that we
can do right away. One of them is to quit
wasting energy-conservation. It doesn't
cost anything. It saves money. It doesn't
damage the quality of our lives. Save en-
ergy every way you can. And the second
thing depends on Kentucky. Kentucky is
the Nation's number one producer of coal,
and we're going to use a lot of coal in the
next few years.
We must see America provide basic en-
ergy from America. I would rather burn a
ton of Kentucky coal than to see our Na-
tion become dependent by buying another
barrel of OPEC oil.
In the last 2 or 3 weeks, I've done a
lot of thinking about my job as Presi-
dent-working for world peace, being
certain that our Nation was secure, pro-
viding jobs for Americans. We've added
175,000 new jobs with the help of your
Governor, industry, labor, and all of you
in Kentucky in the last 2 years, making
the Federal Government more open, more
confident, more efficient. All this is part
of my job as President.
But a President has an even larger re-
sponsibility, and that is to draw on the
spirit of America, to call out the best that's
in our people, to inspire Americans, and
to work with Americans to unite, to com-
bine ourselves together in a common pur-
pose so that we can solve our Nation's
problems, no matter what they are.
We do have some problems with en-
ergy, with confidence, with inflation, with
some remaining unemployment, lot of
other things, but we must never forget
that America is the strongest and the
brightest and the best nation on Earth,
and we've got more to be thankful for
than we have to complain about.
that
In that speech 2 weeks ago, I talked
about the separation of American people
from our Government, particularly in
Washington, and, again, those were not
just empty words. Now, I can tell you
the Members of the Congress and the
Federal employees and the Cabinet mem-
bers, who work with me, are all filled with
dedicated people trying sincerely to do a
good job for you. But the more you live in
Washington, and the more you talk to
each other in Washington, you tend to be-
come insulated from the rest of the Nat-
ion, you tend to become isolated from the
people of our country. We start getting
our ideas from each other, and we start
getting our thoughts from each other. We
spend too much time reading Federal
Government forms and regulations in-
stead of listening to people like you. And
we've got to change that and listen to the
people like you.
It affects me, too, but I'm determined
that I'm not going to let anything erect
barriers between your President and you,
and I need for you to help me keep those
barriers torn down.
I'll just give you one example, and
then I want to answer your questions.
There is no way that we can meet our
goals on energy and preserve our Nation's
energy independence or our Nation's secu-
rity without moving toward conserva-
tion-and that costs money-moving to-
ward solar energy-that costs money-in-
crease production and use of coal to make
sure that consumers of electricity don't
have to pay too much money; making
sure that we have good air and water and
land quality so that our children will have
a delightful place to live as well; develop-
1341
