June 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
obligations of the Parties under particular
articles of the Treaty;
2. a Memorandum of Understanding
that will establish an agreed data base by
categories of strategic offensive arms along
with associated statements of current
data;
3. a Joint Statement of Principles and
Basic Guidelines on the Limitation of
Strategic Arms concerning the next phase
of negotiation on this subject; and
4. a Soviet statement on the Backfire
bomber, together with a U.S. response.
For thirty years the United States has
pursued a fundamentally bi-partisan for-
eign policy towards the Soviet Union, with
the objectives of deterring aggression by
maintaining strategic forces second to
none, creating a pattern and tradition of
negotiation to settle differences, building
a strong framework of allies, and stabiliz-
ing the globe by halting the uncontrolled
growth and spread of nuclear weapons.
SALT II strengthens each of these ob-
jectives. The seven years of negotiations,
under three administrations representing
both political parties, were carried out in
closer consultation with Congress and
under greater public scrutiny than any
other arms limitation treaty. SALT II is
truly a national accomplishment.
It is my best judgment and firm belief
that these patiently negotiated agreements
further the long-standing goals for our
nation's security. They improve our stra-
tegic situation and allow for further im-
provements in the future. They reaffirm
our leadership of the world in the cause of
nuclear arms control. They allow us to
negotiate for peace from strength in
SALT III.
Like SALT I, the Test Ban Treaty, and
the Non-Proliferation Treaty, SALT II is
another important step forward toward
our basic goal of a secure America at
peace in a stable world.
I pledge the full cooperation of my
Administration in helping to explain the
principles and details of the agreements.
Therefore, I request with a sense of
special urgency the advice and consent of
the U.S. Senate to ratification of the
SALT II Treaty.
The White House,
June 22, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The message of transmittal was an-
nounced by the White House Press Office on
June 25.
The texts of the treaty and the related docu-
ments are printed on page 1051 of this volume.
United States Ambassador to
Trinidad and Tobago
Nomination of Irving G. Cheslaw.
June 25, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Irving G. Cheslaw, of
Los Angeles, Calif., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Republic of Trini-
dad and Tobago. He would replace Rich-
ard Fox, resigned. Cheslaw is Chief of the
Senior Officer Division at the State De-
partment's Bureau of Personnel.
He was born December 5, 1921, in Los
Angeles. He received an A.B. from the
University of California at Los Angeles in
1942 and an M.A. (1947) and Ph. D.
(1952) from Columbia University. He
served in the U.S. Army from 1942 to
1946.
Cheslaw was a lecturer in history and
political science at Columbia University
from 1949 to 1951. From 1951 to 1954,
he was a historian at the Defense Depart-
ment. From 1953 to 1959, he was a
lecturer in political science at George
Washington University, and from 1954 to
1956, he was also senior research analyst
at the University of Pittsburgh.
1156
