Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 7
the United States, Monsignor Audrys
Backis, the Undersecretary of the Council
for Public Affairs of the Church, and
others.
On the United States side there were
present: Secretary of State Cyrus Vance,
the President's National Security Adviser,
Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Deputy National
Security Adviser David Aaron, Anne
Wexler, Assistant to the President, the
President's personal envoy to the Vatican,
Ambassador Robert F. Wagner, Assistant
Secretary of State for European Affairs
George Vest, and others.
In addition to the topics discussed in
the Oval Office, this meeting in the Cabi-
net Room reviewed the status of the
SALT II treaty and the implementation
of the Helsinki Final Act, to which both
the Holy See and the United States are
signatories. They viewed compliance with
the provisions of the Final Act, to be
examined at the 1980 Review Conference
in Madrid, as essential for enlarging hu-
man rights and, in particular, freedom of
conscience throughout the world.
The Nation's Economy
White House Statement on Actions by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System. October 6, 1979
The administration believes that the
actions decided upon today by the Fed-
eral Reserve Board will help reduce in-
flationary expectations, contribute to a
stronger U.S. dollar abroad, and curb
unhealthy speculations in commodity
markets.
Recent high rates of inflation, led by
surging oil prices, other economic data, as
well as developments in commodity and
foreign exchange markets, have rein-
forced the administration's conviction
that fighting inflation remains the Na-
tion's number one economic priority.
The administration will continue to
emphasize a policy of budgetary restraint.
Enactment of effective national energy
legislation to reduce dependence on
foreign oil is vital to long-term success in
this effort.
The administration believes that suc-
cess in reducing inflationary pressures will
lead in due course both to lower rates of
price increases and to lower interest rates.
NOTE: Earlier in the day, the Board of Gover-
nors had announced that measures would be
taken to increase the discount rate, the interest
rate the Federal Reserve charges member banks
when lending them money, from 11 percent to
12 percent; to require that banks set aside an
8-percent reserve of moneys received from for-
eign and other sources; and to take greater
direct control over the supply of the Nation's
money.
National Port Week, 1979
Proclamation 4695. October 6, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Virtually every major metropolitan
region of the United States centers around
a port, or is closely linked by rail or high-
way to a port. As waterborne trade in the
United States approaches 2 billion tons of
cargo per year, the rippling economic
effects of expanding port activities will
continue to generate employment, rev-
enues, and community development.
Local control and administration of our
Nation's port system has fostered the de-
velopment of some 170 commercial sea-
ports and numerous inland ports on our
1835
