Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 21
nization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) in Oslo, Norway,
and the U.S. Delegation to the OECD
Conference on Teacher Policy in Paris,
France. He has received numerous awards
for his work in education.
National Commission on
Libraries and Information
Science
Nomination of Three Members.
December 20, 1979
The President today announced three
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Commission on
Libraries and Information Science for
terms expiring July 19, 1984. They are:
Helmut A. Alpers, vice president of
the General Bookbinding Co. of Chester-
land, Ohio. Alpers spent 18 years with
IBM, where he was extensively involved
in information systems. He was a dele-
gate to the White House Conference on
Libraries and Information Services, held
in November 1979.
Carlos A. Cuadra, of Los Angeles,
president of Cuadra Associates, Inc., for
reappointment. Cuadra is also an ad-
junct professor at UCLA's Graduate
School of Library and Information Sci-
ence, and has been a member of this
Commission since 1971.
Margaret S. Warden, of Great Falls,
Mont., chair of the Constitutional Con-
vention Proceedings Printing Committee
and a former Montana State senator. She
served on the Advisory Committee for
the White House Conference on Libra-
ries and Information Services. She is a
former librarian and a member of the
Montana State Library Advisory Council.
International Economic Sanctions
Against Iran
Remarks Announcing Intention To Seek
United Nations Action. December 21, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. From the first day the
American Embassy was invaded and our
diplomatic staff was seized as hostages by
Iran, we have pursued every legal channel
available to us to secure their safe and
prompt release. On at least four separate
occasions the world community, through
the United Nations Security Council and
through the International Court of Jus-
tice, has expressed itself clearly and firmly
in calling upon the Iranian Government to
release the American hostages.
Yet Iran today still stands in arrogant
defiance of the world community. It has
shown contempt not only for international
law but for the entire international struc-
ture for securing the peaceful resolution
of differences among nations.
In an irresponsible attempt at black-
mail, to which the United States will never
yield, kidnapers and terrorists, supported
by Iranian officials, continue to hold our
people under inhumane conditions. With
each day that passes, our concern grows
for the health and for the well-being of
the hostages. We have made clear from
the very beginning that the United States
prefers a peaceful solution, in preference
to the other remedies which are available
to us under international law. For a peace-
ful resolution to be achieved, it is now
clear that concrete action must be taken
by the international community.
Accordingly, I have decided to ask for
an early meeting of the United Nations
Security Council to impose international
economic sanctions upon Iran, under title
VII of the United Nations Charter. The
Government of Iran must realize that it
2277
