Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Members of my staff have already met
with Texaco representatives to assure that
federal and local activities are coordi-
nated with Texaco's program. In addi-
tion, I have sent a telegram to other oil
companies asking that they take similar
action.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The telegram was sent to Maurice F.
Granville, Jr., chief executive officer of Texaco
Inc.
I commend to you the program one of
the major oil companies (Texaco Inc.)
announced yesterday on home heating oil
prices, emergency supplies and credit
terms. We are working to maximize the
assistance this plan can provide to con-
sumers, particularly the low-income and
the elderly.
This program is: (1) holding the line
on home heating oil prices; (2) providing
emergency supplies of heating oil to needy
households, whether or not they are reg-
ular Texaco customers; and (3) improv-
ing credit terms to wholesalers, who in
turn are asked to ease credit terms to re-
tail customers.
I applaud this initiative and urge you
to take similar action to help keep heat-
ing oil prices stable and to assist in meet-
ing emergency supply and credit needs.
I assure you of my strong support in these
efforts, and I will continue to work with
Congress to make emergency funds avail-
able in time for this winter.
I have asked Secretary Duncan to work
you in every way possible to allevi-
with you
chairman of the board and chief executive of-
ficer, Standard Oil Co. (Indiana); Orin E.
Atkins, chief executive officer and chairman of
the board, Ashland Oil Inc.; Robert O. Ander-
son, director, chairman of the board, and chief
executive officer, Atlantic Richfield Co.; Alton
W. Whitehouse, Jr., chairman of the board,
Standard Oil Co. (Ohio); William T. Smith,
president, Champlin Petroleum Co.; H. J.
Haynes, chairman of the board, Standard Oil
Company of California; Robert V. Sellers,
chairman of the board and chief executive of-
ficer, Cities Service Co.; Robert G. Reed, chief
executive officer, Clark Oil and Refining Corp.;
Oscar S. Wyatt, Jr., chairman of the board,
Coastal States; R. E. Bailey, chairman of the
board and chief executive officer, Conoco, Inc.;
Henry A. Rosenberg, Jr., chairman of the
board, Crown Central Petroleum Corp.; Clifton
C. Garvin, Jr., chairman of the board and chief
executive officer, Exxon Corp.; John F. Ander-
son, president, Farmland Industries Inc.; Har-
old E. Berg, chairman of the board, Getty Oil
Co.; Jerry McAfee, chairman of the board,
Gulf Oil Corp.; Leon Hess, chairman of the
board and chief executive officer, Amerada
Hess Corp.; McClaran Jordan, president, Kerr-
McGee Refining Corp.; Charles Koch, chief
executive officer, Koch Industries, Inc.; H. D.
Hoopman, president and chief executive officer,
Marathon Oil Co.; Rawleigh Warner, Jr., di-
rector, chairman of the board, chairman of
executive committee, and chief executive offi-
cer, Mobil Oil Corp.; W. F. Martin, chairman
of the board and chief executive officer, Phillips
Petroleum Co.; John F. Bookout, Jr., chief ex-
ecutive officer, Shell Oil Co.; Theodore A.
Burtis, chairman of the executive committee,
chairman of the board, and president, Sun Oil
Company, Inc.; James L. Ketelsen, chairman of
the board, chief executive officer, and president,
Tenneco, Inc.; Morton M. Winston, chief ex-
ecutive officer and president, Tosco Corp.; and
Fred L. Hartley, president and chairman of the
board, Union Oil Company of California.
ate home heating oil price and supply Gospel Music Association
hardships this winter.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical telegrams
sent to: Richard I. Galland, director, chair-
man of the board, and chief executive officer,
American Petrofina, Inc.; John E. Swearingen,
Remarks at a White House Performance.
September 9, 1979
Hello, everybody. How many of you
know the significance of a fifth Sunday?
Not many. Well, in country churches, as
1614
