Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
circumstances surrounding a plant or its Department of State
application dictate.
The NRC has indicated, however, that
it will pause in issuing any new licenses
and construction permits in order to de-
vote its full attention to putting its own
house in order and tightening up safety
requirements. I endorse this approach
which the NRC has adopted, but I urge
the NRC to complete its work as quickly
as possible and in no event later than 6
months from today. Once we've instituted
the necessary reforms to assure safety,
we must resume the licensing process
promptly so that the new plants we need
to reduce our dependence on foreign oil
can be built and operated.
The steps I'm announcing today will
help to ensure that our safety has the safety
of nuclear plants. Nuclear power does
have a future in the United States. It's
an option that we must keep open. I will
join with the utilities and their suppliers,
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the
executive departments and agencies of the
Federal Government, and also the State
and local governments to assure that the
future is a safe one.
And now Dr. Frank Press, Stu Eizenstat,
and John Deutch will be glad to answer
your questions about these decisions and
about nuclear power and the future of
it in our country. Frank?
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing.
Following the President's remarks, Frank
Press, Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assist-
ant to the President for Domestic Affairs and
Policy, and Under Secretary of Energy John
M. Deutch held a news conference on the an-
nouncements.
Nomination of Deane R. Hinton To Be an
Assistant Secretary. December 7, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Deane R. Hinton, of
Chicago, Ill., to be an Assistant Secretary
of State. He would replace Julius L. Katz,
resigned, and his area of responsibility
would be economic and business affairs.
Hinton has been United States Repre-
sentative to the European Communities,
with the rank of Ambassador Extraordi-
nary and Plenipotentiary, since 1975.
He was born March 12, 1923, in Mis-
soula, Mont. He received an A.B. from the
University of Chicago in 1943. He served
in the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1945.
Hinton joined the Foreign Service in
1946 and was posted in Damascus, Mom-
basa, Paris, and at the State Department.
He was Chief of Overseas Development
and the Finance Section at USEC in
Brussels from 1958 to 1961. He attended
the National War College in 1961-62.
From 1962 to 1963, Hinton was Chief
of the Commodity Programming Divi-
sion at the Bureau of Economic Affairs.
From 1963 to 1967, he was Director of
the Office of Atlantic Political-Economic
Affairs in the Bureau of European Af-
fairs. From 1967 to 1971, he was Direc-
tor of the USAID mission and counselor
for economic affairs in Guatemala, then
in Santiago.
From 1971 to 1973, Hinton was de-
tailed to the White House as Deputy
Executive Director of the Council on
International Economic Policy. He was
Ambassador to the Republic of Zaire
from 1974 to 1975. In 1975 he served as
senior adviser to the Under Secretary of
State for Economic Affairs.
2204
