Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the United States, a task so large that it
amounts to recreating them, a task as
ambitious as any nation has ever set for
itself." That was said in 1966. It was only
in 1965 that this child of a department
was founded, and I think we can date
from that moment the kind of formaliza-
tion of our war against urban decay that
this Nation undertook. And it occurred
to me that that is only about 13 years ago
or 14 years ago, not even one-half the
life of an average home mortgage, and
yet we've done much in that period of
time, despite our impatience.
Each President, each Congress, each
Secretary of this Department has added
new tools to the urban workbox. We de-
veloped model cities and general revenue
sharing, community development block
grants, aid to mass transit, and, of course,
under the leadership of President Carter,
the most significant urban statement of
all-the development of a national urban
policy and the beginning of the formation
of a partnership between those of us in
public office and the private sector, and
the recognition by him that we, the politi-
cians, did not build America, but rather
it was built by the private sector. And as
our cities are rebuilt, it will be rebuilt by
the private sector, but hopefully in an
atmosphere created by the public sector,
one of assistance and aid, one of encour-
agement, permitting the private enter-
prise system to do what it knows how to
do best, to build and to move and to
create.
So, Mr. President, I'm very, very hon-
ored to be with you in that movement,
and I'm very pleased that I have the
chance to serve with so many distin-
guished public officials who serve in your
Cabinet.
In closing, I would like to thank the
rather substantial number of people who
came up from New Orleans, very much
like the Peanut Brigade, Mr. President,
who followed you around the country. I've
been fortunate in having some very dear
and close friends. I also thank the many
mayors and county execs and housing
officials and others from the constituency
groups who are here. I'll give you my
best.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:37 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Meeting With Members of the
Nicaraguan Junta
White House Statement. September 24, 1979
The President met today in the Cabinet
Room with three members of the Nica-
raguan Junta on their way to New York
to lead the delegation of the Government
of Nicaragua to the United Nations Gen-
eral Assembly. The discussion centered
on ways to strengthen the basis for a co-
operative relationship between the United
States and Nicaragua based on mutual
respect.
The Nicaraguan delegation included
Junta members Daniel Ortega, Sergio
Ramirez, and Alfonso Robelo, Minister
of Foreign Affairs Miguel D'Escoto, and
Ambassador-designate to the U.S. Rafael
Solis. Present from the U.S. Government,
in addition to the President, was the Vice
President, Deputy Secretary of State
Warren Christopher, National Security
Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant
Secretary of State for Inter-American Af-
fairs Viron P. Vaky, U.S. Ambassador
to Nicaragua Lawrence A. Pezzulo, Am-
bassador Henry Owen, and NSC staff
member Robert Pastor.
1722
