Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 24
President's Commission for a
National Agenda for the Eighties
Executive Order 12168. October 24, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and by the Statutes
of the United States of America, includ-
ing the Federal Advisory Committee Act,
5 U.S.C. App. I, and 3 U.S.C. 301, in
order to establish an independent forum
to recommend for this Nation an Agenda
for the Eighties and to recommend ap-
proaches for dealing with the major issues
which will confront the American people
during that decade, it is ordered:
1-1. Establishment and Structure
ity for effective Federal governance, the
role of private institutions in meeting pub-
lic needs, and underlying social and eco-
nomic trends, as these issues bear on our
public policy challenges in the 1980's.
Areas to be reviewed by the Commission
shall include:
(a) underlying trends or developments
within our society, such as the changing
structure of our economy, the persistence
of inflationary forces, demands on our
natural environment, and demographic
shifts within our population that will
shape public choices in the 1980's;
(b) opportunities to enhance social
justice and economic well-being for all
our people in the 1980's;
(c) the role of private institutions, in-
1–101. There is hereby established the cluding the non-profit and voluntary
President's Commission for a National
Agenda for the Eighties.
1-102. The Commission shall be com-
posed initially of fifty members appointed
by the President from among private
citizens of the United States. Upon the
request of the Commission, the President
shall select and appoint no more than fifty
additional members.
1-103. The President shall designate
the Chairperson of the Commission. The
Chairperson, following consultations with
Commission members, shall designate no
more than fifteen members of the Com-
mission to constitute an Executive
Committee.
1-104. The members of the Commis-
sion shall not receive compensation for
their service on the Commission, but may
receive travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence.
1-2. Functions and Reports
1-201. Under the direction of the Ex-
ecutive Committee, the Commission shall
identify and examine the most critical
public policy challenges of the 1980's. It
shall examine issues related to the capac-
sectors, in meeting basic human needs
and aspirations in the future;
(d) defining the role of the public sec-
tor, and financing its responsibilities in
the 1980's;
(e) impediments to building policy
consensus, both within government—the
Executive branch, Congress, State and
local government—and within the Na-
tion as a whole.
Within this framework, the Commis-
sion shall identify the specific issues ap-
propriate for examination.
1-202. The Chairperson of the Com-
mission shall organize the Commission to
study and make recommendations on ma-
jor subject matter areas. This shall in-
clude the authority to appoint study
panels and their chairpersons.
1-203. The Executive Committee shall
coordinate the work and act on behalf of
the Commission as necessary.
1-204. The Commission shall make
every feasible effort to ensure citizen par-
ticipation in the development of its
Agenda and recommendations. The Com-
mission, in preparing its recommenda-
2013
