Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
Americans who enjoy hiking, backpack-
ing, bicycling, and similar activities.
Therefore, I am directing you to take
the following actions:
• Within 120 days, together with the
Secretary of the Interior, revise the Guide-
lines for studying Wild and Scenic Rivers.
The revised Guidelines shall establish pro-
cedures to ensure consideration of river
ecosystems to shorten the length of time
currently used to study rivers for designa-
tion.
• Ensure that the Forest Service meets
its goal of establishing 145 additional Na-
tional Recreation Trails by January 1980,
thereby achieving the objective of two
National Recreation Trails in each Na-
tional Forest System unit.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Secretary of the
Interior
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized the important
natural, historic, and recreational values
of our Nation's river corridors. Unfortu-
nately, development along the banks of
our rivers continues to outpace our ability
to identify and study those rivers which
might qualify for protection under the Na-
tional Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
This problem is particularly acute near
urban areas, where there are greater de-
mands for recreational opportunities.
Thus, we need to improve our techniques
for identifying, and designating wild and
scenic rivers.
In addition, I recognized in my En-
vironmental Message that the 1968 Na-
tional Trails System Act is designed to
promote the development of recreational,
scenic, and historic trails for persons of
diverse interests and abilities—including
the young, the handicapped and the
aged and that the National Trails Sys-
tem is in its fledgling stage. I stressed the
importance of expanding the National
Trails System to provide increased recrea-
tion opportunities for the millions of
Americans who enjoy hiking, backpack-
ing, and similar activities.
Therefore, I am directing you to take
the following actions:
• Within 120 days, together with the
Secretary of Agriculture, revise the Guide-
lines for studying Wild and Scenic Rivers.
The revised Guidelines shall establish
pro-
cedures to ensure consideration of river
ecosystems and to shorten the length of
time currently used to study rivers for
designation.
• Furnish federal agencies, through the
Heritage Conservation and Recreation
Service, with the names of the rivers in its
Nationwide Inventory-which is a list of
rivers having the potential to be desig-
nated under the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act—and with any background analysis
conducted by the Service.
• Assist other federal agencies, through
the Interagency Trails Council, in survey-
ing existing trails on federal lands to de-
termine which of those can be made part
of our National Trails System.
region of the country to assess our nation-
• Initiate a grassroots effort in every
wide trail needs. This nationwide assess-
ment shall examine the types of trails now
estimate current and anticipated trail
in use and their proximity to trail users:
needs; and recommend cost-effective pro-
grams and
energy-conserving actions
which could produce the types and num-
ber of trails that are needed.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
1381
