Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 23
Tariff Schedules of the United States is
amended by deleting therefrom "China
(any part of which may be under Com-
munist domination or control)" and
"Tibet" as of the effective date of this
proclamation and a notice thereof shall
be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER
promptly thereafter.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-third day
of October, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-nine, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
AGREEMENT ON TRADE RELATIONS
BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
The Government of the United States
of America and the Government of the
People's Republic of China;
Acting in the spirit of the Joint Com-
munique on the Establishment of Diplo-
matic Relations between the United
States of America and the People's Re-
public of China;
Desiring to enhance friendship between
both peoples;
Wishing to develop further economic
and trade relations between both coun-
tries on the basis of the principles of
equality and mutual benefit as well as
nondiscriminatory treatment;
Have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
1. The Contracting Parties undertake
to adopt all appropriate measures
create the most favorable conditions for
strengthening, in all aspects, economic
and trade relations between the two
countries so as to promote the continuous,
long-term development of trade between
the two countries.
2. In order to strive for a balance in
their economic interests, the Contracting
Parties shall make every effort to foster
the mutual expansion of their reciprocal
trade and to contribute, each by its own
means, to attaining the harmonious de-
velopment of such trade.
3. Commercial transactions will be
effected on the basis of contracts between
firms, companies and corporations, and
trading organizations of the two coun-
tries. They will be concluded on the basis
of customary international trade practice
and commercial considerations such as
price, quality, delivery and terms of pay-
ment.
ARTICLE II
1. With a view to establishing their
trade relations on a nondiscriminatory
basis, the Contracting Parties shall accord
each other most-favored-nation treatment
with respect to products originating in or
destined for the other Contracting Party,
i.e., any advantage, favor, privilege, or
immunity they grant to like products orig-
inating in or destined for any other coun-
try or region, in all matters regarding:
(A) Customs duties and charges of all
kinds applied to the import, export, re-
export or transit of products, including
the rules, formalities and procedures for
collection of such duties and charges;
(B) Rules, formalities and procedures
concerning customs clearance, transit,
warehousing and transshipment of im-
ported and exported products;
(C) Taxes and other internal charges
levied directly or indirectly on imported
or exported products or services;
(D) All laws, regulations and require-
ments affecting all aspects of internal sale,
2001
