Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sanchez is here, because it has been a
thrill for me as a Baptist, for others of all
kinds of faiths, to see the tremendous out-
pouring of love and respect that was paid
to Pope John Paul.
He came here not as a statesman, al-
though he is; he came here as a man of
God. And when I had a private conver-
sation with him, he said that he was ab-
solutely amazed at the tremendous recep-
tion that he got. I was, too. I knew that
they would have tens of thousands of peo-
ple, maybe hundreds of thousands of peo-
ple who would come out to meet him, but
to see literally millions of people assem-
bled on the streets of Chicago and Boston
and Philadelphia and New York and even
in the rural area of Iowa and, of course,
in Washington, was a pleasant surprise
and an exciting surprise for me.
I think there's a hunger in our country
for decency and commitment, for the
binding of wounds, for unity, for mutual
respect, for compassion, and for love; and
this to me is heartening. And I think the
reception that he got transcended any
kind of minor religious differences we
have, because we worship the same God.
And this, I think, is a good solid base for
Americans to meet any possible challenge
to us.
We are so strong our country is.
Sometimes we get bogged down in the
daily news programs where we are re-
minded of the problems and the differ-
ences and the debates and the temporary
failures and the inconveniences-and we
forget to stand back for a moment and as-
sess the blessings that we have.
We live in the greatest and the strong-
est nation on Earth. It's the strongest
nation on Earth militarily. We need fear
no one, and we will never be second to any
other country in military strength. And, of
course, we are the strongest nation on
Earth economically, because God blessed
us with such great natural resources. In
the past, we've not always handled them
carefully. We've not been constant good
stewards of what we've inherited. But I
really believe that the recent reminder
that there is a limit to how much waste
Americans can accept in our society is
healthy for us.
I met last night, 2 hours, with the
Governors of the Western States. It was
one of the most productive and exciting
meetings I've ever had. And I told the
Governors at the conclusion of the meet-
ing that I wished that every person in
America, with TV cameras or otherwise,
could have seen what went on there, be-
cause it was a vivid demonstration of the
system of federalism at work.
There was a frank exchange of ideas
and a searching for common ground. And
when we got through, I can tell you that
the differences among us were almost non-
existent and we had been brought to-
gether. It would not have been that way
a year ago or 2 years ago, but now we see
common problems and we see common
solutions. And we see a binding together
of officials at the local, State, and Federal
levels of government to deal with the par-
ticular problem of energy that, in my
opinion, will be carried over in future
years, to deal with other crises or chal-
lenges or problems that we've not yet had
to address.
You in this part of the world live in a
relatively untouched environment. You
begin to see, though, an enormous explo-
sion in population as people move from
other parts of the country here. And how
to deal effectively with the growth, both
in population and economically, and the
utilization of your natural resources, and
at the same time keep the beauty of your
place and the quality of your life, is indeed
a challenge. And I think this new relation-
ship between the State and Federal Gov-
1864
