Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in the Nation. More recently there's been
an organizing of the Klan in the Navy.
THE PRESIDENT. In the Navy?
Q. In the Navy, in Norfolk, with the
blessings of one admiral, who said that
there was room in the Navy for the Klan
as well as anybody else.
THE PRESIDENT. I've never heard that.
PUBLIC OPINION POLLS
Q. Mr. President, maybe a philosophi-
cal question. I'm Charles Davis from Iowa
Falls, Iowa. The press and politicians
seem to pay a lot of attention to public
opinion polls. Given the complexity of in-
ternational-domestic politics, the econ-
I'll check on this right after this meeting. omy, and everything else, is it reasonable
When was it?
Q. It was on Monday, Monday morn-
ing of this week that the admiral said this
in Norfolk.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what I con-
sider—the Ku Klux Klan and everything
it stands for is absolutely abhorrent to me
and, I think, to our Nation. My assess-
ment as a southerner is that the accept-
ability and the presence and the influence
and the threat of the Ku Klux Klan is
minimal. These are erratic people who
have earned the contempt of the rest of
the Nation and also of their immediate
neighbors in every community in the
South with which I am familiar.
There are certain rights of free speech,
however, under our constitutional system
that protects even obnoxious groups like
the Klan in having a right to voice their
views and even to march down a public
street or, as you know, in the Chicago
suburbs, to get the right under the court-
ordered system to participate in a public
park. We have to face that kind of thing
in an absolutely free society.
But I think that the condemnation of
our country concerning the Klan, which
was anti-Semitic, anti-Catholic, anti-
black, and shrouded in understandable
secrecy, is pretty much a thing of the
past as far as having any real import.
But I certainly would not approve of
any sort of imprimatur of acceptability for
the Klan in the armed services. And I'll
check on this right after I adjourn this
meeting.
to expect a President under these condi-
tions to rate very high with the majority of
the people in the public opinion polls?
THE PRESIDENT. My guess is, in this
present political environment it is almost
impossible. There are times of euphoria
that sweep the Nation immediately after
an election or after an inauguration day or
maybe after a notable success, like the
Camp David accords, when there's a surge
of popularity for a President. But most of
the decisions that have to be made by a
President are inherently not popular ones;
they're contentious.
There is not a single vote to be derived
from the evolution of a national energy
policy. It's down all the way, because the
highly motivated consumers groups, for in-
stance, or environmentalists, and so forth,
can never be satisfied with any acceptable
proposal that has a chance to be approved
by the Congress, and the oil companies
and all those who are from producing
States can never be satisfied with a com-
promise that's acceptable to Congress and
is able to be passed. And for the President
to espouse a balanced program naturally
arouses the condemnation, certainly the
opposition, criticism at least, of those
highly motivated opinion-shapers.
In addition, there are times when you
have to take a stand that you know is un-
popular. A case that comes to my mind as
I sit here is the Panama Canal treaties.
When we got to the conclusion of the Pan-
ama Canal negotiations, after 14 years of
1712
