Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 26
tion, and effectiveness of agency con-
sumer programs, it is ordered as follows:
1–1. Establishment of the Consumer Af-
fairs Council.
1-101. There is hereby established the
Consumer Affairs Council (hereinafter
referred to as the "Council").
1-102. The Council shall consist of
representatives of the following agencies,
and such other officers or employees of
the United States as the President may
designate as members:
(a) Department of Agriculture.
(b) Department of Commerce.
(c) Department of Defense.
(d) Department of Energy.
(e) Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
(f) Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
(g) Department of the Interior.
(h) Department of Justice.
(i) Department of Labor.
(j) Department of State.
rep-
(k) Department of Transportation.
(1) Department of the Treasury.
Each agency on the Council shall be
resented by the head of the agency or by
a senior-level official designated by the
head of the agency.
1-2. Functions of the Council.
1-201. The Council shall provide lead-
ership and coordination to ensure that
agency consumer programs are imple-
mented effectively; and shall strive to
maximize effort, promote efficiency and
interagency cooperation, and to eliminate
duplication and inconsistency among
agency consumer programs.
1-3. Designation and Functions of the
Chairperson.
1–301. The President shall designate
the Chairperson of the Council. (herein-
after referred to as the "Chairperson").
1-302. The Chairperson shall be the
presiding officer of the Council and shall
determine the times when the Council
shall convene.
1-303. The Chairperson shall establish
such policies, definitions, procedures, and
standards to govern the implementation,
interpretation, and application of this
Order, and generally perform such func-
tions and take such steps, as are necessary
or appropriate to carry out the provisions
of this Order.
1-4. Consumer Program Reforms.
1-401. The Chairperson, assisted by the
Council, shall ensure that agencies review
and revise their operating procedures so
that consumer needs and interests are ade-
quately considered and addressed. Agency
consumer programs should be tailored to
fit particular agency characteristics, but
those programs shall include, at a mini-
mum, the following five elements:
(a) Consumer Affairs Perspective.
Agencies shall have identifiable, accessible
professional staffs of consumer affairs per-
sonnel authorized to participate, in a man-
ner not inconsistent with applicable stat-
utes, in the development and review of all
agency rules, policies, programs, and
legislation.
(b) Consumer Participation. Agencies
shall establish procedures for the early and
meaningful participation by consumers in
the development and review of all agency
rules, policies, and programs. Such pro-
cedures shall include provisions to assure
that consumer concerns are adequately
analyzed and considered in decisionmak-
ing. To facilitate the expression of those
concerns, agencies shall provide for fo-
rums at which consumers can meet with
agency decisionmakers. In addition, agen-
cies shall make affirmative efforts to in-
1763
