Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
the Navy built after the Second World
War. And I went from that antisubma-
rine submarine to serve on one of the two
nuclear-powered submarines, the first
ones ever built. So, I had a good launch-
ing for my naval career from San Diego.
I'm glad to be back.
This is a good trip for me also to ex-
press in the clearest possible ways to the
Building and Construction Trade Un-
ion—they're having their annual conven-
tion here some of the challenges, some
of the problems, some of the opportunities
which our Nation has to face together.
As I said in that talk, our Nation is
strong. We need not fear the present or
the future if we accurately assess the bless-
ings which we've been given in this
country, have confidence in one another,
and have faith in the future. We can
meet anything that arises. The rest of
the world looks to us for leadership not
only in material things-economic and
military strength, political influence-but
also, I hope and believe and pray, in ethi-
cal and moral standards, the things that
have always been the core of American
strength.
We've grown,
I think, in the last 200
years. We've not gone backward. The
vision that our Founding Fathers had in
establishing this country are being
realized more and more as each genera-
tion of Americans have a chance to serve
our country together. We've opened up
the processes of government to more and
more people, to young people, to women
and the others, which we didn't have
before. Now Americans elect our U.S.
Senators directly. Formerly, just State
legislators made that choice. We've guar-
anteed rights to black citizens, to those
who don't speak English well, to those
recent newcomers to our country.
And I'm always reminded, as President,
trying to assess on a daily, sometimes an
hourly basis, our strengths and our prob-
lems, that we are a nation of immi-
grants we are really a nation of refugees.
Our ancestors came here some 300 years
ago, some, 3 years ago, to find a greater
degree of freedom, a chance to be an in-
dividual, a chance to be different, a
chance to assess our own God-given
talents and to use them in the most pro-
ductive and exciting way. And I hope we
never dampen that sense of Americans
being individuals when we choose, but
also unifying in a time of challenge and
testing.
It's obvious that we can unify our-
selves and put aside petty differences and
put aside unselfishness when we can see
clearly that our Nation is threatened by
a Great Depression of the thirties or by
the First World War, the Second World
War. Then families, communities become
close to one another, and we honor our
government, and we kind of minimize the
mistakes that public officials make. And
we say, "Our system is the best, I'm going
to make it work," rather than withdraw-
ing from it because of something we don't
like on a transient basis.
And sometimes we forget, in the ex-
citement of reading the news, where you
only see the small failures and the tran-
sient inconveniences and the debates and
the setbacks, we forget about the strengths
and the blessings. And I believe that
Americans are hungry now for a restora-
tion and a reminder of those standards
that never change, those commitments
that never change, those human qualities
that are always cherished in spite of tem-
porary challenges.
We can overcome the energy chal-
lenge. It does threaten our security. I'm
not exaggerating that. We buy now half
the oil we use from foreign countries,
1873
