Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 30
lar account of the poorest countries in
our aid programs.
Once more we urge COMECON
countries to play their part.
We will place more emphasis on co-
operation with developing countries in
overcoming hunger and malnutrition. We
will urge multilateral organizations to
help these countries to develop effective
food sector strategies and to build up the
storage capacity needed for strong na-
tional food reserves. Increased bilateral
and multilateral aid for agricultural re-
search will be particularly important. In
these and other ways we will step up our
efforts to help these countries develop
their human resources, through technical
cooperation adapted to local conditions.
We will also place special emphasis on
helping developing countries to exploit
their energy potential. We strongly sup-
port
the World Bank's program for hydro-
carbon exploitation and urge its expan-
sion. We will do more to help developing
countries increase the use of renewable
energy; we welcome the World Bank's
coordination of these efforts.
with you in running than I would be in
boxing. [Laughter] I've heard from
your
very unbiased commanding officer that
when you compete in boxing, the match
never lasts more than one round, and I
want to congratulate you for that as well.
The next time I come back, I'll run in
combat boots and let you run in running
shoes. Maybe it'll be more even. But I'll
only run against those who are 55 years
old. [Laughter]
I am very proud to stand before you as
Commander in Chief, proud of our coun-
try, and proud of you, the historic combat
record that you exemplify in your present
service, and proud of your superb com-
mander, General Kingston, who in my
opinion represents the finest in military
service.
As you know, the Signal Corps plays
the closest possible role to a President.
Wherever I go, either at the White House,
in remote areas of the world, I must have
instant communication throughout the
entire
entire world with others. I've seen the
special accomplishment that you your-
selves have realized under the most diffi-
cult simulated combat conditions in re-
cent maneuvers. More battles have been
won or lost because of the quality of com-
Camp Casey, Republic of Korea munications than perhaps because of any
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
June 30, 1979
This is an exciting time in the life of me
as President of our country.
I've come here for two reasons. Basi-
cally, one is to express my deep thanks to
all of you for your tremendous, coura-
geous service to our country, and the sec-
ond, in the hopes that if the Commander
in Chief could come here, your messhall
might eventually be completed. [Laughter]
I want particularly to express my
thanks to those who ran with me this
morning. I'm much better at competing
other single factor. And so you represent
the key to victory or defeat, and with your
superb record, this would enhance our
chance for victory.
I know that all of you serving so far
from home miss your families. I served for
11 years in the Navy, and that was per-
haps the worst part of my life-being
away from home, being away from those
I love. But I can assure you that those of
you who serve here are never forgotten
by those in our own home, in your homes,
or throughout our country.
Thirty years ago, on this remote pe-
ninsula, 50,000 young Americans gave
1201
