July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lead to this momentous achievement had
reached a dead end and that it was very
unlikely that it would ever be revived. I
don't know of anyone else who could
have done it except Bob Strauss. And the
other leaders of the Western industrial
nations have all expressed to me the same
sentiments, that without Bob Strauss,
from the United States, it would not have
been possible.
I particularly want to praise the efforts
of Chairman Russell Long and Abraham
Ribicoff, of Bill Roth and Bob Dole in the
Senate and of Chairman Al Ullman and
Charlie Vanik, Barber Conable, Bill
Frenzel in the House, and many others,
both Democrats and Republicans, who
put aside partisanship in order to work
harmoniously for the best interests of our
Nation.
We truly live in an interdependent
world. Our dependence on foreign oil is
one example of this. But this is just part
of the picture. Today, one-third of all
the agricultural acreage in our country
is used to produce food and fiber for
people who live outside the United States.
One out of seven of our manufacturing
jobs in this country go to produce goods
which are sold overseas. The strength of
the dollar is determined to a major degree
by how successful we are in developing
new markets for American goods. This
legislation, which I will sign in a few min-
utes, will open up vast new opportunities
for American exports.
The Trade Agreements Act of 1979
builds upon the foundation of one of the
most highly publicized and well-known
achievements of the Kennedy administra-
tion, the passage of similar legislation in
1962. This new legislation strengthens and
solidifies America's position in the inter-
national trade community. It will revise
the rules of international trade to create
a fairer and more equitable and more
open environment for world trade.
This legislation will remove the bar-
riers for fair trade and will reduce unfair
trade practices which sometimes cheat
those and hamper those who are inter-
ested in improving the quality of the
world economy.
The trade reorganization proposal,
which I have now presented to the Con-
gress to change the mechanism within the
Federal Government of dealing with
trade, will strengthen the ability. of our
own Government to take advantage of
these new opportunities described in the
legislation on my left and will let us ad-
minister the provisions of this act more
effectively.
Our Nation has the most productive
economy which the world has
known. Our agricultural abundance and
our technological leadership are import-
ant sources of America's innate, un-
shakable strength. This legislation will
help our manufactured goods and our
agricultural products to become more
fully competitive on the world market.
This legislation will also help us to pre-
serve peace and prosperity. Expanded
international trade brings strength and
growth to economies throughout the
world. It enhances understanding, it
opens up thousands of unpublicized ave-
nues of consultation and cooperation and
the sharing of responsibility which quite
often can help to alleviate political ten-
sions and eliminated divisions that some-
times make international borders an ob-
stacle rather than an avenue for cooper-
ation.
Peace and expansion of human rights
are natural byproducts of this lessening
of tension and this increase of an acknowl-
edged and productive interdependence.
Increased American exports will mean
new jobs for American workers, new
1312
