Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
The other part of your question: We
have cut considerable fat and waste out of
the Defense Department budget. But let
me say this: The most important single
responsibility that I have on my shoulders,
above energy, above inflation, above any-
think else, is to guarantee the security of
our Nation. And I cannot promise you
that a single dollar that I spend on de-
fense will ever be used-will ever be
used-in combat.
I pray that our Nation will stay strong
enough so that any potential adversary
who might want to challenge us in a war
would refrain from doing so. And I hope
that the tanks and the submarines and the
nuclear missiles and the airplanes that we
produce for our Defense Establishment
will never be used in combat and that we
can stay at peace. But I want everybody to
know that our Nation not only has the will
and the unity and the strength and the
commitment to protect freedom, to pro-
tect our own people, to protect our prin-
ciples, but also that we have the military
power that if anybody should challenge us,
they would be committing suicide.
ENERGY PRICES
Q. Good evening, Mr. President. With
the price of energy going up-
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
Q. Mr. President, with the cost of
energy going up and the economic plight
of the poor, especially as reflected in the
very high unemployment rate of blacks
going down, what, sir, do you plan to do
to help the poor of this Nation cope? And,
finally, sir, if part of that plan depends
on the passage of the windfall profit tax
measure, do you have a backup plan if
that should fail?
THE PRESIDENT. It's a free country.
2 The speaker was interrupted by a disturb-
ance in the audience, which continued through-
out his question.
The question is-I had a little trouble
hearing-but I believe that the question
was, what plans do I have to help the poor
families as the energy costs go up, both to
pay for the cost of heating and air con-
ditioning and also to provide better
transportation?
Q. The question was that, and also, if
part of your plan depends on passage of
the windfall profit tax measure, do you
have a backup if that should fail?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. The primary
hope that we have adequately to meet the
increased cost of energy for the poor
families and the low- and middle-income
families is with the windfall profits tax,
because it's going to take a good bit of
money. We have proposed $2.4 billion per
year for 10 years to cover those costs and
also a special allotment of a little over a
billion dollars a year to improve metro-
politan transportation systems. If the
windfall profits tax does not pass, then we
would not have nearly that much money
to take care of those needs.
In the last few winters since I've been
President, we've allotted about between
$100 million and $200 million every winter
to meet the special needs of very low in-
come families, those that qualify for food
stamps, if they had a very high cost of
energy. And, of course, we've probably
done more since I've been in office than
any other administration in improving the
quality of the rapid transit or mass transit
systems.
But I don't want to mislead you. If the
windfall profits tax does not pass, my an-
swer is we will not have an adequate
amount of money to take care of the fam-
ilies about whom you are concerned. We
need the windfall profits tax.
MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT
Q. Mr. President-
Q. [Inaudible]
1571
