July 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
His first customer was a one-armed man
who was really a rugged-looking guy, so
the barber cut his hair without much prob-
lem, and he stropped his razor, and when
he got started shaving, the barber got more
and more nervous. He cut the guy three
or four times and was wiping off blood
visibly, and he couldn't think of anything
to say. And finally he desperately tried
to start a conversation. He said, "Have I
ever served you before?" And the guy
said, "No, I lost my arm in a sawmill ac-
cident." [Laughter]
Well, I feel somewhat the same way
with you. You're people who came to
Camp David in a time of deep thought
and reassessment, a time of frankness, and
to some degree a time of courage. We
met in an atmosphere of privacy, and we
discussed in the bluntest possible terms
what is our Nation, what are our prob-
lems, what can be done to resolve them.
And I think the product was very bene-
ficial for our Nation.
I benefited from your judgment, from
your experience, and from your wisdom,
and in the process my own determination
and self-assurance and confidence and
will was restored. I prepared a speech
and delivered a speech on Sunday even-
ing that encapsulated as best I could the
sense of our Nation, pointing out that we
do have a severe crisis of the spirit, a
severe crisis of confidence in one another,
in our institutions, including government,
and an absence of confidence about the
future of our Nation.
The facing of that fact on the part of
the American people, I think, has already
begun. Up through last Friday we had
received 39,000 telegrams and letters, per-
sonal ones, the biggest outpouring of mail
that I've ever gotten from any single
event. Seventy-seven percent of the people
said they agreed with what I said and
wanted to do something about it. Four-
teen percent of the people just had sug-
gestions about how we could save energy,
just constructive suggestions. And a very
small portion, only 9 percent, had un-
favorable or critical remarks to make.
Four percent said that I shouldn't use
transportation to go to Camp David, to
go to Kansas City, or to go to Detroit,
that I could save energy by staying in
Washington. Two percent said that if I
would eliminate forced busing, I could
eliminate the energy problem. Two per-
cent said we should decontrol oil im-
mediately. And one percent said they were
inconvenienced enough already with high
thermostat settings and less use of their
own automobiles. But an unbelievable 77
percent of the people, that were either
pro or con, were pro; only 9 percent
negative. So, I think there has been a
favorable response to what we evolved at
Camp David as an analysis of our Nation.
So, we've got the wisdom; I think we've
got the will. Now we've got to succeed
and to take the necessary action. It's im-
portant for our people to pull together.
In a time of stress or inconvenience or
trial, without an overriding national
emergency that unifies people, we tend to
become isolated. And with isolation
there's a sense of potential helplessness,
and with potential helplessness comes a
desire to grasp for an advantage and to
cling to it, for a special advantage, for a
special interest. And this causes those who
are divided into small groups to fail to
marshal to a spirit of unity, to seek for
a national purpose or a broader purpose,
or to move toward unselfishness and gen-
erosity and concern and compassion and
love for one another.
Instead of being pulled apart, it's obvi-
ous that it's time for us to put our Nation
together and to move toward a common
1330
