Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
⚫ a careful review is made of any trans-
portation proposals which would en-
courage urban sprawl (a major cause
of high energy consumption) or
which would tend to draw jobs away
from urban centers;
• consideration is given to improving
and rehabilitating existing facilities,
or using non-construction methods-
such as better traffic management—
to improve transportation systems, as
alternatives to constructing new
facilities;
major transportation projects are
used to help improve the urban econ-
omy and to attract jobs to the urban
cores; and
• firm actions are taken to mitigate ad-
verse effects of transportation proj-
ects on the natural and urban
environment and to carry out the
environmental commitments that are
made in planning and approving
transportation projects.
We have done a great deal to make
our transportation policies and actions
more sensitive to our national environ-
mental and energy goals. We can do a
great deal more with cooperation of state
and local governments as our partners in
the national transportation system. The
steps I have outlined will move us in that
direction.
Economic Assistance Program
Most Americans benefit directly from
the healthier and more agreeable environ-
ment that results from our air, water and
other pollution control programs. Al-
though economic data indicate that en-
vironmental programs are a strong posi-
tive factor in providing employment,
there is continued concern about their
possible adverse impact on individual
firms, communities, or groups of workers.
The fact that there have not been a large
number of such economic dislocations
does not suggest that those that do occur
are unimportant. Furthermore, in some
instances they can be avoided, or at least
significantly mitigated, by appropriate
government action.
In 1977 I established an Economic As-
sistance Task Force, chaired by the Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality, to investi-
gate whether we needed to improve fed-
eral assistance for those cases when jobs
are lost partly as a result of actions taken
to reduce pollution, and to recommend
initiatives we might take. The Task Force
concluded that existing federal assistance
programs should be adequate, but that we
need to take practical steps to let people
know about the programs and to make
sure help is delivered swiftly when it is
needed.
I am therefore directing the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to create an Economic Assistance
Program in his agency and to designate
Economic Assistance Officers both in
headquarters and in the field, who will
help the public understand and use the
programs, and to make sure that eligible
people receive assistance promptly. I am
also directing all federal agencies with
programs in this area to publicize and co-
ordinate closely their programs. A booklet
describing and locating available federal
assistance programs will be released soon
by the Council on Environmental Quality
and the Environmental Protection
Agency.
Urban Noise Program
A certain level of urban noise is toler-
able or even agreeable, reflecting the mul-
titude of activities that make a city
thrive. However, most of our cities suffer
from too much noise. Excessive noise is a
1370
