Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tinian question has to be a prerequisite to
a permanent peace in the Mideast.
FUEL SUPPLIES
Q. Mr. President, Doug Breisch from
KDTH Radio in Dubuque. People out in
the sticks are having a hard time believing
anybody on this energy matter. We've
heard that there's plenty of middle dis-
tillates available for the home heating sea-
son coming up and for the harvest season.
And harvest season is upon us, and the
Energy Department says we've got plenty
of middle distillates; they're all at the re-
fineries so that we can keep track of how
much we've got. And the mechanism is
ready to get that out to the farmer, but we
want to keep it at the refinery as long as
possible so we know how much we have.
What is going on? What is happening
in order to get this fuel out to the farmer?
Are they going to have enough for harvest
season? Are we going to have enough to
heat our homes for winter?
THE PRESIDENT. We lost about 100
million barrels of oil that we would ordi-
narily have acquired the first few months
of this year because of the Iranian revolu-
tion and the cessation of Iranian ship-
ments to us. Ordinarily they now produce
about 4 million barrels a day, and that
production was interrupted completely.
Because of that, we had potential short-
age of tractor fuel during the planting
season, which we weathered successfully.
We did have some shortages of gasoline on
the highways in some areas of our country,
as you well know, and we had the threat
of a severe shortage of home heating fuel
for the Northeast, the entire northern part
of our country, during this fall.
We have replenished our stocks of home
heating fuel. Our target was to reach 240
million barrels on hand in primary stocks
during October. We will meet that target.
Some predicted at first that we would not.
Now with that supply assured, we are
shifting the emphasis on the middle dis-
tillates toward diesel fuel for both trucks
and tractors, and my prediction is that we
will have adequate supplies for the
harvest season.
The sum total of all the discussion, how-
ever, is for us to have in place a compre-
hensive national energy policy that is pre-
dictable and where we are not so heavily
dependent on imported oil, which can be
interrupted, as you know, at any time and
where the prices have increased inordi-
nately, lately and as far back as 1973. Last
year we got about 65 percent of the energy
proposals that we put to the Congress. We
didn't get anything on oil. This year, with
the windfall profits tax, the security cor-
poration, the production board, and with
the rationing standby plan, we'll have a
fairly good proposal.
The other thing that's important,
though, is to meet the needs of the poor
people, who are being so heavily impacted
by the rapidly increasing prices of home
heating oil, which is compatible with all
the energy prices. And we have asked the
Congress already for $400 million to take
care of those needs, plus $1.2 million more
that would be available, increasing to a
total of 2.4 million in the next fiscal year.
I hope the Congress will act expeditiously
on this.
But I can predict to you that we'll
have an adequate supply, barring some
further interruption. But the key to it is
conservation and an increase in the
pro-
duction in our own country of energy sup-
plies. All of our thrust for the last 22
years has been oriented toward that goal.
I think we had better move on just to
give the other folks a chance.
1858
