Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
The bad news is that the cost of these
synthetic fuels will be higher than the
prices we are now paying; just how much
higher is uncertain.
Direct burning is the most efficient way
to use the energy in coal, but gaseous and
liquid fuels are cleaner and much more
convenient to use. Our modern society
has a large demand for these kinds of
fuels for transportation, for heating
our homes, and for industry. With the
large reserves of coal in the United States,
coal synthetics represents a potentially
large contribution to supplying these
needs over the next 50 to 100 years.
Research on coal synthetics has in-
creased dramatically in the 1970's. In my
talk, I will cover the objectives of this
research. These are: one, to lower the
cost of making synthetics; two, to increase
our ability to use most U.S. coals; three,
to produce the products needed by con-
sumers. In dealing with this third objec-
tive, I will briefly describe how coal
syn-
thetics are made. The fourth research ob-
jective is to ensure that environmental
standards can be met as the synthetics in-
dustry is built. My final remarks will in-
clude an outlook for the impact of new
research results.
Coal synthetics will be expensive. A
typical commercial-size plant would cost
one-and-a-half to three billion dollars if
it were built today. A coal liquids plant
of this size would be capable of supply-
ing the gasoline and home fuel oil needs
of a city of about 1 million people. The
estimated cost of the products can vary
over a wide range, depending on a num-
ber of factors such as plant size, the type
of coal, financing method, and many
others.
It appears that synthetic natural gas
would cost much more than today's maxi-
mum price for new natural gas. If pro-
duced today, synthetic gas from a rela-
tively low-cost western or gulf coast coals
would be 15 to 30 percent higher than the
price of imported crude. Methyl alcohol
made from these coals would be in the
same cost range, and the cost of other coal
liquids would be higher.
About half of the cost of the synthetics
is related to the large investment for fa-
cilities and equipment. About 20 to 25
percent is the cost of coal. Another 20 to
25 percent is the cost of other expenses
such as wages, utilities, and supplies.
One item that contributes to the op-
erating cost is the fact that one-third to
one-half of the energy in the coal is used
in the operation of the plant. Now, these
costs are only estimates. The actual costs
of synthetics will not be known until spe-
cific plants have been designed, built,
and operated. Obviously, the high esti-
mated costs are a barrier to building these
plants.
Coal is located in many places in the
United States, and almost every deposit
is unique. Bituminous coals, shown in red,
are found in Appalachia, the Midwest,
and the Southern Rocky Mountain re-
gions. Sub-bituminous coals, shown in
blue, are found primarily in the West.
Lignite, indicated by the green areas, are
in the West and the gulf coast. One of
the technical challenges is to be able to
convert this wide variety of differing
quality coal into synthetics. To do this,
we need to learn more about the chemi-
cal structure of the coal and how it reacts
to form gases and liquids. Coal scientists
are learning more about these areas by
using modern, sophisticated research
equipment and techniques.
In gasification, coal is reacted with
oxygen and steam at high temperatures.
The products are carbon monoxide, hy-
drogen, and some methane and other
gases. After removing impurities, the gas
can be used directly as fuel or raw mate-
1539
