Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 27
tional sources in addition to financial as-
sistance which will be provided by the
Energy Security Corporation. In addi-
tion, I propose to make woodburning
stoves eligible for the residential energy
credit, and make permanent the excise
tax exemption for gasohol.
Finally, as I indicated on July 16, the
Administration is moving to decontrol
heavy oil and I propose to exempt it from
the windfall profits tax.
These tax credits will encourage the
development and use of new energy tech-
nologies and add significantly to our in-
dependence from foreign sources of
petroleum.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
Department of Transportation
Nomination of Neil Goldschmidt To Be
Secretary. July 27, 1979
The President will nominate Neil Gold-
schmidt of Portland, Oregon, as Secretary
of Transportation.
Mayor Goldschmidt served as chairman
of the transportation committee of the
U.S. Conference of Mayors, and has
established a transportation system in
Portland that is nationally recognized.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 4:32 p.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
The press release also includes a transcript
of the question-and-answer session which fol-
lowed the announcement.
National Consumer
Cooperative Bank
Nomination of Two Government Members of
the Board of Directors. July 27, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate the remaining two
Government members of the Board of
Directors of the National Consumer Co-
operative Bank. They are:
WILLIAM A. CLEMENT, JR., Associate Adminis-
trator of SBA for Minority Small Business
and Capital Ownership Development.
Clement, 36, is a former vice president of
the Citizens Trust Bank of Atlanta, Ga., one
of the oldest and largest minority-owned
banks in the country;
GRACIELA OLIVAREZ, Director of the Commu-
nity Services Administration.
The other five Government members
and the six public members of the Board
of Directors were nominated on July 2.
The President said, "Mayor Gold-
schmidt is known as an aggressive and
innovative mayor with outstanding ad-
ministrative abilities. He understands from
personal experience the transportation
needs of local governments. He will have
my full support and confidence, and I Nicaragua
have no doubt that he will be an outstand-
ing Secretary of Transportation."
Mayor Goldschmidt and Acting Secre-
tary of Transportation Graham Claytor
have already discussed plans for a smooth
transition.
Announcement of Emergency Assistance and
Trip of U.S. Ambassador. July 27, 1979
President Carter is sending a special
flight to Nicaragua on Saturday, July 28,
to deliver emergency food and medical
1317
