Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
terests are different. They're not. What
this particular conference has demon-
strated is that our interests are very simi-
lar indeed. I represent Great Britain, a
comparatively new producer country. But
my interests as a citizen of Great Britain
are just exactly the same as those of our
colleagues represented here, because if
oil takes too large a slice of the world's
income, it will affect us all.
It will affect us in many ways. We, like
Japan, have to export to live. If other
countries have to pay so much for their
oil, they haven't enough left to import the
goods which we wish to export, and the
same problem affects the developing
countries. So, we're affected in that
way.
We're affected in another way, that any
action taken by a group of nations which
severely cuts the possibility of a rising
standard of living introduces an element
of political instability into the world, and
that, too, affects us all.
And then, perhaps in a different way we
all recognize that though we are facing
economic problems from shortage of en-
ergy and the rising price of oil, twice in
this decade those economic problems have
been caused by political problems. And we
must also, if we're to solve our economic
problems, look to solving them by way of
a solution to the political problems of the
world as well.
But the second point is that although
we were three producer countries, our in-
terests were just the same as those of all
of the seven countries represented here
and the rest of the Community, equally
represented for the President of the Com-
munity and the President of the Commis-
sion.
The third point, the third general
theme I wish to make is this: We met
here under those very, very difficult cir-
cumstances. And the reason for seven
countries meeting under these circum-
stances is this: that we believe we can
give a clear lead; that if we make the
right decisions, we can have some effect
on the future course of the world and
some effect on the destiny of our peoples.
That meant that we really had to get
down to business in a very certain way.
We had to reach, as President Carter and
President Giscard have said, specific tar-
gets, give clear general directions of what
governments can do and what govern-
ments can't. I believe that that has been
achieved.
We also made one further point: The
last time we had an oil crisis, we tried
somehow to accommodate, some of us,
the increase in oil price by printing money.
If we do that again, we shall have much,
much worse inflation, and we shall finish
up with even worse problems than we en-
countered before. So, in that community
you will find resolution that we accept for .
the time being that if we have to pay a
lot more for oil, this means that we have,
in fact, a reduction in our genuine income
in terms of what it will buy for the future.
Nevertheless, perhaps because we're
leaders, it didn't depress us. It means that
we have to tackle the problems of growth
in another way. And the only way you can
ever tackle the problems of growth is to
face the situation realistically, and that
we have done at this summit.
So, Mr. Chairman, my contribution is
those three points. In historical perspec-
tive and facing our new problems, first;
secondly, that our interests are as one—no
country is an island, and I think I'm the
right country to say that no country is
an island in its interests, and we are not
any more than Japan is. Our interests are
together. And our future prosperity and
happiness and success of our people will
only be achieved together and in concert
with other nations, including those not
represented here. And thirdly, that we did
1195
