Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Let us vow that what our Creator has
made-human life and human spirit
that we ourselves shall not destroy.
Let us simply choose to change the
world as best we can, each one of us in our
own particular place, but towards the
common purposes of just societies on a
peaceful planet.
Our new friend, the people of my coun-
try have waited a long time for this meet-
ing. As human beings, each acting for jus-
tice in the present and striving together
for a common future of peace and love,
let us not wait so long for ourselves and
for you to meet again.
Welcome to our country, our new
friend.
THE POPE. Mr. President, I am
honored to have had, at your kind invita-
tion, the opportunity for a meeting with
you; for by your office as President of the
United States of America, you represent
before the world the whole American na-
tion, and you hold the immense respon-
sibility of leading this nation in the path
of justice and peace. I thank you publicly
for this meeting, and I thank all those
who have contributed to its success. I wish
also to reiterate here my deep gratitude
for the warm welcome and the many
kindnesses which I have received from the
American people on my pastoral journey
through your beautiful land.
Mr. President, in responding to the
kind words which you have addressed to
me, I take the liberty of beginning with
the passage from the Prophet Micah that
you quoted at your inauguration: "You
have been told, O man, what is good; and
what the Lord requires of you, only to do
right, and to love goodness, and to walk
humbly with your God." In recalling these
words, I wish to greet you and all the au-
thorities in the individual States and the
Nation who are committed to the good of
the citizens.
There is indeed no other way to put
oneself at the service of the whole human
person except by seeking the good of every
man and woman in all their commitments
and activities. Authority in the political
community is based on the objective
ethical principle that the basic duty of
power is the solicitude of the common
good of society and that it serves the
inviolable rights of the human person.
The individuals, families, and various
groups which compose the civic commu-
nity are aware that by themselves they are
unable to realize their human potential to
the full, and therefore they recognize in a
wider community the necessary condition
for the ever better attainment of the com-
mon good.
I wish to commend those in public au-
thority and all the people of the United
States for having given, from the very be-
ginning of the existence of this Nation, a
special place to some of the most impor-
tant concerns of the common good. Three
years ago, during the Bicentennial cele-
bration, which I was fortunate to partici-
pate in as the Archbishop of Kraków-
as you say it, as a pastor, with many im-
plications—several implications—it was
obvious to everyone that concern for what
is human and spiritual is one of the basic
principles governing the life of this com-
munity. It is superfluous to add that re-
spect for the freedom and the dignity of
every individual, whatever his origin,
race, sex, or creed, has been a cherished
tenet of the civil creed of America, and
that it has been backed up by courageous
decisions and actions.
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I
know and appreciate this country's efforts
for arms limitation, especially of nuclear
weapons. Everyone is aware of the terri-
ble risk that the stockpiling of such
weapons brings upon humanity. Since it is
one of the greatest nations on Earth, the
United States plays a particularly impor-
tant part in the quest for greater security
1832
