Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 23
There are some uses for coal which are
United States Representative to
not particularly related to the original the United Nations
characteristics of the coal. One is ob-
viously the derivation of synthetic oil and
gas from coal supplies. My own expecta-
tion would be that as we get the windfall
profits tax passed and establish a security
corporation and set up production plans,
that we would want to have them dis-
bursed so as to assess, in the broadest pos-
sible way, every energy resource that we
have. Knowing of the enormous reserves
of anthracite, a major emphasis will be
on how to use anthracite in this process.
We expect over a 20-year period to
spend about $88 billion on the synthetic
fuels program. I believe that 75 billion
of that 88 billion is designed for use in
synthetic fuels from coal. And so, I would
say that in every way the increased use of
coal for broad purposes to replace oil and
natural gas, eventually, and the use of
coal for new synthetic purposes would
guarantee that all forms of coal would
have a better opportunity to be used in
the future.
Let me say in closing that I appreciate
your presence and your questions. It gives
me a good chance to know what is of in-
terest to you. And I always enjoy these ex-
changes.
If you don't mind, I'd like to get a
photograph with everyone here, and I'll
stand right back-right back here?—
and let you all come by and let me have
a handshake and a photograph and send
it to you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:15 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Pa-
tricia Y. Bario is a Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on September 22.
Remarks at the Swearing In of Donald F.
McHenry. September 23, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. One of the great chal-
lenges and opportunities of a President is
to analyze the problems which confront
our Nation and to try to choose the best
possible partners to work with him in the
resolution of those problems and in the
meeting of those challenges.
The problems, of course, and the re-
sponsibilities are broad-ranging: how to
make our cities better places in which to
live, how to give economic justice and
support and a new opportunity in life for
the poor and those who have felt the
burden of discrimination, how to provide
for the health needs of our country, how
to provide a sense of unity in a nation
which struggles against the divisive ele-
ments of a modern-day world, how to have
a strong defense, which is a prerequisite on
a super power like ours, to maintain peace
for ourselves and for our allies and friends
and all nations.
I've chosen allies like that-Eleanor
Holmes Norton and Pat Harris and Clif-
ford Alexander and others, who've worked
closely with me with a special sensitivity
about the problems of those that have, in
the past, been deprived. We've made some
progress. We all still have a long way to
go.
There's another commitment, and that
is one to maintain the standards of a basic
morality, to honor the ethics and the prin-
ciples on which this Nation was founded,
not only among the Americans who are
blessed to live in this great country but as
an example to other people as well-the
principles of human worth, freedom; the
preservation and the enhancement of basic
1715
