Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES
Q. I'm Scott Goodfellow from WJZ,
Baltimore. When might we anticipate
some revision in the wage-price guideline?
I'm especially interested in the upward
revision of the wage structure, however
slight, if at all.
THE PRESIDENT. We're setting up a pay
board, pay advisory board, headed by
John Dunlop, who's the chairman, and I
have not yet appointed the other members
of the board. We're consulting with both
business and labor to get their advice to
me before I make the final selections on
the pay advisory board. We have not
changed the standard established by the
Council on Wage and Price Stability
earlier this year. That's the basis for our
present wage policy.
When the pay policy board, advisory
board, goes into effect and begins to func-
tion, they have the directive or will have,
from me, to make recommendations on
how to administer pay policy or wage
policy. The final judgment will be made
by the Chairman of the Council on Wage
and Price Stability. But the presumption
would be that the advice of this pay board
would have a heavy weight, both with me
and with COWPS, Council on Wage and
Price Stability.
The price standards have already been
set, beginning on the 1st of October, be-
cause corporations cannot make their
price changes retroactive. Once you've
sold something, you can't go back and
charge a higher price. It's very difficult to
give refunds. And they wanted to have
before this quarter again the price stand-
ards which have been stable and haven't
changed.
I might point out that in spite of some
degree of flexibility derived from the
difference in the cost-of-living adjustment,
the pay standards will be maintained on
an equitable and sustained basis without
any abrupt changes. They've had excel-
lent results. Among the wage earners, the
wage increases have been less in 1979 in
the first 9 months than they were in 1978,
which is an accomplishment not yet recog-
nized by the press.
Secondly, among items that have been
under the price standards, the rate of in-
crease of the prices for those items has
been one-half the rate of inflation for
other items that we cannot control.
So, we've had good results so far. The
new national accord that has been
worked out with labor and with the help
of business, I think, will let us be much
more effective in the future even than we
have been in the past. So, I can't say that
there won't be any modifications, but the
modifications will be based on a careful
analysis of how to change our present
policy.
policy. There won't be any abrupt
changes, and changes will be made
reluctantly.
Labor, by the way, certifies with us-
and you might want to read over the
accord, which is brief and written in lay-
men's language-labor certifies with us
that the prime responsibility is to control
inflation, which I think is a major step
forward. We're pleased with it, and I
think it will have far-reaching, beneficial
effects.
CRIME
Q. JoAnne Young from Casa Grande,
Arizona. What does your administration
plan to do about the rising crime rate in
this Nation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the crime rate
goes up and down. For a while, since I've
been in office, it's gone downward, and
lately, in some cities at least, it's gone
upward. We have tried to work more
1859
