Oct. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
education and State officials, who are
directly responsible and ought to have
control over the policy of the schools-re-
lationship between them on the one hand
and the Federal bureaucracy on the other
one has been a very poor record.
I don't know what history will show,
but my guess is that the best move for the
quality of life in America in the future
might very well be this establishment of
this new Department of Education, be-
cause it will open up for the first time
some very substantial benefits for our
country.
There is a growing concern in our Na-
tion about the decrease of the measure-
ment of the quality of education through
testing, through the achievement levels of
our students. And it's not the students'
fault, it's not the teachers' fault that there
have been obstacles placed in the way
of
better education because of bureaucracy,
too much redtape, too much confusion,
an inadequate consultative process.
When I was a Governor, I didn't know
where to go in Washington to get the an-
swer to a question about education in my
State. And I'll bet you very few-I'll bet
you not more than two or three Governors
in this Nation know who, specifically, is
responsible for the educational programs
in Washington. I'll bet you not 10 per-
cent of the Members of the House and
Senate know, specifically, who is responsi-
ble. In the future I hope that everyone
will know-who's interested in educa-
tion-this is the Secretary of Education,
and that's the person that I'll go to to get
the answer to a question or to resolve a
problem or to overcome a difficulty. That
is a great step in the right direction.
Also, I hope and I pray and I'm deter-
mined that we're going to cut out unnec-
essary forms, applications, redtape, reg-
ulations that have been an obstacle in the
past.
It's important for us to remember that
education is the biggest single national in-
vestment in the United States. Sixty mil-
lion Americans are directly involved in
the educational process; that is 3 Ameri-
cans out of 10, who work in a direct or in-
direct way in education, $120 billion spent
in our country every year on education.
And I want to see that investment of hu-
man and financial resources pay rich
dividends in the future. It hasn't in the
past, not nearly up to the potential. We're
going to change that.
I believe that we can have, in the fu-
ture, the acknowledgement that policy,
curriculum, personnel decisions should be
made at the local level, as close as pos-
sible to the parents and to the students in
private and public education, and that
the Federal Government is there, eager to
help, to bridge gaps, to consult, to re-
move problems. And I hope the prime
focus will be on the quality of the knowl-
edge and the future life of each student.
I think this can be a fairly narrowly
focused commitment. It's not possible to
have that focusing of attention in Health,
Education, and Welfare, where education
is buried under the enormous responsi-
bilities of welfare, health, and other re-
lated subjects.
There can also be a substantial saving
in administrative costs, and that's built
into the legislation in a mandatory fashion.
I won't go into details about it.
And I believe that in the future we can
have a much more responsive Federal
Government, where, if a problem should
arise in an embryonic way, an educator
can know exactly where to go to get an
answer, and where there can be a bridg-
ing of a chasm that quite often in the
past has separated educators from the
Federal Government. It's not going to be
a panacea which can resolve every prob-
lem immediately, but I'm determined to
make it work.
And I'm very grateful to all of those
who've been instrumental in reaching
1956
