Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
Q. A comprehensive national health
plan must and should be put into opera-
tion with all due haste. Some of the
reasons are: When a nation spends over
a hundred billion dollars a year for medi-
cal expense-excuse me, I can't see too
well with my age-[laughter]—we'll
get to the question, relax-for medical
expenses, still, the American people can-
not afford medical attention without the
fear of additional expense, is a national
disgrace. When a President talks about
fair and equal treatment for all, is it fair
and equal when the President, Senator,
Congressmen, diplomats, heads of state,
heads of foreign states, members of their
family receive medical treatment at the
taxpayers' expense? It would be fair and
equal treatment only when all people re-
ceive the same treatment.
When a nation serves the medical needs
of welfare recipients, drug addicts, alco-
holics, prisoners, at the taxpayers' ex-
pense, fair and equal treatment for all
Americans will apply only when all people
are included, when illness strikes.
Now, the question, because time is-
[laughter]-relax. How much longer will
the American people have to wait for a
complete national health plan for all
Americans?
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. It de-
pends as much on all of you assembled in
this room as it does on me.
We have evolved and presented to the
Congress, worked closely with the chair-
man of the Ways and Means Committee,
Al Ullman, closely with the chairman of
the Finance Committee in the Senate,
Russell Long, and with Senator Kennedy
and with Jim Corman and others, to pro-
pose a comprehensive, nationwide health
insurance program. The Congress passing
of that program will be dependent on how
much they are convinced of your interest
in it and the need of the country for it.
I'm convinced that your interest in it is
acute and that you will work on it. And
I'm convinced that the Nation needs it.
And I'm determined to make sure that it
comes into being. The implementing date
of the health insurance program that we
put forward and also, coincidentally, the
one that Senator Kennedy put forward, is
1983. If the Congress acts this year or
early next year, that's the earliest that a
complicated program like this can be
implemented.
So, your answer is-I agree with your
basic concerns and your basic purposes.
If we can get the Congress to act, this
program will start to be implemented in
1983. And it will be comprehensive, all-
inclusive, and adequate to meet your
needs.
HOSPITAL COST CONTAINMENT
Q. President Jimmy, I'm Frank Pezzick
from Nutley, New Jersey. I'm going to try
to make my question shorter than the pre-
ceding speaker, because I'm a Jerseyite
and all these other speakers have been
New Englanders. [Laughter]
Every homemaker in this country
knows that when she goes to the store, the
price on a can of beans or the price on a
steak is higher today than it was yesterday,
and it'll be higher tomorrow than it was
today, and so on. You and Governor
Grasso have pointed out that the price of
fuel is going up constantly. We know-
and Senator Weicker's drug company can
substantiate this—that the price of medi-
cines goes up constantly.
Now, you say that you're going to con-
tain hospital costs. Every delivery a hospi-
tal gets of food for its patients is up higher
than it was the day before. Every jar of
intravenous solution is up, constantly-
1637
