Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 2
Secretary of the Interior under section
5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 2, 1979.
NOTE: The 175-page report is entitled "Owy-
hee Wild & Scenic River Study-Final Report/
Environmental Statement."
The text of the proposed legislation is in-
Icluded in the press release.
Tuolumne River in California
Message to Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. October 2, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Section 4(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (P.L. 90–542), I
am transmitting to the Congress my rec-
ommendations and proposals with respect
to the designation of the Tuolumne River
in California.
ommendation. I intend that the study of
the river be finalized and I shall have it
transmitted to you when it is complete.
Should any other pertinent information
become available however, which would
call for a different recommendation, I
shall transmit a revised proposal to you
along with the completed study.
The White House,
October 2, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the proposed legislation is
included in the press release.
National Advisory Community
Investment Board
Appointment of Clanzel Thornton Brown as
a Member. October 2, 1979
The President today announced that he
will appoint Clanzel Thornton Brown, of
The Tuolumne River has been jointly Jacksonville, Fla., as a member of the Na-
studied by the Departments of Agriculture
and Interior. Of the 92 miles which were
studied, 82 miles have been found eligible
to be added to the national system of Wild
and Scenic Rivers. The study proposes
that if added to the national system, the
river would be jointly managed by the
Departments of Interior and Agriculture.
On the basis of information now avail-
able, I concur with the findings of the
study and recommend that the mileage
found to be eligible to be added to the
system should be designated as a Wild
and Scenic River as part of the national
system. A draft bill to accomplish this is
attached.
The final printed version of the study
has not yet been prepared. In order to
meet the statutory deadline of October 2,
1979, however, I am transmitting this rec-
tional Advisory Community Investment
Board.
Brown, 47, is president of the Jackson-
ville Urban League. He serves on the
Downtown Development Authority of
Jacksonville, the Private Industrial Coun-
cil, and the University of North Florida
Affirmative Action Committee.
President's Council on Physical
Fitness and Sports
Appointment of Alton M. White as a
Member. October 2, 1979
The President today announced that he
will appoint Alton M. White, of Tampa,
Fla., to be a member of the President's
Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
1815
