Sept. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Superior Court of the District
of Columbia
Nomination of Henry Kennedy, Jr., and
Frank Schwelb To Be Associate Judges.
September 10, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Henry Kennedy, Jr., and
Frank Schwelb to the vacancies on the
District of Columbia Superior Court,
caused by the resignations of Judges Joyce
Green and William Pryor. Green was re-
cently named to the United States Dis-
trict Court, and Pryor was elevated to the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals.
Kennedy, 31, has served for the last 3
years as one of three Federal Magistrates
on the United States District Court. Prior
to that time, he worked for the United
States Attorney's office in Washington.
He attended Princeton University and
Harvard Law School.
Schwelb, a graduate of Yale College
and Harvard Law School, has worked in
the Civil Rights Division of the Depart-
ment of Justice since 1962, and for a
number of years headed the Division's
fair housing office. He is 47.
Independent Truckers' Strikes
Announcement of Followup Actions by the
Administration. September 10, 1979
Following the negotiated end of the in-
dependent truckers' work stoppage 2
months ago, the President directed that
the administration work actively with
representatives of the independent truck-
ers and State leaders to find solutions to
serious and longstanding problems facing
the independent trucker. The President
also recently requested that as a follow-
up, members of his administration report
to him on those actions. Based on progress
reports prepared by Secretary of Trans-
portation Neil Goldschmidt, Secretary of
Agriculture Bob Bergland, and Interstate
Commerce Commission Chairman Daniel
O'Neal, Jack Watson, Assistant to the
President for Intergovernmental Affairs,
is issuing today the following summary of
actions being taken to deal with inde-
pendent trucker problems:
-The Interstate Commerce Commis-
sion (ICC) has notified each of the 17,-
000 regulated carriers of their obligation
to pass through the fuel surcharge to
owner-operators and to comply with leas-
ing rules. The Commission has vigorously
enforced these provisions in response to
complaints from truckers. Several hun-
dred carriers have been investigated and
most are now complying.
-The Department of Transportation
(DOT) and the Department of Energy
(DOE) have set up a mechanism for lo-
cating fuel supplies and directing truck-
ers to them. DOE's field staff also is able
to arrange transfers of fuel to areas where
shortages exist.
-The ICC continues to update its
weekly fuel surcharge programs, begun
June 15, to reflect escalating costs at the
pump. The surcharge is now 9.5 percent,
and the program will continue.
-Several States have put into effect
temporary increases in allowable truck
size and weight. When these approached
their expiration dates, DOT urged State
governments to extend them in view of
the fact that Congress was considering en-
acting Federal legislation to provide uni-
form limits during a declared fuel short-
age.
-The Department of Agriculture
(USDA) is issuing weekly bulletins on
rates paid to truckers for hauling produce
and a monthly report on the cost per mile
1624
