July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
his regime as the head of the Nicaraguan
Government.
We worked as closely as we could with-
out intervening in the internal affairs of
Nicaragua with the neighboring countries
and with the so-called Andean Group in
the northern part of South America to
bring about an orderly transition. Our
effort was to let the people of Nicaragua
ultimately make a decision on who should
be their leader, what form of government
they should have. We also wanted to mini-
mize bloodshed and to restore stability.
That is presently being done. We have a
good relationship with the new govern-
ment. We hope to improve it. We are pro-
viding some minimum humanitarian aid
for the people of Nicaragua, who've suf-
fered so much.
I think that our posture in Nicaragua
is a proper one. I do not attribute at all
the change in Nicaragua to Cuba. I think
the people of Nicaragua have got enough
judgment to make their own decisions,
and we will use our efforts in a proper
fashion without interventionism, to let
the Nicaraguans let their voice be heard
in shaping their own affairs.
CHANGES IN THE CABINET
Q. Mr. President, I would like to fol-
low up on the earlier question about
Hamilton Jordan.
THE PRESIDENT. Good.
Q. Some of your fellow Democrats on
Capitol Hill feel you've misdiagnosed
your biggest problem-leading effectively.
They claim it lies largely in the senior
White House staff, and that the Cabinet
shakeup won't cure it. Have any congres-
sional Democrats made that criticism to
you directly, and how would you respond
to it?
THE PRESIDENT. No, they have not.
A few have said that in the heat of the
publicity focused on the changes that
took place over a 2- or 3-day period-
and that is expectable-to be expected.
I did not make the rapid changes in
my Cabinet without, obviously, some
sense that there would be a disturbance
in Washington, in the Congress, and
otherwise. But I have no doubt that the
changes I made are in the best interests
of me as President, in the best interests
of my administration, which is trying to
serve the American people in the finest
fashion, and also in the best interests of
our country, whom we all serve.
I have had many congratulations
given to me by Members of the Con-
gress, and I might say that some of those
changes that I did make were long ad-
vocated by Members of the Congress.
So, I don't have any hesitancy at all
to say that the changes I made were the
best, and I don't have any hesitancy to
say that I think it was better to go ahead
and get it done in about 2 days, rather
than to drag it out over a period of weeks
or months.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, with the country ap-
parently headed into a recession, and with
unemployment expected to go up, what
new ideas do you have, sir, to deal with
the worsening economy?
THE PRESIDENT. I think this is a time
for stability. I think it's a time for the con-
tinuation of our present economic mone-
tary and budgetary policies. While I was
at Camp David, I invited a fairly large
group of Members of the Congress-
Democrats, Republicans, from the House
and the Senate-to consult with me. And
there was almost unanimity there, sur-
prisingly so, that we ought to maintain our
commitment, that inflation is the biggest
single threat to the American people, both
1308
