Aug. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the United States of America, including
Section 301 of Title 3 of the United
States Code, and in order to ensure the
continued delegation of certain functions
which had been previously assigned but
which are now vested directly in the Pres-
ident by virtue of H.R. 4616 that I have
signed into law today, it is hereby ordered
that the functions vested in the President
by Sections 305(b), 4111(b), and 4112
(a) of Title 5 of the United States Code
are hereby delegated to the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 14, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:19 a.m., August 16, 1979]
NOTE: The Executive order was announced
on August 16.
Department of Justice
Remarks at the Swearing In of Benjamin R.
Civiletti as Attorney General.
August 16, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. It's indeed a pleasure
and an honor for me to be here in this
assembly with Griffin Bell and the other
members of the establishment. [Laughter]
As a fellow Georgian, I was hoping
that Griffin would survive the screening
process in the Cabinet recently. [Laugh-
ter] But I think it's accurate to say that
this is a time of reassessment and of con-
gratulations and of looking to the future.
Griffin has certainly made this a nonpolit-
ical organization. He proved that with
his interview with the press recently. As
a matter of fact, along with the Chief
Justice, Griffin has always had a superb
record in getting along with the press.
[Laughter] Griffin has gotten more mile-
age out of rooster pepper sausage than I
did out of the Middle East peace treaty,
as a matter of fact. [Laughter]
In 1976, after I was elected President,
I called on Griffin Bell to help me with
the screening process for Cabinet officers
because of his judgment, his integrity, his
intelligence, his experience, and because
as a long-time friend, I had absolute con-
fidence in him. I finally decided that
there was no person in this Nation better
qualified to be Attorney General than
Griffin Bell. It was one of the wisest de-
cisions that I have ever made, and I want
to express my thanks to him.
He was my friend then and now; but
he's become a friend of the Nation, he's
become a man who has earned the trust
and confidence and appreciation of all
those who look on the Department of
Justice as a source of fairness and equity
and sensitivity and compassion. And I'm
deeply grateful to him for that as well.
He's brought to this Department, to his
position as Attorney General, a sense of
absolute integrity, of professionalism and
of merit, and of justice in the finest and
most all-encompassing meaning of the
word.
When he arrived here, there were some
difficult cases whose resolution had been
long postponed. He has helped to clear
up those difficult cases in a proper way.
He's brought into his own top staff, his
deputy and others, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, people
who share and perhaps even equal his
own superb characteristics.
Griffin mentioned to me a few minutes
ago that he and I together have assessed,
and I have already personally approved,
232 Federal judges. And by the time the
process is over and the next 22 judges
have been identified and approved by me,
this will encompass 40 percent of all the
Federal judges who serve in this country.
The selection has been made strictly
on the basis of merit, with adequate at-
1440
