Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
an energy policy for our country. At the
present time the inflation rate is com-
prised of about 4 percent energy, and the
balance of it is nonrelated to energy. If
it weren't for the energy factor alone, the
inflation rate now would be the same as
it was in 1978 and 1977.
I think we'll be successful this year in
completing the major portion of the en-
ergy proposals that I presented to the
Congress in April of 1977. This has not
been an easy thing; it's been a constant
challenge.
There are many other matters that I
would be glad to discuss with you, con-
cerning agriculture or social programs,
health, education, housing, transporta-
tion, Federal-State-local relationships,
improving the quality of life in our cities.
But I think the best thing for me to do
is to answer your questions. Perhaps those
who haven't had an opportunity to ask
questions earlier today would like to start,
and then I'll open it to anyone else. Or if
you've all had a chance to ask questions,
then just use your own judgment.
QUESTIONS
NUCLEAR EXPLOSION IN SOUTH AFRICAN
REGION
Q. President Carter, I was wondering
now, what's the latest on the atom ex-
plosion in the area of South Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. A few weeks ago, we
had an indication that somewhere in that
region, covering literally thousands of
square miles, there was an explosion. We
have been and are continuing to try to
follow up that initial observation. There
is no certain answer yet that anyone can
derive.
possible to pinpoint it any closer than a
distance of literally hundreds of miles.
So, we don't really know, except just a
general area where an indication was ob-
tained. The people that got that indica-
tion feel quite sure, but followup checks
have not been successful. This doesn't
prove or disprove whether or not there
was an actual explosion.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
Q. Mr. President, yesterday, sir, you
expressed dissatisfaction with the wind-
fall profits tax as it was, so far, in the
Congress. What is the rockbottom level
that you're willing to settle for, and what
are some of the punitive measures that
you are willing to take should the version
that comes out of the Congress not please
you?
THE PRESIDENT. I'd rather not de-
scribe the additional measures that I
would take, because I'd like to keep all
my options open.
The minimum thing that would satisfy
me is the proposal that we put to the Con-
gress at the very beginning, roughly $275
billion in income from that source. I think,
if anything, that figure ought to be higher,
if the Congress makes a change, than
lower.
The House lowered it some, a consid-
erable amount, 12 to 15 billion dollars, and
also limited the time of application from
a permanent tax on the unearned profits
of the oil companies to a 10-year period—
where some of these projects are very
long range in nature, and I think the
permanent aspect of the tax is important.
That was a major change the House
made.
The Senate, however, slashed our pro-
Q. Does it appear as though it's South posal in half-the Senate Finance Com-
Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. That's hard to say.
There's a lot of ocean surrounding South
Africa, and I don't think it would be
mittee did. So, we'll fight as hard as we
can to restore the losses on the floor when
the Senate debates and votes on this issue.
And if we're not completely successful
2048
