Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 13
Americans live in the United States of
America.
I have for the first time directed the
Census Bureau to hire bilingual census
takers, to print questionnaires in Spanish,
and to work with community groups and
leaders who understand their own com-
munity, to encourage cooperation. It's im-
portant, because of the sensitivity of some
people's lives who live here, that the con-
fidentiality of individual census informa-
tion will be protected. And I have
directed, without equivocation, that this
be done.
I cannot look at the individual infor-
mation, your Congressman cannot look
at it, and no other Government agency
can look at this individual confidential
information that will give us accurate
information. An accurate count will mean
better Government funding for areas that
have a high population of Hispanic Amer-
icans and better political representation.
And a much larger Congressional His-
panic Caucus will result from better
counts of those who live in our country.
That in turn will put much more mus-
cle behind the efforts that all of you
tonight in this room will espouse for the
benefit of those in our country who speak
Spanish.
With your help, we've increased funds
for bilingual education already, in just a
little over 2 years by 50 percent. And I've
requested funds for a special program for
bilingual vocational education. And I
strongly support, by the way, the legisla-
tion which has already passed the Senate
to give the Southwest Border Commission
authority to award construction grants to
ease severe overcrowding in schools in the
Southwest, in heavily Hispanic areas.
Just as we carry on the struggle for
human rights and social justice, we're
struggling to build peace and security in
this hemisphere and throughout the
world.
In the Western Hemisphere, among
our American neighbors, we believe in
peace. We believe in a policy of nonin-
tervention. We respect the other Ameri-
can states as equals and as individuals.
We work closely with our friends in po-
litical and diplomatic matters. We con-
sult closely with them, because we know
that their advice, their counsel, their co-
operation is crucial to us to make the
right decision on the policy and the mo-
tivations and the actions of our own
Government that affect those who live in
the Caribbean, in Central and South
America.
We're promoting economic develop-
ment and building stronger trade rela-
tionships. We are committed, along with
the other free countries and free peoples
of this hemisphere, to minimize the
spread of totalitarian and atheistic Com-
munist influence among the free people
of this hemisphere.
I'm very proud that we are rebuilding
the world's faith in all these and other
American commitments.
Together, with a sense of wisdom and
of fairness, we fought and we won a vic-
tory for peace and for human rights—that
not politically popular with the
Panama Canal treaties. The Senate of
the United States took courageous action,
and you and I, as full partners, were able
to do what was right, because we stood
together. I believe that this will be recog-
nized in history as an action that spared
this half of the world of possible conflict
between peoples that have always in
the past been friends, but which would
have shattered this friendly relationship
forever.
The Congress still must take action on
the Panama Canal treaties. And I plead
1665
