Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
so for the last 140 million years. The little
bumps out here are saltdomes, they occur
out in the deep sea, as well as in Louisiana
and Texas, and other regions, and, of
course, they are the sites of a great deal of
production of oil.
This is the Baltimore Canyon area in
here, the mid-Atlantic region. We're going
to focus on it.
Next, please.
Just to show you what a modern reef
looks like this is in the Bahamas, actu-
ally-the Great Barrier Reef would ex-
tend on in a straight line much farther,
but this is the shallow reef. Waves are
breaking. Just about at sea level, you find
an occasional gap, a pass where water goes
in and out, deep on this side, shallow
here. And in ancient reefs comparabe to
this one in almost every way, except that
there were different animals living in
them, and plants, large oil fields have been
discovered in association with the crest
of the reefs on the deep side and on shal-
low side.
Next, please.
This is the leasing area, the mid-
Atlantic region. The blue areas show
areas that we've already leased, tracks.
The line running down here is the edge
of the Continental Shelf, where the sea
floor begins to-instead of being almost
flat, begins to slope off in the Continental
slope.
The Continental slope will look quite
steep in the next illustration I'll show you,
which is the profile along here, but that's
because there's vertical exaggeration. The
actual slope is a matter of 2 to 5 degrees in
most places. You wouldn't have any
trouble walking up it.
These COST holes-they do cost, but
that stands-it's an acronym for Conti-
nental Offshore Strategraphic Test-and
these are holes where oil companies band
together. They get permission from the
Government to drill. And anyone who
wants to get the information that's ac-
quired can do so, and if a discovery is
made of oil or gas, why, then we make an
announcement of it. If there isn't a dis-
covery, why then, only those who bought
the information get to know what's in
there.
A discovery was made here. Now, that's
rather strange, because these holes are
drilled away from structures where you
expect to find oil and gas. It's only after
the oil companies and the geological sur-
vey have agreed that that's about the last
place you'd find oil or gas that you're
allowed to drill. [Laughter] And nonethe-
less, gas was found here in more than
measurable quantities. So, it does look to
be quite a promising area.
Of course, there was gas announced by
Texaco and by Tenneco here-and oil by
Tenneco. The yellow is this Mesozoic reef.
The first figure we saw that had yellow
on it, we tended to call it the yellow reef.
But it sounds a little too much like the
yellow road in the Wizard of Oz. So, we
took to calling it the Mesozoic reef.
Next please.
This is a profile, an actual geophysical
record showing the sub-bottom, and it's
one of thousands of such records we have
around the continental margins. The oil
companies must have tens of thousands.
The characteristic of these records is every
year they get better and every year you
wish that all the old ones you had were
capable of showing you what the new ones
do. By this time you acquire the informa-
tion in a very complicated way that gives
you a lot of signals at once, and then you
do signal processing and computer en-
hancement and a lot of things that nobody
could dream of very long ago.
With these records, you can see these
lines in here and they are reflectors, and
some of them, Cretaceous and Jurassic to-
gether, are just more details of the Meso-
1547
