Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
was on the verge of bankruptcy and de-
spair, there was one mayor in this coun-
try who left his city and traveled all over
the Nation with 11 other mayors to tell
everybody in Georgia, in Washington, in
Oregon, in Iowa, "We have got to save
New York City." You know who that
was? Moon Landrieu, who's now the Sec-
retary of HUD.
And we've got another good man
named Neil Goldschmidt, who's taken
over now the Transportation Depart-
ment, an experienced man.
I have no apology for keeping my origi-
nal Cabinet 30 months, and I have abso-
lutely no apology for making a change
when I see fit. It's a prerogative and a
responsibility of a President to have his
own Cabinet.
I'll say one more thing. This is a long
answer, but I think it covers a lot of
questions that might have been asked
later.
You mentioned national health insur-
ance. I am for national health insurance.
We have not had legislation passed
through the Congress to improve our
health system in any degree for the last
30 years. We need to have it passed. Pres-
ident Truman called for a comprehen-
sive, nationwide health insurance pro-
gram; we don't have it. Senator Kennedy
has been in Congress now for 16 years.
His major premise, his major goal has
been to establish a comprehensive, na-
tional health insurance policy for our
country. He's the chairman of the Health
Committee in the Senate. He has never
gotten a comprehensive national health
bill out of his subcommittee. It is not
easy.
But I'm determined to get a national
health insurance program for our coun-
try, and I believe that I now have enough
support in the Congress to do it before
this term is over. So, we are making some
progress, we're making some progress.
Q. I would just like to say one thing.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. That is, you might just get me to
work for you a second time.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a deal. Thank
you.
UNEMPLOYMENT AND INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Barbara
Miles, and I'm glad to hear you say you
want the hard questions, because I have
one for you.
THE PRESIDENT. Great.
Q. I represent a new coalition of re-
ligious and community organizations
called the Crusade for Work. And I think
you can infer from the name what our
major interest is.
I think you also will realize that unem-
ployment is dehumanizing and life-threat-
ening, and I'm very glad to hear you say
that you've been able to bring the unem-
ployment rate down by 2 percent. But I
want to dwell on that a little bit, because
we're very disturbed now by your new
monetary policies, as articulated by G.
William Miller and by Paul Volcker, be-
cause those policies, as I understand them,
threaten to raise the unemployment rate
back up to 8 percent again, while there's
no evidence as far as I can ascertain that
you will be successful in curbing inflation.
So, in view of the risk and the painfulness
of this process, then why are you willing
to take such a large gamble?
THE PRESIDENT. I have the same feel-
ing you do about unemployment. This is
very important.
[At this point, there was an interruption from
the audience.]
THE PRESIDENT. Now, it's okay. It's
okay. It's all right. It's a free country.
[The interruption continued.]
THE PRESIDENT. If you all can hear me,
I'll go ahead with my answer. [Applause]
1749
