Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The first 2 years I was in office, we re-
duced taxes about $28 billion, which did
stimulate the economy to some degree. We
have the focused countercyclical bills for
jobs under the Government, CETA jobs
and otherwise, which provide several hun-
dred thousand jobs in communities that
are most highly impacted because of un-
employment.
But I think so far we've got a fairly
good record. We'll monitor it very closely
and decide in the future what to act on,
but I would guess that our future actions
would be based on the successes that
we've had in 1977 with that stimulus pro-
gram. That's the best answer I can give.
Q. Last year you came to the South
Bronx.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. And you promised Federal money
for the South Bronx, and yet today the
South Bronx is still the same way.
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't promise to re-
build the South Bronx in 6 months. I
promised to work with the local and State
officials and start the rejuvenation of
South Bronx.
We've spent an awful lot of time and
effort and, so far, allocated substantial
financial resources in the South Bronx. I
don't remember the exact amount of
money that we put in there extra to try to
start making progress, but it's been sub-
stantial. And I don't claim, standing here
before all of you, that we have cleaned up
the South Bronx or put the South Bronx
back in a profitable or a successful state.
I can't claim that, but we've made good
progress.
And I think, as you know, your own
local officials, on one major proposal for
the South Bronx, decided not to go ahead
with it. I don't believe in a philosophy of
government that lets the Federal Govern-
ment come in and take over and run
things in contradiction to your locally
elected officials. And I'll ask my good
friend Ed Koch to be responsible to you
for the rejuvenation of the South Bronx in
the future.
SOVIET TROOPS IN CUBA
Q. Good evening, Mr. President. My
name is Pete Reilly, from Syosset, Long
Island. I'm a student at C. W. Post Col-
lege. I'm studying economics and acting.
[Laughter] I want to be a politician.
I would like to challenge you on your
answer about the Soviet troops in Cuba.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know which is
worse right now, to be an economist or a
politician. [Laughter] Go ahead and
challenge.
Q. You said that the status quo is un-
acceptable-
THE PRESIDENT. That's right.
Q. —and you'll take appropriate
measures to alter it.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. What are "appropriate measures?"
THE PRESIDENT. I would rather not
spell out at this point what we will do.
There are two ways to change the status
quo. One is by the action of the Soviet
Union. If the Soviets fail to act, then the
other way to change the status quo is by
action on the part of the United States.
And I will report to the Nation, probably
within the next week, after we get
through with our negotiations with the
Soviet Union, what action I will take.
But it would not be appropriate tonight
for me to give you the details of what we
might do.
Q. I understand that.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay, go ahead,
Pete.
Q. What I wanted to say was, you
know, you're trying to separate the SALT
II issue from the Cuban issue.
1756
