Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The prospect is a giant reef. Now, there
isn't any reef in the area now, but there
used to be. There used to be a reef in this
area at the same time that there were
reefs in the Reforma and the Campeche
bank areas off of Mexico, the same gen-
eral period which we can sum together
as the Mesozoic period, which, for those
of you who aren't geologists, is more or
less when there were dinosaurs around. A
hundred to 140 million years ago is this
particular period. At that time, there was
a reef that ran along the edge of the Con-
tinental Shelf, just as it does now in the
Great Barrier Reef off Florida.
That reef is not known to have been
continuous-because we don't have that
much data, because the oceanographers
weren't looking for this. They just found
it while studying the general character-
istics of the Continental Margin. There
may be gaps. In fact, there certainly are
gaps we don't know about in Central
Mexico. But where we do have the infor-
mation, it looks as though a reef extended
from these highly petroliferous new dis-
covery areas in Mexico, around through
the Gulf of Mexico, and up the Atlantic
Coast.
It comes up in the mid-Atlantic region,
the Baltimore Canyon region, into water
that's only 6,000 feet deep. It lies there
under sediments that are themselves about
6,000 feet deep. The reef is about 20,000
feet thick in the region, which means, of
course, since the reef always forms at sea
level, that while the reef was forming,
the sea floor sank by 20,000 feet, and the
sediment accumulated as it did so. The
reef is about 15 miles wide in this area;
it's 150 miles long, and of course, it keeps
going out of the area in both directions,
since it runs intermittently all the way
down from Mexico to Canada.
The oil-bearing potential we do not
know for sure. If the reef was elevated at
any time so that it was deeply weathered,
cavernous channels were cut into it, then
the oil potential would be very high.
There's no evidence that the area was
elevated due to plate tectonics or the
movement of the continents. So, if it was
elevated, it was because sea level sank, and
that means that the whole reef that existed
at that time was exposed and the whole
thing at that time would have been
eroded. And you would have had a vast
cavernous system as a potential storage
place for oil. But we don't know that
happened. Since it's at sea level and sea
level does go up and down, it's reasonable,
but we don't know that it happened.
We don't know that the temperature of
the potential source beds, which have been
discovered by the oceanographic drilling,
ever got high enough to mature a large
quantity of the oil. On the other hand, we
do know from the drilling that has gone
on in the Baltimore Canyon area that oil
and
gas are present there, and so we know
that the temperature somewhere in the
region got high enough to be productive.
Now, I'd like to show you a series of
five slides, and then try to give you some
evaluation of the prospect for the site. The
first slide will show you the North Ameri-
can Continent and how the sea floor
would look if you took the water away.
Actually, it wouldn't be these colors on the
sea floor, because mapmakers tend to
make everything out there blue. Parts of it
would be red and parts white, but the
relief would look the way this shows.
I think North America looks clear
enough. The great deposits of sediment
that Hollis Hedberg and the other oil
geologists and the oceanographers have
identified lie-the ones we're particularly
interested in, in here, and a great thick-
ness in the Gulf of Mexico because of the
sediment, the mud and sand that pour out
of the Mississippi River and have done
1546
