Aug. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
U.S. Ambassador to the Dominion of Fiji,
to serve concurrently as Ambassador to
the Kingdom of Tonga and to Tuvalu.
Department of State
Nomination of Thomas M. Tracy To Be an
Assistant Secretary. August 28, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Thomas M. Tracy, of Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., to be Assistant Secretary
of State for Administration. He would
replace John M. Thomas, resigned.
Tracy is currently counselor for admin-
istration at the American Embassy in
Bonn, Germany.
He was born July 8, 1936, in Great Bar-
rington, Mass. He received a B.A. from
Colgate University in 1958, an M.A. from
Stanford University in 1959, and an
M.B.A. from Columbia University in
1973.
Tracy joined the Foreign Service in
1960 and was posted in Juarez, Birming-
ham, London, and at the State Depart-
ment. From 1973 to 1975, he was admin-
istrative officer in Brussels. He was coun-
selor for administration in Moscow from
1975 until 1978, when he became coun-
selor for administration in Bonn.
National Advisory Council on
Adult Education
Appointment of 10 Members.
August 28, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of 10 persons as members of
the National Advisory Council on Adult
Education. They are:
LILY LEE CHEN, director of special projects
and resource development for the Los Angeles
County Department of Public Social Serv-
ices;
REVA CRAWFORD, of Tahlequah, Okla., direc-
tor of adult education for the Cherokee
Nation;
ANDREW G. DONALDSON, associate director of
the State University of New York Educa-
tional Opportunity Center in Manhattan;
DON DUTTON, professor and coordinator of
adult and continuing education at the Uni-
versity of Arkansas;
MAXIE C. JACKSON, JR., director of the Center
for Urban Affairs and assistant professor
in the department of urban and metropoli-
tan studies at Michigan State University's
College of Urban Development;
MILDRED T. NICHOLS, supervisor of the Career
Counseling Service of the Rhode Island De-
partment of Education;
BERNADETTE PARDO PHILLIPS, public affairs
producer for WPLG Television in Miami,
Fla.;
LEONARD SCHNEIDERMAN, dean of the school
of social service at Indiana University;
BOBBIE L. WALDEN, director of the Community
Education Project and In-Service Training in
Adult Competency Education for the Ala-
bama State Department of Education; and
JAMES A. WOODS, dean of Boston College
Evening College of Arts, Sciences, and Busi-
ness Administration.
Advisory Panel on Financing
Elementary and Secondary
Education
Appointment of 15 Members and Designation
of Chairman. August 28, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of 15 persons as members of the
Advisory Panel on Financing Elementary
and Secondary Education. They are:
1524
