Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 9
you all may know, the preachers would
preach four Sundays, but then once every
quarter there was a fifth Sunday. That
was the Sunday, particularly in the sum-
mer and fall, when people would get to-
gether for an all-day singing, and dinner
on the grounds, and great local and even
distant gospel groups would come, quar-
tets and others, as a time to bridge the gap
between churches and between denomi-
nations, between communities, and let
people reach down, into down-to-earth
singing and kind of lift the spirit up to
heaven.
Rosalynn and I, when we came home
to Plains from the Navy, always looked
forward to the summer months, when we
could visit different places around near
our home and participate in those all-day
singing events.
I'm particularly glad this afternoon that
the Gospel Music Association, Jim Myers,
president, was willing to put together
what I believe will be a remarkable pro-
gram. It's going to last 3 hours, which is
going to seem like too short a time for you
when it's over. And what we want you to
do is just to relax here on the White
House grounds, enjoy yourself, get to
know one another, and listen to some of
the most delightful music that anyone
could hear.
Gospel music is really rural music from
the country. It has both black and white
derivations; it's not a racial kind of music.
And this afternoon you'll hear remarkably
talented groups who happen to be both
black and white.
But I think it's important to recognize
that gospel music is derived from deep
within the heart of human beings-it's a
music of pain, a music of longing, a music
of searching, a music of hope, and a music
of faith. And you'll hear all those expres-
sions, I am sure, this afternoon in this
remarkable performance.
I'm very proud that all of you could
come. We have been to Waycross, Geor-
gia, where they have all-day singing; by
that I mean 24 hours. We've been down
to Bonifay, Florida, where they have 24-
hour sings, and we apologize for cutting
this one short. [Laughter] But we'll try to
make up for it by the quality, and I'm
sure that you will enjoy it very much.
I don't know who's going to introduce
the first group. Am I going to?
The first group is the Archers. This is
my next to the last performance; this is
an afternoon of gospel music and not
preaching. So, I'm going to end the
preaching and turn you over to the
Archers, the first group, who will give us a
delightful afternoon of gospel music. I'm
sure you'll all enjoy it. We're really look-
ing forward to it and to having you here.
Thank you very much, and God bless
you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:11 p.m. on the
South Lawn of the White House.
Academy of Television
Arts and Sciences
Remarks Honoring Don Harris, Robert
Brown, and Bill Stewart. September 9, 1979
Good evening.
Every citizen who carries into the world
the standard of truth carries the banner
for which this country stands.
For those who bring us the facts on
which we make our judgments as a na-
tion, pursuit of the truth is especially
dangerous. Finding the center of the news
was not only the profession of Don
Harris, Robert Brown, and Bill Stewart-
it was their passion. Their gift to us was
knowledge.
They were killed by some who would
suppress the truth and by others who were
merely ignorant. But when all the dic-
1615
