Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 28
a project should be built or not built.
I mentioned earlier power production
plants of all kinds, pipelines, refineries,
and so forth. I don't believe there is any
need for us to reduce the standards that
we presently have of protecting endan-
gered species or of protecting the quality
of air or water in our Nation.
This week I received a report from the
President's commission on coal use. We
anticipate a doubling in the use of coal
by 1985 if all the recommendations are
carried out. The basic premise for this
recommendation was that we would not
lower air quality standards.
So, I can't see us changing the basic
laws that protect the quality of life of
American people. Our technological cap
ability is good enough already to make
these changes to more plentiful supplies
of energy without basic changes in the
laws that I've described.
ADDRESSES TO THE NATION; LILLIAN
CARTER'S HEALTH
Q. Mr. President, my name is Sam
Oates with KRIG Radio in Odessa,
Texas. And I think without a doubt the
people of west Texas thought that your
recent speech was probably the best of
your administration. However, they seem
to be the feedback that I've gotten-
they seem to be somewhat unsure of your
recent earnestness with your speeches and
what not. Also, they're not quite sure
about your ideas of establishing another
agency to help the oil situation.
Are you being helped along with Mr.
Rafshoon or anyone else in your admin-
istration as far as communication over the
television or in any other media at this
point?
And secondly, how's your mother?
THE PRESIDENT. Mother's fine. I talked
to Billy and Sybil just a few minutes ago,
who were right outside Mother's room.
I think the diagnosis is that she has either
arthritis or bursitis in her left shoulder
and arm, and there's no problem with a
cardiac problem or vascular problem, and
I'm very pleased with that.
You know, I get help from every place
I can. The Sunday evening speech was
made literally from the bottom of my
heart. I think a contrivance or posturing
or an artificial attitude toward the Ameri-
can people on television would instantly
be revealed, and I don't think the speech
would have had as good a response as it
has received if I had been trying to do
something false or had been trying to
mislead the American people.
As a matter of fact, I only practiced
that speech twice, because I wrote it—
my wife and several other people helped
me with the basic structure of the
speech-but I did it myself. I think Satur-
day afternoon at Camp David, I came in,
gave the speech once, all the ones in the
room said, "You don't need to practice it
any more." Sunday afternoon I came to
the Oval Office to get into the exact
place, and I gave the speech once more
before the cameras just to make sure that
the timing was proper, and so forth. And
again I didn't have to practice it any
more. I didn't have any voice teaching;
I didn't have any speech coaches and
things of that kind.
It's a serious mistake for anyone in
public office to try to mislead the Ameri-
can people about basic issues concerning
the future of our Nation or concerning
the psychological attitude of American
people or concerning confidence or unity
or trust or truth. Certainly it's a mistake
to mislead the American people about
their own security, either energy, on do-
mestic economic security, or things like
SALT. That would be a travesty. I would
not be capable of it, and if I should ever
1325
