July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tiate about energy and defense and human
rights and other questions, he's been a
special representative for the State of Ha-
waii and for the United States of
America. And, Sparky, I want to thank
you for doing such a superb job, you and
your wife both.
Congressman Akaka, Congressman
Akaka, Congressman
Heftel, thank you very much for being
with me this morning. And I particularly
want to say to Mr. and Mrs. Hirabara,
thank you for helping me become Presi-
dent.
We are really coming back home. As
you know, my wife and I and my first son
came to live in Hawaii in December of
1948. Rosalynn got here, I think, in
March or April of 1949, and we spent two
of the best years of our lives here, and it's
one of the places on Earth closest to our
hearts.
My former pastor in Plains, Bruce
Edwards, and his wife, Sandra, are here
to meet us this morning, and there are
many things that cause my heart to fill
with gratitude to God for being so good
to us and so good to our country.
I'm particularly eager to shake hands
with each one of you individually and to
thank you for your friendship and for
your coming out to welcome us today. But
I particularly wanted to say that this trip
has been a good one for me personally,
for me as President, and for our Nation.
We went first to Japan, a great nation,
one of our closest allies, which has had
literally a rebirth since the Second World
War. We share many things in common.
And I would guess that except for two
nations that join one another physically,
there is no nation, no two nations on
Earth who are any closer now than we
and the people of Japan.
I went to strengthen our partnership.
I'm only the second United States Presi-
dent in history who's ever visited Japan.
We had a wonderful visit with the Em-
peror, with the people there, a kind of
person-to-person effort which I thought
was highly successful.
We also went from Japan to Korea. I
spent the first night with our troops near
Seoul. This is a nation that we joined in
the early 1950's when I was still in sub-
marines in the Pacific Fleet. Fifty thou-
sand of our American young men gave
their lives in Korea for freedom, for a
chance for the people of that country to
live in peace and to meet the constant
threat of aggression.
The troops there have a very high
morale. The 2d Infantry Division has the
highest reenlistment rate of any military
force in the United States, anywhere in
the world. And I was privileged to see
them, their dedication, their courage,
their heroism, their commitment to the
same principles that have always made
our Nation great. And I know the mili-
tary means so much here in the State of
Hawaii as well, where I served as a young
naval officer. It reminded me again of
what patriotism really means and what a
great debt we owe to our military forces
throughout the world, who stand for
peace and who stand for freedom still.
I talked to President Park frankly about
which will stay strong, about our firm and
our military alliance, which is strong and
permanent commitment to continue to
join with them in the defense of freedom
on the peninsula of Korea. I talked to him
very deeply about human rights, some of
my own concerns about the need for im-
provement in the administration of the
rule of law, of personal freedom, freedom
of the press, and I thought those meet-
ings, those frank discussions, were very,
very fruitful.
I would guess that the most significant
part of the trip, however, was meeting
with the leaders of other industrialized
nations at the economic summit in Tokyo.
1218
