Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 1
have roughly a zero growth rate. Ger-
many's will be in the neighborhood of 4
percent; Japan's even higher. And we, in
the past few years, have had a very high
growth rate compared to the other
nations.
We had a need to accommodate that
wide disparity in the characteristics of
nations. I think we successfully did it. But
all the nations took a very difficult stand
in setting a restrictive target.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. May I in-
terject one thing here? With regard to
what we said earlier on what we will need
to do to reach our goal by 1985, it seems to
me that it's worth noting that had the
1977 national energy plan been passed as
it was submitted, that we would now have
in place programs that would guarantee
that we would not only meet that goal in
1985 but that we would be significantly
below it.
You can get different arguments about
how many hundreds of thousands of bar-
rels below it it would be, but there's no
doubt that if that had been done in 1977,
8.5 million barrels in 1985 would be no
problem.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. And I
might say that we cannot meet the 1985
goal if we don't have the windfall profits
tax and the energy security fund, because
we won't have the capability of develop-
ing the alternative energy supplies.
POSSIBILITY OF TAX CUTS
Q. Could I go back to something that
you said at the outset? You said that the
OPEC price increase, the cumulative in-
crease made the possibility of a recession
a good deal stronger.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. Yes, not
only for us but for all nations.
Q. In the light of that, have you begun
to do any rethinking or do you plan to do
any restudying on the question of a tax
cut?
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. No, not any-
time soon. I can't say that we'll never do
that, but that's not in my
immediate-
POSSIBILITY OF RECESSION
Q. You mentioned a moment ago that
there would be a zero growth rate for the
United States this year. That means there
will be a recession?
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. We don't
know yet.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. We're just
recalculating now, but it will certainly for
the rest of the year—and in fact, the new
estimates will come out in about 10 days.
And we'll have the definite numbers then.
But for the rest of the year, the growth
rate is, I think it's going to be around zero,
I can't imagine below that.
Q. That's the first time I've heard you
say that.
Q. It's not recession until we have
actual negatives for two quarters.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. Yes, but
that's the average for the year. We will
have to see how-it may well go into neg-
ative numbers. We just don't know.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. Well, I
don't want to be that specific. I've got to
get back and go over this with OMB and
Charlie Schultze to get an exact figure.
But I would say that we'll have just about
a level growth rate this year, plus or
minus-
Q. Is that all brought around by the
OPEC increases?
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL. I can't say
all, no. But it's obviously a very major
factor.
Q. Mr. President, if I'm correct, that's
the first time I've heard you use that
phrase "zero growth rate." You've been
talking 22 percent, something like that.
1215
