Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 16
system of our country. We would like to
have the Federal Government role mini-
mized, and to the extent that individual
citizens, families, businesses, local and
State governments can act responsibly and
aggressively with the maximum degree of
innovation in conserving energy and pro-
ducing new energy sources, then to that
degree the Federal role can be minimized.
Again, I'm grateful that you would
come here. This afternoon you'll have a
fairly complete description and an elab-
oration on some of the items that I've
covered with you. Charlie Duncan, John
Sawhill, Secretary Vance, William Miller,
the Secretary of Treasury, will all be here
clearly his long-term and broad experi-
ence in both of those areas.
In addition, the President will nominate
Luther Hodges, Jr., to serve in the new
position of Deputy Secretary in the De-
partment of Commerce. That position will
be created when, as we expect shortly,
the reorganization bill goes into effect,
creating a new Department of Commerce
and Trade.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcements at the regular news briefing for
reporters, which began at approximately 4:45
p.m. in the Briefing Room at the White House.
to discuss these matters with you and to National Family Week, 1979
answer your questions.
But I think for just a few minutes be-
fore I leave, you might want to comment
or ask a question yourselves.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:04 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Department of Commerce
Nominations of Philip M. Klutznick To Be
Secretary and Luther H. Hodges, Jr., To Be
Deputy Secretary. November 16, 1979
I have two announcements.
First of all, as I suspect you already
know, the President will nominate Philip
M. Klutznick, a Chicago attorney and
businessman, former U.S. Representative,
with the rank of Ambassador, to the U.N.
Economic and Social Council, as Secre-
tary of Commerce. Mr. Klutznick has had
a great deal of experience in the two most
important areas of concern to the Com-
merce Department-trade, particularly in
its international aspects, and economic de-
velopment. If you don't already have his
biography, you will by the time this brief-
ing is over. And I think it outlines very
Proclamation 4703. November 16, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
We are a nation of families. This coun-
try was settled and built by families of all
kinds. A source of strength in our past,
families are America's hope for the future.
All families are important, but the ex-
tended family, the foster family and the
adoptive family play a special role by re-
lieving the isolation of those who lack the
comfort of a loving nuclear family.
Families are the most universal and
enduring element in human existence. A
family is a reservoir of shared experiences,
shared joys and sorrows and, most of all,
shared love that spans generations and
distances.
As we come together at this Thanks-
giving season, we gather with our families
to express our gratitude. Our family cir-
cles expand to welcome and include
others in the warmth of the holiday sea-
son. It is a time for all of us to cherish
2135
