Oct. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
navigable inland waterways. As the
world's leading trading country, the
United States depends upon local port ex-
penditures, modernizations and expan-
sions to accommodate expected growth in
trade and improvements in transporta-
tion technology. But the benefits extend to
the national economy, as well as to local
communities.
Since 1946, local port agencies have
invested more than $5 billion to construct
and modernize our pier and wharf facili-
ties. These local public expenditures have
essentially been matched by the invest-
ments of private marine terminal owners,
while the Federal Government helps pro-
vide channel and navigation improve-
ments. For the years 1973-1978, these
local port expenditures reached $1.8 bil-
lion. Projections for the next five years
total an estimated $3 billion. These local
investments are the vital streams of our
foreign and domestic waterborne com-
merce.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in order to remind Americans of the im-
portance of the port industry of the
United States to our national life, do
hereby designate the seven calendar days
beginning October 7, 1979, as National
Port Week. I invite the Governors of the
several states, the chief officials of local
governments, and the people of the United
States to observe such week with appro-
priate ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of Octo-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:39 a.m., October 9, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on October 7.
Department of Labor
Nomination of John N. Gentry To Be Under
Secretary. October 9, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate John N. Gentry, of Reston,
Va., to be Under Secretary of Labor. He
would replace Robert Brown, resigned.
Gentry is the principal labor-manage-
ment relations adviser to Alfred Kahn, the
President's Advisor on Inflation and
Chairman of the Council on Wage and
Price Stability.
Gentry was born May 16, 1930, in Wil-
liamsport, Pa. He holds an undergraduate
degree in economics from the University
of Maryland and a J.D. from Georgetown
University Law Center.
He served in a number of positions at
the Labor Department, including Deputy
Assistant Secretary for Labor-Manage-
ment Relations and executive assistant to
the Under Secretary of Labor.
In 1970 he entered private practice as
a member of the Washington firm of
Wirtz & Gentry, a law and public interest
consulting firm. Gentry also served as
president of the National Manpower In-
stitute. In 1978 he served as Chairman of
President Carter's board of inquiry under
Taft-Hartley to investigate issues in the
bituminous coal strike.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
OCTOBER 9, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION; SOVIET
TROOPS IN CUBA
Q. Mr. President, do you think that you
1836
