Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and shared cooperation and to join in a
successful fight against inflation. Today,
I'm very pleased to announce that enor-
mous progress toward that goal has been
made. I'm pleased and proud to announce
that this administration has achieved a
new national accord with the broadest
possible impact in order to fight against
inflation.
This accord is represented by a state-
ment of principles which we've been
pursuing since July in discussions with
representatives of organized labor. Paral-
lel discussions have also been held with
the leaders in the business community.
The communication from President
George Meany-that the AFL-CIO exec-
utive council has today endorsed the
statement of principles-means that for
the first time in history, such an accord
has been reached on a voluntary basis. I'd
like to say that President Meany, who's
announced that he will not seek reelection
today, has contributed with his heart and
his mind, his experience, his inspirational
leadership to the reaching of this agree-
ment, and I'm deeply grateful to him.
I also want to commend especially Sec-
retary William Miller and the members
of my economic policy group, the key
leaders, in addition to Mr. Meany, of our
major labor organizations, and represent-
atives of the business community for
working so constructively together in
search of this understanding.
As part of our national accord, we will
be establishing a Pay Advisory Committee
and a Price Advisory Committee. Or-
ganized labor leadership has agreed to
serve on the Pay Advisory Committee,
and I'm counting on business leaders to
join it also.
This Committee, which will play an
important role in assuring restrained but
equitable pay increases, is to be made up
of 15 members-five each from labor,
business, and the public. John Dunlop
has accepted my invitation to serve as
Chairman of this Pay Committee, and
other members will be announced in the
near future. The Price Advisory Com-
mittee will consist of five public members
whom I will name in a few weeks.
I want to emphasize again that if sub-
stantial progress is to be made to reduce
inflation in this country-and this will ob-
viously take time and sustained effort-
we will need the active and dedicated sup-
port for Government of both business and
labor.
The developments of today provide us
the initial framework for such an effort,
and I pledge to do my utmost to follow
through and to make this initiative a
significant forward step in our continuing
and determined fight against inflation in
the United States.
I would like now to introduce the Sec-
retary of Treasury, William Miller, who,
along with others on the stage with me,
will be glad to answer your questions.
Bill Miller.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:47 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing. Following his remarks, Secretary Miller,
Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on
Inflation, and Lane Kirkland, secretary-treas-
urer of the AFL-CIO, held a news conference
on the national accord.
Anti-Inflation Program
Executive Order 12161. September 28, 1979
SECOND YEAR OF THE ANTI-INFLATION
PROGRAM
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent and as Commander in Chief of the
Armed Forces by the Constitution and
statutes of the United States of America,
including the Council on Wage and Price
Stability Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1904
note), and the Federal Property and Ad-
ministrative Services Act of 1949, as
amended (40 U.S.C. 486(a)), and in
1778
