Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 8
trouble; we're inclined to try to dampen
trouble and to provide peace. That's one
thing that gives them an advantage when
there is trouble. But I think we have stood
up well against them, and I think we can
continue to do it in the future on a peace-
ful, competitive basis. There's no doubt
in my mind that the ideals and the prin-
ciples and the basic strengths of America
can prevail and have prevailed.
MS. BARIO. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. One more question.
AMBASSADOR ANDREW YOUNG
Q. Mr. President, I'm from East St.
Louis, Illinois. My name is Clyde Jordan.
In view of the fact that Andrew Young
has been credited with bettering our re-
lationships with many countries in Africa
and other Third World nations, do you
have any plans to use him in any other
governmental position?
THE PRESIDENT. I agree with your as-
sessment that Andy has greatly enhanced
our relationships. And one of the advan-
tages that we've got over the Soviet
Union in the less-developed world is be-
cause of Andy Young.
Andy hasn't made any plans yet about
future governmental involvement. Andy
left early this week to go on a seven-na-
tion trip with the President of the Exim-
bank and also with about 20 top Ameri-
can business leaders to see about invest-
ments and to let the African nations
which he will visit know that there is a
continuity in our relationship with the
less-developed countries of the world.
Andy and his wife, Jean, and their little
son both spent the night with me at the
White House the night before he left, and
I talked to him briefly about his future
plans.
I think Andy intends, for the time be-
ing at least, to establish himself in private
life. He's never had an opportunity to
have any income. He's been a very sacri-
ficial person, as you know. I think he
would like to let his influence be felt in
the private sector of our country for a
while. He's interested in politics; he's very
supportive of me, and his voice will be
heard. I think he's looking forward to his
new role for the months ahead. What he
will do after that, I have not heard him
say, and I don't think he knows himself.
But I would welcome Andy in any major
position because I have such confidence in
him.
Let me take this opportunity to thank
you for being here, and I'd like to get a
photograph with each one of you, if you'd
permit me that pleasure. Let me stand
over here and maybe if you come around
this
way and just let me shake hands and
get a photograph, we'll send it to you.
And I'm glad you were up here today.
It was kind of an exciting day for me; the
decisions have been important ones for
our country, and you've kind of seen how
Government worked, a little more ac-
tively, at least in defense matters, than
would ordinarily be the case. I hope
you've had an enjoyable and a productive
day.
Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 2:35 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Pa-
tricia Y. Bario is a Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on September 8.
Home Heating Oil
Telegrams to the Heads of Major Oil
Companies. September 8, 1979
I applaud your leadership in initiating
Texaco's program to alleviate home heat-
ing oil prices and supply hardships this
winter.
1613
