Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 6
Watching the struggle of the boat
people to find a true light in a darkened
corner of the world, watching their ex-
treme risk to find an American refuge,
watching their sacrifice, speaks more elo-
quently than I can of the living reality of
the American dream.
My purpose, Mr. President, friends,
Americans, will be to serve as your Secre-
tary of Treasury in doing my very best to
assure the lasting vitality of our economic
system, to fight and to win the war against
inflation, to reinforce the preeminence of
Americans at home and abroad, and to
keep alive that great American dream.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Next, Judge Higgin-
botham will administer the oath of office
to Paul Volcker as Chairman of the Fed-
eral Reserve System.
Mr. Volcker is a man who has devoted
his entire professional career to dealing
successfully with the complexities of
monetary theory and practice and inter-
national finance.
I consulted with many people when I
was deciding whom to ask to serve in this
most important position. And the more
people who talked to me, the more the
choice became obvious.
Internationally, Paul Volcker is well
known. His experience in the Federal Re-
serve Bank in New York and also within
the Treasury Department itself has been
a demonstration of not only sound man-
agement but incisive analysis and leader-
ship. Among his notable peers, he is
he is recog-
nized as being superb in the ability to
understand the complexities of a fast-
changing monetary world, protecting the
interest of our Nation, and making inci-
sive decisions that were honored as their
results were observed.
When I met with Paul Volcker to dis-
cuss his appointment with him, he made
it clear to me, and I instantly agreed, that
both he and I and Bill Miller, who was
present, would honor the independence
and the integrity of the Federal Reserve
System.
We also recognize the need to exchange
ideas and to share responsibility in a com-
pletely appropriate way between the
Government-the executive branch, the
Congress, and the Federal Reserve-and
the private enterprise system of our
Nation.
I am extremely grateful that Paul
Volcker is willing to serve. He takes this
position with some financial sacrifice, but
with an awareness of the possible benefits
to our country in broadening and expand-
ing his responsibility in his area of service.
I have never made an appointment, I
don't believe, that was received domesti-
cally and internationally with any more
uniform approbation. And so for that rea-
son, also, I am grateful to Paul Volcker
for being willing now to accept the oath
of office and then the responsibilities as
Chairman of the Federal Reserve System
of our country.
Paul.
[At this point, Judge Higginbotham admin-
istered the oath of office.]
MR. VOLCKER. Mr. President, ladies
and gentlemen, that's not the first time
I've taken that oath. And every time I've
done so, I end up with a little lump in my
throat at the end, because it really is a
great privilege for me to be asked to serve
in public office and, most of all, the one
I'm undertaking today.
It's obvious to all of you from what's
been said today that we're face to face
with economic difficulties really unique in
our experience. And we've lost that eu-
phoria that we had 15 years ago, that we
knew all the answers to managing the
economy.
But somehow knowledge of our limita-
tions seems to me the beginning of wis-
1405
