Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
Third, I am directing the Secretary of
Commerce to conduct a systematic review
of federal programs that significantly
affect coastal resources. This review, to be
conducted by the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, will provide
the basis for specific recommendations to
improve federal actions affecting the
coastal zone and to develop any additional
legislation needed to achieve our national
coastal management goals.
Public Land Resources
Among the many natural resource issues
facing the Nation, few are more important
than the management, protection and use
of the 417 million acres of public lands
owned by all Americans and administered
by the Secretary of the Interior through
the Bureau of Land Management.
The public lands include vast tracts of
the arid rangelands of the West which
were once lands that no one wanted. Now,
some of these lands are highly valued for
their energy and other valuable resources,
and they have come to be appreciated for
their scenic and natural values. My Ad-
ministration is committed to purposeful
management of the public lands and re-
sources administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in an environmentally
sound and cost-effective manner.
Therefore, I am directing the Secretary
of the Interior to manage the public lands
administered by BLM in accordance with
these principles:
• The Federal Government will be a
good steward of the land, seeking to find
the best balance of uses to assure that re-
sources are available to meet the Nation's
needs and that environmental values are
carefully protected.
• The Federal Government will be a
good neighbor, providing full opportuni-
ties for those affected by our management
decisions to be involved in making them,
with a special concern for the people and
institutions of the Western States that are
most directly affected.
• The Federal Government will make
cost-effective investments in protecting
and enhancing these lands within the con-
straints of fiscal responsibility.
• The Federal Government will seek to
resolve conflicts among competing uses in
a spirit of cooperation and trust, and will
make-not avoid-tough decisions on the
allocation of the valued resources of public
lands.
We have already made significant prog-
ress in bringing these lands under effective
is now underway to reverse the declining
management. A concerted federal effort
productivity of the 174 million acres of
rangeland ecosystems managed by the
Bureau of Land Management for live-
stock, wildlife, soil and moisture conserva-
tion, and other beneficial purposes. We
have developed a comprehensive on-the-
ground planning process for each unit of
BLM-managed land which involves the
public and assesses the environmental im-
pacts of alternative actions. On June 4,
1979, the Secretary of the Interior
announced our new federal coal man-
agement program, which establishes a
balanced and efficient process for deter-
mining coal leasing and management on
federal lands.
Much more remains to be done. I am
therefore directing that the following ac-
tions be taken:
• The Secretary of the Interior will
establish a comprehensive "program de-
velopment process" for managing all the
lands under BLM stewardship, which will,
for the first time, set long range goals to
ensure balanced protection and use of the
resources and develop and analyze alter-
native programs and investment strate-
gies to meet the goals. Each alternative
1363
