Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 13
and it's our responsibility to give the peo-
ple of our country specific information
about ways they can reach out to their
fellow man. We cannot lose time. Time
is the situation is urgent.
I understand that most of you who are
here have prepared briefing papers about
your programs and your problems. I
know that you will be addressing your-
selves to this issue throughout the day,
and I look forward to being with you
again at the end of the afternoon so that
I can have a report for the things that
you talk about during the day.
But now I want to call on the members
of my traveling party, who've brought
back new information which might be
helpful to you. And then I would like to
share-after we get through with the re-
ports we will look at the recommenda-
tions, and I can tell you then some of the
steps that we are already taking to im-
plement some of these recommendations.
First I want to call on Dr. Richmond
for his report. Dr. Richmond is the Sur-
geon General, and he traveled with me to
Thailand.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:07 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Attending the meeting were representatives and
officials of Federal and international agencies
and various humanitarian organizations.
Aid for Kampucheans
Memorandum From the President.
November 13, 1979
Presidential Determination No. 80–5
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Determination pursuant to Sec-
tion 2(c)(1) of Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act of 1962, as amended, (The
“Act”), authorizing the use of $2,000,000
of funds made available from the United
States Emergency Refugee and Migration
Assistance Fund
In
response to the urgent financial needs
of the Relief Program within Kampuchea,
I hereby determine that it is important
to the national interest that up to $2,000,-
000 from the United States Emergency
Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund
be made available through the Depart-
ment of State for transfer to the United
Nations Children's Fund for this purpose.
The Secretary of State is requested to
inform the appropriate committees of
Congress of this Determination and the
obligation of funds under this authority.
This Determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REgister.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:24 p.m., November 20, 1979]
Superior Court of the
District of Columbia
Nomination of Iraline Barnes To Be an
Associate Judge. November 13, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Iraline Barnes as an Asso-
ciate Judge of the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia. Ms. Barnes, 32, is
a graduate of Howard University and the
University of Michigan Law School. She
would replace Judge W. Byron Sorrell,
who retired in August.
Following law school, Ms. Barnes served
as a law clerk for Superior Court Judge
Eugene Hamilton. She then worked as a
trial attorney for the Civil Division of the
Justice Department and as an assistant
United States attorney for the District of
Columbia. Since June 1978 she has served
as an Administrative Judge for the Board
of Surface Mining and Reclamation Ap-
peals at the Department of the Interior.
2117
