Oct. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
submitting legislation to add the North
Umpqua River in Oregon to the list of
those rivers to be studied.
In order to assist full congressional de-
liberation on the proposed Upper
Mississippi Wild and Scenic River, I have
directed the Secretary of the Interior to
complete, with full public participation, a
conceptual master plan for the river
which will set forth the specific require-
ments for lands or interests in lands to pro-
tect the river corridor and provide public
access, campgrounds and other recrea-
tional facilities. This is to be completed by
April 1980.
My recent Environmental Message also
contained a number of proposals relating
to the National Trails System. The system
is still in its fledgling stage and should be
expanded to meet widespread public in-
terest. With this objective in mind, I have
directed the Federal land managing
agencies to enlarge the National Recrea-
tion Trails System. In addition, I am
transmitting the study report and legisla-
tion to designate the 513-mile Natchez
Trace National Scenic Trail through
Tennessee, Alabama and Mississippi. I
am also resubmitting proposed legislation
to establish the Potomac Heritage Trail
through Pennsylvania, Maryland, West
Virginia, Virginia and the District of
Columbia. Furthermore, I am reaffirming
my support for the enactment of legisla-
tion to create the North Country Trail
from the State of New York to North Da-
kota. Legislation to create this 3,200-mile
trail has already passed the House of Rep-
resentatives in the form of H.R. 3757.
Finally, I am transmitting a report from
the Secretary of the Interior recommend-
ing that a 13.6-mile segment of the Big
Thompson River in Colorado not be
added to the National Wild and Scenic
Rivers System. This river segment is lo-
cated entirely within the Rocky Mountain
National Park and is managed and pro-
tected by the National Park Service.
Further, approximately 80% of this 13.6-
mile river segment is in a wilderness pro-
posal now before the Congress. Therefore,
I believe that the protection afforded by
the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
is unnecessary.
I urge that the Congress promptly act
on my recommendations in order to pro-
tect these rivers and trails for the recrea-
tional and aesthetic enjoyment of all
Americans.
The White House,
October 2, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Owyhee River in Idaho and
Oregon
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report and Proposed Legislation.
October 2, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith draft legis-
lation to add two segments of the Owyhee
River in Idaho and Oregon totalling 178
miles to the National Wild and Scenic
Rivers system. These segments would be
administered by the Secretary of the In-
terior as units of the national system.
I also recommend that an additional
14-mile segment of the river be admin-
istered by the State of Oregon under its
Scenic Waterways program.
These recommendations are based on
the accompanying report prepared by the
1814
