Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
spring and was delighted when he de-
cided to accept it.
When I had a private meeting with the
Pope in the Oval Office, following the
North Lawn reception and before the
South Lawn speeches, he and I discussed
his visit. He and I were both surprised,
pleasantly surprised, at the tremendous,
unanticipated outpouring of affection
and love for him, exemplified by the
enormous crowds. I doubt that there's
ever been a larger crowd assembled, for
instance, than there was in Grant Park in
Chicago, to see His Holiness there.
It was a great testimony, I believe, to a
hunger among the American people to be
reminded of and to remember those
characteristics of human beings that
never change-truth, integrity, humility,
gentleness, the strength of families, com-
passion, concern, unselfishness, love.
Those kinds of things we don't talk much
about in public life, but the Pope, in
speaking of them, aroused in American
people a response that was truly remark-
able and very good for all our country,
no matter what faith an American might
espouse in his own religion or her own
religion.
In our private conversations we talked
about many things. We talked about
families. We talked about abortion. We
talked about the truth that exists in open
societies and the threat of communism to
stamp out peoples' deep religious beliefs.
We discussed his recent trip to Poland,
which is a Communist Government, but
where the church is undoubtedly stronger
than the government itself. We talked
about the overwhelming Christian nature
of the people who live in both North and
South America. We talked about parts of
the world where it's very difficult for the
Christian message to be promulgated-in
China, for instance, or in some other
places throughout the world. We talked
about the shift toward secularism in
Western Europe and the concern that the
Pope has about that development.
There was a great belief expressed by
him, which I certainly share, that we've
got to put our religious faith to action,
that we can't just talk about gentleness,
we can't just talk about compassion, we
can't just talk about love, and overlook
the deep needs of our immediate neigh-
bors and those who suffer from hunger or
lack of clothing or lack of shelter through-
out the world.
So, I believe that the message he
brought, both publicly and privately, was
an inspiration to me as President. It was
also an inspiration to our whole country.
I think his beneficent influence through-
out the world has been well established,
not only in his trip to free countries like
ours and Mexico's but also behind the
Iron Curtain in Poland.
I might say one thing finally about that.
It was an unprecedented thing to have
the Pope visit the White House. This has
never been done before. But I hear from
all kinds of religious faiths—Jews, Protes-
tants, even those who belong to the Is-
lamic faith. I've not had any criticism at
all, so far as I know, from any of those
other religious faiths because the Pope did
come to our country, because they all see
that his ministry and his message was one
that tapped the best in America. And I'm
very proud that he could come, and I in-
vited him back. He said he wanted to rest
up first. [Laughter]
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
Q. By the way, welcome to Dolton.
THE PRESIDENT. Good to be in Dolton.
Q. The thing that seems to be foremost
in everyone's minds now is the fact that
1941
