Dec. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
subsidiary, which resulted in the loss of $1
million in annual royalty payments and
ultimately led to divestiture of the sub-
sidiary;
-loss to a British firm which stresses
U.S. export controls in its marketing ef-
forts of three contracts for about $10 mil-
lion and of estimated follow-on sales of
about $26 million;
-placement with a non-U.S. firm of
a $50 million order by a South African
company which had previously purchased
exclusively from U.S. companies;
-sourcing by a U.S. project manager
of $500 million worth of contracts in 1979
without U.S. participation;
damage to reputation as a reliable
supplier because of inability to supply
parts and servicing for previously sold
equipment;
-loss of exports because of the dif-
ficulty of determining whether an insig-
nificant portion might reach the military
or police; and
—additional administrative expendi-
tures in order to comply with U.S. regula-
tions while attempting to meet existing
contractual and servicing agreements.
III. Terrorism
The listing of Libya, Iraq, People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen, and
Syria in the heading of part III of En-
closure 1 of this notification constitutes the
determination, pursuant to subsection 6
(i) (1) of the Act, as to which countries
have repeatedly provided support for acts
of international terrorism.
Exports to these countries of crime con-
trol and detection instruments and equip-
ment (which include vehicles designed to
military specifications), aircraft valued at
$3 million or more, and helicopters over
10,000 pounds empty weight are con-
trolled pursuant to section 6(i) of the
Act.
Syria and Iraq have not made major
purchases of U.S. aircraft since 1976. The
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
trades largely with the USSR and exports
of aircraft to that nation have been mini-
mal. Libya, however, has the potential to
continue to be a significant market for
U.S. aircraft and helicopter manufac-
turers.
Controls on the export to these coun-
tries of U.S.-origin aircraft valued at $3
million or more and helicopters over
10,000 pounds can be effectively enforced.
Large transport aircraft are available
from French, German, and British com-
panies as well as from the Soviet Union.
Helicopters are produced by the same
countries, as well as by Israel and Japan.
Examples of consequences attributed to
these controls by individual U.S. firms in-
clude the following:
-U.S. helicopter manufacturers report
that they have not pursued inquiries from
or marketing efforts in these four coun-
tries because of the uncertainties caused
by the U.S. controls; and
-a major U.S. aircraft manufacturer
may lose a $186 million sale of aircraft to
Libya because of application of this con-
trol.
IV. Libya
Controls on the export to Libya of large
tractors further the foreign policy objec-
tive of regional stability and are consist-
ent with our policy on military sales to
that country. Libyan troops have been di-
rectly involved in three countries in the
past year (Chad, Uganda, and the Cen-
tral African Republic) and are on a high
state of alert along the border with Egypt,
where a brief border war broke out in
1977.
Large tractors could be used to trans-
port tanks and other outsized military ve-
hicles, thereby enhancing the mobility of
Libya's sizable armored force.
2294
