Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tions for designation, I will continue to
seek study authorizations for these rivers.
In addition, I am submitting legislation
to add the North Umpqua River in Ore-
gon to the list of those rivers to be
studied.
I am also forwarding to Congress re-
ports on several rivers which, after thor-
ough study, were found to qualify for
inclusion in the National System. How-
ever, because of the interest of the states
or local governments in protecting their
natural values, the reports recommend
that the rivers be protected and managed
by state and/or local action. I am greatly
encouraged by the efforts which all levels
of government are taking to protect
valued natural resources. I am particu-
larly pleased to note that in the case of
the Housatonic and Shepaug Rivers in
Connecticut, local governmental agencies
are taking the lead in developing man-
agement plans to protect these significant
river resources. I am transmitting reports
on:
•
• Pine Creek, Pennsylvania
• Buffalo River, Tennessee
Youghiogheny River, Pennsylvania-
Maryland
Shepaug River, Connecticut
• Kettle River, Minnesota
Lower Wisconsin River, Wisconsin
Housatonic River, Connecticut
• Illinois River, Oklahoma
National Trails
More than 61 million of the Nation's
people go nature walking and more than
28 million people hike or backpack at
least five times a year. To meet the grow-
ing needs of these and other trail users,
Congress enacted the 1968 National
Trails System Act and directed that a
National Trails System be established.
Since the establishment of the National
Trails System, 257 National Recreation
Trails have been designated, including 21
trails for those using wheelchairs and 13
trails designed for the use of blind people,
with interpretive signs in braille.
The National Trails System is still in
its fledgling stage and should grow to
meet widespread public interest. National
trails near urban areas can serve an
energy-conscious nation by providing rec-
reation close to home for the majority of
our citizens and, in some cases, by provid-
ing commuter routes for bicyclists, walk-
ers, and joggers.
To meet these objectives, under my
direction, the U.S. Forest Service will
establish 145 additional National Recrea-
tion Trails by January 1980, achieving a
goal of two National Recreation Trails in
each National Forest System unit. I am
directing each Federal land management
agency to follow the example set by the
Forest Service and by January 1980 an-
nounce a goal for the number of National
Recreation Trails each agency will estab-
lish during 1980 on the public lands ad-
ministered by the agency. I am also
directing that, by the end of 1980, a mini-
mum of 75 new National Recreation
Trails shall be designated on public land
other than National Forests by the Fed-
eral land management agencies.
I am directing the Secretary of the In-
terior, through the Interagency Trails
Council, to assist other Federal agencies
in surveying existing trails on federal
lands to determine which of those can be
made part of our National Trails System
and to initiate a grass-roots effort in ev-
ery region of the country to assess our
nationwide trails needs. In addition, I am
directing the Secretary of the Interior,
the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary
of Defense and the Chairman of the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority to encourage
1366
