July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
future of our country, those of you who
believe that our energy program must be
passed, please speak to the Congress of
the United States and especially to the
United States Senate, which still has the
responsibility to act.
Based on this windfall profits tax on the
oil companies, we will have the resources
to meet the energy challenge which we
must face together in the future. And we
will have taken a major step toward unit-
ing our country in the effort to restore our
spirit, the spirit of America, and our con-
fidence, our confidence as people in the
future of our great country.
Thank you very much. And now I'd
like to answer questions.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Asso-
ciated Press].
QUESTIONS
FEDERAL BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, Republicans in the
House are talking about introducing what
they call a budget of hope, as contrasted
to what they call your budget of despair.
And their budget of hope, so-called, they
is going to be roomy enough to ac-
say
commodate a very large election year tax
cut for all of us. Now, that might be pretty
hard to vote against in an election year.
I wonder what you think about it.
THE PRESIDENT. I believe the Congress
and the American people have enough
judgment to know that you can't get
something for nothing, that there is no
free lunch involved. This is not a time for
wastefulness. It's not a time to destroy our
budget. It's not a time to avoid the re-
sponsibilities that we all have to make
some sacrifice based on a belief and a con-
fidence in the future of our Nation.
I think we will be restoring hope if we
pass a program which, by the way, the
House has already passed, with the sup-
port of some Republicans, with the op-
position of others. But I think that the
bold proposals that we have made do have
the confidence of the American people,
do have the support of the American
people, and my prediction is that before
the Congress adjourns in 1979, we will
have this program passed with or without
the support of the Republicans in the
House.
CABINET CHANGES; 1980 PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN
Q. Mr. President, was it worth it to
you to cause some destabilization of the
dollar and demoralization of the Federal
Government, spreading doubt through the
land, in order to repudiate much of your
Cabinet? And do you agree with Senator
Jackson that your problems will force you
to forgo any reelection plans and hand
the Democratic nomination to Senator
Kennedy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer
the first question first.
I felt, and still feel, that I had to make
some changes in my Cabinet, as I said
earlier, to create a new team to work with
me, a team that will be united, that will
be forceful and aggressive and confident
in facing the problems that we must meet
in the months ahead. I have no apology
to make for it. Some people thought it
was made too rapidly. I had the choice
of either dragging it out week after week
after week, with speculation and doubt
and confusion, or getting it over, in effect,
in 48 hours. And I felt that the abrupt
action, based on a long and careful con-
sideration, was the best approach.
Senator Jackson. Three or four years
ago I was running for President against
Senator Jackson. At that time he pre-
1304
