Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug 7
tion. Recently, the Congress passed legis-
lation severely reducing Government reg-
ulation of the airline industry. Many of
you flew into Baltimore, and you know
that passengers on airlines have saved
already more than $22 billion. The air-
lines have made more money, more people
travel. Now we have before the Congress
a proposal to do the same thing with
American railroads. And if you'll help me
with Congress, we'll deregulate the rail-
roads, put them back on a sound, blue-ink
basis and have a better transportation sys-
tem for our country.
Amtrak must be more efficient, more
comfortable, and more economical. And
we are finally changing the blocked
Northeast Corridor into an open passage-
way for millions of Americans. This is the
same thing I'm determined to do with my
Presidency, to keep it open by traveling
frequently and freely among the people of
our Nation, and that's why I'm so glad to
be here with you. I thank you for giving
me this opportunity.
Now, people used to call America a
melting pot, but that has never really been
true. The people of this country did come
from all over the world. We are a nation
of immigrants; we are a nation of
refugees. We came here bringing with us
every kind of culture and language and
religion and way of life. Our ancestors all
sought the same freedom, but we never
got melted down into a single featureless
mass where all were exactly the same. And
all of us are glad that this did not happen.
Whatever our race or religion or form
of nationality, we have kept some of our
original character, even as we've learned
to live and to work together as Americans.
We are not a melting pot. We are more
like a pot of minestrone. [Laughter]
As I said often during my campaign
throughout the country, the analogy that
comes closest, to my mind, to capturing
the essence of America is that we are a
mosaic. Each fragment of the mosaic has
its own shape and its own color and its
own size. And the beauty of this mosaic
is to be found both because each piece is
different and unique and because the
pieces fit together in harmony so well.
This country is a mosaic made up of
Italians and Irish and Poles and Jews and
blacks and Orientals and Native Ameri-
cans and even people with southern ac-
cents. [Laughter]
And I might say that all of us have on
occasion suffered from some degree of
prejudice. But the whole is greater than
the sum of its parts, and we will go on
adding pieces to this American mosaic as
long as there is oppression and tyranny
and suffering in the world which people
need to escape and to come here for
freedom.
The famous poem by Emma Lazarus
inscribed at the base of the Statue of
Liberty includes these lines which all of
you know:
Give me your tired, your poor,
Your huddled masses yearning to
breathe free,
The wretched refuse of your teeming
shore.
Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost
to me,
I lift my lamp beside the golden door!
That old, beloved poem has new and
vital meaning today, and we ought to
think about this. The phrase about the
tempest-tossed sounds almost like a
prophecy of the boat people. The refugees
from Indochina who have posed such a
challenge to the conscience of the world,
they are the tempest-tossed of 1979. The
golden door of our Nation must be open
to them just as it was open to the tempest-
tossed parents and grandparents of
almost everyone in this room and all those
who live throughout the country.
There is a tendency in our Nation, even
amongst some of us, to say, well, now it's
1409
