Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 23
than Japan. But there is no doubt in my
mind Japan can do more, and there is no
doubt in my mind the United States can
do more.
We would like to turn this critical prob-
lem into a much more wide ranging area
of responsibility among numerous nations.
Malaysia, Hong Kong, Thailand have
been heavily burdened with an excessive
number of refugees. And I would hope the
People's Republic of China and Japan,
the United States, European areas, and
others can do more in the future. This is
one of the items that will be on the agenda
for the next summit conference.
PRESIDENT'S JOGGING
Q. Mr. President, are you going to jog
while you are in Japan?
THE PRESIDENT. I have a habit of
jogging every day.
Q. With your wife?
THE PRESIDENT. With my wife, yes.
Q. In Tokyo?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that is our pres-
ent plan. There are a lot of excellent run-
ners in Japan.
PRESIDENT'S MEETINGS IN KOREA
Q. Mr. President, if in fact you might
be seeing Mr. Kim Dae-jung in Korea,
would you?
THE PRESIDENT. My intention is to
meet with opposition leaders. I have not
established a definite agenda yet, but that
has been my custom.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 2:45 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
As printed above, the item follows the
transcript of the interview, which was released
on June 23.
Korean and East Asian Issues
Questions and Answers for Publication
in the Orient Press. June 21, 1979
REPUBLIC OF KOREA SECURITY
Q. Many Asians are still concerned
over "gradual United States retreat from
Asia," complaining that the United States
is leaning more heavily toward West
European defense. There are also criti-
cisms in Korea that the United States is
too restrictive in its security cooperation
policy toward Korea to approve sales of
coproduction of sophisticated weapons
such as F-16, A-10 aircraft, submarines,
and so on, while taking every measure to
prevent even a possibility of South Ko-
rean production of nuclear weapons.
Mr. President, what are your guidelines
for U.S. security commitments to the Re-
public of Korea? Furthermore, would you
recommit American ground combat
troops to South Korea after completion
of your troop withdrawal plan, in case of
another North Korean attack, as Presi-
dent Harry Truman did?
A. Anyone with a knowledge of U.S.
history, geography, politics, and eco-
nomics knows that the United States will
not "retreat" from Asia. We are there.
We are a major partner in the Pacific
community. We are a Pacific nation. We
firmly intend to remain one. Recent policy
developments-normalization of relations
with China, strengthening of ties with Ja-
pan, renegotiation of the Philippine base
agreement, and our burgeoning economic
ties with the region-all strengthen our
relationship. Any discussion of our Ko-
rean security commitment occurs in the
context of our strong interest as a Pacific
power.
For many years, in support of our Ko-
rean commitment, we have made avail-
1151
