Oct. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
been adopting can be put into effect. And
I want to take this opportunity of thank-
ing my colleagues in the Congress and
especially you, Mr. President, for making
it possible for this Nation to move forward
for all its people with a Department of
Education.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think Senator
Department of Education
Organization Act
Statement on Signing S. 210 Into Law.
October 17, 1979
Education is our most important na-
tional investment. It commands the time
and attention of 60 million Americans-
Percy is here, but he was a strong right 3 citizens in 10. It consumes an annual
arm for Abe Ribicoff.
Is Dr. Benjamin Mays here? I've been
looking around to see if I could find him.
Dr. Mays, would you come here, please?
Dr. Mays probably personifies the ded-
ication of educators as well or perhaps
better than anyone I know in this coun-
try. He's been involved in education un-
der the most trying circumstances for
more than 50 years, as a teacher, as a
president of a great university, as a leader
in the extremely difficult sociological
changes that took place under the aegis
of education, which required great cour-
age and his personal influence over many
Americans, including myself. I think he
personifies just to repeat myself—the
finest elements of education.
And I just thought it might be good for
me to get one of the fourth graders from
Brent and for Dr. Mays to stand here,
just to show you how important it is to
bridge the generation gap and how the
beneficial effect of distinguished and
dedicated educators, many of whom can-
not be recognized-how their impact on
the life of a child can be so beneficial to
our country. So, I just want to get these
two up here with me.
And now I'd like to sign the bill.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
As enacted, S. 210 is Public Law 96-88, ap-
proved October 17.
public and private expenditure in excess
of $120 billion. Every citizen has a vital,
personal stake in this investment. Our
ability to advance both economically and
technologically, our country's entire intel-
lectual and cultural life depend on the
success of our great educational enter-
prise.
At no time in our history has our Na-
tion's commitment to education been
more justified. At no time in our history
has it been more obvious that our Nation's
great educational challenges cannot be
met with increased resources alone.
I came to the office of the Presidency
determined that the American people
should receive a better return on their in-
vestment in education. I came equally de-
termined that our Nation's formidable
educational challenges should be brought
to the forefront of national discussion,
where they belong.
Primary responsibility for education
should rest with those States, localities,
and private institutions that have made
our Nation's educational system the best
in the world, but the Federal Government
has for too long failed to play its own sup-
porting role in education as effectively as
it could. Instead of assisting school offi-
cials at the local level, it has too often
added to their burden. Instead of setting
a strong administrative model, the Federal
structure has contributed to bureaucratic
buck passing. Instead of stimulating
1958
