Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
ment would do what the American people
wanted, then we wouldn't have the prob-
lem that we've got now.
So, how far does the Government do
what we don't want done? And also on
the Panama Canal, how far does human
rights go, that we don't step in and help
our allies and we take over and help the
human rights situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try to answer that.
The United States keeps its commit-
ment to our allies. I just came from South
Korea just 2 or 3 weeks ago. I have never
had such an outpouring of a welcome in
my life. There were literally millions of
people on the street expressing their
thanks to America for guaranteeing the
independence and freedom of the people
of South Korea.
Since I've been in office, we have sub-
stantially strengthened our own Nation's
military commitment to our Allies in
NATO, in Western Europe. We've got
new friends that were formerly intimate
allies with the Soviet Union. Egypt is a
typical example. You can look at the
whole coast of Asia now, from South Ko-
rea all the way down around to India; in
almost every instance, we have a stronger
allegiance and a closer friendship with
them than we had 2 years ago, 5 years
ago, or 10
years ago.
We've got strong, new allies in Africa.
I remember, I think, 32 years ago, Secre-
tary Kissinger wanted to go to Nigeria as
the Secretary of State of our country. He
was not permitted to come into the nation
of Nigeria, a hundred million people, the
largest and the strongest nation in Africa.
Now they are very good friends of ours.
So, we stand by our commitments with-
out apology and without deviation.
Now, about Panama. I don't have any
apology to make at all about the Panama
Canal treaties, which, as you know, were
ratified by two-thirds of the people in the
Senate. This was not a popular thing to
do, but, in my opinion, it was the right
thing to do. Our Nation's security is much
better off having strong and friendly allies
in Panama sharing with us the operation
and the maintenance and the defense of
the Panama Canal instead of having bit-
ter enemies in Panama, knowing that we
had broken our faith, violated our word,
and mistreated those people in Panama.
Now, the canal is operated from now
until the year 2000 jointly by us and
Panama. They're our friends; they trust
us; we cooperate. After the year 2000, the
Panamanians will be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the canal.
The United States will still have the right
and the responsibility and the duty to de-
fend the canal. That's what I believe is
in the best interests of our own country.
It would not help us to violate our com-
mitment to Panama, to have the Soviet
Union and Cuba come in and try to
change that government into a Commun-
ist government. Since we ratified the Pan-
ama Canal treaties, the Panamanians have
had a free election; they have chosen 500-
and-something members of their Congress.
The Congress members have chosen a
brand new President, and Panama is on
the road now toward a true democracy.
So, I think that our human rights
stand, our treating our allies with good
faith, and our keeping our word of honor
and making sure that we prepare for our
Nation's security in the future all are
wrapped up in the record that we've
carved out for this administration and for
the American people.
I have no apology to make, although
the Panama Canal treaties was a misun-
derstood move that our Government
made. It was not politically popular. I
don't have any doubt that I lost a lot of
political support on account of it, but it
was right. And I would rather be right in
1349
