June 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
rights within an international order so
deeply anti-democratic as the one in ex-
istence. The democratic transformation
that your enlightened international poli-
cies search for cannot be reached without
the disappearance of the economic struc-
tures and the privilege that characterize
that international order.
The hopes that I place in the present di-
rection of United States policies are condi-
tioned in the first place by the establish-
ment by the United States of the needed
link between the ethical principles and as-
pirations and the policies, that there may
be adequate understanding of world prob-
lems and their risks, political will to con-
front them, paying more attention to the
reality that the people live with than to
the formal and so often hypocritical rela-
tions between governments. This is the
esteemable and beautiful worth that we
give to the direct and sincere word with
which you, Mr. President, are gaining the
esteem and admiration of the people of
Latin America, without genuflecting ac-
cents of the decayed diplomacy of half
words and euphemisms. Confronting the
biased criticism of actors and accomplices
of the Latin American tragedy are raised
the complacency of those who suffer tor-
ture, deprivation of liberty or persecution,
and also of those like us who do not have
enough influence to achieve alone the re-
demption of human dignity.
The efforts of the Third World in favor
of dialog and cooperation for the estab-
lishment of the new international eco-
nomic order have not found satisfactory
answers on the part of the industrialized
world, including the United States.
The less than encouraging results of the
North-South conference indicate that the
industrialized world resists in recognizing
the need to transform the structures of
privileges, and also show that they do not
yet perceive with sufficient clarity the dan-
gers inherent in this situation.
You, Mr. President, with true vision,
have begun to speak another language.
Without saying so expressly, you have
understood that selfishness has presided
until now over the lukewarm conduct of
the great nations.
It is indispensable that the industrial
world understand that the order of pri-
orities no longer has in their first places
the East-West conflict and the stabiliza-
tion of the traditional power blocs, and
that now the major efforts must be ex-
erted in the resolution of the North-South
conflict in order to create a new inter-
national order, just and equitable.
It is necessary that the industrial world
understand that the creation of that new
world order demands bold initiatives and
global solutions, with major changes in
the living standards of the rich nations
insofar as they may be derived from the
exploitation of the poorer nations.
The dissemination of conventional and
nuclear arms in the world finds impulse
in the vertical proliferation of all kinds
of armaments in the hands of the in-
dustrial countries. Modern military tech-
nology creates specific problems of great
complexity. But we believe that if the
political will exists, those problems can
be overcome. Détente and arms control
are necessary conditions, but not enough
to build world peace upon solid founda-
tions. To assert otherwise would be to
give military matters an autonomy that
it does not have, to give it primacy over
the political, and to disengage politics
from social matters which would mean
to repeat the mistakes that in the past
have only driven to failure and tragedy.
The Third World wishes to dialog
and to negotiate. The other alternative,
deplorable as it may be, is confrontation—
which nobody wants, but that, perhaps,
many may be forced to resort to. From
there stems the large responsibility of the
developed countries if a confrontation
situation is created with the Third World
1186
