Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have directed the Secretaries of
Interior and Agriculture to cooperate with
the Secretary of the Army in developing
technical criteria and guidelines for in-
spections and assisting the States. This
dam inspection program cannot be a sub-
stitute for effective dam safety programs
at the State level; it is intended to stimu-
late the States to action. The Federal
Government will use this initiative to es-
tablish a partnership with the States in
developing State programs. The Federal
program will be limited to initial inspec-
tions only, will involve no assumption of
Federal liability, and will be completed
within 4 years.
Because the inspection program will not
resolve specific dam safety problems and
will not relieve the States or owners of
these structures of their responsibilities for
public safety, we will ask for Governors to
agree, prior to these inspections, to take
certain steps toward establishing an ade-
quate State program for dam safety.
States that agree to take these steps will be
eral dams in the high hazard potential
category by virtue of their location;
4. Fund and administer the inspection
of intermediate hazard category dams on
Federal property; and
5. Fund and administer the inspection
of a limited number of other nonfederal
dams determined, on a case-by-case basis,
after consultation with State officials, to
be in a condition presenting an immedi-
ate threat to public safety.
The States will be asked to cooperate
fully, by:
1. Assuring implementation of an effec-
tive dam safety program;
2. Assisting in implementing the fed-
erally financed dam inspections, including
participation in State personnel training,
and performing actual dam inspections
where criteria are met; and
3. Assuring that they will use available
means to take remedial actions when un-
safe dams are found.
given priority for Federal inspections and Institute of Museum Services
technical assistance. We recognize that
some States already have excellent dam
safety programs.
I have also asked the Secretary of the
Army, in cooperation with the Secretaries
Nomination of Leila I. Kimche To Be
Director. December 2, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Leila I. Kimche, of Be-
tute of Museum Services.
of the Interior and Agriculture and the thesda, Md., to be Director of the Insti-
Science Adviser to the President, to report
back to me within 1 year on the status of
the inspection effort, the development of
State programs, and any needed addi-
tional actions to assure national dam
safety.
In summary, the Federal Government
will:
1. Begin immediately to work with all
of the States to implement or improve
dam safety programs;
Kimche was born June 21, 1934, in
New York City. She received a B.S.S.
from George Washington University in
1956.
From 1969 to 1974, Kimche was assist-
ant director for special projects for the
American Association of Museums in
Washington, where she was responsible
for the Association's communications
with more than 3,000 museums of art,
2. Update the National Dam Inven- history, and science. Since 1974 she has
tory;
3. Fund and administer the inspection
of all the approximately 9,000 nonfed-
been executive director of the Associa-
tion of Science-Technology Centers, an
organization of 68 science museums.
2072
