Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
mentioned is most encouraging to me and
I am glad to hear that from from you,
Mr. President.
We hope that during this time that we
can come up with a very good, meaning-
ful water policy that will be endorsed by
all the tribes across the country in work-
ing hand in hand with your administra-
tion and your staff, Mr. President.
I would like to mention about the In-
dian water rights. It is also a very import-
ant and different concern to us as In-
dians. We love our land. It is our mother
earth. And we want to keep it as the
Great Spirit has put us there, because we
talk about environmental issues—we have
talked about a lot of these other concerns
that we have got-but the Indian loves
his land. His water means quite a bit to
him. So, therefore, he, the Indian, will
follow steps to be taken to protect his
water rights. And this is what the two Ute
tribes in the State of Colorado have gone
that route. Some of the court decisions
that have been made was not too interest-
ing, but it concerns us.
Now moving on, we like to work with
your administration in perhaps coming
up with a national policy, how this can
be worked out rather than going to the
courts, because we feel that Indian rights
belong to the Indian people. It's not a
national right, but it belongs to the In-
dian, and that he should be given the
right to use that water in some way.
Mr. President, I would like to thank
you on behalf of this Ute Mountain Tribe
for the Dolores Project that is now under
construction.
That has gone into construction. This
has taken us quite a long time in work-
ing with the non-Indian neighbors that
we have in southwest Colorado, on the
congressional delegation, the
delegation, the former
Governors and our present Governor
Lamm in working together-this is what
we have come up with. And we certainly
appreciate your help and your concern
that the Dolores Project will be a benefit
to the tribe.
Lastly, Mr. President, I would like to
comment on another project that we are
working on and have been working on
for many years.
I have, as a spokesman and leader for
my tribe, been the last 11 years going
back to Washington and testifying before
the committees of Congress in support of
this particular project. It will mean quite
a bit to my people, the Southern Utes and
the Ute mountain people in the Four
Corners area. We are very interested in
this project. We have worked with our
non-Indian neighbors, planned with
them, and that's the Animus LaPlata
Project. I hope, Mr. President, that you
could give that a priority so that this proj-
ect, meaningful to the Indian tribes in the
State of Colorado-we would appreciate
it
very much. Again, Mr. President, thank
you for this time in listening to me.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr.
Burch. On that last project, as you know,
we did support that project.
I would like to go now to Mr. Ray
Wells, who is from one of the major sub-
urban areas and ask him to comment spe-
cifically on the need of growing communi-
ties in the use of water. Ray.
Again let me remind everybody to be
as brief as you can, because I do want to
go to the audience.
Ray.
WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
MR. WELLS. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr.
President. As I am sure you are aware,
the Denver metro area is rapidly becom-
ing the transportation and energy center
for Western United States.
Mr. President, if we are to meet that
destiny, we must have a supply of water,
1874
