Nov. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
you think a public official has a right to lie
in public about his business under any
circumstances?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it is not a badge
of honor, and a public official does not
have a right to lie.
The Helms case is one that we in-
herited. I've never met Mr. Helms. I don't
believe the Attorney General has ever met
Mr. Helms.
This is a serious problem that evolved
in years past. We had three major facets
of this question: One is to uphold the law;
the second was to uphold the veracity re-
quirement, the truthfulness requirement
of those who testify before Congress; and
the third one was to make the best judg-
ment we could on how to protect the
security of our Nation.
I think the decision that was made by
the Attorney General, confirmed by the
courts, was the right decision and the best
decision. It does fulfill all three of those
requirements. It does not condone lying,
it does uphold the law, and I think it did
protect, as best we could, the security of
our country.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, it's our understand-
ing that some of your top national se-
curity advisers met yesterday in the White
House Situation Room to sort of reassess
the situation in the Middle East in light
of the recent trouble on the Lebanon
border. Can you give us some assessment
this morning, especially what effect this
might have on the Middle East peace con-
ference later this year?
THE PRESIDENT. This new outburst of
violence is a great concern to us and, I
think, to the nations in the Middle East,
to all people of the world. The unwar-
ranted and continuing terrorist attacks
have been part of the Middle East picture
for years. The retaliatory measures taken
by nations who were attacked by terror-
ists has been a part of the picture in the
Middle East for years. I think it shows the
volatile nature there of the continuing
problems.
I think it shows in a much more vivid
way than perhaps in the past, recent past,
the need for an immediate convening of
the Geneva conference as soon as we can
get these national leaders to sit down, or
their representatives to sit down on a con-
tinuing basis and work out face to face
these divisions that have existed in the
Middle East for generations.
Loss of life is deplorable. But the situa-
tion is never going to be improved, in my
opinion, until those nations there are will-
ing to step beyond the procedural debates
and squabbles about exactly how to go
and exactly what representation will be
present and start dealing with the real
issues. I've been pleased that the Israeli
Government has adopted the procedures
for the Geneva conference that we've pro-
posed. I was pleased with the statement
yesterday by President Sadat that he was
willing to go to Geneva or anywhere else
and begin to consult directly with Israel
and with the other Arab nations without
quibbling any more about the detailed
wording of the procedures. That's our
position.
I hope that Jordan and Syria and
Lebanon very quickly will make a similar
response to us, and that we can then con-
vene the Geneva conference. But the
major all-encompassing question in the
Middle East is that the bloodshed, in my
opinion, will not be stopped until the
nations are willing to negotiate on the
basic divisions that have separated them
so long.
Q. Well, do you think the Israeli attack
was justified the retaliation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think this is a
question that's hard for me to answer—
whether Israel can sit dormant and quies-
cent and accept repeated attacks on their
1996
