Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 13
come the object of most of the attention
of your administration until Congress is
out—a last-ditch effort perhaps to salvage
what you can in the Senate.
But what do you see, offering on a more
immediate basis, to stop the loss of jobs in
the U.S. steel industry-perhaps through
some sort of voluntary quotas with other
Certainly that's not entirely the fault of steel-exporting countries?
the oil lobbies. Shouldn't the administra-
tion and people in the Senate, like Russell
Long, take some of the blame?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I take my share
of the blame. I don't know how to define
it. I think that Senator Russell Long is
working long and hard to come up with
an acceptable energy package. And my
own hope is that before this
is over,
year
legislation at least equivalent to what the
House passed will be in its final version.
But I'm not trying to blame all the
problem on the oil companies. The grab-
bing for the financial rewards is what I
deplore in the oil companies. And that is
a major issue on gas deregulation and also
in the price structure for oil.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, steel imports are
just one part of a fairly large number of
problems that affect the United States
steel industry and which, I might say,
affect the steel industry all over the world.
I met with the Prime Minister of Lux-
embourg the other day, and he said, “The
biggest single problem that I have is the
low quantity of orders for my steel prod-
ucts and the relatively low price." The
Luxembourg steel industry is in just as
bad a shape. The rest of them are, too.
One of the things that have taken place
already is a voluntary reduction in exports
to our country by some of the other steel
producers in West Germany and Japan.
But that's an exceptionally artificial and
steel industry.
Part of the blame falls on me, my pred- simplistic approach to the problem of the
ecessors, and the American people. We
are simply wasting too much energy. For
the same standard of living, we use twice
as much energy as is used in Japan, West
Germany, Sweden, and other countries of
that kind. So, we've got to cut down on
our waste through conservation measures,
voluntary action, and also a realization of
the seriousness of this question.
And I am also concerned as Command-
er in Chief of our country about the se-
rious security implications of becoming in-
creasingly dependent upon foreign oil
supplies which may for some reason be in-
terrupted. So, I consider this to be a cru-
cial issue, not just economically, not just
who gets the gross profits, but also for our
own Nation's security.
U.S. STEEL INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, you have a special
meeting here today on the steel industry,
and also you have a special task force
working on the domestic steel problem.
Our analysis has shown that reduction
in imports would not materially increase
the supplies or the demand for steel
among our own American suppliers, that
any benefit to them financially would
probably come from greatly increased
prices, which would have to be paid for
by the American consumers. It's an ex-
tremely complicated question.
The general, overall world recession or
slow growth means that you are just not
building as many things all over the world
that require steel.
But my hope and expectation is to learn
as much as I can, personally, about the
steel industry, all of its problems, and then
to propose to the Congress and to the steel
industry itself and to negotiate perhaps
with other countries that export steel to us
a resolution of these problems.
It's longstanding. It's historic. The
trends have been there, of course, long be-
fore I came in office. But this afternoon
1789
