July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the unemployment ratio among black
youths is up to 58 percent.
I know money is being funneled into
the city to help alleviate these problems,
but is there anything else, any other areas
where that problem may be helped?
THE PRESIDENT. I've never seen any
statistics that equaled those. I wouldn't
dispute them, because statistics can be
used to prove a point. So far, since I've
been in office, and I don't claim credit for
it, the unemployment rate on a nation-
wide basis has decreased one full per-
cent, which was the goal that we set for
ourselves for the entire year to get it
down to a 7-percent level. It was 8.1 per-
cent in December of 1976.
We've got, in addition to that, about a
$21 billion stimulus package, a major
portion of which is oriented toward em-
ployment with the Comprehensive Edu-
cation and Training Act, public works
jobs, and so forth. In addition, we've got
273,000 jobs for young people that would
be included partially in those-
Q. What was that number again?
THE PRESIDENT. 273,000, I think;
some of them in our National Park Sys-
tem, and so forth. Some of that is in the
CETA programs.
In addition, we've got 1.1 million jobs
approved for the summer work program.
I think this is the highest level we've ever
had. This last month's report on employ-
ment showed a slight increase, about 12
points. But heads of families improve
their percentage of employment. I think
the increase in unemployment was pri-
marily among housewives, women who
were partial employees. And since last
November, there've been 3 million new
jobs provided in our country on a net
basis. We've got 3 million more people
working today than were working last
November. In the last month alone, we
increased 270,000 jobs in spite of a slight
increase in unemployment percentage.
But we are deeply concerned about
young persons' employment, particularly
in minority groups. When we met in Lon-
don at the summit conference, I would
say the number one issue that we dis-
cussed among all seven heads of nations
was youth unemployment. And we are
trying to cooperate with our allies and
friends who were there to deal with that
particular subject. But I have never seen
any sort of statistic as high as the one
you've quoted. I wouldn't argue with it.
GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, I understand that
perhaps part of this program or meeting
today, sir, is to get feedback, also. Of
course, I don't think it's anything new to
you, but I think one of the new-one of
the prime concerns among the people in
our area is that of the waste in Govern-
ment, the seeming irresponsibility of
Congress, and the unresponsiveness of the
bureaucracy; a feeling of desperation that
nothing can be done and feeling over-
whelmed by it.
I put this in the context of requesting,
sir, to know a little bit of what's going on
in the area of reform, internally.
THE PRESIDENT. This afternoon, I'll
present my first proposal to the public on
reorganization. We started with the most
difficult one of all, as far as I am con-
cerned, and that is cutting down the
Executive Office of the President. It's
difficult because of the personalities in-
volved; they're so close to me. It is also
difficult because here is a repository of
many special programs that Congress had
established where closeness to the Presi-
dent himself would permit them to span
across several departments as they made
decisions. It's a very controversial subject.
1272
