June 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
energy policy; and the other one was an
economic stimulus package.
Well, I think any sort of an analysis
by the news media as objective as possible
would show that four of those things have
already been carried out to almost com-
plete fruition. The only remaining one is
the energy policy, which is on schedule. So,
I think the demonstration of this harmony
is already there.
I might say one other thing. We've really
loaded the Congress up with controversial
matters, things that have been delayed
for years or decades, sometimes genera-
tions, that hadn't been faced. They are
controversial. They are very difficult. And
I feel good about it.
The Congress does have still on the
table some very important matters. One
is how to deal with the social security re-
serve fund depletion. We've now got only
a couple of years left in the disability
fund, and whether the Congress will act
permanently to resolve the problem as we
have advocated or take action that would
only provide temporary relief, I don't
know yet. But either one, I think, would
not be a sign of a schism between the
White House and the Congress. And I
think if you talk to any Members of the
Congress, even Republican Members, you
would see that they believe there's been
more consultation, more exchange of ideas
on domestic and international affairs than
there has been in a long time.
But I feel good about it. My deep,
visceral sense is that we have a good work-
ing relationship with Congress.
Q. Mr. President,
President, a clarification,
please.
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. You mentioned five goals. I think
I got energy twice.
THE PRESIDENT. One was energy
policy; the other one was the construction
of a new Department of Energy.
Q. I see.
NATURAL GAS PRICES
Q. Mr. President, will your energy pro-
gram take any steps towards price equal-
ization for the Northeast area?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We advocated,
for instance, that there be a termination
of the intrastate gas system and that inter-
state-intrastate would be treated the same.
It would open up substantial amounts of
gas we feel for the rest of the country.
Some of the gas-producing States don't
like this, in particular. But I think we
have a fairly good chance of succeeding.
Another thing that we implemented in
our own plans-and none of these deci-
sions have been made by Congress-is
that there would be a guarantee to home-
owners that any increase in fuel oil prices
would be rebated to the homeowners who
would provide some equalization. Any re-
consumed that fuel for heating. This
duction in the amount of oil imported as
a proportion of the total, I think, would
benefit those regions like your own which
are heavily dependent on imported oil.
And more uniform prices around
the country, which would result from a
new energy policy, would certainly remove
the discrimination that presently exists
that has a slow but inexorable pressure
on industry to decide to go to other parts
of the country.
I think these aspects of the energy pro-
gram would help to alleviate the present,
I'd say, disadvantage, as far as energy
goes, of the New England States.
Is the time up? I'll answer this one more
question and then I'll have to go.
FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, Henry Kissinger was
in Denver on Wednesday and he was
defending his old turf. And the message I
got from listening to him was it's easy to
criticize the State Department for lack of
imagination when you are on the outside,
but once you are in office many of these
1172
