Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 11
I
Hence, we are again in a position to
indicate our readiness to work together
for the cause of freedom and understand-
ing and to foster cooperation in areas of
mutual benefit. While we seek to forge
closer relations between our two countries,
let us, Mr. President, remember that the
commitment of our peoples to freedom
is total and that we can only carry our
people along with us if we continue to
uphold and nurture those principles
which motivate their action.
As far as we are concerned, we are
happy to note that for the first time a
United States administration is showing
signs of recognizing the necessity of plac-
ing Africa in its proper position as a major
focal point in the quest for international
peace and stability. Nowhere in the world
is there a greater assault on human rights
than in Africa. Nowhere is the continued
exportation of weapons of war and the
technology of destruction likely to have
graver consequences than in Africa. And
so long as Africa remains unstable, for
whatever due political reasons, so long
will developments there continue to pose
a threat to world peace.
This is why we welcome with pride the
place which you and your administra-
tion have given to human rights. This has
kindled a new awareness of freedom and
its overall importance in the overall con-
text of relations between nation states.
If this policy is consistently pursued,
the peoples of Africa will have no diffi-
culty in accepting that your stand and
commitment to freedom and justice is
more than mere rhetoric. The basic
rights of all human beings, which your
administration upholds, remind us all that
one of the primary responsibilities of all
governments is to jealously protect and
assure the fundamental rights of their
peoples. We in Nigeria share this belief
with you, Mr. President.
There is hardly any need for me to re-
count here the steps we are taking in
Nigeria to restore the government of our
country to a democratically elected body
by 1979. While our own traditions of gov-
ernment and historical experience will in-
evitably influence the form and content
of our constitution and the style of gov-
ernment in our country, we cannot ignore
the lessons and experiences of older
republics.
Mr. President, since our arrival here,
you and I have discussed at length the
situation in southern Africa. If we have
devoted so much time to the subject, it
is largely because we share the view that
nowhere else in the world are the ideas
of freedom, justice, and human rights so
wantonly and systematically trampled
upon than in that unhappy part of our
continent.
While I do not wish to go over the
issues again here, I would like to stress
that they are of paramount importance
in the relations between our two coun-
tries and peoples. I am sure, therefore,
that we shall continue to monitor events
in the three problem areas of southern
Africa.
Here again, Nigeria, for her part, is
prepared to support all efforts aimed at
finding just and peaceful solutions to the
problems of southern Africa. Those of us
who are skeptical about the current well-
intentioned international efforts directed
at bringing about desirable change in
southern Africa through peaceful means
are led to that conclusion by our under-
standing of racism and colonialism.
Peaceful negotiations can only be carried
out in an atmosphere of mutual respect
and confidence. Neither Vorster nor
Smith inspire any confidence, trust, or
respect. Indeed, given the very systems
they are committed to maintain, it is idle
and unrealistic to expect them to mirac-
1775
