Aug. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ney's Office in Atlanta or the regional of-
fice of the Comptroller and discussing
with them the inquiries into Mr. Lance
that were extant at that point?
THE PRESIDENT. I have never heard of
that before. And if there are any people
who worked in the transition time who
made an inquiry about Mr. Lance's af-
fairs, they did it without my knowledge
and without my authority, and it would
have been contrary to my inclinations.
Q. May I follow that up? With all of
your Cabinet appointments, before the
nominations were made you had benefit
of an FBI report, with the exception of
Mr. Lance. Do you regret that now, that
you made that nomination without the
FBI report?
THE PRESIDENT. No, that has not been
the case in every instance. For instance,
my most recent appointment of Judge
Frank Johnson to head up the FBI was
made without an IRS and FBI check.
There have been a few instances when
this was not done because of the pressure
of time and because we needed to move
aggressively to make the decision or when
I had absolute trust in them. But I don't
have any regret about that.
MR. GERSTENZANG. Thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: President Carter's fourteenth news
conference began at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Presidential Advisory Committees
Executive Order 12007. August 22, 1977
TERMINATION OF CERTAIN PRESIDENTIAL
ADVISORY COMMITTEES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
order to terminate certain advisory com-
mittees in accordance with the provisions
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act
(5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered
as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Citizens' Advisory
Council on the Status of Women is termi-
nated.
(b) Executive Order No. 11126 of No-
vember 1, 1963, as amended by Execu-
tive Order No. 11221 of May 6, 1965, is
further amended as follows:
(1) Subsection (5) of Section 102 is
revoked.
(2) Section 103, in order to delete a
reference to the Council, is amended to
read as follows:
"Annually the Committee shall trans-
mit a report to the President concerning
the status of women."
(3) Part II is revoked.
(4) The second sentence of Section
301, in order to delete references to the
Council, is amended to read as follows:
"To the extent practical and to the
extent permitted by law (1) all Executive
agencies shall cooperate with the Com-
mittee and furnish it such information
and assistance as may be necessary for
the performance of its functions, and (2)
the Secretary of Labor shall furnish staff,
office space, office facilities and supplies,
and other necessary assistance, facilities,
and services for the Committee."
SEC. 2. (a) The Citizens' Advisory
Committee on Environmental Quality is
terminated.
(b) Part II of Executive Order No.
11472 of May 29, 1969, as amended by
paragraphs (7) and (8) of Section 4 of
Executive Order No. 11514 of March 5,
1970, is revoked.
SEC. 3. (a) The Advisory Council for
Minority Enterprise is terminated.
(b) Section 2 of Executive Order No.
11625 of October 13, 1971, is revoked.
.1494
