Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 24
unstable, no indication that it's going to
change in the near future, particularly
with contract talks coming up. How can
the Nation place reliance on coal when it
can't rely on the coal miners to get the
coal out of the ground? Are you monitor-
ing that situation?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, to some degree.
The coal labor contract will be negotiated
this year. That's the schedule. And that's
the last major labor contract that we face
until the end of 1978. The recent elec-
tion, of course, whose outcome will cer-
tainly be challenged, was an obstacle that
had to be overcome before serious negotia-
tions could commence. We are monitoring
that situation very closely through Ray
Marshall, the Secretary of Labor.
One of the exacerbating conditions
about the coal mining relations are the
wildcat strikes that take place outside the
purview or without the approval of the
elected leaders of the United Mine Work-
ers and, of course, the rapid depletion of
funds in the union treasury to pay legiti-
mate claims. And all those things are
going to create disharmonies.
We are projecting an ultimate coal
production in 1985 of almost 1,300 mil-
lion tons per year, which is about an 85-
percent increase over the present produc-
tion level. And I hope that increasing
prices, increasing mechanization, opening
up of new mine areas, and also I hope
that after this year's negotiations that
labor-management relationships might be
improved-all those things are very
portant. But I don't have any way to
control management-labor terms. And I
think public concern about work stop-
pages, unless the reasons are very clear to
the public, is a restraining factor, but
that's the best I can answer your question.
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
im-
Q. Mr. President, your support of nu-
clear power does not include the Clinch
River breeder reactor.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. But you have stated that you would
like to see the Tennessee Valley Authority
use some sort of model in your energy
program. Do you have any specific plans
for what role you would like to see the
TVA play?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. If you don't
mind, to save time, I would like to get you
a copy of a letter that I have written to
the Directors of the Tennessee Valley
Authority that outline, I think, 14 or 15
different areas in which the Tennessee
Valley Authority might play a leading
role.
With roughly four million homes with-
in the TVA system, they have an oppor-
tunity to test out the power suppliers' and
homeowners' relationships on things such
as peak-load pricing, insulation of homes,
new price structures, and I think that
these kinds of tests or pilot programs
would be very helpful for the rest of the
country.
TVA is also helping us with and help-
ing themselves with research or pilot
projects, for instance, concerning the
fluid bed burning of coal and also, I be-
lieve, with the solvent, cleaned coal, along
with, I think, the Georgia Power Com-
pany. So, these are a few of the things that
come to mind.
But I've met with the Chairman of the
TVA Authority. And he has contributed
to this letter so that we could have a
mutual exchange of ideas. The Directors
have responded very well to this, and I
think this would naturally tend to channel
the large supply of research and develop-
ment funds we have in the energy field
toward TVA.
Obviously they'll be involved in addi-
tional matters concerning liquefaction,
gasification of coal, solar energy, and
heavily going into the atomic power field
as well.
1169
