Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 12
tarization of that area. This is a controver-
sial matter. It affects other nations as
well-India, Australia, New Zealand,
Iran, Somalia, and so forth.
So, we are now trying to address some
questions that in the past have been
avoided or delayed.
The question of human rights is one
that obviously has caused some tough de-
bate and difference of opinion, expressed
publicly and privately. We could have sat
quiescently and never raised the issue of
human rights. I believe that our raising of
the issue was compatible with the hopes
and dreams and inclinations and commit-
ments of the American people. And there
have been varying kinds of responses to
this pursuit.
We do not initiate all these con-
troversies. As you know, the basket three
aspect of the Helsinki agreement would
have raised the human rights question to
some degree, absent any commitment on
my part.
But I don't think that this is an indica-
tion of deteriorated relationships between
us and the Soviets because we are finally
addressing, in a forceful way, from dif-
ferent perspectives, some extremely con-
troversial but important issues.
So although I would like for us to agree
Railroad Retirement Board
Nomination of Earl Oliver To Be a Member.
July 12, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Earl Oliver, of Chicago,
Ill., to be a member of the Railroad Re-
tirement Board. He would replace Wythe
D. Quarles. Oliver retired from Illinois
Central Gulf Railroad in 1975, and since
then has performed staff work for the
National Railway Labor Conference and
the Railroad Labor-Management Com-
mittee.
He was born February 25, 1917, in
Monticello, Ky. He received a B.A. from
Oklahoma A&M College.
From 1941 to 1947, Oliver worked for
the Chicago and Northwestern Railway
as a secretary, chief clerk, safety inspec-
tor, assistant trainmaster, and train-
master. He was with Illinois Central Gulf
Railroad from 1948 to 1975, working in
various labor relations positions, then as
manager of personnel, director of per-
sonnel, vice president for personnel, and
finally senior vice president for personnel
and administration.
on everything, I think the period of de- Department of the Interior
bate, disagreement, probing, and negotia-
tion was inevitable. And I have no apolo-
gies to offer, and I have no regrets about
the issues that have been raised that have
proven to be controversial.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Frank,
very much. Thank you, everybody.
NOTE: President Carter's eleventh news con-
ference began at 2:32 p.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Nomination of Forrest J. Gerard To Be an
Assistant Secretary. July 12, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Forrest J. Gerard, of
Bowie, Md., to be Assistant Secretary of
the Interior for Indian Affairs. He would
replace Albert C. Zapanta. Gerard is a
lobbyist in Washington whose clients in-
clude several Indian tribes and the As-
sociation of American Indian Affairs.
Gerard was born January 15, 1925, in
Browning, Mont. He received a B.A. from
1239
