Sept. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
CHARLES W. WHALEN, JR., U.S. Representa-
tive from Ohio, member of the House In-
ternational Relations Committee;
CORETTA SCOTT KING, lecturer and writer,
president of the Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Foundation and the Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Center for Social Change.
Alternate Representatives:
DONALD F. MCHENRY, Deputy Representative
of the United States in the Security Council
of the United Nations;
MELISSA F. WELLS, Representative of the
United States on the Economic and Social
Council of the United Nations;
ALLARD K. LOWENSTEIN, Alternate Repre-
sentative of the United States for Special
Political Affairs in the United Nations;
MARJORIE C. BENTON, employed by Films,
Inc., of Wilmette, Ill., president of the Bet-
ter Government Association (Chicago),
chairperson, Illinois 51.3% Committee;
JOHN C. KENNEDY, partner and general man-
ager of an Oklahoma real estate and insur-
ance firm, chairman of the Oklahoma De-
partment of Transportation.
Fire Prevention Week, 1977
Proclamation 4521. September 19, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The United States of America and its
people continue to be victims of destruc-
tive fires at a rate unmatched in the indus-
trialized world. For this reason, it is essen-
tial that we all be aware of the potential
for tragedy from fire and that we do all
within our power to eradicate the threat
of unwanted fire.
The most recent figures available indi-
cate that about 7,500 Americans die, over
300,000 are injured, and more than $4
billion in property is lost annually because
of fire. These fires occur in all areas of
America, in homes, factories, offices,
schools, nightclubs, prisons, and homes for
elderly, and affect all Americans. Profes-
sional fire fighters bear a disproportionate
burden of the human costs of fire; theirs
is still one of the most hazardous profes-
sions in America. In addition, thousands
of individuals face the dangers of fire
without pay, as volunteer fire fighters.
Through the efforts of the fire services,
concerned citizens, the private sector, and
government, Americans are becoming in-
creasingly aware of the problem, and
some of its solutions.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate the week begin-
ning October 9, 1977, as Fire Prevention
Week.
I call upon all Americans to learn basic
fire prevention and personal fire safety
practices and to apply these safeguards
to reduce the toll of death, burn injuries
and property loss due to fire.
I urge all Federal, State and local agen-
cies concerned with such national prob-
lems as energy conservation, environmen-
tal protection, and economic well-being to
consider fully how their programs can
help assure that all Americans live and
work in an environment that is as safe as
possible from the danger of fire.
I urge the continued cooperation of
Government and the private sector in en-
couraging the use of smoke detection and
fire suppression systems.
I call upon the members of the Joint
Council of National Fire Service Organi-
zations, the National Fire Protection Asso-
ciation, all other organizations concerned
with fire safety, and the National Fire
Prevention and Control Administration to
provide the leadership, planning, and in-
novation necessary for an effective na-
tional fire prevention and control effort.
Finally, let us all recognize the valiant
and determined efforts of the fire services,
1626
