Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
that Panama's patience could be ex-
hausted.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, no, I don't feel
any constraint to operate under a dead-
line. But both Senator Byrd and I and the
leaders of the Senate all hope that we can
resolve that issue early in the year, cer-
tainly I think by April.
Ms. WALTERS. On that-since, by the
way, just to get back to my original ques-
tions-it seems that your priorities next
year are very similar to your priorities this
year, energy and the economy. But in Oc-
tober, you and President Torrijos issued
a statement—a joint statement to remove
the doubts about the rights of the United
States to defend the neutrality of the
canal and also the right of ships to pass
promptly through it. A number of Sena-
tors have felt that they might be more
comfortable with this if it were actually
written into the treaty.
Would you be willing to see the treaty
amended so that it would reflect this un-
derstanding, this statement between you
and General Torrijos?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think it would
be good to have a signed agreement be-
tween me and President Torrijos, and he
has indicated he would be glad to sign
that statement that was made, and of
course, I would too. I think the Senate
could express an understanding that the
treaty was being approved by them with
the understanding that this was a proper
interpretation. But to actually amend the
treaty would require Panama to have an-
other referendum on the subject, and
they've already had one.
Many people in Panama think that the
treaties are too favorable to the United
States. And I don't think it would be fair
to them after they negotiated in good
faith to cause them to have a completely
new referendum. I would certainly hate
to have two ratification votes in the Sen-
ate, separated by several months. So, I
think that the Senate can very well ex-
press its understanding of what the trea-
ties mean. We can exchange documents
with the Panamanian leader. To amend
the treaties, though, I think would be in-
advisable.
ENERGY LEGISLATION
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, since
we are talking about the Congress, what
are you going to do about the energy bill
now? It's been going on for 6 months
now. There seems to be a deadlock there
in the conference committee. I saw a poll
taken by your pollster the other day that
said 44 percent of the people in this coun-
try still are undecided about whether it's
a good bill or not. What do you do now?
Do you start over?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Do you stay with the
conference committee? What happens?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's not a
problem with the Congress. There's not a
problem with the House. The problem is
with the Senate conference committee
that is dealing with the crucial issue of
natural gas. There are 18 members on
the Senate conference committee.
They've been divided nine and nine ever
since the conference began. And I would
hope that a compromise could be worked
out that could be acceptable to me, to
the House Members, and to the Senate
conferees and to the Senate quite early
in the next session.
MR. SCHIEFFER. There isn't any sign of
that yet.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are pri-
vate signs, Bob. [Laughter]
MR. SCHIEFFER. Tell us about them.
Ms. WALTERS. Could I ask one part of
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Please do.
Ms. WALTERS. Would you be willing
to sign legislation that permitted natural
gas prices to go above the figure of $1.75
2196
