June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This review will focus on the programs
that comprise the core of the Federal local
development assistance package:
• Business promotion, where over 100
different programs in more than ten dif-
ferent agencies provide financial and man-
agerial assistance to businesses.
Public facilities investment, where,
for example, there are 46 sewage-related
programs alone, dispensing about $6 bil-
lion through seven agencies in five depart-
ments, two independent agencies and
eight regional commissions.
• Housing, where there are at least 77
different programs, administered by 15
different agencies and overseen by three
separate government-chartered secondary
mortgage agencies.
Transportation, where 60 grant as-
sistance programs are channelled through
six semi-autonomous operating adminis-
trations of the Department of Transpor-
tation and an additional network of 25
agencies.
Employment and training, where ten
agencies administer 24 programs.
By examining how these various local
development programs actually fit to-
gether at the local level, the project will
identify ways to improve the Federal Gov-
ernment's contribution to community de-
velopment, and help sort out the appro-
priate roles and responsibilities of Federal
and non-Federal officials in this area.
The effort will need the active partici-
pation of State and local officials, the Con-
gress, Federal Departments and Agencies,
and the public.
You may be asked to contribute time,
resources, and staff assistance to this
effort. If so, I hope you will make your
best effort to ensure its successful comple-
tion.
My Reorganization Project staff will
contact you or an appropriate member of
your staff shortly to discuss the appropri-
ate role of your department or agency in
the study.
I consider this to be a high priority
matter. I know I can count on your
support.
In order to inform all affected parties
that this review is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Comprehensive Review of Hu-
man Services Program
I have directed my Reorganization
Project staff to begin a study of the or-
ganization and delivery of human serv-
ices. These services programs, ranging
from day care to job training, are in-
tended to help people whose special needs
are not met by income assistance and
health financing programs. This study
will be coordinated closely with efforts
underway to develop welfare and nation-
al health insurance proposals.
The Federal Government spends about $
$22 billion on more than 100 human
services programs administered by ten
departments and agencies. The numer-
ous planning, administrative and eligi-
bility requirements of these programs
create fragmentation, waste, and confu-
sion.
With your help, this study will lead
to a more logical program structure at
the Federal level and the delivery of serv-
ices to families and individuals who need
them in a simpler, more comprehensive
and efficient way.
The success of this project will de-
pend to a large extent on the coopera-
tion and assistance of Federal depart-
ments and agencies, State and local offi-
1194
