Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 21
pricing, however, depends on authorizing
additional new carriers to serve interna-
tional markets, as new competitors are an
important source of price innovation. The
President's decision to certificate Braniff,
Delta, National, and Northwest-all of
which are strong regional carriers-to
serve new European markets is an im-
portant step in the pursuit of this overall
foreign policy objective.
The Board was correct in relying upon
regional carriers to provide competitive
service in the North Atlantic. As the dis-
sent points out, however, the refusal of
the Civil Aeronautics Board to certificate
Braniff Airways to serve Dallas/Fort
Worth and the Southwest region is in-
consistent with the remainder of the
Board's decision, which permit strong
regional carriers to serve their regions; for
example, Delta and National to serve the
Southeast and Northwest to serve the up-
per Midwest. The President believes that
Texas and the Southwest region should
have the same opportunity for innova-
tive, competitive service as other regions.
United States Balance of Trade
and Payments
Statement Announcing Measures To Improve
the U.S. Trade Position. December 21, 1977
The United States balance of trade and
payments has shifted this year to a large
deficit position. The two main causes ap-
pear to be large oil imports by the United
States and relatively slow economic
growth in Japan, Germany, and other na-
tions.
These deficits have contributed to some
disorder in the exchange markets and
rapid movements in exchange rates.
Heightened uncertainty and increased
exchange market pressure in recent
weeks have coincided with the delay in
congressional action on our energy legis-
lation. A mistaken belief that the United
States is not prepared to adopt an effec-
tive energy program has been partly re-
sponsible for recent, unsettled conditions
in the exchange markets. We have a re-
sponsibility to protect the integrity of the
dollar. Prompt action is needed in energy
and other fields to reduce our deficits.
Last April, I submitted to the Congress
a comprehensive conservation and con-
version program to reduce our depend-
ence on foreign oil. I am confident that
the Congress will not allow this situation.
to continue to deteriorate through inac-
tion. I am equally confident that the
American people will fully support this
critically important program. When en-
acted, the measures now under considera-
tion will have increasingly beneficial ef-
fect in coming years and exert their main
impact by 1985.
The United States is currently import-
ing petroleum at a cost of about 45 bil-
lion a year. In 1978, taking account of
planned production of Alaskan oil, our
oil imports will be stable, despite sub-
stantial purchases for our Strategic Pe-
troleum Reserve. Nevertheless, it is es-
sential that we take further steps to cur-
tail these imports in order to reduce both
our excessive dependence on imported oil
and the burden on our balance of pay-
ments. The energy measures I am now
proposing are designed to serve these
ends.
I have instructed the Department of
Energy to pursue efforts to:
-expand production of oil at the Elk
Hills Naval Petroleum Reserve;
-encourage an expansion of produc-
tion at Prudhoe Bay above the 1.2 million
barrels a day planned for early 1978;
2159
