Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Administration policy on world hunger.
This Subcommittee will report its findings
and recommendations directly to me and
to the Secretary of Agriculture.
To insure coordination, I am asking the
Domestic Policy Staff to inform other or-
ganizations in the Executive Branch of
policy issues to be addressed and decisions
made on domestic and international food
and agriculture.
The Department of Agriculture and
the Domestic Policy Staff will provide
staff for the Working Group on Food and
Agricultural Policy.
JIMMY CARTER
(DC), White House Intergovernmental
Relations Office (WHIGA), Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP),
Council of Economic Advisors (CEA),
Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), Office of the Special Assistant
for Consumer Affairs (OSACA), Council
of Environmental Quality (CEQ), and
Office of the Special Representative for
Trade Negotiations (STR)—as well as
representation from the U.S. Department
of Agriculture (USDA), State, Agency
for International Development (AID),
Treasury, and Commerce.
The purpose of the Working Group
is to prepare a list of options to combat
world hunger and malnutrition with the
full participation of several departments
World Hunger Working Group and agencies. This anaylsis will be the
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
September 30, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
As you know, I have repeatedly empha-
sized as a major goal of U.S. foreign pol-
icy the importance of meeting basic hu-
man needs-in particular, the alleviation
of world hunger and malnutrition. In or-
der to develop a major initiative in this
area, I have formed a World Hunger
Working Group headed by my Special
Assistant, Peter Bourne, to coordinate a
White House study of world hunger with
other U.S. domestic and international
food and agricultural policies. Peter
Bourne, representing the Working Group,
will participate on the soon to be formed
Cabinet Level Committee on Food and
Agricultural Policy, chaired by the Secre-
tary of Agriculture.
The Working Group consists of Exec-
utive Office Organizations-National Se-
curity Council (NSC), Domestic Council
basis for a Presidential statement outlin-
ing the following goals:
-to provide more equitable access to
available food and to improve nutri-
tional well-being;
-to increase the supply of food relative
to need;
-to offer food assistance to those unable
to purchase enough food for adequate
nutrition;
-to assure a decision-making process,
management, and resources adequate
to implement these policies.
Departments and agencies affected by
this memorandum should submit to the
chairman of the Working Group their rec-
ommendations by close of business on Oc-
tober 21st.
The Working Group will review the
recommendations and develop a set of
U.S. government policy options designed
to make a significant impact on world
hunger. Departments and agencies will
have an opportunity to comment on the
Working Group's list of options before it
is submitted to me.
1696
