Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 692
into law.]
I might point out that because of the
great influence of these two gentlemen
that I've just recognized, in the Senate the
bill passed with a voice vote; in the House
the vote was unanimous, 392 to 0.
For the first time in 11 years, a Cabinet-
level department is now being created.
The impending crisis of energy shortages
has brought about an unprecedented
quick action by the Congress in establish-
ing the new Department of Energy.
This in some ways has been controver-
sial legislation because many agencies of
Government are now being brought to-
gether under one roof, about 50 different
agencies. And in the future, the head of
this Department will be a person working
directly under the President, who can be
identified for those who want to work
together in our Nation to at least alleviate
the consequences of inevitable shortages
of oil and gas and other energy supplies.
Senator Ribicoff in the Senate, Con-
gressman Jack Brooks in the House, and
others who have worked closely with
them-Senator Jackson, Senator Percy,
Congressman Horton, and others that I
could name-have done extraordinarily
good work in bringing this legislation to
completion. In only about 5 months this
extremely complicated effort has been
realized.
way
I want to point out that the Depart-
ment can now, I think, begin to deal in
a much more aggressive and effective
not only with the needs of suppliers to
increase the production of oil, gas, coal,
solar, nuclear powers, but also to make
sure that consumers of our country are
treated fairly, that prices are adequate
and not excessive.
It can also work with the State Depart-
ment and others in relationships with for-
eign countries. I'm very proud of this
accomplishment by the Congress, and I'd
like now to sign into law the Senate bill
826, which establishes the new Depart-
ment of Energy.
[At this point, the President signed S. 826 into
law.]
Of course, the next problem that we
face is the selection of a person to head
up the new Department of Energy. This
has been a matter that's been of great
concern to me for the last few months. I've
decided to establish a search committee-
[laughter] to choose a Secretary, and I
have asked Dr. James Schlesinger to head
up the search committee. And at his re-
quest, the membership of the committee
will be limited to one person. [Laughter]
I think that everyone who serves in the
executive or legislative branches of our
Government knows that because of his
preeminent knowledge and stature and
his sound judgment and, I think, political
awareness and the trust of the American
people in him, that he is a natural leader
for this tremendous undertaking. And
without waiting for his recommendation,
I would like to ask if he would serve as
the Secretary of the Department of Ener-
gy, and I would like to sign now a nomi-
nation request to the Senate of the United
States, nominating James R. Schlesinger
of Virginia to be Secretary of Energy,
which is a new position in our Govern-
ment.
Jim, would you like to say a word?
MR. SCHLESINGER. I'd just say that I'm
delighted to be here and want to con-
gratulate you on the Department of
Energy that the House and Senate worked
together to achieve, with the help of your
1411
