Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
persistently with other nations of the
world to address these matters on a multi-
national basis, and I believe that we are
making some progress.
I know that our country's persuasive
effort around the world to bring about
peace in Africa, in the Middle East, bet-
ter relationships with our former enemies,
depends upon a strong economy.
Tonight, I'd like to mention two sub-
jects that are important among all those
others. One is the economy as it relates
to agriculture.
Yours is a great agricultural State. It
provides one of the ties between me and
you. The economy
of our country is based
upon agricultural production. We're the
greatest nation on Earth in the production
of food and feed and fiber. Your State is
preeminent. But we have some problems
in agriculture that we're also trying to
address.
Agriculture and the people who partici-
pate in this effort are not well understood.
It would be a serious mistake to think
that we have no inherent problems. We
can't take for granted bountiful crops. We
can't take for granted economic health.
We can't take for granted food supplies.
We are now forming efforts to bring
about our hopes. We have an Agriculture
Secretary, Bob Bergland, who's a dirt
farmer. He's the kind of man who under-
stands the special problems of farm fam-
ilies. He's been there. He went to Florida
as a migrant worker. He came back home
and borrowed money to start a small rent
farm operation. He now has about 600
acres of farmland, as you know, in the
northernmost part of Minnesota. And he's
working on the extremely complicated
subjects that deal with the farmers' lives
in a very enlightened, down-to-earth,
practical, and effective way.
We've come out this year with a com-
prehensive farm bill that will help in many
ways to carry out the promises that I made
to you when I was campaigning in your
State. We've established target prices
which on an average will meet production
cost, and it's done in a conservative way
which will help to hold down the rapidly
escalating prices for farmland.
We've also set price supports that will
keep our products competitive. We've in-
creased exports. In this last 12 months our
farm exports were $24 billion, the highest
they've ever been in the history of our
country. This year, on a worldwide basis,
we have fairly good crop weather. Ex-
ports may not be as good in fiscal year
1978 as they have been last year, but we'll
try to hold them up.
One of the promises that I made to the
farmers of this State and others during my
campaign was there would be no more
grain embargoes, and you can depend on
that. There won't be as long as I'm in the
White House.
We're trying to establish, for instance, a
noncommercial insurance program to
make sure that farm product exporters
are protected from losses that they can't
anticipate. We're trying to expand Public
Law 480 to increase the export of our
farm products, food and fiber and feed, to
nations that are destitute and hungry.
We're trying to cut down artificial trade
barriers in the multinational trade nego-
tiations now going on in Europe. We're
opening agricultural trade offices in
places around the world where they
haven't existed before.
We're trying to make it possible for
farmer-owned cooperatives to negotiate
directly in the sale of feed grains and food
grains. We're making sure that we bring
together the different departments of our
Federal Government in the common ef-
fort to sell agricultural products—the
Labor Department, our Special Trade
Representative, the Commerce Depart-
1857
