Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 10
tude of the Soviet Union. We have to be
very careful on technicalities and on ma-
jor strategic elements of the negotiations
to protect our own interests. We've got to
be sure that we do have an equal or domi-
nant position on all aspects of strategic
deterrent. And I believe that we have
that posture now, and I want to be sure
to maintain it.
We've tried to open up a new relation-
ship with Africa. We've been successful, I
think, so far. We've got a very good rela-
tionship with Latin America. I think that
could possibly be wiped out overnight if
the Senate fails to ratify the Panama
Canal treaties, but I hope and believe
that the Senate will ratify these treaties.
We've got a good relationship, perhaps
better than at any time in recent history,
with Canada; strong, constant negotia-
tions on a variety of items with Mexico.
And we've, I think, restrengthened our
position in Europe. We consult almost
constantly with European Community
nations and also with our NATO allies on
military affairs. Harold Brown has just
come back from there-well, I think he's
on the way back now.
The other aspect of our foreign policy,
of course, extends to the Western Pacific.
We are now in hard negotiations with the
Japanese on trade matters, and I hope
that we can resolve those differences.
Japan has a very high positive trade bal-
ance. We have a very high negative trade
balance. The obstacles to selling our goods
in Japan are quite difficult to overcome.
But Prime Minister Fukuda, I think, is
negotiating in good faith. Perhaps we can
have some success there.
I'll be leaving Washington on the 21st,
going down to Plains until the day after
Christmas, and then I'll come back and
leave almost immediately for a trip, begin-
ning in Poland, that would encompass a
visit to Brussels, to France, to Iran, Saudi
Arabia, and India. And then I'll come
back home after about a 10-day trip.
Perhaps you have some questions. I just
briefly sketched a few points to arouse
your interest.
QUESTIONS
COAL SLURRY PIPELINE
Q. Mr. President, I'm from Cheyenne
where water is very scarce, and this is an
energy-related question.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. I understand you favor the coal
slurry pipeline concept. Do you also favor
a program under which the water would
be recycled or replaced if used in such a
pipeline?
THE PRESIDENT. I never endorsed and
I would be very cautious about endorsing
the use of the coal slurry concept of trans-
portation when water at the origin was
scarce. That would not be my highest
priority for use of water. Obviously, the
use of water for drinking purposes, human
use, and for agricultural purposes would
come first.
This is a matter that hasn't yet been
proposed, so far as I know, in any tangible
fashion for the more arid regions of our
country. I did support the right of emi-
nent domain in the future if the local
courts should decide that it was necessary.
In my opinion, that is important be-
cause some of the other competing forms
of transportation—say, for instance, the
railroad could permanently block a nec-
essary coal slurry line just to prohibit
competition. But I don't favor the escala-
tion of water for coal slurry use above
those purposes that I've described to you.
PETER F. FLAHERTY
Q. Mr. President, I'm from Pittsburgh.
I'm interested to know whether or not you
were surprised by the resignation of Pete
2093
