Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 15
as the Representative of the United
States of America on the Human Rights
Commission of the Economic and Social
Council of the United Nations.
Mr. Mezvinsky was born January 17,
1937 in Ames, Iowa. He received his B.A.
in 1960 from the University of Iowa and
his M.A. and J.D. in 1963 and 1965, re-
spectively, from the University of Cali-
fornia.
He was the legislative assistant to Con-
gressman Neal Smith of Iowa from 1965–
67. From 1967-72 Mr. Mezvinsky was an
attorney in Iowa City, Iowa. From 1969-
70 he served as a member of the Iowa
State House of Representatives. In 1970-
72 he was again an attorney in Iowa
City. From 1973-77 he served as a United
States Representative from the State of
Iowa. Presently he is an attorney in Wash-
ington, D.C.
National Institute of Education
Nomination of Patricia A. Graham To Be
Director. July 15, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Patricia A. Graham, of
Cambridge, Mass., to be Director of the
National Institute of Education, Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Dr. Graham was born February 9,
1935, in Lafayette, Ind. She holds
bachelor's and master's degrees from
Purdue University and a Ph.D. from
Columbia University, as well as honorary
degrees from Harvard University and
Manhattanville College.
Dr. Graham is currently a professor in
the Graduate School of Education at
Harvard. She is also dean of Radcliffe
Institute and Vice President of Radcliffe
College. Her teaching career has included
positions at Teachers College and Barn-
ard College of Columbia University and
Indiana University.
Executive Office of the President
Remarks to Reporters on Transmitting a
Reorganization Plan to the Congress.
July 15, 1977
Good afternoon, everybody.
Today we have submitted to the Con-
gress the first in a series of recommenda-
tions for reorganizing the executive
branch of Government. We are starting
off with perhaps the most difficult one of
all for me. That's the Executive Office of
the President and the White House staff.
cut
It's difficult because of the closeness of
myself to the people involved. It's also dif-
ficult because, for many years, as the Con-
gress and other elements in the Govern-
ment have evolved special programs that
across many departments' lines,
they've put them in the Executive Office
of the President. The closeness of the Pres-
ident is supposed to add stature to their
influence and also permits them to deal
with several departments simultaneously
without any doubt about where the au-
thority lies.
The basic thrust of the proposals today
involving the Executive Office of the
President is to strengthen Cabinet govern-
ment. I'm very much opposed to having
a concentration of large numbers of peo-
ple and authority in the White House
staff. I much prefer that Cabinet officers
make their own decisions, manage their
1253
