Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 21
UN system as a whole if the US were to
withdraw. Nor do we believe that the
resulting situation would be readilly recti-
fied. The task of reform and of achieving
the objectives we share in the ILO might
well be impossible in the absence of the
United States even though the Govern-
ments of the Nine would continue their
efforts to preserve and enhance the value
of the ILO's services to the international
community.
On the other hand, working together
with the United States in the organisation
and seeking the support and goodwill of
the many member states who share our
objectives, we consider that there would
be a reasonable prospect of making prog-
ress in the right direction and of preserv-
ing the integrity of the Organisation. This
would of course require flexibility on the
part of all involved in the negotiations
which lie ahead. We believe it will be
possible to secure a strenghthening of the
defence of due process through amend-
ment of Article 17 of the Standing Or-
ders. The necessary restructuring of the
Organisation, including, for instance,
changes in voting procedures, will re-
quire the most careful consideration. But
if the discussions are approached in a
spirit of mutual understanding the essen-
tial requirements of the membership of
the Organisation, including the preserva-
tion both of the principles of tripartism
and of the partnership between the in-
dustrial and developing countries can be
satisfied.
There is of course no prospect of re-
solving these complicated issues in the
next two months. But a recent opinion
by the Legal Adviser to the ILO in re-
sponse to our inquiry concludes that no-
tice of intent to withdraw from mem-
bership can be extended for a defined
period of time. We greatly hope that the
United States will withdraw its notice
of intent. If however there are factors
which make that impossible, we urge
that you take appropriate steps to extend
the formal notice for a new period so as
to allow time to work out lasting solu-
tions to the problems which confront the
ILO. Such an extension would cover
next year's Conference, to which any re-
sults of our work in the months ahead
will need to be submitted.
In this way all of us, together, will be
able to work effectively in support of an
organisation whose historical commit-
ment to social justice is so consonant with
the purpose of your Government.
Respectfully yours,
LEO TINDEMANS
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
SEPTEMBER 21, 1977
RESIGNATION OF BERT LANCE
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to read first
a letter that I have just received from
Bert Lance.
"My Dear Mr. President: There is no
need for me to go into the events of the
last few weeks. You know them well as
do the American people.
"You also know that previously I had
said three things to you about the impor-
tance of the so-called 'Lance affair.' I
will recall those for you:
"First, it was and is important that my
name and reputation be cleared for me,
my wife, my children, my grandchildren,
and those who have trust and faith in me;
and, I believe that this has been done.
As I said at the Senate hearings, my con-
science is clear.
"Second, it was and is important for
me to be able to say that people should
1635
