Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 1
Visit of President Perez
of Venezuela
Joint Communique Issued Following
President Perez' Visit. July 1, 1977
The President of the Republic of Vene-
zuela, Carlos Andres Perez, and Mrs.
Perez made a State Visit to Washington
June 28-29 in response to the invitation
extended by the President of the United
States of America, Jimmy Carter, and
Mrs. Carter. Accompanying the President
and Mrs. Perez were Minister of Foreign
Relations Ramon Escovar Salon, Min-
ister of Finance Hector Hurtado, Minister
of Energy and Mines Valentin Her-
nandez, Minister of Information and
Tourism Diego Arria, Minister of State
for International Economic Affairs Man-
uel Perez Guerrero, the Ambassador of
Venezuela and Mrs. Iribarren, Ambas-
sador Simon Alberto Consalvi, and Am-
bassador Jose Maria Machin.
Participating in the talks on behalf of
the United States were Vice President
Mondale, Secretary of State Vance, As-
sistant to the President for National
Security Affairs Brzezinski, Assistant to
the President Schlesinger, and leaders of
the Congress.
The Presidents of Venezuela and of
the United States, accompanied by their
respective parties, referred in their talks
to the strong bonds existing between their
two countries. They analyzed a wide
range of political, economic and cultural
affairs of mutual interest and they made
special reference to the fact that interna-
tional relations should be based on mutual
respect and cooperation.
They confirmed their faith in the future
and the importance of the ethical and po-
litical values of Western democratic
society, and they reiterated their convic-
tion that man should realize his full po-
tential within a socially, politically, and
economically just system which will foster
the advantages of the democratic system
and the importance which it attaches to
the individual.
The two Presidents discussed fully the
matters of human rights and agreed to
issue a separate communique in this re-
spect. They expressed their conviction
that the scientific and technological appli-
cation of nuclear energy for peaceful pur-
poses and for economic development
should be recognized and protected.
They recognized that dissemination of
the capability to produce nuclear weapons
has serious implications for peace and se-
curity, and they expressed their determi-
nation to continue their efforts on the
international level to avoid those dangers.
Recognizing the contribution which
could be made in this regard by adequate
regional measures, they attached great
importance to broad advocacy of the
entry into force of the Treaty of Tlate-
lolco throughout Latin America. There-
fore, States within and without the Latin
American region whose decisions are re-
quired in order to bring the Treaty into
effect are urged to take the necessary
measures as soon as possible.
The two Presidents discussed the world
energy situation, especially with respect
to petroleum, and agreed to explore ways
of cooperating and encouraging conser-
vation and the development of alternative
sources of energy.
They agreed on the need for intensify-
ing and supporting the efforts of mankind
to attain general and complete disarma-
ment and on the desirability of perfecting
international standards and instruments
of control.
They made known their decision to
combine their efforts to achieve a reduc-
tion in conventional arms transfers. They
also expressed support for regional initi-
atives such as the Declaration of Ayacucho
of 1974, the implementation of which
would aid in reducing tensions and avoid-
ing unnecessary expenditures on arms.
1207
