Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. That oil was discovered in about
1973, so it started out at about $9 a barrel.
It's now about $10.
There are not any easy solutions to it,
and I am very grateful that these differ-
ent points of view do come out freely,
THE PRESIDENT. That was a very good and I particularly appreciate Mr. Elli-
price in 1973. [Laughter]
I am not trying to put you on the spot,
Mr. Ellison, because I understand your
point of view. The thing is, I believe and
I think everybody here believes very
strongly in the free enterprise system. But
the oil and gas industry don't function
within a free enterprise system.
The price that you say is the proper or
fair price for oil is a price that has arbi-
trarily been set in a secret meeting of
OPEC nations and not set in a free and
open market condition in our country.
We have provided, proposed to the
Congress that newly discovered oil would
be at the full world market price, which
means that oil discovered in our country,
under the proposal we made to the Con-
gress, would be the highest price for oil
in the entire world.
But I don't think that we can afford
to go back to oil that has been under
production for several or many years
that
was originally profitable at a $2- or $3-a-
barrel price, raise the price to $14 or $15
just because the OPEC nations have im-
posed that price on the rest of the world
arbitrarily, and let the consumers pay that
exorbitant profit to the oil companies in
the process. It just doesn't seem fair to
me.
I want to say that I don't want to use
my position as President to win an argu-
ment with Mr. Ellison. This is one of the
most difficult and controversial issues and
the most important that has ever come
before our country's Government, and
that is to evolve an energy policy that's
fair to the consumers, that's fair to the
producers, and also provides adequate in-
centive for future discovery of new oil and
gas.
son being so forceful in his expounding
of the viewpoint of those who do produce
oil and gas.
I have another meeting with the Gov-
ernors and this will be the last question
that I can take.
I understand that you are president of
the Chamber of Commerce in Denver.
FEDERAL BUDGET
Q. Yes, Mr. President. My name is Rex
Jennings. I live in Denver, I am president
and general manager of the Denver
Chamber of Commerce. More impor-
tantly, perhaps, I am a former peanut
farmer-
THE PRESIDENT. I can see why you
changed jobs.
Q. and a Southern Baptist. And
the way I figure it, that almost makes
you and me kinfolks. [Laughter]
I want to make two quick points and
one quick question. Number one, I have
great admiration for your commitment to
reduce unemployment in this country. I
have great admiration for your commit-
ment to balance the Federal budget dur-
ing your first term in office. I think you
and I would agree that in order to reduce
unemployment, we must create new jobs.
And that's particularly important to the
low-income, the minorities, and the youth
of this Nation.
In order to create new jobs in the pri-
vate sector, American business and indus-
try must have access to capital. As long as
the Federal Government is incurring an
increasing deficit, going to the money
market itself for 50, 60, 70 billion dollars
a year, it reduces the amount of money
available for private industry to borrow
for plant and equipment to create new
1882
