Nov. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
soybeans. We'll have the second highest
yield in the history of wheat. At the same
time, two-thirds of all the counties in the
Nation are designated as disaster coun-
ties, which shows the accuracy of concen-
trating financial aid where it deserves
to be.
Georgia had a complete zero produc-
tion of corn-you might be interested in
trying to. So, I would say, in general, the
agriculture picture looks good for the
future.
ENERGY PRICES
Q. Mr. President, Bob Reed from the
Lowell Sun in Massachusetts. We remem-
ber interviewing you, too.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I remember com-
knowing I'd say not more than 5-percent ing there. I rode over to Lowell on the
yield. And that 5 percent is all permeated
with aflatoxin mold and can't be sold.
But I think that in general, the agricul-
ture situation next year is a good one. The
reason that the prices are low now is be-
cause the yield has been high, and so the
gross income per acre is maintained fairly
well.
What creates a serious problem, obvi-
ously, is when you have a good yield in
most parts of the country and a very low
yield in certain communities because of
weather patterns.
There's been a fairly good yield around
the world this year on grains, not nearly
as high as last year. As you noticed, Pres-
ident Brezhnev announced that they were
going to come up about 20 million tons
short of what their goal had been and
about 10 million tons short of what we
had anticipated their yield to be this year.
That was primarily because of bad weath-
er during harvest time.
We have now authorized an increase
from 8 million tons of grain to be sold in
the Soviet Union up to 15 million tons
that can be sold to the Soviet Union. This
still leaves us adequate stocks for our own
domestic use.
We are concentrating on exports. This
past fiscal year, which concluded the end
of September, we had $24 billion in farm
exports from our Nation, which is the
highest we've ever seen in history. And
with the better yields, we might not export
that much this fiscal year, but we are
train.
Q. Up in New England, we are paying
double the national average for energy
prices. And in view of your comments on
your program, that it's designed to be
both fair and equal, is there anything you
can do to give us some hope that these
prices will come down, particularly in
view of John O'Leary's comments the
other day that in 1985 we'll still be pay-
ing one and a half times the national aver-
age? Do you have any hope for relief for
us?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there's
any doubt that the energy prices are going
to go up for everybody. But we hope that
with Alaskan oil coming down to the Gulf
Coast and being distributed, with Alaskan
gas coming down to the Midwest with the
new pipeline, with an increasing supply
of coal, particularly from the Appalachian
region, that can be moved into New Eng-
land-this would require an improvement
in the quality of railroads, for instance,
coming out of West Virginia, Pennsyl-
vania, to the coast, say, into the Norfolk
region or Philadelphia region, and then
shipped by freight up to Boston and other
New England ports-with a more orderly
structure of pricing in oil and gas, en-
couragement of domestic production, in-
creasing use of solar power over a period
of years, that we can reduce substantially
the present disparity in prices.
I think it's obvious that you have a
much higher price to pay in New England
2014
