Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 15
friend and staunch partner in this dif-
ficult struggle were the people of France.
Your military leaders supported and
fought with George Washington and his
troops, both on land and at sea. And we
shared then an experience that became
exemplified in the French Revolution,
when the concepts of liberty, equality,
fraternity became a worldwide slogan.
I think it's accurate to say, too, that in
the last 65 years, we have shown more
than once that when a challenge erupted
against the concepts of freedom, that the
French people and the people of the
United States have stood shoulder-to-
shoulder as brothers to meet those chal-
lenges successfully.
Yours is an ancient country, a nation of
intense commitment to independence, to
freedom, and to world leadership.
I have been blessed with an opportu-
nity to meet with you previously, Prime
Minister Barre, and with President Gis-
card. And I'm very proud of the fact that
as we approach problems that are inevita-
bly going to face us in the future that, as
has been the case in the past, in the future
we'll be bound with a spirit of mutual
concern and mutual commitment. This is
not an artificial partnership. It's one that
comes because our people share common
beliefs, common experiences, and a com-
mon future.
I read with great interest a recent
speech made by President Giscard on the
subject of human rights. I've seen with
great admiration the fact that France,
among all the developed nations of the
world, allocates the greatest portion of
your own riches to the developing nations
of the world. And if there is a superb link
between any of the democratic nations
and the poor or struggling or new or weak
countries of the world, it's France.
The advice and counsel that we receive
from you
and other French leaders in eco-
nomic matters, as well as political and
military matters, is important to us. And
there can be no greater purpose for me in
pursuing the objectives of our own Gov-
ernment than to consult closely with and
communicate constantly with and share
the partnership with the people of France.
We do have problems of a mutual na-
ture a termination of the worldwide
arms race, a prevention of the escalation
of nuclear explosive capability, the prob-
lems of unemployment and inflation. And
in this particular realm or subject, you
bring to government leaders of the world
a unique background, training, and sound
judgment.
The economic efforts that have been
initiated in France under your leadership
are watched with great attention by us,
and the success that you've already
achieved so far has been one of great
gratification to me personally and, I'm
sure, to the people of France.
We will be meeting this morning, to-
night, and tomorrow in private conver-
sations that affect the future of our peo-
ple. There is no restraint between us that
would prevent mutual benefit being de-
rived from exchanges of information, ad-
vice, and counsel in the most unrestricted
and free and mutually beneficial fashion.
So, from our people, Mr. Prime Min-
ister, we extend to you a welcome that's
based on past history, on present mutual
interests, and on the belief that in the
future these superb achievements might
even be enhanced.
Thank you for coming to visit us. It's a
great honor for our country and our
people.
Thank you very much.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter:
I would like to thank you for the words
of welcome you have just spoken for me,
Mr. President, and for the warmth of
your welcome.
1591
