Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 8
It pushes up international energy prices because excessive importing
of oil by the United States makes it easier for foreign producers to raise
their prices. It feeds serious inflationary pressures in our own economy.
If this trend continues, the excessive reliance on foreign oil could
make the very security of our Nation increasingly dependent on uncertain
energy supplies. Our national security depends on more than just our
Armed Forces; it also rests on the strength of our economy, on our national
will, and on the ability of the United States to carry out our foreign
policy as a free and independent nation. America overseas is only as strong
as America at home.
The Secretary of Defense said recently, “The present deficiency of
assured energy sources is the single surest threat . . . to our security and
to that of our allies."
Yesterday, after careful consideration, I announced the postpone-
ment of a major overseas trip until after Christmas because of the para-
mount importance of developing an effective energy plan this year. I have
no doubt that this is the right decision, because the other nations of the
world—allies and adversaries alike—await our energy decisions with a
great interest and concern.
As one of the world's largest producers of coal and oil and gas, why
do we have this problem with energy, and why is it so difficult to solve?
One problem is that the price of all energy is going up, both because
of its increasing scarcity and because the price of oil is not set in a free
and competitive market. The world price is set by a foreign cartel—the
governments of the so-called OPEC nations. That price is now almost five
times as great as it was in 1973.
Our biggest problem, however, is that we simply use too much and
waste too much energy. Our imports have more than tripled in the last
10 years. Although all countries could, of course, be more efficient, we
are the worst offender. Since the great price rise in 1973, the Japanese
have cut their oil imports, the Germans, the French, the British, the
Italians have all cut their oil imports. Meanwhile, although we have large
petroleum supplies of our own and most of them don't, we in the United
States have increased our imports more than 40 percent.
This problem has come upon us suddenly. Ten years ago, when for-
eign oil was cheap, we imported just 22 million barrels of oil a day, about
20 percent of what we used. By 1972, we were importing about 30 per-
cent. This year, when foreign oil is very expensive, we are importing
nearly 9 million barrels a day—almost one-half of all the oil we use.
1983
