Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 21
And although I regret his resignation, I
do accept it.
I would be glad to answer any ques-
tions you might have about this or other
matters.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, there have been re-
ports that
you knew early on what the
charges were, that Mr. Lance had told
you some of the allegations last January.
Is that so, and can you tell us what you
knew? And also, did you ask for his resig-
nation or encourage it, and what made
you accept it?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not ask for
Bert's resignation. Bert Lance and I com-
municate without embarrassment, with-
out constraint, and without evasion of
issues. I thought Bert did a superb job
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday in an-
swering all the questions that had been
leveled about him and against him.
Monday morning about 6 o'clock, Bert
came to my office, and we spent about 45
minutes going over all the present ques-
tions that still remained, the prospects for
the future. I told Bert I thought he had
exonerated himself completely, proven
our system worked, and asked him to
make his own decision about what his
choice would be.
He told me yesterday afternoon that
he had decided that it would be best to
resign. He wanted to talk to his wife
again. He wanted to discuss the question
with his attorney, Clark Clifford, before
he made a final judgment. Mr. Clifford
was in Detroit, came back this afternoon,
and that was why the press conference
was delayed.
This was a decision that Bert made. I
did not disagree with it, and I think he's
made a very unselfish and wise judgment.
The other question that you asked was
whether and when I knew about charges
that were made against Bert. The only
thing that I ever heard about before Bert
became OMB Director was last fall I
knew that there had been questions about
the Calhoun National Bank and over-
drafts. My understanding at that time
was that the overdraft question referred
to his 1974 campaign debt.
The first time I heard about it was
when Bert mentioned it to me in Plains
about 2 weeks later. I think the date is
now determined to be the 1st of Decem-
ber. I was called from Atlanta and told
that the matter had been resolved by the
Comptroller's Office and by the Justice
Department.
On that date was the first time that
either Bert or I knew that the Justice De-
partment had been involved at all. And
my understanding then was that it was
an oversight and, had the oversight not
occurred, that the Justice Department
would have resolved the issue long before.
So, I would hope that in the future the
complete FBI report might be made
available. That's a decision for Bert
Lance to make. But I think if any of you
would read it, you would see that approx-
imately a hundred people were inter-
viewed-three of them from the Justice
Department, three of them from the
Comptroller's department. All of the
analyses of Bert Lance's character and
ability were good and favorable.
And I don't think that any mistake was
made. I think he was qualified then; I
think he's qualified now. And there was
no attempt to conceal anything from me.
nor my staff.
Q. Mr. President, you've spoken so
highly of Mr. Lance again this afternoon.
I wonder if you feel that he was unfairly
drummed out of the Government?
1637
