Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 25, 1977
American Film Institute
Remarks at a Reception on the Occasion of
the 10th Anniversary of the Institute.
November 17, 1977
Rosalynn and I are very deeply grate-
ful and honored to have a chance to wel-
come to the White House a group of
people who have contributed so much to
our Nation, what it is, what it stands for,
and the image of it around the world.
James Agee said that the most tre-
mendous possibility for a popular art
form was the motion pictures, since the
time of Shakespeare. That was a number
of years ago. He's one of my favorite
authors, and I think his predictions are
increasingly coming true.
The movies have touched all our
lives-mine as a farmboy. It gave me a
vision of the outside world. I'm sure the
first time I saw the White House was in
the back seat of the movie theater.
[Laughter] And we also have had a
chance to tie our highly diverse American
society together. Those who were rich
could learn what poverty was, and those
who were poor could see the vision of a
better life. Those of us who were happy
could learn about sorrow, and those who
were stricken with hunger or sorrow
could learn about happiness.
The motion pictures have, in effect,
painted the history of our country-I
don't think too distorted in their con-
glomerate form-and one of the things
the Institute is trying to do is to take
14,000 films that are in the Library of
Congress and restore them and preserve
them for the future. I'm sure the
motion pictures don't distort history any
more than the day-by-day life of our Na-
tion is distorted in the reporting of it.
[Laughter]
We've seen also evolve over a number
of
years the fact that for many hundreds
of millions of people in the world America
is the movies. That's all they know about
us. And the image that we've projected
to them overseas, in its total form, again,
is probably a quite accurate picture of
what our Nation has been and is.
Last night was a good example of it.
We had the Shah of Iran and Empress
Farah with us, one of the most beautiful
women in the world. I was sitting be-
tween the Shah and Empress Farah. My
preference was to talk-[laughter]-well,
I won't tell you what my preference is;
I'll let you guess. [Laughter] Unfortu-
nately, Empress Farah was sitting between
me and Lew Wasserman.ยน I was want-
ing to talk about oil prices, and Lew
Wasserman was talking about the motion
pictures, and I won't tell you what
Empress Farah's preference
[Laughter]
was.
Lew R. Wasserman, president of Music
Corporation of America, Inc.
2041
