Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
his two terms so well and that is also why
I have now chosen Bill Miller to be the
new Chairman.
Extensive consultations with a wide
range of business and financial leaders
have convinced me that Bill Miller enjoys
the highest respect and the confidence of
everyone who knows him. His record as
a businessman has won him a position of
leadership in the American business com-
munity. In 1960, at the age of 35, he be-
came president of Textron, Inc., and
later became chief executive officer and
chairman of the board. He is also chair-
man of the Conference Board, which
represents top American business leader-
ship as a business and an economic re-
search group. Bill Miller has extensive
experience and knowledge in interna-
tional business and finance. He's familiar
with the workings of the Federal Reserve
System, having served under Dr. Burns as
a Director of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston for 7 years.
I'm particularly impressed that his suc-
cess as a businessman has not kept him
from consistent public service. As chair-
man of the National Alliance of Business-
men, he has helped to find new ways to
harness the resources of the business com-
munity to meet some of our most pressing
public problems, especially the need to
create new jobs. It was because I recog-
nized the importance of this appointment
that I consulted widely before making it
and because I value the continuity of
Federal monetary and economic policy.
I have been very gratified to hear Dr.
Arthur Burns express his confidence in
Bill Miller.
Bill, thank you very much for being
willing to serve. I'd now like to introduce
to you and to the Nation G. William Mil-
ler, who will be the next Chairman of the
Federal Reserve.
Bill?
MR. MILLER. Mr. President, Mr. Vice
President, Chairman Burns:
It is an important time in our eco-
nomic situation in the United States, and
it came, I suppose, as somewhat of a sur-
prise to me that the President asked me
to take on this new role. I recognize that
Dr. Burns has served long and wisely, is
universally admired and respected, and
that he has made an indelible contribu-
tion to the monetary system and to the
defense of the dollar, to the fight against
inflation, and to the stability of our eco-
nomic system. Yet, we continue to face
the problems, the twin problems, of infla-
tion and high unemployment. We need to
continue the policies of Dr. Burns and
those of the President, to assure that we
have full employment with price stability
and that we do again have a sound dollar
that is the cornerstone of the world
monetary system.
I cannot profess to have the qualifica-
tions to step into Dr. Burns' shoes, but I
do, Mr. President, assure you that all of
the energy, drive, capacity that I have
will be devoted to continuing the work
that has been done and continuing the
programs so that over time we can over-
come both inflation and unemployment
and return this Nation to a period of eco-
nomic growth and stability.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Burns?
CHAIRMAN BURNS. Mr. President, Mr.
and Mrs. Miller, Mr. Vice President:
I think this is a good day. The Presi-
dent informed me of his decision today,
and I didn't have to think. I've known
Mr. Miller for many years, and I re-
sponded at once, "Mr. President, you
have chosen wisely and well." And I
meant every word literally. I spoke from
the bottom of my heart.
Now, Mr. Miller will bring to his Fed-
eral Reserve responsibilities not only
2184
