July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
lems that we face together and the op-
portunities for improvement of the lot of
those who live in our own countries and
those who depend upon us to make deci-
sions that can improve the lives of people
in all nations.
The friendship between Italy and the
United States is very dear to us and very
important. The bilateral relationship is
one of mutual significance and support.
Obviously, Italy is one of the keystone
nations in the European Community and
is a valued partner of our own in the de-
fense of the Atlantic region through
NATO.
We have seen Italy's strong action and
courageous action in recent years to over-
come the tremendous burden of having to
import 75 percent of their energy supplies
at rapidly increasing prices. And the strict
conservation measures and the sacrifice of
the Italian people to restore the strength
and integrity of their own economic sys-
tem has been an inspiration to the rest of
the world.
We work very closely with Italy. And
now, we and they and a few other nations
are analyzing the nuclear fuel cycle to
determine how we can meet the needs of
energy in the future from the atom with-
out constraint on the economic well-be-
ing of the nations involved and at the
same time prevent the proliferation of the
ability of nations to develop nuclear
weapons.
Our trade with Italy is of great mutual
benefit, and there are large investments
by American business in Italy and vice
versa. We look on Italy as an avenue of
advice and counsel and partnership in
strengthening our own ties with the
people of the developing nations of the
world. And I think it is accurate to say
that in world leadership the Government
of Italy, under the leadership of Prime
Minister Andreotti, is admired, respected,
and also trusted.
So, we share with them a mutual re-
sponsibility for world security. We are
interdependent. Their friendship means
as much to us as does our friendship
mean to the people of Italy.
We are also blessed in the United States
with millions of Italian-Americans who
have come here from their mother coun-
try and have enriched our own culture
with the derivation of the historic
achievements of ancient Italy.
For all these reasons it's a great honor
to me this morning to welcome Prime
Minister Andreotti who will now be shar-
ing with me and others discussions about
affairs that bind our nations together and
challenges that address both our great
countries. To use a phrase that Prime
Minister Andreotti has made famous, “In-
ternational solidarity among the democ-
racies of the world is a very important
foundation on which permanent peace
can be found.”
With great admiration, appreciation
for his accomplishments, and an addi-
tional expression of the value of Italian
friendship toward our country, Mr.
Prime Minister, we welcome you to the
United States.
Thank you very much.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
I am particularly glad to find myself
again on American soil in acceptance of
the invitation that you addressed to me
last December on the occasion of my visit
to your predecessor and that you so kindly
renewed last May in London when we
met at the Downing Street summit and at
the Atlantic Council.
There are two fundamental principles
which guide the policies of democratic
Italy, the frank and constructive friend-
ship towards the United States of Amer-
ica and the passionate participation in
the development of the European Com-
munity. And the latter in turn is tied to
1354
