Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
evaluate the success of the organizational
and other changes proposed in this bill.
Clarify Functions of National Entities
Since 1967, most Federal funds for
public broadcasting have gone to the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting
(CPB). CPB is an independent unit run
by a 15-member Board appointed by the
President and confirmed by the Senate.
One of CPB's key missions is to distribute
Federal funds for programming in ways
that shield program content from political
pressure. Another is to provide system-
wide leadership in planning, budgeting,
resource allocation, research, evaluation,
fund-raising from private sources and
government agencies, and development of
new communications services.
The public radio and television net-
works are run by two other units that
represent the local stations: National
Public Radio (NPR) and the Public
Broadcasting Service (PBS). The stations
decide what programs get on the air.
There are also five regional television
networks and several special program
exchanges like the Latino Consortium.
National production centers exist at
larger stations and at independent enti-
ties like Children's Television Workshop.
All these units have their own program-
ming staffs.
At present, CPB itself often chooses
which individual programs or series to
fund. This:
-Reduces CPB's effectiveness as a
political insulator.
-Reduces its ability to focus on long-
range planning and new educational
services.
-Duplicates staff, wastes money, and
causes unproductive feuds between
CPB and PBS, NPR, and other pub-
lic broadcasting organizations.
The public cannot afford to pay dupli-
cate organizations to do the same job.
The greater the bureaucratic overhead,
the smaller the sums that can be used for
programming. It is time to define orga-
nizational roles clearly so that the public
and program producers can understand
how the system operates and there can
be a rational, efficient basis for future
planning.
I propose three steps to resolve this
issue:
-CPB's role would be clarified to be
that of a system overseer operating
much like an endowment or founda-
tion. Based on its planning process,
it would make broad allocations
among radio, TV, and other dis-
tribution systems and among chil-
dren's, public affairs, minority, and
other program types. It would im-
plement these decisions by giving
annual or multi-year bloc grants to
PBS, NPR, regional and other spe-
cialized networks, and production
centers. The grantees would select
the specific programs to be produced.
-Two members chosen by PBS and
two by NPR would be added to the
CPB Board to increase both cooper-
ation and insulation. (Four Presi-
dentially appointed slots would be
phased out to keep the total at 15.)
-CPB would be required to prepare
a five-year development plan for
public broadcasting in concert with
PBS and NPR to guide the alloca-
tion of Federal resources and update
it annually in its report to Congress.
This will decentralize creative deci-
sions, place them further from any poten-
tial political control, and refocus CPB on
the important job of overall system devel-
opment. But, under this mode of opera-
tion, CPB should require only a limited
full-time staff to assist its Board in its
priority setting and oversight tasks. It can
draw upon distinguished experts in the
arts, science, journalism, and education
1740
