Aug. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
think, 6.9 percent, which is some improve-
ment. And the economic stimulus pack-
age, which is just now being approved by
Congress and has been signed into law by
me and is now being implemented, I
think, will have an additional beneficial
effect. I've been disappointed in the in-
flation rate, but it's this way all over the
world almost.
So, I think as far as the tone of the
Government and the attitude of our
people toward the Government, the
marks would be fairly high. As far as
tangible results in this first 6 months on
economy, they've been somewhat dis-
appointing, but I think the slow progress
is there. And we have not had any major
breakthrough in foreign affairs, although
we have a very coherent program that
we are pursuing. We are tenacious and
determined to improve the situation in
southern Africa and in the Middle East,
with the Soviets on SALT and test bans
against atomic weapons. Our nonpro-
liferation program has been a shock to
some other nations but is making prog-
ress. And I think that in the organization
of Government, our first budget is now
being prepared using zero-base budget-
ing. So far, the progress has been good.
So, specific-too early to say. Tone,
trust-pretty good.
MR. DONALDSON. You've retained a
very high percentage of popularity. I
think, except for the abnormal situation
of Lyndon Johnson, at this point in your
Presidency, you have more popularity
than any recent President. And yet, that
seems to be on a personal level; a lot of
people don't like your programs and your
initiatives.
My question really is: Down the road
somewhere, does this line of Jimmy
Carter-personally very popular but
President Carter's programs-not so pop-
ular-intersect? And what happens then?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't really believe
there's that basic conflict between what I
am, what I stand for, what I said during
the campaign on the one hand, and our
actual programs on the other. It's kind
of a shock to certain elements in our so-
ciety to come forward finally with an
energy policy. The oil companies are
mounting a massive advertising campaign
saying that the Government ought to give
them more money for additional explora-
tion, which really translates into profits
at the expense of consumers. This creates
some confusion during the debate phase
in Congress, for instance.
Nobody has attempted for a long time
to completely revise the welfare system
or to bring some renewed stability to the
social security program. We've estab-
lished a new Department of Energy. And
we are addressing the basic question of
tax reform and so forth. All these changes
that will be coming forward with con-
gressional action upset some very power-
ful and influential elements in our society.
But I think that after a period of 2 or
3 years, the difference between what I
am and what the people perceived me to
be during the campaign and what my
programs actually are as they wind their
way through the Congress-that differ-
ence will be narrowed and people will
see that there's no difference.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
MR. DONALDSON. You mentioned en-
ergy, and you are quite correct-some
interest groups, of course, are chewing
away at the program. Perhaps Russell
Long will in the Senate. But I had in
mind the total American people. They
don't want to pay a gasoline tax appar-
ently, and they don't want to conserve in
the tough ways. Did you miscalculate the
mood of this country?
1468
