Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 31
this year
and begin a new year with those
in whom we have such great confidence
and with whom we share such great re-
sponsibilities for the present and for the
future.
As we drove in from the airport this
afternoon to the beautiful white palace
where we will spend the night, and saw
the monument in the distance, I asked
the Shah what was the purpose of the
beautiful monument. And he told me that
it was built several years ago, erected to
commemorate the 2500th anniversary of
this great nation. This was a sobering
thought to me. We have been very proud
in our Nation to celebrate our 200th birth-
day, a couple of years ago. But it illus-
trates the deep and penetrating con-
sciousness that comes from an ancient
heritage and a culture that preceded any
that we've ever known in our own lives.
Recently, Empress Farah gave us a
beautiful book called "The Bridge of
Turquoise"-and we get many gifts of
that kind from visitors-and for a few days
I have to admit that we didn't pay enough
attention to it. And one night I started
to thumb through the pages, and I called
my wife, Rosalynn, and I called my
daughter, Amy, who climbed into my lap,
and we spent several hours studying very
carefully the beautiful history that this
book portrays of Persia, of Iran, of its
people, of its lands, of its heritage and its
history, and also of its future. It caused
me to be reminded again of the value of
ancient friendships and the importance of
close ties that bind us as we face difficult
problems.
Iran, because of the great leadership of
the Shah, is an island of stability in one
of the more troubled areas of the world.
This is a great tribute to you, Your
Majesty, and to your leadership and to
the respect and the admiration and love
which your people give to you.
The transformation that has taken
place in this nation is indeed remarkable
under your leadership. And as we sat to-
gether this afternoon, discussing privately
for a few moments what might be done to
bring peace to the Middle East, I was pro-
foundly impressed again not only with
your wisdom and your judgment and your
sensitivity and insight but also with the
close compatibility that we found in ad-
dressing this difficult question.
As we visit with leaders who have in
their hands the responsibility for making
decisions that can bring peace to the Mid-
dle East and ensure a peaceful existence
for all of us who live in the world, no
matter where our nations might be, it's
important that we continue to benefit
from your sound judgment and from your
good advice.
We also had a chance to discuss an-
other potential troubled area, the Horn
of Africa. And here again we live at a
great distance from it. But this region,
which already sees the initiation of hos-
tility and combat, needs to be brought
under the good influence of you and oth-
ers who live in this region. And we will
be glad to cooperate in any way that we
can. We want peace to return. We want
Somalia and Ethiopia to be friends again,
border disputes to be eased and those of
us who do have any influence at all to
use that influence for these purposes.
We have also known about the great
benefits that we derive in our own nation
from the close business relationships that
we have with Iran.
As I drove through the beautiful streets
of Tehran today with the Shah, we saw
literally thousands of Iranian citizens
standing beside the street with a friendly
attitude, expressing their welcome to me.
2221
