Aug. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
alleviated. The concerns are no longer
there because the treaty terms are better
than we had anticipated.
I have talked to 50 or 60 Members of
the Senate myself since the treaty was
completed, the terms of it. Many of the
Senators who signed the so-called Thur-
mond resolution a year or so ago—I think
there were 40 of them, urging that no
treaty be signed—have now changed their
minds, and they will vote for the treaty
because they have been pleasantly sur-
prised at the terms.
I have a responsibility to be sure that
not only the Members of the Senate but
the American people know the facts about
the current terms of the treaty. My belief
is that when those facts are known, the
opinion of the American people will
change.
I think it will have a beneficial effect
when 8 or 10 or more leaders of foreign
countries come here in September to ratify
the treaty and express their support for
it. I intend to go to the Nation with a
fireside chat presentation some time in the
not too distant future to explain the ex-
act terms of the treaty.
We are also, at the request of individual
Senators, inviting key opinion shapers
from individual States to come here for a
briefing by myself, the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, the negotiators in the State Depart-
ment. We've already had two States, Ken-
tucky and Mississippi. And I think it's ac-
curate to say that the people in Mississippi
who came here were pleasantly surprised
at the terms of the treaty.
So, I think a current assessment of the
feeling of the American people about the
Panama Canal, that can't yet be based
on the actual terms, is not of overwhelm-
ing concern to me. It obviously is of some
concern. But that's my responsibility,
Dick [Dick McMichael, WRBL-TV,
Co-
lumbus, Fla.], and if I can't sell the Ameri-
can people on the fact that the terms of
the treaty are beneficial, then I'll have a
very difficult time selling it to the Senate.
But I'd predict that the treaty will be
ratified.
OIL AND NATURAL GAS
Q. With most of the energy legislation
still pending, I wonder what you foresee
for this winter in terms of fuel shortages?
Already in Louisiana they're talking about
cutting off 300 to 400 businesses from nat-
gas as of November 1.
ural
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
we've made good progress already on
shaping an energy policy backed up by
strong legislation. And I hope the Senate
will even strengthen what the House has
done.
It is obvious to me, as one who has
analyzed it as thoroughly as I can, that
the energy shortages are going to be more
and more severe each year. The shortage
is not going to be alleviated. We now use
about 60 million barrels of oil per day in
the world. That is increasing at a rate of
about 5 percent, most of the increase-a
lot of the increase outside our own coun-
try. This means that the amount of oil
that we will ever get out of Alaska would
only meet about 9 months of that increase.
In other words, we need a new Alaska
North Slope every 9 months; we need a
new Saudi Arabia every 3 years just to
meet the increasing demands for oil. So,
unless we cut back on the use of oil and
natural gas we are going to have increas-
ing demonstrations of crisis. We have had
a few warnings already with which you're
thoroughly familiar-one in 1973 with the
embargo, and again, I think more re-
cently, as you refer, this winter with the
natural gas shortage.
We have increased our imports this
year, I believe, 22 percent above last year
so far. Part of that has been because of
stockpiling. But we've now reached the
1514
