Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 4
in which the bitter divisions of generations, even centuries, hatreds and
suspicions can be overcome. Negotiations cannot be successful if any of
the parties harbor the deceitful view that peace is simply an interlude in
which to prepare for war.
Good faith negotiations will also require acceptance by all sides of
the fundamental rights and interests of everyone involved.
For Israel this means borders that are recognized and secure. Security
arrangements are crucial to a nation that has fought for its survival in each
of the last four decades. The commitment of the United States to Israel's
security is unquestionable.
For the Arabs, the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people must be
recognized. One of the things that binds the American people to Israel
is our shared respect for human rights and the courage with which Israel
has defended such rights. It is clear that a true and lasting peace in the
Middle East must also respect the rights of all peoples of the area. How
these rights are to be defined and implemented is, of course, for the inter-
ested parties to decide in detailed negotiations and not for us to dictate.
We do not intend to impose, from the outside, a settlement on the
nations of the Middle East.
The United States has been meeting with the foreign ministers of
Israel and the Arab nations involved in the search for peace. We are stay-
ing in close contact with the Soviet Union, with whom we share responsi-
bility for reconvening the Geneva conference.
As a result of these consultations, the Soviet Union and the United
States have agreed to call for the resumption of the Geneva conference
before the end of this year.
While a number of procedural questions remain, if the parties con-
tinue to act in good faith, I believe that these questions can be answered.
The major powers have a special responsibility to act with restraint
in areas of the world where they have competing interests, because the
association of these interests with local rivalries and conflicts can lead to
serious confrontation.
In the Indian Ocean area, neither we nor the Soviet Union has a
large military presence, nor is there a rapidly mounting competition be-
tween us.
Restraint in the area may well begin with a mutual effort to stabilize
our presence and to avoid an escalation in military competition. Then
1721
