Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
Q. Do you think, given Senator Long's
attitude, that that kind of a wellhead tax
is possible if you still give that tax? Or are
you going to have to put part of that rev-
enue into Government programs to spur
energy exploration and development?
THE PRESIDENT. This was a matter
that was debated very thoroughly among
my own advisers and myself before we
presented our proposal to the Congress
on April 20. Our judgment was that the
tax ought to be rebated directly to the
American consumer. It's a fair and equi-
table way to dispose of that money. It
would lessen greatly the American Gov-
ernment involvement in the oil industry.
It would remove the very complicated en-
titlements program. And also it would not
withhold large sums of money from an al-
ready kind of dormant economy.
If you gave the money immediately
back in reduced payroll taxes, then the
money would be circulated and you would
not hold it in the reserve fund. I would
have to retain some flexibility on that sub-
ject.
The thing that I don't want to do is to
take the money from the American con-
sumers in the increased price of gasoline
and other products and give it as a reward
to the oil companies. Now, matters that
might relate to better transportation sys-
tem or mass transit or better insulation of
homes, combined with a tax rebate to
consumers-I would consider all those as
options.
Q. So, in other words, it won't all be
coming back to the consumers now?
THE PRESIDENT. My preference is that
it would all come back to the consumers.
And as you know, that's the version that
was passed by the House of Representa-
tives. If I had my preference and could
write the bill without congressional in-
volvement, that would be my choice.
But I can't say that I would veto or
fail to support any alternative. There are
some alternatives that I could accept with-
out too much reluctance.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's sixteenth news con-
ference began at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Defense Appropriations
Letters to the Speaker of the House and the
Senate Majority Leader. September 29, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker:
Unless the Congress acts soon, over one-
half billion dollars will be wasted on un-
needed defense purchases.
In acting on 1978 appropriations for
Defense, the Congress agreed with my
proposals for no additional B-1 bombers
or Minuteman III missiles. Despite that
agreement, the House Appropriations
Committee recommended that no Con-
gressional action be taken to rescind funds
previously appropriated for the same pur-
poses. This means that the Congress will
force the Defense Department to produce
weapons systems that the Congress has
agreed are no longer needed.
Mr. Speaker, my opinion is that this
matter has not yet been fully considered
and I hope that you will personally help
me to prevent a serious mistake.
Additional B-1 bombers and Minute-
man III missiles are simply not needed
to defend our country. The enclosed sum-
mary sheet outlines the reasons for my
concern. The Secretary of Defense and
members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff will
be glad to provide further information and
1693
