Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We will establish with the passage of
this bill a Minimum Wage Study Com-
mission to make sure that in the future,
when minimum wage legislation is con-
sidered, that the overall impact will be
beneficial, that the direct effect on the
inflation rate, possible unemployment,
will be very carefully considered and that
we won't play the drop-far-behind/
catchup game in the future. This com-
mission will be an independent one. It
will be appointed-I think two represent-
atives each, chosen by Labor, Agriculture,
Commerce, and HEW. And they'll ana-
lyze within the next few months how we
can best approach the minimum wage
question in the future.
And so, it's with a great deal of pleas-
ure and appreciation to the bold and, I
think, well-considered action of Congress
that I sign this bill into law.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 3744
into law.]
I would like to call on two or three
Members of the Congress to respond. The
first one is a man who, perhaps, deserves
most of the credit among many fine lead-
ers, and that's Congressman Dent.
REPRESENTATIVE DENT. Thank you,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that Con-
gressman Perkins, the chairman of the
committee, specifically asked that John
Dent be called upon to speak because of
his leadership in this legislation.
Representative DENT. Mr. President,
I want to thank you on behalf of millions
of Americans who have no other source of
support except through the Congress of
the United States and the President of
the United States. While it's difficult for
Congress to achieve much, it's even
tougher on a President, who has to face
the barrage of opposition singly. Whereas
we have 435 Members to take a little bit
each, you have to take it all. [Laughter]
And every President that has signed a
minimum wage bill has done so with
heavy opposition against it. All of the
things they have predicted have never
come true. All that has ever come out of
minimum wage is a little bit better way of
life for a great number of people who
have no other place to go except to the
Congress and to the President.
I want to thank the Congress as the
sponsor for many years and thank you,
Mr. President, for helping these people
out.
THE PRESIDENT. I might point out that
since President Roosevelt signed the first
bill, that six other Presidents have also
taken the same action. So, I haven't
been alone or lonely in that procedure.
REPRESENTATIVE DENT. Mr. President,
I'm not going to horn in, but I was here,
too. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Was anyone else here
in 1938? Mr. Biemiller, were you there?
MR. BIEMILLER. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. So, four of you were
here when the first bill was signed.
Pete Williams, I'd like to ask you to say
a few words.
SENATOR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr.
President. I think most all of the impor-
tant things on this bill, as far as those of us
in Congress are concerned, have been said
over the last few months.
This is a great day for people at the
lowest rung of our economic ladder. And
while you, Mr. President, and the House
and the Senate came to minimum wage
legislation this year with the same theme,
there were variations. I think it is one of
the best examples of our processes that
we've come together with a measure that
we all know is of great importance to this
land.
I am delighted, though, that Jennings
Randolph is here from the Senate. He
was here at the beginning, and we've had
1948
