Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
it's very difficult for them to communicate
directly with Israel.
We act as an intermediary there. We
meet with those leaders on both sides.
Obviously, if there should be a break-
through in the future, similar to what
occurred between Egypt and Israel-let's
say, for instance, that if King Hussein
said he would like to negotiate directly
with Prime Minister Begin, we would
support that enthusiastically and offer
our good offices to encourage such an in-
terchange. But we don't have any incli-
nation nor ability to dominate anyone nor
to require them to take action contrary
to what they think is in the best interests
of their nation.
DAM SAFETY INSPECTION
Q. Mr. President, you told us at your
last news conference, sir, that you would
see to it that Federal inspections started
promptly on private dams. You had a
meeting on this subject Monday. Could
you tell us what happened?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I met Monday
with the Secretary of Interior, Sec-
retary of Agriculture, Secretary of Army,
and the head of the Corps of Engineers.
We have 9,000 high-risk dams in this
country which are not Federal dams.
These are nonfederal dams. We will
commence very shortly an inspection of
all those dams.
My present intention is to distribute,
within the next few days, certain guide-
lines to be worked out with individual
States so that the Corps of Engineers per-
sonnel, perhaps assisted by some from the
Department of Interior, would begin to
inspect the dams that we consider of most
danger, about 2,000 the first year. It costs
about $7,500 per dam to inspect them, on
the average. We've allotted $15 million
for this purpose.
In that process, we will train the State
personnel who will continue the inspec-
tion process after this original inspection
is made. We would then continue this for
2 or 3 additional years until all the 9,000
dams have been inspected. This program
then would be taken over primarily by
the States because the Federal Govern-
ment has no direct responsibility for these
nonfederal dams. In the meantime, of
course, dams that have been built by and
are controlled by the Corps of Engineers
and the Department of Interior are being
inspected, I think adequately, by the per-
sonnel in those departments because they
are Federal dams.
TAX REFORM
Q. Mr. President, one of the issues
you'll be facing in the new year is that of
tax reform. There's some discussion that
what is needed now is a tax break, a
quick fix, if you will, and that compre-
hensive reform can come further down
the road. What do you think, Mr. Presi-
dent?
THE PRESIDENT. 1977 is a year when
we are seeing major legislation, long over-
due, passed, hopefully, that cause some
increases in taxes. And additional taxes
are necessary to restore the integrity of the
social security system; some wellhead
taxes are necessary to carry out a compre-
hensive energy policy and to hold down
unnecessary consumption. I would hope
that all those changes in the law that
bring about any tax increase would be
concluded in 1977.
In 1978, there will be substantial tax
reductions, and combined with that will
be an adequate proposal for tax reform.
I spent several hours this week going over
the details of our tax reform package. We
can't conclude that analysis until we know
what will be done on energy and social
security, because they have such a high
impact on the tax structure. But there will
be substantial tax reductions in 1978, com-
bined with comprehensive tax reform.
2060
