Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ous. If we're going to have a viable, pro-
gressive economy, it must come from that
base. And I think this provides the base.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at
the White House. George Meany is president
and Andrew Biemiller is director of the Legisla-
tive Department of the AFL-CIO, and Clar-
ence J. Mitchell is executive director of the
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People.
As enacted, H.R. 3744 is Public Law 95-
151, approved November 1.
United States Participation in
the United Nations
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. November 1, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress
this 31st annual report on the principal
activities of the United States in the
United Nations and its constituent or-
ganizations during calendar year 1976.
This report describes the main UN ac-
tivities concerning issues affecting the se-
curity and well-being of the American
people, such as the Middle East, Southern
Africa, Cyprus, law of the sea, North-
South economic relations, food, the en-
vironment, drug control, science and
technology, human rights, terrorism, and
disarmament. It emphasizes the work of
US representatives in these forums and
the positions they adopted, and it explains
our government's stand on the issues. In
sum, the report portrays an active year
during which our country worked hard
with others in the UN to advance the
causes of peace, economic progress, and
justice.
In the area of peace and security, the
United Nations continued to serve as a
valuable forum for the discussion of po-
litical disputes even where progress on
the underlying issues was not always pos-
sible. In the Middle East and Cyprus,
UN peacekeeping units performed their
vital tasks while the search for a durable
peace continued. The Security Council
also worked to defuse other problems in
such areas as Southern Africa, Djibouti,
and the Comoros. In all, the Security
Council met 113 times in 1976-more
often than in any year since 1948, and
twice as often as in 1975.
The 31st General Assembly adopted a
number of resolutions in the area of dis-
armament and arms control. The two
most significant of these were a resolution
opening the Environmental Modifica-
tion Convention for signature and one
calling for a special session of the Gen-
eral Assembly in 1978 devoted to disarm-
ament issues.
On the recommendation of the Secu-
rity Council, and with US support, Sec-
retary General Kurt Waldheim was re-
appointed by the 31st General Assembly
to a second five-year term.
In the area of economic cooperation,
the developing and developed countries
continued efforts begun at the Seventh
Special Session of the General Assembly
to find common ground on a wide variety
of issues. The UN Conference on Trade
and Development (UNCTAD) held its
fourth ministerial session in Nairobi and
reached partial consensus on the critical
issues of commodities, technology trans-
fer, debt, and assistance to the poorest
countries. The General Assembly also de-
voted considerable attention to economic
questions. The United States co-spon-
sored a resolution in the General Assem-
bly calling for a UN Conference on Sci-
ence and Technology for Development,
to be held in 1979.
The UN's record with respect to hu-
man rights was disappointing. The un-
warranted linking of Zionism with racism
1950
