Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to clean up backlogs of municipal pollu-
tion.
The bill also emphasizes the importance
of controlling toxic pollutants which en-
danger the public health-a focus which
my administration has urged.
The Nation's wetlands will continue to
be protected under a framework which is
workable and which shares responsibilities
with the States. Certain farming and for-
estry activities that were never intended to
be covered under the original act are spe-
cifically exempted from requirements to
obtain permits. I am concerned that con-
gressionally approved Federal projects are
also exempted from this permit program.
Accordingly, I have directed EPA and
other Federal agencies to take adminis-
trative steps to ensure that Federal proj-
ects meet standards comparable to those
which nonfederal projects must meet.
The bill also:
•
helps small communities meet the re-
quirements of the 1972 act;
encourages industry to experiment
with the treatment of waste water
and sludge;
• allows the Federal and State Gov-
ernments to recover their costs in
mitigating damages from spills of oil
and other hazardous substances.
Amendments to the oil and hazardous
spill provisions of the 1972 act will extend
domestic jurisdiction to the ocean beyond
the contiguous zone, where the fisheries
and other natural resources of the United
States may be adversely affected. Oil pol-
lution is a global problem, and accidents
on the oceans prove the need for effective
international solutions.
We have been working through inter-
national forums to achieve broader ac-
ceptance for higher worldwide pollution
standards. I believe that the legislation I
am signing may raise issues of consistency
with international law, and I know that
many Members of the Congress share this
concern. Our clear objective is to achieve
maximum consistency with applicable
principles of international law regarding
the protection of the marine environment
and to encourage ongoing and future in-
ternational efforts to combat pollution of
the ocean. If that objective should require
amendments to the act that I am signing
into law, I am confident that the Con-
gress and the administration will work to-
gether next year to make any necessary
adjustments.
This act also requires Federal agencies
to comply with all Federal, State, and
local substantive and procedural require-
ments concerning the control and abate-
ment of water pollution. I strongly sup-
port this requirement because it demon-
strates the Federal Government's own
commitment to cleaning up the water
while also recognizing that certain ex-
emptions may be needed in the national
interest. For example, during this period
of energy crisis, it may be necessary to ex-
empt certain activities such as the Strate-
gic Petroleum Reserve program from the
strict application of this requirement. The
amendments which I am signing do not
limit my authority to grant exemptions
which may be needed to avoid unneces-
sary delays in implementing the important
energy program.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 3199 is Public Law
95-217, approved December 27.
Congressional Visit to the People's
Republic of China
Announcement of Plans for the Visit to
China by a Bipartisan Congressional
Delegation. December 28, 1977
The Chinese People's Institute of For-
eign Affairs of the People's Republic of
2180
