Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 19
to serve peaceful purposes-to draw a dis-
tinction between that need, which is
legitimate, and the threat of the develop-
ment of atomic explosions themselves.
I have a feeling that the need for
atomic power itself for peaceful uses has
perhaps been greatly exaggerated. And I
hope that all the nations represented here
and others will assess alternatives to
turning to this source of power, if for no
other reasons than because of economic
considerations.
Recent studies that I have read show
that we can gain the equivalent of a bar-
rel of oil per day by conservation measures
at very little or any cost, often zero cost
or up to $3,500. North Sea oil costs capi-
tal investment about $10,000 for every
barrel of oil per day derived from that
source. Our own Alaskan oil will cost
$20,000 in capital investment for every
barrel of oil per day, or its equivalent
derived at the ultimate site of use. And
for the equivalent of a barrel of oil per
day at the end-use site for atomic power,
the capital investment is between $200,000
and $300,000.
So, there's a tremendous cost even for
the potential peaceful use of atomic
power. Even so, we recognize that there
will be a need, and we are eager to
cooperate.
It's important that we understand your
problems, that those nations that supply
enriched uranium--ourselves, the Cana-
dians, others—those who have major de-
posits of uranium ore that have presently
not been exploited, like Australia, under-
stand the need of nations that are not well
blessed with uranium fuel supplies. It's
important that you understand from
those of us who unfortunately are nuclear
weapon nations, our special commitment
to reducing this threat.
I believe that in this brief session that
you will have this week, followed by weeks
and months of tedious, I'm sure, argu-
mentative but productive discussions and
debates, that common knowledge will
benefit us all.
It's important that we combine our
ingenuity, our foresight, our own experi-
ence, our research and development
efforts, so that we don't duplicate the very
expensive efforts to use atomic power in a
useful way. And this exchange of ideas
among us will be very helpful.
It's important that we know what po-
tential nuclear fuel cycles are available to
us, the quantity and the location of ura-
nium and thorium and other nuclear
fuels, the methods used for extraction, the
methods used and the costs for enrich-
ment, possible distribution systems, the
proper design and use, standardization of
powerplants, safety of people who live
near them, proper siting considerations,
the political objections to atomic power-
plants themselves, the possible need for
breeder reactors, the handling of spent
fuel, the need or absence of a need for re-
processing the spent fuel, and interna-
tional safeguards that will prevent the de-
velopment of explosives.
We are eager to cooperate as a nation
which is a consumer and also a supplier.
We want to be sure that where there is a
legitimate need and where there's a mu-
tually agreed upon nonproliferation re-
straint, that there be an adequate supply
of nuclear fuel.
I think an international fuel bank
should be established, so that if there is
a temporary breakdown in the bilateral
supply of nuclear fuel, that there might be
a reservoir of fuel to be supplied under
those circumstances. And we'll certainly
contribute our own technical ability and
our own portion of the enriched uranium
supplies for that purpose.
We are very eager, also, to help solve the
problem of the disposal of spent nuclear
1813
