Aug. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
dependence. Now, on September 17, 1977,
we commemorate the 190th anniversary
of a quieter but equally momentous event:
the signing of the Constitution of the
United States, at Independence Hall,
Philadelphia.
The Constitution audaciously proposed
a new plan of government—a government
through which the new Nation's people
could, in the words of the Preamble,
"form a more perfect Union, establish
Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, pro-
vide for the common defence, promote the
general Welfare, and secure the Blessings
of Liberty to ourselves and our Poster-
ity..."
With amendments, notably the Bill of
Rights, that Constitution has endured
these 190 years as the supreme law of our
land. We are its inheritors-the "poster-
ity" whose liberty the Founding Fathers
wished to secure-and it is fitting for us
to mark the anniversary of what they did.
By a joint resolution of February 29,
1952 (36 U.S.C. 153), Congress desig-
nated September 17 as Citizenship Day,
in commemoration of the formation and
signing of the Constitution and in rec-
ognition of all who, by coming of age or
by naturalization have attained the full
status of citizenship, and authorized the
President to issue annually a proclamation
calling upon officials of the Government
to display the flag on all Government
buildings on that day. By a joint resolu-
tion of August 2, 1956 (36 U.S.C. 159),
the Congress authorized the President to
designate the period beginning September
17 and ending September 23 of each year
as Constitution Week and to issue a proc-
lamation calling for the observance of
that week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
call upon appropriate Government offi-
cials to display the flag of the United
States on all Government buildings on
Citizenship Day, September 17, 1977, the
190th anniversary of the signing of the
Constitution. I urge Federal, State and
local officials, as well as leaders of civic,
educational and religious organizations to
conduct related ceremonies and programs
on that day.
I also designate as Constitution Week
the period beginning September 17 and
ending September 23, 1977, and urge all
Americans to observe that week with cere-
monies and activities in their schools,
churches and in other suitable places in
order to foster a better understanding of
the Constitution, and of the rights and
duties of United States citizens.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-seven, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:35 a.m., August 30, 1977]
National Endowment
for the Arts
Letter to Chairman Nancy Hanks.
August 29, 1977
To Nancy Hanks
Although I fully understand and re-
spect your desire to leave the chairman-
ship of the National Endowment for the
1522
