Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 19
code enforcement officers, Federal offi-
cials, and State and local government offi-
cials in fire prevention and control.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:49 p.m., September 19, 1977]
Meeting With Foreign Minister
Moshe Dayan of Israel
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting Between the President and the
Foreign Minister. September 19, 1977
President Carter and Israeli Foreign
Minister Moshe Dayan met in the Cabinet
Room for 1 hour, 35 minutes. The meet-
ing was also attended by Vice President
Walter Mondale; Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance; Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to
the President for National Security Af-
fairs; Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the
President; Robert J. Lipshutz, Counsel to
the President; David Aaron, Deputy As-
sistant for National Security Affairs; Al-
fred L. Atherton, Jr., Assistant Secretary
of State for Near Eastern and South Asian
Affairs; Samuel Lewis, U.S. Ambassador
to Israel; and William Quandt, National
Security Council staff member, on the
American side; and His Excellency Sim-
cha Dinitz, Ambassador of Israel to the
United States; The Honorable Ephraim
Evron, Director General, Ministry of For-
eign Affairs; The Honorable Hanan Bar-
on, Minister, Embassy of Israel; Mr. Meir
Rosenne, Legal Advisor to the Foreign
Minister; Mr. Naphtali Lavie, Foreign
Ministry Spokesman and Advisor to the
Foreign Minister; and Mr. Elyakim Ru-
binstein, Director, Foreign Minister's Bu-
reau, and Advisor to the Foreign Minister,
on the Israeli side.
The President began by expressing per-
sonal pleasure at his first opportunity to
welcome Foreign Minister Dayan to the
White House. He noted that his talks to-
day inaugurate a series of detailed and
concrete discussions with foreign ministers
from the Middle East in the intensive
search for a comprehensive peace settle-
ment. The President repeated his determi-
nation to help the parties reach that
settlement. He underlined his conviction
that a just and lasting peace in this vital
area of the world requires compromise
and courageous leadership from all the
parties to the negotiations.
The President and Foreign Minister
emphasized the importance of instituting
negotiations between the parties through
resuming the Geneva conference. The
President and the Foreign Minister re-
viewed the substantive issues of a settle-
ment and discussed questions related to
organizing the conference. There was an
exchange of views on the question of the
Palestinian representation and the ques-
tion of Israeli settlements. The Foreign
Minister elaborated on the draft treaty of
peace the Government of Israel had sub-
mitted to us for a comprehensive settle-
ment. As a follow-on to this meeting,
Secretary Vance will discuss the Israeli
plan in depth with the Foreign Minister
and will also discuss with him some spe-
cific American suggestions for reconciling
the differences between the parties.
The talk between the President and the
Foreign Minister will be useful in pro-
ceeding with the discussions the President,
and later the Secretary of State, are having
with the other foreign ministers. Their
talk was conducted in the open and
1627
