Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 2
• To help drug abusers return to pro-
ductive lives, I am directing the Secretary
of Labor to identify all Federal employ-
ment assistance programs which can help
former drug abusers and to give me, with-
in 120 days, his recommendations for in-
creasing the access of drug abusers to
them.
• A sustained effort must be made to
identify the reasons that people turn to
drugs, including alcohol and cigarettes.
We should seek more effective ways to
make people aware of the health prob-
lems associated with such substances (par-
ticularly cigarettes and alcohol) and to
respond in more constructive ways to the
human and psychological needs they
satisfy.
DRUG RESEARCH
In the past, there has been no serious
attempt to coordinate Federal research on
opiates and alcohol despite the many simi-
larities in the effects of these two drugs.
A joint Federal research center might not
only save money, but also lead to greater
scientific understanding of addiction
problems. Therefore I am directing the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to study the feasibility of making the
Addiction Research Center responsible
for coordinated research on a variety of
drugs, including opiates, alcohol, and
tobacco.
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION
Improved treatment and prevention
programs should be accompanied by ap-
propriate changes in Federal regulations,
administrative practices, and enforce-
ment, among which are these:
First, I am recommending a consci-
ous and deliberate increase in attention
throughout the Federal Government to
the problems related to the abuse of drugs
that come originally from legitimate medi-
cal sources. Of particular concern are bar-
biturates, which despite their recognized
medical use, are responsible for many
deaths and are frequently used in suicide
attempts. The withdrawal reaction of pa-
tients addicted to barbiturates can be
more difficult and more dangerous than
that associated with heroin withdrawal.
They are frequently oversold, overpre-
scribed, and overused.
Therefore, I will:
-Instruct the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare to undertake a
study of barbiturates and other sedative/
hypnotic drugs to determine the condi-
tions under which they can be most safely
used.
-Instruct the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, and the Administrator of Veterans'
Affairs to review the prescribing practices
of physicians under their jurisdiction, and
to discourage the medical use of barbitu-
rates and sedative/hypnotics except in
cases where it is unmistakably justified.
-Continue the program, already be-
gun at my direction, by which the Drug
Enforcement Administration has in-
structed its regional offices and regulatory
task forces to give priority attention to
barbiturate cases. DEA has also begun to
investigate the "street" market in order to
determine the source of illegal supplies
so that suitable Federal action may be
taken. In the near future, DEA will con-
duct a special accelerated audit of the
120 companies lawfully manufacturing
barbiturates in this country and will also
notify foreign governments of our desire
to see them control their barbiturate ex-
ports strictly.
• Second, I am directing the Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare to re-
view those sedative/hypnotic drugs par-
ticularly subject to abuse to determine
whether any should be removed from the
market, taking into consideration not only
their safety to the individual but also the
1405
