Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
White Cane Safety Day, 1977
Proclamation 4528. September 29, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The white cane, an ingeniously simple
device in an age of complex technology,
helps assure that those with impaired or
lost vision can lead rich and useful lives.
Remarkable progress in public atti-
tudes toward blindness has been made in
recent years. It is now widely under-
stood that blindness need not be a barrier
to full participation in social and eco-
nomic life, and the white cane is responsi-
ble for some of this progress.
Nevertheless, in certain situations-on
a busy street, near construction sites, or
wherever there are unusual obstacles or
hazards a white cane user may still
need help. Yet some people may be re-
luctant to offer it, for fear of saying or
doing the wrong thing. Most blind people
understand this hesitancy and are glad to
explain their needs if they are asked.
The white cane also signals to motorists
and cyclists that the user is blind-but it
cannot signal the user that a vehicle is
approaching. Thus it is the driver's re-
sponsibility to exercise extra caution.
To heighten public awareness of the
importance of the white cane to the in-
dependence and safety of thousands of
blind and visually handicapped Ameri-
cans, the Congress, by a joint resolution
approved October 6, 1964 (78 Stat.
1003 36 U.S.C. 169d), has authorized
the President to proclaim October 15 of
each year as White Cane Safety Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Ameri-
ca, do hereby proclaim October 15, 1977,
as White Cane Safety Day.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-ninth day
of September, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:32 a.m., September 30, 1977]
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
SEPTEMBER 29, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body.
After the last press conference, I had
an uneasy feeling that I had not ade-
quately covered the question about energy
and some foreign affairs, so I thought we
would have another press conference
fairly soon after that one.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
About 5 months ago, in April, I spoke
with the American people and with the
Congress about one of the most pressing
national needs—to develop a comprehen-
sive energy policy. The reason that we
have to act is not because we have crises
or emergencies at this present time, but
because they are imminent, and we need
to begin preparing now to protect our own
economic and our national security well-
being for the future.
With every passing day, our energy
problems become more severe. We have,
1684
