Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 1
was an impediment to serious consider-
ation of human rights matters and the US
continued to resist it by all possible
means. In a number of cases, failure to
take effective action belied the commit-
ment to human rights that all UN mem-
bers have accepted. International con-
cern over human rights issues continues
to broaden, however, and the acceptance
of an international competence to con-
sider these issues has become more firmly
established.
During 1976, the United States par-
ticipated in the International Labor Or-
ganization under the first year of its two-
year notice of intent to withdraw from
the organization. A favorable develop-
ment was the increased cohesion of the
industrialized free market countries at
the June 1976 conference, but I have yet
to decide whether sufficient progress has
been made to justify continued US mem-
bership.
These were some of the most dramatic
developments in the United Nations dur-
ing the last year but there are a great
many other UN activities discussed in this
report. Much of this work-the "quiet
side" of the United Nations-is not well
known to the public because it is non-
controversial and seldom reported in the
news media. But these economic, social,
and technical activities, which account
for the use of nearly 90 percent of the
total resources of the UN system, are of
great importance to our prosperity, se-
curity, and well-being. They include such
activities as:
-Establishing safety standards for in-
ternational civil aviation;
-Maintaining a World Weather
Watch;
-Improving health conditions and
standards worldwide;
-Combatting ocean and air pollution;
—Improving international food stand-
ards and preventing the spread of
plant and animal disease;
-Providing assistance to the less-de-
veloped countries; and
-Working to curb illicit drug produc-
tion and abuse.
Since assuming the Presidency, I have
pledged my Administration to full sup-
port for the work of the United Nations
and to greater use of its machinery in the
conduct of our foreign relations. The
wide-ranging activities described above
show clearly the importance of the work
done by the UN and its associated agen-
cies. It is work that cannot be accom-
plished by nations acting alone or even
through bilateral diplomacy. It is only
through multi-lateral forums such as the
UN that many of the world's most press-
ing issues can be effectively approached.
I am proud of America's role in creat-
ing the United Nations, in advancing
global cooperation through its various
agencies, and in providing, over the years,
the largest share of its financial support.
As the UN begins its 33rd year, I wel-
come the opportunity to submit this re-
port to the Congress and to reaffirm my
Administration's commitment to this in-
creasingly vital institution.
The White House,
November 1, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "U.S. Partic-
ipation in the UN-Report by the President
to the Congress for the Year 1976" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 426 pp.).
International Labor Organization
Statement on the Termination of
U.S. Membership. November 1, 1977
Two years ago, the United States gave
official notice that we would leave the
International Labor Organization unless
1951
