Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
almost unbelievably, spent $23 billion so
far this year on imported oil, and we are
likely to spend almost $45 billion before
the year is over. This is by far more than
we have ever bought before. Gasoline con-
sumption was higher this summer than it
has ever been before, and now half of the
oil that we use, much of it wastefully,
came from foreign countries.
No matter how hard we try to ignore it,
our energy problem is not going away.
There is no easy way to establish a com-
prehensive energy policy. No interest
group or organization can be totally sat-
isfied with every part of our plan. But the
House of Representatives has met this very
difficult and controversial issue coura-
geously and has adopted almost all of the
program that was proposed to them last
April.
This proposal is balanced, fair, and
comprehensive, and it contains incentives
for adequate production and also protects
the interest of consumers.
By relying on incentives rather than
prohibitions and regulations, it keeps to
a minimum the direct Government in-
volvement that would otherwise be neces-
sary to control our energy problems and
which exist at the present time.
Oil producers will receive the equiva-
lent of the world price for newly discov-
ered oil, and between now and 1990 oil
and gas profits from domestic exploration
and production, under my own program,
will exceed $430 billion.
We accept these incentives, knowing
that they are necessary to guarantee fu-
ture supplies of oil and natural gas. What
we do not accept is the argument that we
hear from the oil and gas companies that
we need to provide incentives for wells
that were drilled in 1970 or 1972, or even
earlier, when oil prices were about one-
fourth what they are now. We do not ac-
cept windfall profits for efforts that the
producers have already made and for oil
and gas already discovered.
I do not support complete deregulation
of natural gas prices, which would provide
windfall profits without significantly in-
creasing supply. Deregulation would cost
consumers an extra $70 billion by 1985
but would increase supplies very little, if
any. Gas prices have already risen by 500
percent over the last 6 years, but we are
producing less natural gas than we did in
1972, 6 years ago.
Along with production incentives, the
National Energy Plan also contains vital
measures to conserve energy and to re-
place our precious oil and gas with more
abundant fuels, such as coal. Let me men-
tion quickly in closing three of the most
important of these conservation measures.
Unless we pass the oil equalization tax,
we will in effect continue to subsidize,
with an extremely complicated Govern-
ment program, imports of oil. The gas-
guzzler tax is crucial because it provides a
continuous economic incentive for con-
sumers to buy and automobile makers to
produce more efficient automobiles.
The large industrial users of oil and
gas must be persuaded to convert to coal
and to other fuels. This effort alone could
account for about 40 percent of the total
oil savings that we project in the energy
program.
And, finally, the rate structure for elec-
tric power must be modified to discourage
waste.
We are now at a turning point in estab-
lishing a comprehensive energy program.
The House of Representatives has acted.
The Senate is still in the process. I'd like
to take this opportunity to thank the
majority leader and many of the Senate
leaders for their work toward resolving
the difficult questions that now face the
1685
