Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 22
to a better life for the people of this coun-
try and for those around the world.
As I've looked down the list of those
who are being honored today, the breadth
of the interests that you have shown and
the broad scope of the contributions that
you've made is quite remarkable.
As President, I now have the responsi-
bility to prepare the national budget
presentation to Congress, after consulta-
tion with Frank Press. He's my Science
and Technology Adviser. We were im-
pressed with some of the problems that
we have.
The quality of scientific equipment has
been falling off rapidly in recent years.
The number of top-ranked research cen-
ters has been falling off in recent years.
The percentage of faculty members who
are scientists and who are also young has
been falling off rapidly in recent years.
In 1968, about 45 percent of the faculty
members were young men and women.
Now that's dropped off to only about 25
percent, which shows that in the future
we have a problem on our hands unless
we take strong action to correct these
trends.
I'm assessing each individual agency's
budget these days. This afternoon I will
have three major agencies to assess. In
many instances the heads of those agen-
cies, the Cabinet members and others,
have relegated research and development
to a fairly low position of priority. But I
directed the Office of Management and
Budget to boost those research and de-
velopment items much higher, and they
will be funded accordingly.
Finally, I'd like to say that we want to
make sure that the climate for research
and development in our country is en-
hanced, with my own imprimatur of
approval and interest, with a broad-scale
exhibition of interest on numerous occa-
sions by the Members of Congress and
my own administration, with publicity
accruing to those who have achieved
notably in the scientific and engineering
field and also in direct budget allocations.
We are not trying to establish nor to
maintain a college aid program. I think
to the extent that basic research and
development commitments can be ori-
ented toward things that improve the
quality of our people's lives, enhance the
security of our Nation, contribute to our
position in world leadership, to that ex-
tent these allocations of funds and inter-
ests will be more readily acceptable and
supported by the American people.
What we do in science in this country
has a tremendous impact on the decisions
made in other nations, strong and inde-
pendent nations, because there is, as you
know, a scientific community that is
drawn together by mutuality of interest
that's able to transcend obstacles that are
raised by national boundaries. And the
exchange of information, the consulta-
tion, mutual progress, the sharing of re-
sponsibility, even between nations like
ourselves and the Soviet Union, is one
that lays a basis for future peace and
understanding and a sharing of a com-
mon purpose for humankind.
So, as President of the world's greatest
nation, I'm very grateful this morning to
participate in a small way in a ceremony.
You have honored our country. We
would like to present to you now these
Medals of Science to recognize the tre-
mendous contribution that you've made
to our Nation. Thank you very much for
letting us have this opportunity to recog-
nize your notable achievement.
Thank you.
MR. PRESS. Mr. President, the first
medalist is Roger Charles Lewis Guille-
min from the Salk Institute, San Diego,
California, for demonstrating the pres-
ence of a new class of hormones, made in
the brain, that regulate the function of
the pituitary gland, thereby making pos-
2045
