Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 1
Another one, of course, is the Chinese
relationship with us. They refuse to send
any of their major officials into the city
of Washington because we have an am-
bassador here who represents the Repub-
lic of China in Taiwan. And I would
guess that if the situation existed a hun-
dred years that they would never deviate
in that policy.
They will send top officials into New
York to attend the United Nations, but
as a matter of principle, they won't send
their top persons like the foreign minis-
ter or one of their premiers into the city
of Washington because they claim that we
erroneously have relationships with Tai-
pei. That's another question that arises.
And another one is that the Chinese in-
sist upon being very independent. They're
cautious about how they buy goods from
any other country.
I think that my own judgment is that
under the new government with Premier
Hua and Deputy Premier Teng, that the
Chinese are going to expand their inter-
relationship with other countries on a for-
eign trade basis, and perhaps we can
benefit from that.
We are eager to meet them more than
half way in order to enhance American
sales and, I think, through trade, to im-
prove our relationships with the Main-
land Chinese.
It's so complicated; it's hard to explain
briefly.
AGRICULTURAL LOANS
Q. Probably the most severe problem
right now seems to be this financing, re-
financing, keeping the loan levels in cer-
tain areas. Do you think that there might
either through cooperative credit agencies
or through the Farmers Home Adminis-
tration, might be some bridge that will
allow farmers—see, the thing, like banks
just run out of loan-and they're really
getting pressed on this, and the drought,
last year's bills are coming due, and 1974's
early freeze coming due, and all these
things putting hundreds of millions of
dollars in Wisconsin alone coming due to
the Government, and by golly, they can't
have the comeback quite to make it. And
I just wondered if this type of immediate
problem might be addressed through an
existing agency or some special program,
just a loan, not-
THE PRESIDENT. I know. We've had an
extraordinary demand this year for agri-
cultural disaster loans because of floods,
droughts and so forth, and we've met
those requirements. I think that about at
least two-thirds of the counties in the
United States are now eligible for disaster
loans, and still we've had one of the most
bountiful crops on a nationwide basis
we've ever had.
As you know, we did increase the price
support of milk, which certainly helped
Wisconsin. Also, we've increased the loan
and price support levels of 1977 crop com-
modities, which does mean that the banks
would have a more secure loan at a higher
level of the loan itself. If you increase the
loan level of wheat that the farmer has
in storage, then he can go back to the
bank and on a secured basis get a higher
loan or extend his loan more carefully
as far as the bank is concerned.
We also have tried to encourage,
through decisions made from the Agricul-
ture Department, more easy loans, both
in the paperwork involved and also a
higher level of loans for the installation
of storage equipment for wheat, soybeans,
feed grains, and so forth.
So, within the present structure, the ex-
tension of credit is enhanced. We've also
had Bob Bergland, who's an excellent
man, working very closely with Arthur
Burns and with the Secretary of Treasury,
Mike Blumenthal, to analyze from one
1709
