Sept. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Creation of the Department of Energy
will give a clear direction and focus to
America's energy future by providing the
framework for carrying out a comprehen-
sive, balanced national energy policy.
The new Department was proposed by
President Carter on March 1 to provide
the framework for carrying out national
energy policy. On August 4, 1977, the De-
partment of Energy Organization Act was
signed into law, and the following day
James R. Schlesinger was confirmed by
the Senate as the first Secretary of Energy.
Among the major programs under the
new Department are: conservation, re-
source development and production, re-
search and development, data informa-
tion management, and regulation.
With a first-year budget of almost $10.4
billion, the new Department will inherit
almost 20,000 employees under this Gov-
ernment reorganization.
In addition to the Secretary, the act
calls for the President to nominate, for
confirmation by the Senate, candidates for
the following positions: Deputy Secretary,
Under Secretary, General Counsel, eight
Assistant Secretaries, a Director of the
Office of Energy Research, Administra-
tors of the Economic Regulatory Admin-
istration and the Energy Information Ad-
ministration, and an Inspector General
and Deputy Inspector General.
A Federal Energy Regulatory Commis-
sion will be created within the Depart-
ment, and the President will nominate,
for confirmation by the Senate, five mem-
bers, one of whom the President will des-
ignate as Chairman.
Nominations submitted today are:
JOHN F. O'LEARY-Deputy Secretary of En-
ergy, currently Administrator, Federal En-
ergy Administration. Mr. O'Leary will assist
the Secretary in representing the Department
before Congress and the public and will also
decide administrative matters of Department-
wide scope. He will have special responsibil-
ity for overseeing and forming policy for the
Department's energy regulatory functions
(except those of the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission) and the energy data
gathering, analysis, and reporting functions.
DALE D. MYERS-Under Secretary of Energy,
currently corporate vice president of Rock-
well International and president of North
American Aircraft Operations in California.
Mr. Myers will oversee those departmental
programs requiring major budget outlays,
such as energy research, development, and
application, associated environmental pro-
grams, and the defense programs. In addi-
tion, he will have primary responsibility for
the Department's energy conservation pro-
grams.
DAVID J. BARDIN-Administrator, Economic
Regulatory Administration, currently Dep-
uty Administrator of the Federal Energy Ad-
ministration. Mr. Bardin will regulate the
pricing and allocation of crude oil and nat-
ural gas liquids and products and assure the
availability of these forms of energy. He will
be responsible for developing and administer-
ing standby and emergency programs and ad-
ministering the coal conversion and oil im-
port programs. Mr. Bardin will also serve as
the Department's chief spokesman before the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and
other Federal and State agencies on regula-
tory issues.
ALVIN L. ALM-Assistant Secretary of Energy
(Policy and Evaluation), currently a senior
member of the Energy Policy and Planning
Staff, Executive Office of the President. Mr.
Alm will be the Department's principal pol-
icy planner and coordinator of analysis and
evaluation. He will also be responsible for
assuring that DOE policies and programs
promote competition in the energy industry.
HARRY E. BERGOLD, JR.-Assistant Secretary of
Energy (International Affairs), currently a
senior member of the Energy Policy and
Planning Staff, Executive Office of the Pres-
ident, handling international energy matters.
Mr. Bergold will be responsible for the inter-
national component in the Department's
overall energy policy and will represent the
Department in intragovernmental and inter-
national discussions on energy. He will assist
1584
