Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
Despite deep and continuing differences
in world outlook, both of us should accept
the new responsibilities imposed on us by
the changing nature of international
relations.
Europe and Japan rose from the rubble
of war to become great economic powers.
Communist parties and governments have
become more widespread and more varied
and, I might say, more independent from
one another. Newly independent nations
emerged into what has now become known
as the Third World. Their role in world
affairs is becoming increasingly significant.
Both the United States and the Soviet
Union have learned that our countries
and our people, in spite of great resources,
are not all-powerful. We've learned that
this world, no matter how technology has
shrunk distances, is nevertheless too large
and too varied to come under the sway
of
either one or two super powers. And what
is perhaps more important of all, we have,
for our part, learned, all of us, this fact,
these facts in a spirit not of increasing
resignation, but of increasing maturity.
I mention these familiar changes
with which you are familiar because I
think that to understand today's Soviet-
American relationship, we must place it
in perspective, both historically and in
terms of the overall global scene..
The whole history of Sovet-American
relations teaches us that we will be misled
if we base our long-range policies on the
mood of the moment, whether that mood
be euphoric or grim. All of us can remem-
ber times when relations seemed especi-
ally dangerous and other times when they
seemed especially bright.
We've crossed those peaks and valleys
before. And we can see that, on balance,
the trend in the last third of a century has
been positive.
The profound differences in what our
two governments believe about freedom
and power and the inner lives of human
beings, those differences are likely to re-
main; and so are other elements of com-
petition between the United States and
the Soviet Union. That competition is
real and deeply rooted in the history and
the values of our respective societies. But
it's also true that our two countries share
many important overlapping interests.
Our job-my job, your job-is to explore
those shared interests and use them to
enlarge the areas of cooperation between
us on a basis of equality and mutual
respect.
As we negotiate with the Soviet Union,
we will be guided by a vision of a
gentler, freer, and more bountiful world.
But we will have no illusions about the
nature of the world as it really is. The
basis for complete mutual trust between
us does not yet exist. Therefore, the
agree-
ments that we reach must be anchored on
each side in enlightened self-interest-
what's best for us, what's best for the
Soviet Union. That's why we search for
areas of agreement where our real inter-
ests and those of the Soviets coincide.
We want to see the Soviets further
engaged in the growing pattern of inter-
national activities designed to deal with
human problems—not only because they
can be of real help but because we both
should be seeking for a greater stake in
the creation of a constructive and peace-
ful world order.
When I took office, many Americans
were growing disillusioned with détente-
President Ford had even quit using the
word, and by extension, people were con-
cerned with the whole course of our rela-
tions with the Soviet Union. Also, and
perhaps more seriously, world respect for
the essential rightness of American for-
eign policy had been shaken by the events
of a decade-Vietnam, Cambodia, CIA,
Watergate. At the same time, we were be-
1311
