Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 30
STAFF MORALS
Q. Mr. President, Panax Newspapers
has a tape-recorded statement by Dr.
Peter Bourne that even though your own
relationship is monogamous, you never
held anything against people in your or-
ganization who were involved promis-
cuously with other women. My question
is, is Dr. Bourne right or wrong in this
recorded statement? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. He certainly is right
in part of it. My relationship—[laugh-
ter] my relationship is monogamous.
Q. What about the rest of it? Can
I follow up, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I am sorry?
Q. What about the second part of it?
He has stated that you never held any-
thing against people in your organiza-
tion who were involved promiscuously
with other women. Is he right or wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. My preference is that
those who associate with me-in fact, all
people would honor the same stand-
ards that I honor. But I've never held it
against people who had a different
standard from myself. I've done every-
thing I could properly and legitimately
to encourage my staff members' families
to be stable, and I have also encouraged
the same sort of thing in my Cabinet.
If there are some who have slipped
from grace, then I can only say that
I'll do the best I can to forgive them
and pray for them. [Laughter]
PRESIDENTIAL PAPERS
Q. Mr. President, can you give us your
reaction to the Supreme Court decision
on former President Nixon's tapes and
documents, that they are the property of
the Government, and the implications
that this might have on the disposition
of your own Presidential material?
THE PRESIDENT. My intentions are to
make my own Presidential papers and
documents the property of the people of
the Nation after I leave office. And I have
no objection, obviously, to the same thing
being done in a mandatory way with the
and documents of President
papers and
Nixon.
I do have concern, however, about the
enormous complexity of the requirement
of making all those documents available
for public scrutiny. I understand the cost
of this process will be more than $55 mil-
lion. There are literally millions of doc-
uments and hundreds and hundreds of
tapes. And whether or not we should
guarantee that any citizen of the country
should have unimpeded access to any doc-
ument and tape is one that does concern
me. But, of course, I am constrained to
abide by the 1974 law, and we are look-
ing into how we can make sure that these
documents and tapes are not concealed
from the public, but still handle them in
a rational way.
This is what I intend to do when I
am no longer President, is to make my
own papers available to the public.
HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
Q. Mr. President, just one other aspect
of human rights. Although you've ex-
pressed surprise, as Helen [Helen
Thomas, United Press International]
pointed out in the beginning, about some
of the Soviet response, that reaction at the
very beginning was predicted almost with-
out exception by people who had long ex-
perience in dealing with the Soviet
Union. My question is, did you consult
any qualified, experienced people before
undertaking your campaign? If you did,
who were they? What did they tell you?
THE PRESIDENT. I would guess that
the Secretary of State and my national se-
curity adviser, my staff, and others would
be adequately qualified. I don't have any
regrets at all about our enthusiastic en-
dorsement of the principle of human
rights, basic human freedoms, and the re-
spect for individuality of persons.
1205
