Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 27
of almost all the Latin American countries
since I've been in office-I believe they're
unanimously supportive of the treaty it-
self.
Had we never started the negotiations
13 years ago, the consequences of not hav-
ing a treaty would be much more man-
ageable. Now the expectation of Latin
American people that we are going to
have a resolution of this question has built
up hopes of new friendship, new trade
opportunities, and a new sense of com-
monality and equality of stature between
their governments and our government
that never existed before. I think if those
hopes were dashed, if we signed the
treaty, which we will do, if the other na-
tions of Latin America signed the neutral-
ity treaty which will take effect after the
year 2000, and then our Senate rejects
the treaty, I think that the consequences
would be very severe. I hope to avoid that
consequence.
I might add that several of the Sen-
ators who are strongly opposed to the
treaty recognize this threat and this
danger and this very difficult position in
which we find ourselves.
I have received a report from the Joint
Chiefs to corroborate the first statement
I made that we can defend the treaty.
Senator Goldwater has taken a very in-
teresting position with which I do not
agree that if the American people are
committed to fight in Panama against
the Panamanians some time in the future,
then, he says, he would favor our reten-
tion of present rights and the exclusion
of Panama. If we are not willing to go to
war with the Panamanians to retain the
open canal, then the treaty is advisable.
And this is basically the position that
others have taken. Very conservative
news columnists like Bill Buckley, to some
degree James Kilpatrick, agree with that
position.
I don't want to have to go to war with
Panama about the treaty, about the canal
operation. The ownership of the canal is
not nearly so important to me as the
openness of the canal and its free access to
all countries, as has been the case in the
past with our having the right to defend
it under any circumstances, to operate it
to the end of this century, and to have our
own warships, in case of an emergency,
have priority.
Q. Mr. President, Governor Busbee
made the statement that he did not be-
lieve you were receiving enough input
from the American people on foreign
policy. Before I left town, I asked the
viewers of our newscast to call in on the
questions of Panama and Cuba. And on
the Panama treaty, in an hour's time, 822
said no to the treaty and 128 yes. Normal-
ization of relations with Cuba: 589 said no
and 357 said yes. So there's some input.
But I'd like to know what you feel about
Governor Busbee's statement.
THE PRESIDENT. I wish you'd ask Jody
this if
you see him again, but I think Gov-
ernor Busbee called Jody to say that the
text of the speech to which you refer, that
was issued, was not the speech that he
delivered, and I don't think he made those
comments when he delivered the speech.
But that was in the preliminary text that
was prepared.
There are times in the life of any public
official and in any news official when a
position must be taken that's not com-
pletely compatible with the public view.
There's been a great deal of legitimate
concern about the Panama Canal ex-
pressed in the past, based on proposals
that were put forward 5, 10, 13 years ago,
that in the present treaty draft have been
1513
