Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 8
Educational Benefits for
Veterans and Dependents
Executive Order 12020. November 8, 1977
PAYMENT OF EDUCATIONAL BENEFITS TO
VETERANS AND DEPENDENTS WHEN
SCHOOLS ARE TEMPORARILY CLOSED
TO CONSERVE ENERGY
By virtue of the authority vested in
me by clause (A) of Section 1780(a) of
Title 38 of the United States Code, and
as President of the United States of
America, in order to establish a national
policy in regard to payment of educational
benefits to veterans and their dependents
during periods in which schools are closed
to conserve energy, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
SECTION 1. Whenever an educational
institution submits evidence which satis-
fies the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs
that energy consumption will be abnor-
mally high during the winter months or
that available energy supplies will be in-
adequate to meet the needs of the school,
and that, in the interest of energy con-
servation, the institution plans to close
between semesters or terms for a period
not to exceed 45 days, the Administrator
may continue to pay monthly educational
assistance benefits to veterans and eligible
persons enrolled in such schools. Such au-
thority may be exercised only once during
any 12-month period with respect to any
educational institution.
SEC. 2. The Administrator shall advise
veterans and other eligible persons of the
effect of accepting educational assistance
benefits under the provisions of Section 1
of this Order on their period of entitle-
ment.
The White House,
November 8, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:20 p.m., November 8, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Address to the Nation. November 8, 1977
Good evening.
More than 6 months ago, in April, I spoke to you about a need for
a national policy to deal with our present and future energy problems,
and the next day I sent my proposals to the Congress.
The Congress has recognized the urgency of this problem and has
come to grips with some of the most complex and difficult decisions that
a legislative body has ever been asked to make.
Working with Congress, we've now formed a new Department of
Energy, headed by Secretary James Schlesinger. We have the ability to
administer the new energy legislation, and congressional work on the
National Energy Plan has now reached the final stage.
Last week the Senate sent its version of the legislation to the confer-
ence committees, where Members of the House and Senate will now
1981
