Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
are represented very well by the three men
who stand behind me-Parren Mitchell,
Alex Haley, and Andrew Young and
many others in this audience who have
come before them and who have marched
with them and will join with us in the
future in a spirit of brotherhood to make
sure that the great achievements that
we've seen in our own country can be en-
hanced and that they can be made avail-
able to the needy and downtrodden people
throughout the world.
Thank you very much. I love you
Thank you.
all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 p.m.
in the International Ballroom at the Washing-
ton Hilton Hotel. In his remarks, he referred to
Alex Haley, author of "Roots," and Repre-
sentative Parren J. Mitchell of Maryland,
chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
United Nations Day, 1977
Proclamation 4525. September 26, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Each year on October 24, Americans
join with the people of other countries in
celebrating the anniversary of the United
Nations an institution created to main-
tain international peace and security, to
promote the self-determination of peoples,
to encourage respect for human rights, and
to foster economic and social welfare.
Americans have been instrumental in
creating the United Nations, in advancing
cooperation through its forums, and in
providing, over the years, the largest share
of its financial support.
Since its establishment at San Fran-
cisco in 1945, the United Nations has
undergone profound change. Its member-
ship has nearly trebled from the original
51 members, as most of the former colonial
areas of Asia and Africa received their in-
dependence. New problems brought on by
developments in science and technology
and by global interdependence have tested
the ability of governments to cooperate
harmoniously. Problems like the arms
race, the spread of nuclear weapons, the
international economic order, the disposi-
tion of the world's oceanic resources, en-
ergy, and environmental pollution tran-
scend national boundaries, making the
United Nations and its specialized and
technical agencies of continuing impor-
tance to the international community.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Monday, October 24,
1977, as United Nations Day. I have ap-
pointed Henry Ford II to be United
States National Chairman for United Na-
tions Day and I urge appropriate observ-
ances to inform citizens of the aims and
achievements of the United Nations and
its affiliated agencies.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 26th day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:32 a.m., September 26, 1977]
Railroad Retirement Board
Nomination of Charles J. Chamberlain To Be
a Member. September 26, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Charles J. Chamberlain,
of Illinois, to be a member of the Rail-
road Retirement Board. He would replace
Neil P. Speirs, resigned.
1664
