Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
terms that have convinced me that we
are making good progress. This is a year
when hopes are growing, and I believe
that we have a good chance to see a vision
realized that fills my heart and my mind-
a vision of borders that are not closed, a
vision of trade, an exchange of students,
an exchange of tourists, of commerce, a
sense of political commitment to common
purpose, diplomatic recognition between
nations, an alleviation of the arms race,
and a repair of the economic chaos that
exists in many of the nations that I have
described. We want to be sure that there
is economic growth there so that private
contributions and Government aid pro-
grams that go into that region can be used
not just for weapons, overwhelmingly, but
to repair the lives of those who have lived
there in torment for so long.
I don't know that we will be successful.
But I am committed to this hope with my
uttermost commitment as a human being
who loves Israel, as a President of a coun-
try that feels a sense of partnership. And
I hope that everything that you do as
Democrats and as leaders of one of our
great States will be contributing to a real-
ization of these hopes that we share so
deeply.
jects can be discussed without fear, be-
cause sometimes the longstanding prob-
lems of unemployment and inflation, of
nuclear weaponry and nuclear prolifera-
tion, an absence of an energy policy and a
comprehensive farm legislation, rebuild-
ing our cities, bringing peace with the
Soviet Union and peace to southern
Africa, an emphasis on human rights and
peace in the Middle East-none of these
questions are easy. It would be much
easier to ignore them or delay the resolu-
tion of them. But with your strength and
support and the commitment or the prin-
ciples of a Democratic Party, I believe
that we can be successful.
Tomorrow morning, I and those travel-
ing with me will get up early, about 5
o'clock, and we'll get on a plane, and we'll
fly to Minnesota. And as I get off that
plane, I would like to be able to extend
the love of the California Democrats to
the greatest Democrat of all-Hubert
Humphrey. Senator Humphrey and
Muriel will fly back to Washington with
me on Air Force One. And as I travel that
short distance with him, I will be express-
ing my thanks to him for what he means
and has meant to our country, and I'll
extend to him your love and a recommit-
ment from you to the principles for which
he stands, for which our party stands, and
for which stands also the greatest nation
on Earth-our country.
I've enjoyed being President this year.
There have been many responsibilities
that have not been so enjoyable. But I see
the prospects for progress. But I can do
really very little without a sense of part-
nership with you, because my judgment
must be based on a realization of the
hopes and dreams of the American peo-
ple. And your demonstration tonight of
support for our party is very encouraging Minneapolis, Minnesota
to me. I appreciate your confidence in
our government in spite of the fact that
it has had problems in the past, and I
appreciate your confidence in me as
President.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. in the
Los Angeles Room at the Century Plaza Hotel.
I want to continue to have an open
government where even controversial sub-
Remarks of the President and Senator
Hubert H. Humphrey at Minneapolis/
St. Paul International Airport.
October 23, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This is one of the great
days of my life, to be able to come back to
1898
