Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 15
of the past are not repeated and to em-
phasize Presidential concerns regarding
intelligence issues.
The Council of Wage and Price Sta-
bility (COWPS) is a necessary weapon in
the continuing fight against inflation and
will be retained. To be sure that its work
is closely coordinated with the economic
analyses performed by the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers (CEA), COWPS should
be directed by the Chairman of CEA.
III. Centralize Administrative Functions
About 380 (22%) of the full-time, per-
manent EOP personnel perform admin-
istrative support services in EOP units.
Most EOP units besides the White House
and OMB are too small to provide a full
complement of administrative services.
They depend on the White House, OMB,
GSA, other federal departments, or sev-
eral of these sources for many of these
services. This approach is inefficient; the
quality is uneven and the coordination
poor. Some services are duplicated, others
inconsistently distributed (excess capacity
in some units and deficiencies in others),
and most too costly.
I propose to combine administrative
support operations into a Central Admin-
istrative Unit in EOP to provide support
in administrative services common to all
EOP entities. It should be a separate EOP
entity because of the need to assure equal
access by all other units.
This consolidation will result in:
saving of roughly 40 positions and
about $1.1 million
improved and more innovative serv-
ices
• a focus for monitoring the efficiency
and responsibility of administrative
services
• a base for an effective EOP budget/
planning system through which the
President can manage an integrated
EOP rather than a collection of dis-
parate units.
The EOP has never before been orga-
nized as a single, unified entity serving
the President. It is only by viewing it as a
whole that we can improve efficiency
through steps like the Central Adminis-
trative Unit.
IV. Reduce the Size of White House and
EOP Staffs
I am reducing the White House staff
by 28%, from the 485 I inherited from
my predecessor to 351. This involves cuts
in my policy and administrative staffs as
well as transfers to the Central Adminis-
trative Unit.
I estimate that this plan and the other
steps I am taking will reduce staff levels
in the EOP by about 250, from 1,712
full-time permanent positions to about
1,460 and will save the taxpayers at least
$6 million.
As in the rest of the government, I
will be reluctant to add staff unless neces-
sary to help me do my job better.
I ask that you support me in improv-
ing the operations of the Executive Office
of the President by approving the at-
tached reorganization plan.
In summary this plan would:
• Abolish the Domestic Council and
establish a Domestic Policy Staff.
• Establish within the EOP a Central
Administrative Unit.
• Transfer certain functions of the
Council on Environmental Quality
to the President for redelegation.
• Abolish the Office of Drug Abuse
Policy and vest functions in the
President for redelegation.
• Abolish the Office of Telecommuni-
cations Policy and transfer functions
to the Department of Commerce and
to the President for redelegation.
1259
