Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
employee's documentation of legal resi-
dence, as designated by the Attorney Gen-
eral in regulations, was seen prior to em-
ployment.
• The Social Security card would be
designated as one of the authorized iden-
tification documents; and we will acceler-
ate the steps already being taken to make
certain that such cards are issued, as the
law now mandates, only to legal residents.
Those steps include requiring personal in-
terviews of card applicants and making
the cards more difficult to forge. But no
steps would be taken to make the Social
Security card, or any other card, a national
identification document.
resources, has resulted in the hiring of
undocumented aliens at sub-minimum
wages, thereby often displacing American
workers. Two hundred sixty new inspec-
tors will be hired and targeted to areas of
heavy undocumented alien employment.
Similarly, the Federal Farm Labor Con-
tractor Registration Act, which prohibits
the recruiting and hiring of undocu-
mented aliens for farm work, would be
tightly enforced. The Departments of Jus-
tice and Labor will work closely in ex-
changing information developed in their
separate enforcement activities.
While I believe that both the new and
existing employer sanctions, and their
strict enforcement, are required to control
the employment of undocumented aliens,
the possibility that these sanctions might
lead employers to discriminate against
Mexican-American citizens and legal resi-
dents, as well as other ethnic Americans,
would be intolerable. The proposed em-
• To further restrict job opportunities,
criminal sanctions would be imposed on
those persons who receive compensation
for knowingly assisting an undocumented
alien obtain or retain employment, or who
knowingly contract with such persons for
the employment of undocumented aliens.
These sanctions are directed at the sub-ployer sanctions have been designed, with
stantial number of individuals who broker
jobs for undocumented aliens or act as
agents for alien smugglers. It is not di-
rected at those who inadvertently refer an
undocumented alien to a job, such as an
employment agency or a union hiring hall.
To make certain that all of these new
sanctions are uniformly applied, they
would pre-empt any existing state sanc-
tions.
In addition to the creation of these new
sanctions, efforts to increase enforcement
of existing sanctions will be significantly
increased. The Fair Labor Standards Act,
which mandates payment of the minimum
wage and provides other employee pro-
tections, would not only be strictly en-
forced, but its existing civil and criminal
penalties would be sought much more fre-
quently by the government. To date, the
inability of the government to enforce
fully this Act, due in part to a lack of
their general reliance on civil penalties
and "pattern or practice" enforcement, to
minimize any cause for discrimination.
However, to prevent any discriminatory
hiring, the federal civil rights agencies will
be charged with making much greater ef-
forts to ensure that existing anti-discrim-
ination laws are fully enforced.
BORDER ENFORCEMENT
The proposed employer sanctions will
not, by themselves be enough to stop the
entry of undocumented aliens. Measures
must also be taken to significantly increase
existing border enforcement efforts. While
our borders cannot realistically be made
impenetrable to illegal entry, greater en-
forcement efforts clearly are possible, con-
sistent with preserving both the longest
"open" borders in the world and our hu-
manitarian traditions.
I am proposing to take the following
increased enforcement measures, most of
1418
