Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
(1) I am directing the Secretary of
State to give greater emphasis to the
international narcotics control program
and to reiterate to foreign governments
our strong desire to curtail production of,
and traffic in, illicit drugs.
(2) To this end, I am directing the
Administrator of the Agency for Inter-
national Development to include such
measures as crop and income substitution
in its development programs for those
countries where drugs are grown illicitly.
I expect the Secretary of State to con-
tinue to call on other agencies and de-
partments, such as the Drug Enforcement
Administration, the U.S. Customs Serv-
ice, the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
and the National Institute on Drug
Abuse, to assist in the international nar-
cotics control program according to the
special expertise of each.
(3) I am directing the intelligence
community to emphasize the collection
and analysis of information relating to
international drug trafficking.
(4) I strongly support the work of the
United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse
Control (UNFDAC), the United Nations
Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the Inter-
national Narcotics Control Board, the
World Health Organization, and other
organizations working within the frame-
work of the United Nations in their efforts
to help drug-producing countries find al-
ternate crops, improve drug control meas-
ures, and make treatment resources avail-
able.
(5) I am instructing the United States
representatives to the loan committees of
the Regional Development Banks and
other international financial institutions
to use their votes and influence to encour-
age well designed rural development and
income substitution projects in countries
which now produce dangerous drugs, and
to ensure that assistance is not used to
foster the growth of crops like opium and
соса.
(6) Because of the need to improve in-
ternational controls over dangerous drugs
which have legitimate medical uses, like
barbiturates and amphetamines, I urge
the Congress to adopt legislation imple-
menting the Convention on Psychotropic
Substances, and I urge the Senate to rati-
fy this treaty promptly.
(7) In my communications with foreign
leaders, I will emphasize international co-
operation among drug law enforcement
agencies, so that intelligence and technical
expertise can be shared. I will encourage
them to send law enforcement officials
to work with us to stop the flow of drugs
through other countries. This kind of co-
operation has already begun in Bangkok
among French, German, British, Dutch,
American and Thai officials.
I will, in addition, promote the inter-
national sharing of knowledge and exper-
tise in the treatment of drug abuse. We
will make a special effort to share our ex-
perience, especially with those nations
which have serious drug problems and
which are working with us in the effort
to control drug sources and prevent drug
abuse. Our program will encompass train-
ing, research and technical assistance proj-
ects, including providing American ex-
perts as consultants.
LAW ENFORCEMENT
We must vigorously enforce our laws
against those who traffic in drugs, so that
the attraction of large profits is out-
weighed by the risk of detection and the
likelihood of conviction. The Federal Gov-
ernment's job is to deter, and where pos-
sible prevent entirely, illegal importation
and major trafficking of controlled sub-
stances. Often large-scale financiers of the
illegal drug trade never come into direct
contact with drugs. Through the co-
1402
