Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 31
55-Mile-per-Hour
Speed Limit
Statement Urging Compliance With the
Limit. August 31, 1977
When I delivered my energy message
last April, I hoped that the national 55-
mile-per-hour speed limit-already in
force-would help reduce gasoline con-
sumption, which is essential if we are to
extend the world's finite supply of oil. If
we all drove within the speed limit, we
could save more than 8 million gallons of
gasoline a day. That's nearly a third of the
reduction in total gasoline consumption I
asked for in my energy program.
We have saved gasoline by driving
slower. Tests by the Federal Highway
Administration indicate that, depending
on the type of car, drivers can get from
17 to nearly 50 percent better gas mileage
at 55 miles per hour than at 70. And we
have saved lives. Since the lower speed
limit was adopted nationally 3 years ago,
there have been approximately 9,000
fewer highway deaths each year than in
1973. The reduced speed limit has been
the biggest single factor in this 17-percent
drop in highway fatalities.
Unfortunately, highway speeds are
again creeping up. Highway safety offi-
cials tell us that enforcement is difficult as
average interstate speeds again approach
65. Worst of all, the numbers of people
being killed or seriously injured in high-
way accidents are rising again with the
increase in vehicle speeds. In July, 169
more Americans died on our highways
than in July of last year; for June, the in-
crease was 175.
This is a matter that deserves, and must
have, greater Federal attention. General
Davis, as special representative to Secre-
tary Adams on 55-mile-per-hour speed
limit education and enforcement, I hope
you will redouble your efforts in communi-
cating the importance of the 55-mile-per-
hour speed limit to the safety leaders of
our States and the people of America. Let
it be clearly understood that by exceed-
ing the speed limit, we are wasting fuel
and, in too many instances, lives as well.
In your meetings with State law en-
forcement and safety officials, please con-
vey my concern and assure those responsi-
ble for the safety of our highways that
Federal support will be supplied and ap-
propriate Federal actions taken to assist
them in their programs. I will expect a
report in 30 days on the status of speed
limit compliance throughout the country,
along with recommendations from the
Secretary of Transportation on any addi-
tional measures considered advisable to
save fuel and stem the tide of fatalities
on the Nation's roads.
NOTE: The White House Press Office released
the statement following the President's meet-
ing with Secretary of Transportation Brock
Adams, Joan B. Claybrook, Administrator of
the National Highway Traffic Administration,
and Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis, USAF (ret.).
National Lupus Week, 1977
Proclamation 4518. August 31, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The medical challenge which the dis-
ease lupus erythematosus presents is the
subject of many research projects in hos-
pitals and medical centers throughout the
United States. The disease most often
strikes during its victims' most active and
productive years, and can affect many
organs of the body with inflammation and
changes in structure and function.
1527
