Sept. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tion on audits, to increase Federal coor-
dination with State and local auditors,
and to increase reliance on audits made
by others.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Administration of Federal Aid
System
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive De-
partments and Agencies. September 9, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Cutting Federal Redtape for
State and Local Grant Recipients
Both my own experience in State and
local government and the advice and
comments I have received from State and
local officials over the past seven months
have convinced me of the need to simplify
and streamline the administration of the
Federal aid system. Many departments
have taken significant steps to reform their
procedures. More should be done, how-
ever, to improve administrative practices,
simplify application and reporting re-
quirements, make consultation meaning-
ful and timely, identify and eliminate in-
consistent policies and programs, and
modernize the way grant payments are
made.
Accordingly, I am directing that all
Federal agencies take steps to simplify and
streamline their administrative procedures
consistent with OMB directives. Particu-
lar attention should be given to the follow-
ing areas:
• Grant Payments
The specific steps which I am asking
agencies to take with regard to grants
made to State and local governments are
outlined below:
I. Application and Reporting Require-
•
ments
Timely Distribution of Reporting
Forms. Reporting forms and requirements
developed by program agencies for the use
of State and local participants in Federal
grant programs should be distributed as
part of the application process or should
be released no less than two months before
aid recipients are required to begin
collecting data. No agency may request
information on grant activities from re-
cipients for periods during which the
reporting format was unavailable except
when the Secretary personally determines
otherwise within guidelines issued by the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB).
• Review and Comment. Agencies
should provide an opportunity for users
and interested members of the public to
comment on all proposed new application
and reporting forms to be filled out by
State and local grant recipients.
• Duplicative Requests for Informa-
tion. In supporting grant modifications or
renewals, State and local governments
shall be required to submit only new and
updating material, thereby eliminating
the need to submit information provided
with the original application.
• Standard Forms. All Federal agencies
shall use the standard application and fi-
nancial reporting forms developed by
OMB pursuant to OMB Circular A-102.
The standard forms shall be used to fulfill
all agency financial reporting require-
ments except that additional data specifi-
Application and Reporting Require- cally required by statute or the Congress
ments
• Revision of Regulations
and not covered by the standard forms
may also be requested. Agencies shall work
1564
