Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and what I know that you want, to that
degree I feel that I represent you and our
Nation well.
I have a feeling that we are making
good progress in correcting some of the
deep concerns that we felt a year, 2 years,
3 years ago. The spirit of our country had
been damaged severely by the Vietnam
war. It had been damaged severely by the
Watergate revelations, by the CIA in-
vestigations. There was a sense of concern
about what our Nation stood for.
I think now there's a new spirit in our
Nation. I believe with our stand on hu-
man rights, our efforts to bring peace, to
reduce the nuclear threat, to alleviate the
hatreds in the Middle East, to bring
majority rule and peace to southern
Africa, that there is a sense of purpose
again.
And in my own way as a human being
with limits that you and I both recognize,
but occupying the most important office
perhaps in the whole world, I want to be
sure that the American flag is once more
lifted high and when anyone on Earth
sees it, they think about freedom, they
think about the worth of an individual
human being, they think about hope, they
think about a sense of compassion and
love, they think about high ideals, they
think about openness of government, they
think about democratic principles, they
think about compassion and concern, and
they think about the worth of our people
who live in harmony from so many differ-
ent places on Earth.
These are the hopes that I have as
President. I thank you for your involve-
ment in the democratic processes, your
support of our party, your friendship to-
ward me. I thank you for the fine congres-
sional delegation that you've sent to
Washington who represent you and our
Nation so well. And I know that I can
speak for them as I repeat a phrase that
I used thousands of times in my long cam-
paign: All I want and all they want is a
government as good as the people of our
country.
Thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:02 p.m. in
the Ballroom at the Veterans Auditorium. In
his remarks, he referred to Marie Jahn, hon-
orary chairperson, and Edris "Soapy" Owens,
Harry Baxter, and Floyd Gillotti, members of
the Iowa steering committee for Mr. Carter
during the 1976 Presidential primary campaign.
Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska
Remarks to Strategic Air Command Personnel.
October 22, 1977
This is the President at the Command
Base. I have been here several hours
studying the readiness of the forces that
are under my command, and I've spent
the last 9 months learning about the su-
perb qualities of all you men and women
who are prepared to defend our country
in a time of extreme emergency.
What I've learned has made me very
proud of you. I think that you know that
the freedom of human beings throughout
the world depends upon the qualities that
you exhibit, the high standards of train-
ing and readiness that you always are sup-
posed to maintain. And my own observa-
tions as the President of our country has
reconfirmed my confidence in you.
The two things that I'd like to say is
that I want to congratulate you on the
fine standards that are maintained and
express my appreciation to you on behalf
of the people of our country, and sec-
ondly, to let you know that my position in
the White House and your position
throughout the world is one of partner-
ship. The closeness with which we com-
municate in preparing for an emergency
1860
