Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 30
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, is there anything
you can say to us about the state of volun-
tary public compliance with your energy
use requests? My question is based on a
story last week that gasoline usage in
Michigan, for instance, was in excess of
455 million gallons, which was by 7.3
million gallons the highest in the State's
history since those records have been kept.
Is the public not paying attention?
THE PRESIDENT. The public is not pay-
ing attention. That's correct. And this has
resulted in an enormous increase in the
waste of fuel and also an increase in im-
ports, which seriously unbalances our
trade relationships with foreign countries.
I just spent some time right before
lunch going over the reasons for it. There
may be some indication that stockpiling
is taking place in anticipation of the well-
head tax being imposed and because of
the uncertainty of future price increases
by the OPEC nations. But that's a rela-
tively minor factor, although it is a factor.
I hope that the Congress will act ex-
peditiously and not weaken the energy
legislation, one of its primary purposes
being to impose strict conservation meas-
ures. But I would say that at this point,
the public has not responded well; that
the absence of visibility to the impending
oil shortage removes the incentive for the
public to be concerned. And I'm afraid
that a series of crises are going to be a
prerequisite to a sincere desire on the
part of the American people to quit wast-
ing so much fuel.
We've seen this now on two or three
occasions already, as a precursor. One,
obviously, was the natural gas shortage
this past winter; another one was the
embargo in 1973, the rapid escalation in
prices, and now the very severe trade
imbalance. I think these are just predic-
tions of what is to come.
I'm concerned that the public has not
responded well. And I think voluntary
compliance is probably not adequate at
all. We will take what the Congress does
this year and continue to build on it in
subsequent years. I'm determined to have
a complete and comprehensive energy
package on the books before I go out of
office. And what we don't get this year,
we'll get in subsequent years.
GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, aren't you finding it
a lot harder as an insider than you
thought it would be as an outsider to re-
form the bureaucracy? For example, I
understand you probably no longer hope
to cut the number of agencies from, say,
1,800 to 200. Are you having to sort of
scale back your anticipation?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't given up on
that hope yet. Of course, a lot of those
agencies, as we all know well, are minor
commissions and boards and so forth that
have been established by statute and you
know can be eliminated when the need
for them is no longer there. But I have
not been unpleasantly surprised, Billy
[Billy Watson, Macon Telegraph]. I had
a good bit of experience, as you know, as
Governor of Georgia and was familiar
with at least a State bureaucracy. And I
had heard such horrible stories about
the Federal Government that I didn't
expect to find a smooth-running, well-
organized mechanism here in place. So,
I wasn't very greatly surprised.
I have been pleasantly surprised at the
quality of my Cabinet; that there is not a
weak person on it, and not a single one
1391
