Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the White House with regard to resolving
the problems that the black people face in
this country and getting down to problems
of unemployment, getting down to the
problems of poor housing?
THE PRESIDENT. Apparently you
haven't observed what has gone on in the
country for the last 10 months. We've
passed, with the help of the Black Caucus
and other Congress Members who are up
here working hard for their constituents,
a broad range of job opportunity bills,
with a stimulus package that's now pro-
viding about 30,000 jobs per week. We've
passed a local public works program—4,
412 billion dollars-with, for the first time
in the history of our country, a guarantee
that 10 percent of those projects would be
carried out by minority-owned contrac-
tors. This has never been done before.
The housing program is under the con-
trol of Patricia Harris. I think anyone who
has observed the Washington scene would
say that the Housing and Urban Depart-
ment had been a dormant department for
many years, even an embarrassing depart-
ment. And I think anyone, including the
leaders that you've named, would agree
that it has come to life, that programs that
build homes have been successful.
We've got the highest homebuilding
rate now in years, over 2 million homes
being built per year. The programs for
low-income families, guaranteed loans for
those who already own their homes and
want to renovate them, downtown, urban
reconstitution and development programs,
have been pursued by Patricia Harris,
who happens to be a black woman, in case
you didn't know. And the Congress has
responded to her request. I signed a hous-
ing and urban development bill a couple
of weeks ago that provides $12 billion for
this purpose.
I work very closely with the Black
Caucus. As a matter of fact, yesterday I
was talking to Parren Mitchell, who hap-
pens to be the chairman of the Black
Caucus, to Charles Diggs, about the South
African question in the United Nations.
Earlier this week, Andy Young conversed,
consulted with them on our United Na-
tions posture concerning South Africa. I
have a good relationship—and I wish
you'd call them to doublecheck what I
say with Vernon Jordan and with Ben-
jamin Hooks. I think that what we've
done so far on these items that I've de-
scribed, and many others, have been the
limit of what either I or the Congress
could do with the budget constraints and
also with the time constraints.
As far as top officials are concerned
who happen to be black, we've had an
unprecedented success in getting them ap-
pointed and confirmed by the Senate. As
you know, in the Justice Department, the
Secretary of the Army and Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development and
other places, this has been done.
So, I think that the picture that you
present in the preliminary to your ques-
tion is one of substantial distortion and
inaccuracy. And I would ask you, while
you're in Washington, to call Parren
Mitchell, for instance, and find out if my
description is accurate on what I and the
Congress have been able to do. And I
would like for you to call Benjamin Hooks
and Vernon Jordan and see if they have
as critical an assessment of our adminis-
tration's accomplishments as you do.
TAX CREDITS FOR COLLEGE TUITION
Q. Sir, a majority of the Senate has
sponsored a bill with Senators Moynihan
and Packwood that would allow tax
credits for tuition. There is some talk, ap-
parently in the Senate, of adding that to
a tax reform bill. Would you support such
1938
