Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 24
courageous
enough, knowledgeable
enough, experienced enough, close enough
to you, so when he is elected, he'll carry
out his platform. You can't ask for any
more, and I believe you can depend on
that.
Quite different is Chuck Robb, a rela-
tive newcomer to politics running for
Lieutenant Governor; ran an extraordi-
nary campaign, nobody thought he had a
chance; married into a great family;
wanting to represent a great State; eager
to see the office of Lieutenant Governor
become directly responsible for bringing
in new industry, new jobs; being a spokes-
man for Virginia throughout the world;
and at the same time, looking at county
and city officials and problems with a
special eye to how the State government
can be more responsive to local needs.
And you've already seen welded to-
gether Chuck Robb and Henry Howell, so
you won't ever have to worry about the
Governor and the Lieutenant Governor
disagreeing on major issues that affect you.
An integral part of the team, and a proven
vote-getter, who has great political pros-
pects for the future-even greater, per-
haps, than Lieutenant Governor of Vir-
ginia-I have great confidence in him,
and I'm very proud that Chuck Robb is
my friend and I can be here to speak for
him.
And before I forget, I'd like to say a
word about Henry Howell.
It's always good in politics to have
longtime friends whom you know, whom
you understand, in whose house you've
visited, whose family you know, whom
you observed over several years in trying
times-in office and during a campaign,
his campaign and my campaign.
In 1973 I was the Governor of Georgia;
I had no responsibility to Virginia. But I
heard about a man who stands on his own
feet. I heard about a man who wanted
to "keep the big boys honest" and has
proven he knows how to do it. I heard
about a man who puts his complete faith
not in powerful bigshot financiers, bank-
ers, utility company magnates, or even
powerful political people, but puts his
faith in the average Virginia voter, the
working family, the elderly, the struggling,
and the proud, who know that our own
system of government is best when the
people's voice is a voice of a Governor.
And when Henry Howell is Governor,
your voice will be his voice. That's why
I'm proud to be his friend and proud that
I came in 1973 to help him in his cam-
paign then.
Unfortunately, he lost by just a few
votes, because the rest of Virginia didn't
have as good judgment as the Tidewater
area. But I think the rest of Virginia has
now learned. But if just a few more peo-
ple here in his home area had gone to
vote, he'd have been elected then.
And it would be a serious mistake,
when the election comes along this year,
for you to take anything for granted. It's
very important that his home people who
know him best and whom he knows best
works hard throughout the State with your
kinfolks and relatives and friends, to say,
"I know Henry Howell; he'll fight for us.
Give him your time and your support and
your vote.'
I came in on a Wednesday afternoon
and campaigned for him in '73. I came
back later on, because I liked him so well,
and campaigned for him on a Saturday
afternoon in farmers' markets, tractor
dealerships, up and down the street. And
I was disappointed that he lost.
But I've seen him grow even since
then, and I believe he has a much
sounder judgment now of your needs and
the challenges of the Governorship even
than he did have then. It won't hurt
that he's got a friend in the White House
1657
