July 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
racial discrimination, a deprivation of
human freedom and a prohibition against
the realization of the American dream for
black people.
With unswerving dedication, superb
courage, sensitivity, and humility and a
dedication to peace, Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., helped to remove this threat
and this affliction. Although I never knew
him personally, I've come to know the
members of his family, and many thou-
sands of people around the world now
carry on his own deep commitments to
which he gave his very life.
I'd like to ask Coretta King and Dr.
Martin Luther King, Sr., to come and
stand beside me as I read this citation.
[At this point, the President read the citation,
the text of which follows:]
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA AWARDS THIS PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL
OF FREEDOM TO MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
Martin Luther King, Jr., was the conscience
of his generation. He gazed upon the great wall
of segregation and saw that the power of love
could bring it down. From the pain and ex-
haustion of his fight to fulfill the promises of
our founding fathers for our humblest citizens,
he wrung his eloquent statement of his dream
for America. He made our nation stronger
because he made it better. His dream sustains
us yet.
Mr. President,
Signed, Jimmy Carter.
MRS. KING. Thank you,
Mr. Vice President, to our many friends
who have gathered here today:
This is indeed a very moving moment
for me and, needless to say, a very fulfill-
ing one for me and my family and our
friends who have come here today to share
this occasion with us.
It is highly significant that you, Mr.
President, a white Southerner, would be-
come the first American President to rec-
ognize the importance of Martin Luther
King, Jr.'s contributions to the human
rights movement in this country and
bestow upon him the highest civilian
award-the Presidential Medal of Free-
dom. For us as a family and the millions in
our Nation who believed in Martin Luther
King, Jr.'s teaching, we are greatly en-
couraged and feel this action is indicative
of the new spirit of reconciliation which
you and your administration are causing
in this Nation.
Thank you, Mr. President, for renew-
ing our hopes that our Nation can rise
to true greatness and give due honor to
one of its greatest national heroes.
This medal will be displayed with Mar-
tin's Nobel Peace Prize in the completed
Martin Luther King, Jr., Center for So-
cial Change, his official memorial in At-
lanta, Georgia. It will serve as a continu-
ous reminder and inspiration to young
people and unborn generations that his
dream of freedom, justice, and equality
must be nurtured, protected, and fully
realized, that they must be the keepers of
the dream.
Let us all once again rededicate our
lives to the fulfillment of Martin Luther
King's dream, which was truly the Ameri-
can dream.
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:37 p.m. at the
ceremony in Room 450 at the Old Executive
Office Building.
United Nations Conference on
Science and Technology
for Development
Nomination of Jean M. Wilkowski for the
Rank of Ambassador. July 12, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Jean M. Wilkowski for
the rank of Ambassador while serving
as coordinator of United States prepara-
1230
