Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. That's a difficult
question for me to answer. I have had
personal knowledge of many of the state-
ments and happenings that have been
widely publicized. Some of them were
greatly exaggerated; some of them were
actually untrue. On some occasions, the
report of an incident was not unbiased,
but unfair. In general, I think the media
have been fair. There are some excep-
tions. In general, I think that the Senate
committee has been fair.
Bert has now had a chance to let his
own positions be known, and I think that
at this point, his resignation is voluntary.
He needs to go home and take care of his
own business. I think it's obvious that if
he stayed here he couldn't serve com-
pletely and with full commitment to his
job. And I think his honor and his in-
tegrity have been proven.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Lance was in
charge of some very important subjects:
the Federal budget, of course, and Gov-
ernment reorganization. What are your
plans for short-term continuity in those
areas, and in the long term, do you have
a successor in mind?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not thought
about a successor because the vacancy has
just become apparent to me recently. I
haven't given any thought to that yet.
If there's one agency of the Govern-
ment in which the President is daily in-
volved, not only with the director but
also with immediate subordinates, it's the
Office of Management and Budget. This
is, in effect, an extension of the Oval
Office.
And I happen to know Bert Lance's
immediate subordinates much better than
I do the subordinates of any other depart-
ment in Government. They are highly
competent. They've been chosen by him
and me or are long-time professionals
there, and there has been in the past few
weeks absolutely no slippage in the sched-
ules that Bert and I and others had
evolved earlier this year.
There has been no instance where a
major question has been ignored nor
where responsibility has been delayed.
And for the time being, I and those as-
sistants that Bert and I have chosen to-
gether will continue.
I have not yet had a chance to talk to
Bert about how quickly he can leave, how
long he can stay. I would guess that he'll
be wanting to leave fairly shortly. But
there will be an orderly transition, and I
will decide beginning after today on who
a successor might be.
Q. Mr. President, you said, sir, that
you did not ask for the resignation. But
you said it was, you felt, the right de-
cision. Does that mean, sir, that you really
came down to feel that he could no longer
be an effective advocate for the admin-
istration on Capitol Hill?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think it would
be a mistake to attribute Bert's decision
to the fact that he could not be an effec-
tive advocate of the administration's po-
sitions. There are so many advocates that
even if one were completely incapaci-
tated, other advocates could put forward
the arguments for the administration's
position.
I think that it would be better to let
Bert answer this question, because some
of it involves his own personal affairs
back home. But he has suffered greatly
in a financial way. The value of his stock,
if purchased, in his major holdings in the
National Bank of Georgia is quite greatly
above the market value, because it in-
volves a substantial controlling interest in
the bank itself. Several would-be purchas-
ers, I understand, in the last few days,
have come forward wanting to buy the
stock but are reluctant to do so because
of the high focus of publicity on the sale.
1638
