July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the revised Customs
Convention on the International Trans-
port of Goods under cover of Transport
International Routier Carnets (TIR
Convention), done at Geneva on Novem-
ber 14, 1975. I also transmit, for the infor-
mation of the Senate, the report of the
Department of State with respect to the
Convention.
The revised TIR Convention is based
on the TIR Convention of 1959 to which
the United States is a party. The revised
TIR Convention contains modernized
technical provisions which will facilitate
transportation of United States goods.
The most important improvements are
that the TIR Carnet is now to be printed
in English as well as French, and United
States goods transported to Europe which
arrive late under the TIR Carnet will be
protected against administrative delays.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Con-
vention and give its advice and consent
to ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 26, 1977.
NOTE: The message was not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
Federal Maritime Commission
Nomination of Richard J. Daschbach To Be a
Commissioner. July 26, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Richard J. Daschbach, of
Walpole, N.H., to be Commissioner of the
Federal Maritime Commission. He would
replace Ashton Barrett. Daschbach is
maritime counsel to the Senate Com-
merce Committee.
He was born November 19, 1936, in
Columbus, Ohio. He received a B.A. from
Georgetown University in 1958 and grad-
uated from Georgetown University Law
Center in 1962.
From 1963 to 1965, Daschbach was an
area coordinator for the Area Redevelop-
ment Administration in the Commerce
Department. In 1965 and 1966, he was
special assistant to the Assistant Admin-
istrator of the Economic Development
Administration at Commerce.
Daschbach was Washington manager
and counsel for Gulf South Research In-
stitute from 1966 to 1968, and staff attor-
ney for the Southern New Hampshire Le-
gal Services Association in 1968 and 1969.
Daschbach was staff counsel to the
Senate Commerce Committee from 1969
until 1973, when he became maritime
counsel to the Committee.
Visit of Prime Minister
Andreotti of Italy
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister
Andreotti at a Dinner Honoring the Prime
Minister. July 26, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, every-
body.
The first thing I'd like to say is that
we're very proud to have you here with
us tonight. It's been a delightful day for
me, and I've thoroughly enjoyed the
reunion with my good friend, Prime Min-
ister Andreotti.
As you may or may not know, he doesn't
speak English and I don't speak Italian.
So we carry on a conversation in Spanish.
[Laughter]
I got through with my first conversa-
tion with him today, and I discovered
afterwards that we had promised to build
18 water projects in Italy. [Laughter] And
he had promised to send the Communists
over to help me run the Government.
[Laughter] So we decided from then on
1358
