Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
quirements, strong work incentives, im-
proved private sector placement services,
and the creation of 1.4 million jobs.
Those who can work will work. And every
family with a full-time worker will have
an income substantially above the poverty
line for the first time.
This program will provide increased
benefits and more sensitive treatment to
those in need. It will provide simplicity
by consolidating the current assistance
programs, all of which have different eli-
gibility requirements.
This new program will provide strong
incentives to keep families together rather
than tearing families apart and offering
the dignity of useful work to the heads of
families.
This program will reduce fraud and
error and accelerate efforts to assure that
deserting fathers meet their obligations to
their families.
This program will also give substantial
financial relief-$2 billion-to hard-
pressed State and local taxpayers.
In my May 2, 1977, statement, I estab-
lished as a goal that the new reform system
involve no higher initial cost than the
present system by making the new pro-
gram more rational and efficient. There-
fore, Secretary Califano, who is here on
the stage with me, outlined a tentative,
no-cost plan which embodied the major
reforms we are seeking. It was a good
plan.
After careful consultation with State
and local leaders, Members of Congress,
and many other interested persons
throughout the country, we've now pro-
vided $2.8 billion in added benefits.
These additional funds will be used to
make important improvements in our
original plan-increased fiscal relief, as
I've already outlined, for local and State
governments, particularly those that have
borne a heavy financial burden in the past.
Incentives which strengthen family ties
have also been added. A deduction for
child care will permit and encourage sin-
gle parents to take work which will lift
them out of poverty.
We've added up to 300,000 additional
jobs, part-time jobs, for single-parent
families with school age children. If ade-
quate day care is available, such parents
will be expected to take full-time jobs.
And the earned income tax credit for
working families, administered through
the revenue system, has been expanded to
provide tax relief for many who receive
no income assistance, who work, and who
have been hard hit by payroll tax in-
creases.
So, with these improvements the pro-
gram will help turn the low-income
Americans away from welfare dependence
with a system that is fair and fundamen-
tally based on work for those who can and
should work.
This Program for Better Jobs and In-
come stresses a fundamental American
commitment to work, strengthens our
family, respects the less advantaged in
our society, and makes a far more efficient
and effective use of our hard-earned tax
dollars.
I'll now answer questions about this
program. I have on the stage with me Joe
Califano who heads up the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare, and
Ray Marshall, who heads up the Depart-
ment of Labor-two of the major Depart-
ments, along with Treasury, that will ad-
minister the new program.
And I'd like to also say that the House
of Representatives yesterday-Speaker
Tip O'Neill announced that a special
welfare committee will be set up to imple-
ment the legislative work on this program
for better jobs and income.
I'd now like to recognize Mr. Wes
Pippert [Wesley G. Pippert, United Press
International].
1444
