June 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
do to each other the same treatment. Cer-
tainly, we will find points of coincidence
very important within the global politics
that are discussed today in the great
forums of the world. Likewise, we are go-
ing to deal with matters that are essential
for us, the relations between the United
States and the Latin American com-
munity.
I already had the honor and the very
pleasant opportunity to hear from the
lips of your wife, in Caracas, many aspects
of the talks that we are going to hold. Mrs.
Carter brought the testimony of the
friendship and admiration of the Vene-
zuelan people and of all of the peoples of
Latin America for the people of the
United States and for the Government
of President Carter.
For our hemispheric countries, the best
perspectives are open. I sincerely believe
that this is an historical moment without
comparison, when the United States is
going to assume a leadership role—which
we do appreciate-not that of economic
or military importance, but that of the
great values of mankind.
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, my
wife
and I in this first moment of our meeting
give to you our thanks, and we express
to you that beyond the formalities of
pro-
tocol there exists a sincere friendship that
will join in brotherhood the peoples of
Latin America with the peoples of the
United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:39 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. President
Perez spoke in Spanish, and his remarks were
translated by an interpreter.
U.S. Special Representative for
Non-Proliferation Matters
Nomination of Gerard C. Smith.
June 28, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Gerard C. Smith, of
Washington, D.C., to be United States
Special Representative for Non-Prolifera-
tion Matters, to be Ambassador at Large
while serving in that capacity, and to be
U.S. Representative to the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
As Special Representative for Non-
Proliferation Matters, Smith will be re-
sponsible for coordinating preparation of
executive branch studies, policies, and
positions on the issues to be covered by
this international effort and for carrying
out negotiations and discussions here and
abroad. The President has directed the
heads of the U.S. departments and agen-
cies concerned to give full support to this
work.
Smith's responsibilities will also include
coordinating and guiding, under the di-
rection of the Secretary of State, overall
U.S. efforts internationally to carry out
non-proliferation policies, and he will be
responsible for negotiations to that end.
The President is nominating Smith as
U.S. Representative to IAEA in view
of the important role which that agency
plays in non-proliferation matters.
In announcing Smith's nomination, the
President stressed that international meas-
ures aimed at stopping the spread of nu-
clear explosives capabilities are of para-
mount importance to the security of this
Nation and the world.
Smith was born May 14, 1914. He re-
ceived a B.A. from Yale University in
1935 and LL.B from Yale Law School in
1938. He served in the U.S. Army from
1941 to 1946.
After practicing law in New York City
from 1946 to 1950, Smith joined the
Atomic Energy Commission as a Special
Assistant. From 1954 to 1957, he was Spe-
cial Assistant to the Secretary of State for
Atomic Affairs. He served as Director of
the State Department's Policy Planning
Staff from 1957 to 1961.
From 1969 to 1972, Smith was Director
of the Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency and chief of the U.S. delegation
1182
