Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 26
the American Continent by countless
bonds, both historical and present.
This twofold aim is meant and lived by
us not in a vision of hostility towards other
regions of the world, but, on the contrary,
as a stabilizing contribution to equilibrium
and universal peace.
The Italian people, through hard sac-
rifices, certainly made less difficult by the
breadth of the consensus in Parliament,
were able to overcome last fall a critical
moment which could have been dramatic
for our economy and our finances.
The firm will to fight and tackle, with
success, the present difficulty remains-
first among them, unemployment and in-
flation. We know that only if our nation
perseveres in fulfilling its duty, it can win
the solidarity of its allies which at times
is particularly vital to us a solidarity
which takes the form both of adequate
credit from the international institutions
and of the concrete availability of friendly
countries to be ever more open and to
accept the products of Italian labor.
But it is not only with the problems of
the present moment that we must con-
cern ourselves. There is an impelling need
to discern the immediate and long-term
possibilities and difficulties. First of all,
that fundamental problem of energy to
which you, Mr. President, have addressed
yourself so vigorously and without delay
in coordinated terms. We are eager for a
close cooperation in this field, and this will
figure in our discussions with you.
The country of Enrico Fermi and
Guglielmo Marconi can, without commit-
ting a sin of pride, believe that it is a use-
ful participant in the great research pro-
grams which will be all the more valid if
formidable means, wills, and brains are
concentrated on them.
Allow me, Mr. President, here from the
White House to send a deep-felt message
of fraternity and affection to the Italians.
of America, to their children, to their
grandchildren. They represent in the
number and quality a substantial com-
ponent of the great American people and
make up an indestructible basis for our
friendship. The recent commemorations
of the Bicentennial have drawn ample at-
tention to their contribution, sometimes
silent and humble, but always important,
and of this we have been very proud.
Furthermore, our pride is in being able
to show the old emigrants and their de-
scendants that Italy is modernizing itself,
it's strengthening itself in its spiritual
heritage, and that it is capable of finding
ways toward harmony and peace in the
world.
Mr. President, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, and interpreting the feelings of the
Italian people, I address to you a warm
and cordial greeting, which I wish to ex-
tend to Mrs. Carter, to the members of
your family, and to all the American
people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. Prime
Minister Andreotti spoke in Italian, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
United States Ambassador
to Qatar
Nomination of Andrew I. Killgore.
July 26, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Andrew I. Killgore, of
Lakeland, Fla., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the State of Qatar. He
would replace Robert P. Paganelli. Kill-
gore is presently deputy chief of mission
in Wellington, New Zealand.
Killgore was born November 7, 1919,
in Greensboro, Ala. He received a B.S.
from Livingstone University in 1943 and
1355
