Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And I think the expressions of dissatis-
faction, although they are legitimate in
many instances, are overemphasized. I
think our country is much greater than
that.
MR. MACNEIL. Excuse me, Bob.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Go ahead.
STYLE OF THE PRESIDENCY
MR. MACNEIL. Again, looking back on
this first year of the Presidency, Senator
Hart wrote-Senator Gary Hart-wrote
a piece recently in which he said that you
had demythologized the imperial Presi-
dency, but he wondered whether you also
had not sacrificed some of the psycho-
logical weight and power that the Presi-
dency had accumulated since Roosevelt's
time to your detriment.
And I was wondering, for instance, you
spoke out very strongly against the oil
companies, accusing them of trying to rip
off the American people, very, very
strong words, and yet the oil companies
seem relatively unperturbed. Are you at
all concerned that in making yours the
Presidency of the common man and rid-
ding yourself of some of the imperial
trappings you may have thrown away
some of the clout?
THE PRESIDENT. Many people think
so. The pomp and ceremony of office
does not appeal to me, and I don't be-
lieve it's a necessary part of the Presi-
dency in a democratic nation like our
own. I'm no better than anyone else. And
the people that I admire most who have
lived in this house have taken the same
attitude. Jefferson, Jackson, Lincoln, Tru-
man have minimized the pomp and cere-
mony and the pride, personal pride, that
accrues sometimes to Presidents.
I don't think we need to put on the
trappings of a monarchy in a nation like
our own. I feel uncomfortable with it.
But I doubt if I feel quite as uncom-
fortable as the average citizen.
REFLECTIONS ON FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, speak-
ing of Abraham Lincoln, Abraham Lin-
coln said just toward the end of his
Presidency, he said, "I must confess that
events have controlled me rather than the
other way around." I wonder, looking
back over your first year, how do you feel
about this first year?
THE PRESIDENT. I feel good about it.
It's been an exciting and stimulating and
challenging and sometimes frustrating
experience for me.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Were you controlled
by events?
The President. I think—yes, I think
so. I've tried to represent what the Amer-
ican people want me to be and what they
are. I noticed one of the news commen-
tators the other night said that when I
said during the campaign that I wanted a
government as good as the American peo-
ple are, that it was demagoguery.
I don't think that's accurate. You
know, the American people are good and
decent and idealistic. And I think they
want their Government to be good and
decent and idealistic.
One of the most popular things that
I've tried to do is to express to the world
our own people's commitment to basic
human rights, to freedom and independ-
ence and autonomy, the worth of a
human being, whether they live here or
in Russia or in South America or in
Uganda or China. And I doubt that
there's a national leader in the world now
who doesn't think about human rights
every day and how his or her actions are
measured against a standard that the
world is beginning to demand.
So, I think what I've tried to do is to
see what is good in our Nation, in our
people, in our past, and try to preserve
it and to deal with changing events to
the best of my ability. I've got a good
2200
