July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to further progress. But under the leader-
ship of Prime Minister Andreotti, that
crisis has been weathered. And now I
think it's accurate to say, and almost
everyone would agree, that the progress
that has been made in that nation in re-
cent months is inspirational indeed.
We value the friendship of leaders like
him and the wisdom that he adds to in-
ternational councils and, also, a sense of
sharing of the responsibilities for leader-
ship with the government and the people
of Italy.
There is a great deal of common pur-
pose, a common challenge, common prob-
lems, and a determination to solve them.
I benefit personally from this friendship
and this closeness. And I know that it is
with a sense of reassurance that we recog-
nize again the strength of the interrela-
tionship between the people of Italy and
the people of the United States of
America.
As President of our people, represent-
ing about 215 million free men and wo-
men, I would like to propose a toast to
the brave and courageous and fine friends
of ours in Italy and to their inspired
leader, Prime Minister Andreotti.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed very
glad to be again in the United States for
my
third official visit as President of the
Council of Ministers of the Italian Re-
public.
Your invitation, Mr. President, and
tonight's wonderful reception in this his-
torical house, which is deeply linked with
so many memories of American great-
ness, had, first of all, evidence of the old,
warm, and enduring friendship between
our two countries.
I would like to thank particularly on
this occasion our gracious hostess, Mrs.
Carter, whose presence, whose courtesy
and, also, intelligence are so evident in
so many activities of your great Nation.
Somebody suggested that I might ad-
dress, in Latin, my host. [Laughter] By
the way, I suppose that my Latin may
be more understandable to many of you
than my English. [Laughter]
But I would ask, Mr. President, your
permission to use my language, which
happens to be that, also, of so many
Americans of Italian descent.
[At this point, the Prime Minister continued in
Italian, and the translation follows:]
Mr. President, I wish to renew my
warmest thanks for the welcome given
to me and to Minister Forlani, for the
cordiality shown to us, and for the appre-
ciation toward our government at a time
which is difficult but in which the Italian
people are once again proving their great
will for recovery and progress.
He who has the responsibility for po-
litical leadership always finds it hard to
tackle programs of social reform. When
the economic trends are favorable, one
fears that an innovation may cause
pauses and retrogressions. When, on the
other hand, things do not go well, the
requirements for first aid monopolize re-
sources and energies.
Now, our Republican Constitution of
1948 provides for a general social
progress and for the narrowing of exces-
sive income gaps. It is not morally right
that the contrast continues to exist be-
tween the few that possess very much
and the many who have, if at all, the
bare necessities.
In this period and within this frame-
work, we are leading an energetic fiscal
policy. This has proved so effective that
in 24 months the taxation revenue has
doubled, although the fiscal pressure on
the less privileged has been appreciably
lessened.
1360
