July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Downing of U.S. Army
Helicopter on Korean Peninsula
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. July 14, 1977
parts of the metropolitan area is another
dramatic reminder of the total depend-
ence of this nation on reliable energy sup-
plies. The Federal Power Commission is
therefore directed immediately to inves-
tigate this power failure to ascertain the
reasons why it occurred and to recom-
mend specific actions to be taken to pre-
vent a recurrence.
We have confirmation that a Chinook
cargo helicopter with a crew of three is
down north of the demarcation line in the
Korean Peninsula. There are indications
it was forced down by North Korean fire.
We are deeply concerned about this in-
cident, and we are requesting a prompt ex-
planation from North Korean authorities. ings at a very early date.
Any penetration of North Korean air
space that may have taken place would
have been unintentional and regrettable.
We do not know at this time the fate of
the crew. We have requested that every
consideration be given to them by North
Korean authorities, and we have asked
for their immediate return.
I am directing all agencies of the Exec-
utive Branch to support you in any way
that their assistance may be useful. I hope
that you will be able to report your find-
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at his news conference at the White
House at 12:17 a.m. on July 14. At a news
conference at 1:30 a.m., Mr. Powell stated:
"We now have North Korean domestic radio
reports monitored in South Korea which indi-
cate that there were four people on board,
three of whom are reported to be dead and one
captured."
The statement was made available by the
White House Press Office. It was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
Power Failure in the New York
Metropolitan Area
Memorandum for Richard L. Dunham,
Chairman, Federal Power Commission.
July 14, 1977
Memorandum for Richard L. Dunham,
Chairman, Federal Power Commission
Last night's power failure affecting 10
million people in New York City and
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Federal Energy Administration
Nomination of Hazel R. Rollins To Be an
Assistant Administrator. July 14, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Hazel R. Rollins, of the
District of Columbia, to be an Assistant
Administrator (Conservation and Envi-
ronment) of the Federal Energy Admin-
istration.
Ms. Rollins was born May 17, 1937, in
Newport News, Va. She received a B.A.
from Fisk University and an LL.B. from
the Rutgers University Law School.
From 1974 to 1976, Ms. Rollins served
as Director of the Office of Consumer Af-
fairs for the Federal Energy Administra-
tion, leaving that post to become General
Counsel of the Community Services Ad-
ministration. She has also served as Direc-
tor of the Public Sector Division of the
Cost of Living Council.
An attorney and member of the New
Jersey Bar, Ms. Rollins previously served
1250
