Oct. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
among many hundreds of thousands of
Americans in the outcome of the nego-
tiations.
The Soviet Union, since 1973, has been
a cochairman with us in Geneva. In the
past their attitude has been one of dis-
ruption and the creation of unnecessary
obstacles.
Recently, they've become much more
moderate in their positions. It's an
achievement of unprecedented signifi-
cance that we were able recently to sign
a statement with the Soviet Union where
they recognized Israel's right to exist, al-
though they still do not have diplomatic
relations. They did not insist upon an
independent Palestinian state. They did
not insist upon naming the PLO. They
did not insist upon complete withdrawal
of Israel from the territories acquired in
1967. It took a moderate attitude.
This statement is a simple declaration
to the world that we are sincere in bring-
ing about a successful conclusion of the
Geneva conference. It broke down im-
mediately in October of 1973. We don't
want that to happen again. This state-
ment between us and the Soviet Union
is not a prerequisite for the Arab or Israeli
Governments to adopt in its entirety be-
fore they go to Geneva. Neither the Arabs
nor the Israelis like every part of it, but
it's a good step forward. And I can tell
you that the leaders of all the nations in-
volved with whom I have held long, tedi-
ous, complete discussions now have a con-
structive attitude toward Middle Eastern
peace, and I believe that we will ulti-
mately be successful.
We're dealing with another very cru-
cial threat to world peace in southern
Africa. For too long our country ignored
Africa. Soon I will be making the first
state visit in our Nation's history to a
leading African nation, Nigeria. Cy
Vance and Andrew Young and others
have already let the people in those de-
veloping nations in Africa and through-
out the world know that we care about
them, we want to treat them as equals,
we want to treat them with respect.
And there's a new attitude of friend-
ship to the United States in the United
Nations which has been absent for dec-
ades. This is a constructive step forward,
because those nations are crucial to us.
And they know that we ourselves are cru-
cial to them.
In worldwide disarmament, nonpro-
liferation, our SALT negotiations with
the Soviet Union, an end to the testing
of atomic weapons, in many other areas
of international diplomacy involving our
national security, we are moving without
timidity, openly, which does quite often
create controversy. These challenges are
not easy, but the prospect of success is ex-
citing to me. And I know that all of you
share the ultimate goals. And I need your
active, constant help in your own com-
munity, because you are all leaders in
supporting these difficult challenges that
I have accepted with pleasure. This is im-
portant.
We're trying to deal with a controver-
sial question of unemployment. We got
statistics this morning that showed that
the unemployment rate has dropped
somewhat, dropped substantially for
black citizens.
We need to do more. We'll have a com-
prehensive urban policy shortly to pre-
sent to the Congress and to the Nation.
We're trying to make sure that the eco-
nomic stimulus package, which is just now
being felt, is challenged in the right areas
of our country to alleviate the most seri-
ous suffering that causes me and you
such grief and pain.
I wish that everyone here could go to
the South Bronx area of New York where
I visited earlier this week and see the
1748
