Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Unless we act quickly, imports will continue to go up, and all the problems
that I've just described will grow even worse.
There are three things that we must do to avoid this danger: first,
cut back on consumption; second, shift away from oil and gas to other
sources of energy; and third, encourage production of energy here in the
United States. These are the purposes of the new energy legislation.
In order to conserve energy, the Congress is now acting to make
our automobiles, our homes, and appliances more efficient and to encour-
age industry to save both heat and electricity.
The congressional conference committees are now considering
changes in how electric power rates are set in order to discourage waste,
to reward those who use less energy, and to encourage a change in the
use of electricity to hours of the day when demand is low.
Another very important question before Congress is how to let the
market price for domestic oil go up to reflect the cost of replacing it while,
at the same time, protecting the American consumers and our own
economy.
We must face an unpleasant fact about energy prices. They are going
up, whether we pass an energy program or not, as fuel becomes more
scarce and more expensive to produce. The question is, who should
benefit from those rising prices for oil already discovered? Our energy
plan captures and returns them to the public, where they can stimulate
the economy, save more energy, and create new jobs.
We will use research and development projects, tax incentives and
penalties, and regulatory authority to hasten the shift from oil and gas
to coal, to wind and solar power, to geothermal, methane, and other
energy sources.
We've also proposed, and the Congress is reviewing, incentives to
encourage production of oil and gas here in our own country. This is where
another major controversy arises.
It's important that we promote new oil and gas discoveries and
increased production by giving adequate prices to the producers.
We've recommended that the price, for instance, of new natural gas
be raised each year to the average price of domestic oil that would pro-
duce the same amount of energy. With this new policy, the gross income
of gas producers would average about $2 billion each year more than at
the present price level. New oil prices would also rise in 3 years to the
present world level and then be increased annually to keep up with infla-
tion. This incentive for new oil production would be the highest in the
whole world.
1984
