Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 20
rected the Secretary of the Interior to
work closely with the Micronesian people
in the selection of a new president of the
college and in the initiation of planning,
research, and development efforts to pre-
pare a program for the college which is
relevant to Micronesia's special needs.
Further, I hope that the Micronesians
themselves can provide some financial
support for the college.
When these steps are accomplished, I
believe it would be appropriate for the
United States to consider financial assist-
ance for the construction of college facili-
ties in Micronesia.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to Senator Henry M. Jackson, chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources, and Representative Morris
K. Udall, chairman of the House Committee
on Interior and Insular Affairs.
The 87-page report entitled "The College of
Micronesia, the President's Report to Congress"
was prepared by the Office of Territorial
Affairs, Department of the Interior.
Visit of Prime Minister Begin
of Israel
Remarks to Reporters Following the Prime
Minister's Departure. July 20, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, how did this
morning's talks go?
THE PRESIDENT. They went very well.
The Prime Minister is going to have a
press conference later on today, but I
don't think the meetings with him could
have been any better, and I believe that
we've laid the groundwork now, barring
some unforeseen difficulty, that will lead
to the Geneva conferences in October.
Secretary Vance will be leaving the 1st
of August to visit the Arab countries and
also will visit Israel. And we believe that
based on my past discussions with Arab
leaders, and their desires, that the posi-
tions taken by Prime Minister Begin will
lead to a convening of the Geneva con-
ference.
Q. You once said there was no use to
go to Geneva if it was not going to suc-
ceed. What are its chances of success?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's difficult
to predict. Obviously there are still strong
matters and differences that have to be
resolved between the Arab and Israeli
leaders. But we've not found any of them
to be so adamant in their positions that
they are not eager for accommodation. I
think they all see that the transcendant
goal is peace. They've all agreed that the
basis for the negotiations themselves will
be United Nations Resolutions 242 and
338.
They see that permanent peace is a
requisite for accommodation, the defini-
tion of what will be done, and that ter-
ritorial adjustments must be made.
There are obviously differences in how
these territory questions should be re-
solved, and they all recognize the difficulty
of the Palestinian question. But they're
all eager to meet now. I believe I can say
that accurately. And we see the conven-
ing of a Geneva conference as being very
likely, the format of it, the participation
there. And although there are strong dif-
ferences between the Arab and Israeli
leaders on territories and the Palestinian
question, they want to work it out.
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I just cannot answer
that question. I doubt it, though. I think
that can be answered better by the Prime
Minister.
Q. But they will negotiate on the West
Bank?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll let the parties get
down to the details of it.
Q. But you do think that.
THE PRESIDENT. That will certainly be
one of the items on the agenda.
1295
