Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 14
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think that the
mood of the people is there-very sup-
portive of a comprehensive and strict and
profound energy policy designed, first of
all, to conserve energy, to put the in-
creased cost of energy equal to what it
actually is worth, but to return those reve-
nues back to the people directly in tax
reductions or better programs, better in-
sulated homes, more efficient automobiles,
research and development in solar energy,
and so forth. I think when the whole pro-
gram is passed, they'll begin to see that
although oil and gas is going to cost
more-and by the way, the oil and gas
companies will make more profits than
they are now-the benefits to be derived
from that will be long-range.
There's a growing awareness that our
increasing imports of foreign oil is hurting
our economy. It creates inflation. It means
that we import more than we export. And
this has got to be turned around. But
there's no way to have a popular energy
program. I think it's accurate to say that
on generalities, the people are strongly in
favor of a new, very tough energy con-
servation program. When you get down to
specifics, where they have to cut a little
themselves, perhaps they're not so much
in favor of it.
But I think the shift toward coal, the
savings in oil and gas consumption, the
better insulation of homes, more efficient
automobiles-these things are bound to
come. And when they finally arrive, the
people will, I think, favor them.
FOREIGN POLICY
MR. REASONER. Mr. President, at a
news conference a couple of weeks ago
you said, very understandably, that if you
had made some mistakes, you didn't pro-
pose to list them. [Laughter] If we men-
tioned a couple of things some people
think have been mistakes, maybe you'd
have some comment.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try.
MR. REASONER. In foreign affairs, the
suggestion has been made that both in the
SALT talks and in the Mideast that you
have tended to perhaps be too open, that
you have come out with what might seem
to be an inflexible American program and
just-it's sitting up there for everyone
else to shoot at. Have you changed your
attitude on how to do this kind of thing
since you've taken office?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think it's best
for the American people to know the rea-
son why we have not had a Middle East-
ern settlement in 30 years or maybe 2,000
years and to understand not only our own
Nation's positions in seeking a compromise
or an agreement that might lead to per-
manent peace but also to understand, as
best we can, the difference of opinion that
exists between Israel and Egypt and Jor-
dan and Syria and some of the other na-
tions in the Mideast. I think the American
people ought to understand and know the
facts.
To the extent that there is an open de-
bate in the Congress, in the news media,
among the people themselves, I'll feel
much more secure, when we take a strong
position, that I have the backing of the
Congress and the American people—that
we ought not to evolve a complicated po-
sition in a sensitive area like the Middle
East in secret and then spring it on people
or negotiate privately.
No one can expect miracles. As I say,
this is something that's been sought after
for generations-this peace in the Middle
East. We may or may not be successful,
but we're going to continue to try in a
very determined and tenacious way. And
I'm going to continue to go public with
the American position.
In the SALT talks, we've developed a
comprehensive proposal to present to the
Soviets. We are doing it both privately
and, to some degree, publicly. We want a
!
1469
