Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 1
a group leader in the Management Sys-
tems Development Division. Since 1962
he has been with McKinsey & Co., Inc., a
Washington consulting firm, as a principal
and director.
At McKinsey, McIsaac has served as a
consultant to numerous Government
agencies, including the Defense Depart-
ment, the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, and
the National Science Foundation. He di-
rected a study to improve resource man-
agement throughout the Army, world-
wide, from 1966 to 1969 and directed the
creation of Amtrak for the Board of In-
corporators in 1970-71.
McIsaac has also served as a consultant
to industry and financial institutions in
the United States and Germany, and to
the governments of the Federal Republic
of Germany and Tanzania. He currently
leads McKinsey's industrial and labor
relations practice.
National Advisory Council on
Extension and Continuing
Education
Messsage to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. December 1, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Enclosed is the "Annual Report of the
National Advisory Council on Extension
and Continuing Education for FY 1977,"
prepared in accordance with the require-
ment of Section III (b) of Title III of the
Higher Education Act of 1965, covering
calendar year 1976, preceding my term
of office.
This report addresses the need for con-
tinuing education programs and the
Council's recommendations for policies,
funding and administrative structures to-
ward this end.
The Report of the Council is being
carefully studied and evaluated. I am for-
warding the Report so that it is available
to the Congress for its deliberations.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 1, 1977.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Continuing
Need, Continuing Response, Continuing Edu-
cation, Annual Report 1977-National Advis-
ory Council on Extension and Continuing
Education" (Government Printing Office, 50
pp.).
The message was announced by the White
House Press Office on December 1. It was not
issued in the form of a White House press
release.
Social Security Financing
Legislation
Letter to Congressional Leaders.
December 1, 1977
I would like to commend you and your
colleagues for the progress which has
been made on the social security financ-
ing legislation I proposed to Congress. I
am confident that an effective and equi-
table bill can emerge from the conference
committee.
I believe that it is very important that
a social security financing bill be enacted
before the end of this year. The continu-
ing problems of the system have eroded
public confidence leading many persons
to fear that their benefits will not be
available when they need them. It is in-
cumbent on us to restore that confidence.
As you know, I submitted to Congress
a set of proposals designed to restore the
financial integrity of the social security
system and keep it strong into the next
century. Those measures sought to in-
crease revenues without burdening the
average worker and his employer, and re-
2063
