Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 29
of having a Government that's efficient
and effective but also sensitive to the needs
of our people.
This afternoon Bert Lance and those
who work with him on the reorganization
studies will be available to answer your
specific questions.
I have a full-scale press conference
scheduled for tomorrow morning, at
which time I'll answer your questions on
any subject, including that one that
interests you. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House. Following
his remarks, Bert Lance, Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, and Harrison
Wellford, Executive Associate Director for Re-
organization and Management, held a news
briefing for reporters on the studies.
A major objective will be to re-examine
the Federal role in law enforcement in
light of the responsibilities and capabil-
ities of State and local agencies. The Fed-
eral Government ought not to duplicate
or overlap State and local law enforce-
ment functions unnecessarily.
The Project will rely heavily on the
advice and counsel of the Congress, Fed-
eral Departments and Agencies, State and
local officials, interested private organiza-
tions, and the public.
You may be asked to contribute time,
resources, and staff assistance to this ef-
fort. If so, I hope you will make your
best effort to ensure its successful comple-
tion.
My Reorganization Project staff will
contact you or an appropriate member
of your staff shortly to discuss the appro-
priate role of your department or agency
Executive Branch Reorganization in the study.
Studies
Memorandums for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. June 29, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Comprehensive Review of Fed-
eral Law Enforcement
I have directed my Reorganization
Project staff at the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to begin a comprehen-
sive review of all Federal law enforce-
ment missions, tasks, and priorities.
Today there is considerable jurisdic-
tional ambiguity, overlap, and possible
duplication among Federal organizations
performing police or investigative activi-
ties. There are at least 75 different Fed-
eral agencies and 164,000 Federal em-
ployees involved in police or investigative
work. Our goal is to make these functions
more responsive to both individual rights
and Federal law enforcement priorities.
This effort will help us determine how
best to structure these agencies to do so.
I consider this to be a high priority
matter. I know I can count on your co-
operation and assistance.
In order to inform all affected parties
that this review is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Comprehensive Review of Local
Development Programs
Project staff at the Office of Management
I have directed my Reorganization
and Budget to begin a thorough review of
the organization and structure of the ma-
jor Federal local development programs,
including the community economic devel-
opment programs.
These programs have several problems,
including jurisdictional uncertainty, du-
plication of effort, and lack of coordina-
tion.
1193
