Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 14
senting their own people, wanted to have
peace and to shift the tremendous finan-
cial burden from the always escalating
arms race to the economic well-being of
their own people.
I tried to convince Prime Minister
Begin that President Sadat's interests
were the same as his, and vice versa. And
I'm very grateful for the courage of these
two men and hope that we can extend
their own negotiations to find a compre-
hensive and a permanent peace that will
ensure the well-being of the people in the
Middle East.
We have sought out common interests
with our European allies. And we've tried
to escalate, particularly within the State
Department, a high degree of attention
to economic problems on an international
basis. There's remarkable harmony now
among the different departments of our
government that deal with the economic
problems, between Treasury and Com-
merce, Labor, and State Department, and
others, including Agriculture and Labor.
We have a weekly Cabinet meeting
where we spend several hours discussing
the major problems that confront our
country. And when Bob Strauss goes to
Japan to negotiate better trade terms with
that nation, he speaks with a sure sense
that the other members of the Cabinet
and myself, the Vice President, under-
stand his position and support it, and this
gives us, I believe, a much more firm and
secure base for representing our Nation.
We have very little disharmony among
our heads of departments in other contro-
versial areas. The Joint Chiefs of Staff
meet with me frequently, along with the
national security adviser and the Secre-
tary of Defense, to talk about SALT
ques-
tions, and the Secretary of State is present.
We try to iron out our differences, as
you try to iron out your differences in a
meeting of your boards of directors, so
that everybody has a chance to speak and
so that your company's position or your
firm's position can be clear, not only in
the minds of those who listen but also
within your own leaders' minds.
We've had, I believe, a good year so
far. Twelve months ago, the rate of in-
crease in our gross national product was
only 1 percent, the inflation rate was 10
percent, the unemployment rate was 8
percent.
We have had some degree of success
this year, not because of who was in the
Office of President, but because of the
sense of purpose in our Nation. And we
are getting past the despair that was en-
gendered by the Vietnam war and by the
Watergate revelations and by the CIA
problems, and there's a resurgence, I be-
lieve, of commitment to the basic prin-
ciples on which our Nation has stood.
We've got a long way to go. We have had,
though, progress in the most tenacious
and difficult problem areas.
The unemployment rate is still too high.
And there are pockets of unemployment
among particular constituency groups
that are embarrassing to our country-35-
or 40-percent unemployment among
young black men, and very high areas in
our Nation where the unemployment rate
for all citizens is entirely too high. That's
in spite of the fact that we've had 4 mil-
lion net increase in employment this year
in our country. We haven't had that high
an increase in total employment since the
Second World War. But there's a bal-
ance between slow, steady progress on
the one hand, and very difficult, very
tenacious problems that still wait to be
resolved.
I realize that among those jobs in our
country, five-sixths of them are in the pri-
vate sector. We've had a net reduction,
2107
