June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
President's Commission on
Military Compensation
Appointment of the Members of the
Commission. June 27, 1977
President Carter today announced the
appointment of a nine-member Commis-
sion to review previous studies of the mili-
tary compensation system and
recommend changes to current pay and
benefit programs.
to
The President's Commission on Mili-
tary Compensation will be chaired by
Charles J. Zwick, a former director of the
Bureau of the Budget and now a Florida
banker. It will submit a report to the
President by March 15, 1978.
Studies to be reviewed include those of
the Defense Manpower Commission and
the Third Quadrennial Review of Mili-
tary Compensation.
The President ordered the fresh review
of pay, benefits, and the military retire-
ment system since previous attempts to
provide an equitable and efficient total
military compensation system failed to
achieve general agreement.
For example, in April 1976 the Defense
Manpower Commission recommended
that the members of the Armed Forces be
paid in the form of a fully taxable salary,
while the Third Quadrennial Review of
Military Compensation concluded last
winter that members should continue to
be paid through a modified pay and al-
lowances system. Similarly, the various re-
views of military retired pay each came up
with a different approach.
President Carter said he expects the
Commission to resolve these differences
and to propose one integrated, long-term
solution to military compensation. He ex-
pects the solution to be fair to the taxpay-
ers of the United States as well as mem-
bers of the Armed Forces.
The members of the Commission are:
CHARLES J. ZWICK, Miami, Fla.-Chairman,
director, Southeast Banking Corp.; former
Director of the Bureau of the Budget
LT. GEN. BENJAMIN O. DAVIS, USAF, retired,
Arlington, Va., former Commander, U.S.
Forces Korea; and Chief of Staff, UN Com-
mand
GEN. WILLIAM E. DEPUY, Fort Monroe, Va.,
Commander, U.S. Army Training and Doc.
trine Command
THOMAS EHRLICH, Washington, D.C., Presi-
dent, Legal Services Corporation; former
dean, Stanford Law School; Special Assistant
to Under Secretary of State
JOHN H. FILER, Hartford, Conn., chief ex-
ecutive officer, Aetna Life and Casualty;
former Connecticut State senator
PHILIP A. ODEEN, Lake Forest, Ill., vice presi-
dent, Wilson Sporting Goods; former Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense (Systems Anal-
ysis); and Director of Program Analysis,
National Security Council
WALTER N. PAGE, Huntington, L.I., N.Y., pres-
ident, Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.; director,
Foreign Policy Association; and trustee of
the Carnegie Institution
JANE P. PFEIFFER, Armonk, N.Y., Vice Presi-
dent, Communications, IBM Corp.; trustee,
Rockefeller Foundation
HERBERT F. YORK, La Jolla, Calif., professor
of physics, University of California at San
Diego; former Director of Defense Research
and Engineering
President's Commission on
Military Compensation
Remarks to Members of the
Commission. June 27, 1977
This afternoon we are establishing a
Commission on Military Compensation,
which I think will have great impact on
the future of our country.
As a former military man myself, hav-
ing spent 11 years in the Navy, I know
how important it is to have both good pay
1178
