Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
TSUS, is amended as provided in Annex
III, attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
SEC. 4. General Headnote 3(c) (iii) of
the TSUS, listing articles that are eligi-
ble for benefits of the GSP except when
imported from the beneficiary countries
listed opposite those articles, is amended
as provided in Annex IV, attached here-
to and made a part hereof.
SEC. 5. (a) The amendment made by
Annex IV, paragraph (a) of this Order
with respect to item 613.18, TSUS, made
part hereof by Section 4 above, shall be
effective with respect to articles that are
both: (1) imported on or after January 1,
1976, and (2) entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consump-
tion, on or after March 1, 1977.
(b) The other amendments made by
this Order shall be effective with respect
to articles that are both: (1) imported
on or after January 1, 1976, and (2) en-
tered or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on or after January 1, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 27, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:11 p.m., December 28, 1977]
NOTE: Annexes I, II, III, and IV are printed
in the FEDERAL REGISTER of December 29,
1977.
The text of the Executive order was released
on December 28.
Executive Office of the President
Appointment of Richard Harden as Director
of the Office of Administration.
December 28, 1977
The President has appointed Richard
Harden, his Special Assistant for Infor-
mation Management, as Director of the
Office of Administration. This new posi-
tion was created by Reorganization Plan
No. 1.
Harden, 33, will continue to serve as
Special Assistant to the President. He
was commissioner of administrative serv-
ices, then commissioner of the Depart-
ment of Human Resources, during then-
Governor Carter's administration in
Georgia. Harden worked on the Carter
Presidential campaign as budget and
finance director.
Committee for the Preservation
of the White House
Appointment of 16 Members to the
Committee. December 28, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of the following persons as
members of the Committee for the Pres-
ervation of the White House:
VICKI L. BAGLEY, a member of the board of
the North Carolina School of Arts and active
in the Corcoran Art Gallery and the Ken-
nedy Center;
NORMAN B. CHAMP, JR., president of Champ
Spring Co. in St. Louis;
MRS. ATHALIE IRVINE CLARKE, currently on
the Committee and a contributor to the
White House;
MRS. LAMMOT DUPONT COPELAND, currently
a member of the Committee and on the
board of trustees of the Henry Francis du-
Pont Winterthur Museum;
MRS. CHARLES W. ENGELHARD, chairman of
the board of Engelhard Hanovia in New
Jersey and currently a member of the
Committee;
HENRY FORD II, president of Ford Motor
Company;
MRS. JAMES STEWART HOOKER, of Palm
Beach, Fla., a member of the Metropolitan
Opera Guild and benefactor of the Metro-
politan Museum of Art;
DONELSON F. HOOPES, visiting curator of the
M. H. De Young Memorial Museum in San
Francisco and associate editor of American
Art Review in Los Angeles;
EDWARD VASON JONES, currently a member
of the Committee and an architectural and
design adviser to the Committee;
2182
