Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 16
diate neighbors, compared to most of the
rest of the world, we indeed have a joyous
life and a wonderful life. God has blessed
us in this country.
Well, in closing, let me say that Christ-
mas has a special meaning for those of us
who are Christians, those of us who be-
lieve in Christ, those of us who know that
almost 2,000 years ago, the Son of Peace
was born to give us a vision of perfec-
tion, a vision of humility, a vision of un-
selfishness, a vision of compassion, a vision
of love.
Those are exactly the same words that
describe our theme this year. The theme
is "The American Family." And I hope
that we'll make every effort during this
Christmas season not only to bring our
immediate family together but to look at
the family of all humankind, so that we
not any longer cherish a commitment to-
ward animosity or the retention of ene-
mies but that we forgive one another and,
indeed, form a worldwide family where
every human being on Earth is our brother
or our sister.
Thank you for letting me come and
meet with you and to remind each of
you
that Christmas is a time for recommit-
ment of each life to the finest ideals that
we can possibly envision.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:45 p.m. on the
Ellipse. Following his remarks, he lit the Na-
tional Community Christmas Tree with the
help of his daughter, Amy.
Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus also
spoke at the ceremonies.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel
White House Statement Issued Following the
First Meeting. December 16, 1977
The President was happy to have the
opportunity to welcome Prime Minister
Begin again to the United States.
The Prime Minister and the President
met privately for an hour, and subse-
quently others joined. The entire discus-
sions lasted 2 hours. The President was
able to hear firsthand from Prime Min-
ister Begin his impressions and evalua-
tions of the momentous events in the
Middle East set in train by President Sa-
dat's historic visit to Jerusalem and his
reception by the people, parliament, and
government of Israel.
All aspects of the current Middle East
situation were discussed in the context of
the search for a comprehensive peace.
Obviously, a particular focus was on
the direct talks which have commenced
between Egypt and Israel. The Prime
Minister and the President discussed the
most effective ways to continue the mo-
mentum and to turn to the broader goal
of negotiating a comprehensive peace.
In this respect, the Prime Minister and
the President discussed underlying prin-
ciples which could guide future negotia-
tions. The Prime Minister outlined pro-
posals concerning the future relations be-
tween Egypt and Israel and a process for
resolving the issue of Palestinian Arabs.
The President thanked the Prime Min-
ister for his thoughts in both of these
areas and promised to give them serious
consideration.
The President told Prime Minister Be-
gin that the United States is convinced
that the course of direct negotiations on
which Prime Minister Begin and Presi-
dent Sadat have embarked offers a unique
opportunity for peace. We, of course, rec-
ognize that in these new circumstances
the test of acceptability of the provisions
of a negotiated settlement will lie in the
judgments of those who will ultimately
sign the peace treaties. The United States
will continue to remain in the closest pos-
sible consultation with both sides in the
effort to help them find common ground.
2127
