Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
duce expenditures by correcting a flaw
which caused double-indexing for infla-
tion. I am pleased to note that the House
and Senate versions of the bill incorpo-
rate many of these proposals.
I am nevertheless deeply concerned
about provisions in the House and Senate
bills which would unwisely add to the
tax burden borne by all workers and em-
ployers, in order to increase benefits for
a relative few. These proposed increases
are all well intentioned, but we cannot
afford them at the present time. The
benefit increases called for in the two bills
could cost from $7-$10 billion a year by
1983. As a direct result of these in-
creases in expenditures the new tax rates
imposed on today's already burdened
workers and employers are higher than
they need be.
The bill also contains a new income
tax credit and an amendment to the vet-
erans pension law which add an addition-
al $1-$2 billion to the cost of the legis-
lation.
I call upon the members of the House
and Senate to join me in developing a
final fiscally responsible social security
financing bill which will be less burden-
some to the workers and employers who
must pay the taxes, and adequate to re-
store public confidence in the financial
integrity of the social security system. Sec-
retary Califano and his staff stand ready
to work with the members of the con-
ference committee in its deliberations.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to the Honorable Robert C. Byrd,
Senate majority leader, the Honorable Russell
B. Long, chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Al Ullman, chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee.
The text of the letters was made available by
the White House Press Office. It was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
National Commission for the
Review of Antitrust Laws
and Procedures
Executive Order 12022. December 1, 1977
ESTABLISHING THE NATIONAL COMMIS-
SION FOR THE REVIEW OF ANTITRUST
LAWS AND PROCEDURES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the provisions of the Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment. (a) There is
hereby established the National Commis-
sion for the Review of Antitrust Laws and
Procedures, hereafter referred to as the
Commission.
(b) The Commission shall consist of
fifteen members to be appointed by the
President and shall include:
(1) The Assistant Attorney General in
charge of the Antitrust Division of the
Department of Justice.
(2) The Chairman of the Federal
Trade Commission.
(3) The Chairman of one other appro-
priate independent regulatory agency.
(4) Three members of the Senate rec-
ommended by the President of the Senate.
(5) Three members of the House of
Representatives recommended by the
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(6) One judge of a United States Dis-
trict Court.
(7) Five persons from the private
sector.
(c) The President shall designate a
Chairman or Cochairmen from among
the members of the Commission.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Commission.
(a) The Commission shall, within the
framework of existing antitrust laws (as
that term is defined in 15 U.S.C. 12),
2064
