Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 3
the country, the people who don't respect
and love the land don't respect them-
selves. And by getting this bill passed
today, we are showing that this Nation
loves its land and respects it and is going
to protect the land while at the same time
we increase the production of coal.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think Senator
Jackson and Lee Metcalf are here, but
Jennings Randolph is here.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Thank you, Mr.
President.
It's my purpose to thank Lee Metcalf.
I expect no man in the Senate or House
labored more diligently, Mr. President, to
bring this well-balanced legislation to
final passage than Lee Metcalf. My trib-
ute is to him and to you and to all those
who labored. I think what has been done
is in the best interests of the country.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I just want to
shake hands with a few more people. We
don't want the bill to get wet.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:15 a.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at the
White House.
As enacted, H.R. 2 is Public Law 95-87,
approved August 3.
Archbishop Makarios III
Statement on the Death of the President of
Cyprus. August 3, 1977
I was greatly saddened to learn of the
untimely death of President Makarios. His
passing deprives the Republic of Cyprus
and the world of a great statesman. We
share the sorrow of the people of Cyprus
over the loss of a man whose many years
as leader of the Cypriot nation have left
such a deep mark on history.
NOTE: Archbishop Makarios became President
of the Republic of Cyprus in 1959.
Press Secretary Jody Powell read the state-
ment at his August 3 news conference at the
White House. It was not issued in the form of
a White House press release.
Appropriations Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 7556 Into Law.
August 3, 1977
The President has signed H.R. 7556,
which authorizes FY 1978 appropriations
of $7,709,432,000 for the Departments of
State, Justice, and Commerce, the Judi-
ciary, the Small Business Administration,
USIA, the Legal Services Corporation,
and other related agencies and commis-
sions. It also provides $211,515,000 in
1977 supplemental appropriations for the
disaster loan fund of the Small Business
Administration, for the Board for Interna-
tional Broadcasting, and for certain agen-
cies to cover increased pay costs of the
executive and judicial pay increases.
The bill also contains prohibitions
against use of funds for the President's
amnesty program, for making commit-
ments of aid to Vietnam, Cambodia, or
Laos, and for negotiating settlement of
U.S. claims against private property con-
fiscated by Cuba at less than principal
value.
The President issued a statement on
signing the bill, noting his constitutional
objection to the section which interferes
with the amnesty program. The statement
follows:
"I am signing H.R. 7556, the Depart-
ments of State, Justice, and Commerce,
1409
