Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
Panamanians will come from a list sub-
mitted to us by Panama that the United
States chooses and approves. The chair-
man of the board will be an American for
the first part of the treaty. The adminis-
trator, the executive officer, who can only
carry out the board's policy, will be an
American up through 1990 and for the
last 10 years of this century will be a Pan-
amanian. But that person will not set
policy. He'll only carry out the policy of
the board itself dominated by Americans.
And, of course, one of the things that
that board will do, which is very impor-
tant, is to set fees for the use of the canal
to decide which projects will take priority
in repair or expansion of the canal. So,
we'll keep complete control of that board
for the rest of the century.
Q. At some point are we in jeopardy of
coming under economic duress? In other
words, we talked about 30 cents, at the
time, I believe, in terms of tonnage price.
Is there some point in history under the
terms of the treaties wherein or whoever
is running the canal could raise that to
$10, $20, whatever would make it fiscally
impossible, or-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. That's always a
possibility, that the board of directors
would go wild and set a transit fee that
would be extraordinarily high. If so, the
ships just wouldn't use the canal. Some
might even go around the southern coast
of South America. Others might choose to
offload on the east or west coast or the
gulf coast and let rail shipment replace
transit shipment. But I think that even if
the use of the canal doesn't increase in the
future, that the fees will be much less, for
instance, than they are with the Suez
Canal, and with any increase in the use of
the canal, it's almost inevitable, in my
opinion, as we start shipping more and
more oil and natural gas from Alaska,
down around the coast, through the canal
up to the gulf coast, that as you increase
the volume of shipment through the canal,
then the fees per ton will go down.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Greg
Olin, and I'm from Salt Lake City. I was
wondering if I could have a comment on
the current furor over disregard of the
constitutional provision-and I'll have to
read this-
THE PRESIDENT. All right.
Q. -found in Article IV, Section 3,
Clause 2, which says, "The Congress shall
have power to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations respecting
the territory or other property belonging
to the United States," my question being,
I think you're being accused by some
people of having circumvented the
House.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q. The second question that I had for
you is, you'd mentioned that you'd like to
keep the canal full. I guess the rumor that
you were going to adhere to EPA stand-
ards, drain it, put your dirt back into it—
[inaudible]-[laughter].
THE PRESIDENT. That's all right. We'll
keep the canal open and work it. We've
got legal rulings on the constitutionality of
my signing the treaties and the Senate ad-
vising and consenting toward the ratifica-
tion of the treaties. I might say that the
House of Representatives will be involved
in the process. For instance, a very crucial
element of the treaties themselves will be
the establishment of the nine-person board
to which I just referred. Now the Panama
Canal Corporation is a private nongov-
ernmental entity. After the canal treaties
are ratified, then that will be replaced by a
government agency which will consist of
this nine-person board, and the House
and Senate will have to approve the es-
tablishment of that board. So, that's one
of the necessary parts of the completion of
the treaty process. So, the House will have
1891
