July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
FUTURE ECONOMIC GROWTH
Q. My name is Herman B. Desell of
Yazoo City. My question, Mr. President,
relates to your proposal to balance the
budget by 1981. I think most of us agree
with that proposition, but many of us are
concerned about possible impairment of
ongoing programs that are vital to our
local people-revenue sharing, the youth
work programs, our educational pro-
grams,
and related programs that provide
job opportunities.
My question is, how will you go about
establishing priorities to determine which
of these programs may be modified or
altered, and in what way?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. That's an ex-
cellent question. Our projections of the
future economic growth of our country,
based on normal circumstances, show that
we can continue the programs that are
doing a good job for our people, that are
in effect now. And with proper manage-
ment, reorganization of the Government
itself, with the elimination of overlapping
and duplicating Federal programs and
bureaucracies, we can have enough
growth in Federal revenues to give us
both expanded programs and/or tax re-
ductions which are very important to you,
or a balanced budget.
I think that if we are fortunate, we can
have both-not only continue the present
programs but have some tax reduction and
also balance the budget by fiscal year
1981.
We're going to have to be very strict
about what the Congress and I approve in
the way of increased spending. I'll have
to use my best judgment, along with the
Congress, to determine what is necessary
to expand, what is necessary to cut back,
what is necessary to eliminate. But every-
thing I do, obviously, will be done in the
open.
The Congress has a very close check on
the President and vice versa. But I'm de-
termined that in normal economic cir-
cumstances, to give you a balanced budget
before this term is over.
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION ON PROPOSED
LEGISLATION
Q. Hello, Mr. President, I'm Ted Webb,
a student at Ole Miss. You have been in
office for about 6 months now. At this
point in time, are you personally satisfied
with the progress made by the programs
you sponsored, and if not, which program.
has been your biggest disappointment and
why?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Does anybody
mind if I take my coat off? I got wet at
the airport in Jackson this afternoon when
I landed, a rain that they needed very
much. I've still got on the same clothes,
so nobody can tell whether it's sweat or
rain. [Laughter] I'll let you in on a secret:
It's both.
I've been very pleased so far with the
progress that the Congress has made in
the programs that I've put forward in the
campaign and also in my first meetings
with the Members of Congress. We asked
Congress to pass strict ethics legislation to
remove the conflicts of interest that might
exist between public officials in the
executive and legislative branches, and
they've done a good job with this. I asked
them to give me the authority to reor-
ganize the executive branch of Govern-
ment, and the Congress gave me almost
exactly what I wanted.
I asked the Congress, in addition, to
help me create a new Department of
Energy, to bring all the 40 or 45 or 50 dif-
ferent agencies that have been responsible
for energy together in a coordinated, well-
organized, bureaucratic entity so we could
have a carrying out of an energy policy.
1318
