July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. [Inaudible]—on the territorial and
Palestinian questions?
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't try to re-
solve those differences. I think it's in-
appropriate to try to draw lines or draw a
map or decide on details at this point.
Those positions that will be put forward
by the Arab and Israeli leaders at the
Geneva conference are best left to them,
because, obviously, strong differences of
opinion-[inaudible]-any delineation of
boundaries.
Q. Did you modify any of your well-
known public views?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll stick to my public
views, but I think now is the time to be
quiet about specifics, and I think that this
is a strong desire of Prime Minister Begin.
And I think the recent comments and ac-
tions by the Arab leaders indicate that
they feel the same way.
Q. Is there any significance to his leav-
ing a little earlier than was planned?
THE PRESIDENT. We just had such an
unexpectedly harmonious session this
morning that we didn't find any reason
for arguments.
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. How did you find Mr. Begin as a
personality to deal with?
THE PRESIDENT. I like him very much.
As I said in my welcoming remarks, he's a
man of courage and principle, and I have
found in my discussions with him that my
assessment was quite accurate.
Q. Is he easy to get along with?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
U.S. Shoe Industry
Announcement of Trade Adjustment
Assistance Program. July 20, 1977
A program to revitalize segments of the
American shoe industry injured by foreign
competition was announced today at the
White House. The plan includes forma-
tion of special teams of experts to assist
affected companies in the design of "cus-
tomized" strategies for recovery.
The 3-year, $56 million program was
developed by the Department of Com-
merce, in consultation with other Govern-
ment agencies, in response to President
Carter's directive of April 1 to provide
"an expanded and more effective program
of assistance."
It was announced by Under Secretary
of Commerce Sidney Harman and Stuart
Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs and Policy.
Harman said the program reflects the
President's observation that, "Over the
long haul, the solution to difficulties in
the shoe industry lies not in the restric-
tion of imports but elsewhere-in innova-
tion and modernization of our own pro-
duction facilities and and the financing
to make these possible."
The program will establish specialist
teams of experts in the fields of manage-
ment, production, marketing, and finance
to provide consultative services to the
estimated 150 trade-injured shoe manu-
facturers in 36 States. The firms employ
approximately 80,000 employees-half of
all U.S. nonrubber footwear workers.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:47 a.m. on They produce 230 million pairs of shoes
the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was made avail-
able by the White House Press Office. It was
not issued in the form of a White House press
release.
annually, which is approximately half the
U.S. production total.
"The teams, each of which will consist
of two to five experts drawn from the pri-
1296
