July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I. Strengthen Process Management of
Policy Issues.
Perhaps the most important function
of the President's staff is to make sure he
has the wide variety of views and facts he
needs to make decisions. By building a
more orderly system for collecting infor-
mation and advice, the President can
make sure that he will hear all the views
he should-and hear them in time. To
better insure that this happens, I am tak-
ing the following actions to:
• Institute for domestic and economic
issues, a system similar to the Presi-
dential Review Memorandum proc-
ess currently used for National Se-
curity issues.
• Create a committee of Presidential
advisers, chaired by the Vice Presi-
dent, to set priorities among issues
and oversee their staffing.
• Assure that Presidential decision
memoranda on policy issues are co-
ordinated with Cabinet and EOP
advisers most involved with the issue.
• Consolidate under the Staff Secre-
tary the two current White House
paper circulation systems.
Appoint a group of advisers to review
the decisionmaking process periodi-
cally.
• Give the Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs and Policy clear
responsibility for managing the way
•
in which domestic and most economic
policy issues are prepared for Presi-
dential decision.
Assign follow-up responsibility for
Presidential decisions as follows: im-
mediate follow-up will be handled
by the NSC or Domestic Policy Staff
most directly involved in the issue;
long term follow-up on selected is-
sues will be handled by the Assistant
to the President for Intergovernmen-
tal Relations.
These actions recognize that the White
House and Executive Office staff must use
their proximity to the President to insure
that the full resources of the government
and the public are brought to bear on
Presidential decisions in a timely fashion.
It is my purpose in instituting these
changes to strengthen Cabinet participa-
tion in Presidential decisions.
II. Rationalize EOP structure by limiting
EOP, wherever possible, to functions
which bear a close relationship to the
work of the President.
As the President's principal staff insti-
tution, there are several major things the
EOP must do:
• Provide day-to-day operational sup-
port (e.g. scheduling, appointments) and
help the President communicate with the
public, the Congress, and the press.
Manage the budget and coordinate
Administration positions on matters be-
fore the Congress.
Manage the Presidential decision-
making processes efficiently and fairly,
and bring the President the widest possi-
ble range of opinions.
• Help the President: plan and set pri-
orities; monitor and evaluate progress
toward achieving the President's objec-
tives; understand and resolve major con-
flicts among line subordinates; manage
crises, especially in national security
matters.
In order to restructure the EOP
around these basic functions, the func-
tions of seven units should be discontin-
ued or transferred, and ten units, includ-
ing the White House Office, should be
retained but modified.
Seven units should be discontinued or
their functions transferred. These are:
1. Office of Drug Abuse Policy
2. Office of Telecommunications Pol-
icy
1256
