Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 25
past sixty days to bring about a negotiated
settlement of the Cyprus problem.
My last report, submitted to the Con-
gress on June 22, noted that talks between
the two Cypriot communities during the
preceding sixty days had accomplished
little. Regrettably, there has been no sub-
stantial change in the general situation.
The efforts of U.N. Secretary General
Kurt Waldheim's Special Representative
to Cyprus, Ambassador Perez de Cuellar,
to persuade the two communities to hold
a new round of talks in Nicosia in July
and early August have proven unsuccess-
ful.
Despite the failure of these efforts, how-
ever, the Administration has persisted in
its efforts to bring the parties together in
an effort to promote a settlement. In
meetings in Washington with Ambassador
de Cuellar and with House of Repre-
sentatives President Kyprianou (now Act-
ing President of Cyprus), Administration
officials continually reiterated our view
that the intercommunal forum should
serve as the basis for substantive talks,
and that they should be resumed as quick-
ly as circumstances warranted. Moreover,
we took the position that no time should
be lost in pursuing a settlement once a
new Turkish Government was formally
installed.
The death of President Makarios on
August 3 was an unfortunate develop-
ment. The precise implications of his
death for the future of the intercommunal
negotiations are, as of this writing, dif-
ficult to assess.
Nonetheless, we see no reason to change
course. As Clark Clifford stressed in his
press conference in Nicosia on August 9,
this Administration is as dedicated today
to helping find a solution to the problems
of Cyprus as it was last January, when
he was appointed as my Special Repre-
sentative. We are prepared at any time to
offer guidance and counsel to assist in the
negotiating process, should the parties to
the dispute so desire. It is my strong hope
that constructive talks will be resumed
and that the two Cypriot communities
will again focus, with renewed energy, on
the goal of achieving a just and lasting
settlement which will enable everyone on
the island to live in peace, harmony, and
freedom.
The White House,
August 25, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
International Atomic
Energy Agency
Nomination of U.S. Representative and
Alternate Representatives to the 21st Session
of the General Conference. August 25, 1977
The President today announced the
persons whom he will nominate to be Rep-
resentative and Alternate Representatives
of the United States to the 21st session of
the General Conference of the Interna-
tional Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
which is scheduled to be held at Vienna,
Austria, from September 26 to October 3,
1977.
As Representative, he will nominate
Robert W. Fri, of Sumner, Md. Fri, 41, is
Deputy Administrator of the Energy Re-
search and Development Administration.
From 1971 to 1973, he was Deputy Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency.
The following persons will be nomi-
nated as Alternate Representatives:
RICHARD T. KENNEDY, Commissioner of the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
LOUIS V. NOSENZO, Deputy Assistant Secre-
tary of State for Nuclear Energy and
1501
