Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 30
our power to ensure security and peaceful
development.
It is with lasting peace, the joy of which
we want to share with all other countries
of Europe and the world, that we are
linking our aspirations, our plans and ex-
pectations, for today and for tomorrow.
Hence, it is only natural and understand-
able, Mr. President, that we view with
due attention and support warmly actions
which serve that great and supreme cause
to all nations.
The key factor of the process of détente
we perceive in relations between your
country, Mr. President, and the Soviet
Union. The dialog between the two big
powers determines the climate, the over-
all climate, of international relations in
saving mankind from a nuclear holocaust.
This is why theirs is a special responsi-
bility for world peace. Hence, our pro-
found satisfaction over the incipient prog-
ress in the talks on offensive strategic arms
limitation. Hence our hopes, in fact
shared by the broadest public opinion, for
a prompt new agreement, as well as for
positive results of discussions between the
two powers on other important questions.
Together with its Socialist allies and
friends, Poland spares no effort to con-
solidate the process of détente and make it
irreversible, for détente is the only alterna-
tive. It indeed represents a great chance of
our times. Its proper utilization depends in
particular on containing the arms race,
which weighs heavily upon international
relations, wastes economic resources, and
poses great threats.
I am sure you are aware, Mr. Presi-
dent, that Poland has always attached
special significance to preventing pro-
liferation of nuclear armaments. We have
been advancing our own initiatives to
this effect, which have enjoyed general
recognition.
Today, when the danger of prolifera-
tion of those armaments and the introduc-
tion of new kinds of weapons of mass de-
struction is greater than ever before, we
are bound to appeal for moderation for
the containment of the dangerous phe-
nomenon, for the strengthening and exten-
sion of the system of treaties to protect
against it.
Remembering, as we do, what you,
yourself, Mr. President, have been say-
ing on that matter, we trust it will be
given the maximum of attention. By the
same token, we lend our full support to
the initiative made by Leonid Brezhnev to
conclude an agreement to mutually re-
nounce the production of neutron
weapons.
Poland proceeds from the principle of
full and integrated implementation of the
decisions and recommendations of the
Final Act of the Helsinki conference,
which we treat as the magna carta of
peace in Europe. Guided by its principles,
we are favorably shaping up our bilateral
relations with all states, signatories of the
Final Act to take efforts to achieve posi-
tive results of the Belgrade meeting.
Progress in the Vienna talks on the re-
duction of armed forces and armaments
in Central Europe would, too, no doubt,
serve to strengthen the general sense of
security.
There is much to be said, Mr. Presi-
dent, of the climate of international
relations. There is need for mutual
understanding and trust; only in such
circumstances there can be progress in
constructive and friendly international
cooperation.
Dear Mr. President, we are glad that
you share our desire of continuation of
the positive processes in Polish-American
relations. Our constructive discussions to-
day have confirmed this.
2213
