Nov. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
House of Representatives bill 2817,
which has been supported very strongly
by Congressman Bob Edgar, authorizes
the expansion and the completion of the
Tinicum National Environmental Center
in Pennsylvania, on the outskirts of Phila-
delphia. This is the culmination of about
15 years of work by local people, as well
as the Members of Congress in both
House and Senate.
The pressure is great around any urban
center to expand the industrial develop-
ment into areas of great natural impor-
tance. And city dwellers, particularly,
need to have near their own homes-
particularly those that are not financially
able to travel far and wide-a part of the
Earth and environment as it was origi-
nally granted to us for our stewardship.
I think this legislation goes a long way
toward achieving that end.
With continued local support that I'm
sure will be realized, Tinicum will be-
come an exceptional wildlife preservation.
Part of it has already been changed in
form. This will be restored. And this will
be a good experimental area to learn how
to restore other similar regions around
our country. It's also a place where Phila-
delphians can find a moment of solitude
and rest, a part of life that I remember
with great relish—[laughter]—and_miss
very much.
But I'm thankful that this is an action
that Congress has taken, and I'd like
now, at this moment, to sign legislation,
House of Representatives bill 2817, which
will preserve the Tinicum area near
Philadelphia.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 2817
into law.]
The other legislation, coincidentally,
has been pursued aggressively by Mem-
bers of the House and Senate from Dela-
ware to New York, but it also encom-
passes a very serious problem for our
whole country. This is House resolution
act 4297, which amends the Marine Pro-
tection Research and Sanctuaries Act.
One of the most severe threats to the
heavily used and very valuable seashore
areas, particularly in Delaware, New
Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, has been
the problem of ocean dumping, where—
historically, when populations were low
and the effluent was fairly well small in
volume, dumping of city waste in the
ocean was an acceptable practice because
the ocean currents could disseminate it
without destroying the beauty of the
coastline.
But recently, Governors such as Gov-
ernor Byrne in New Jersey and others
have recognized, along with Congress, the
great threat to the beauty of life and the
very valuable tourist resource of the dam-
age to the ocean beaches because of city
wastes that were washed up on those
beaches. In this bill, Congress has put into
law the policy of this administration to
end the dumping of sewage sludge into
the ocean by December 31, 1981. This
will provide large cities with an oppor-
tunity to find landfill sites and other al-
ternative measures for eliminating or dis-
posing of their wastes.
We've already made some progress, but
we still have a very serious problem. And
I particularly want to compliment Chair-
man John Murphy of the House Mer-
chant Marine Committee, Jennings Ran-
dolph in the Senate, Representative Bill
Byrne, who's represented here this morn-
Hughes of New Jersey, and Governor
ing by Jean Byrne, his wife, for their in-
novative and very aggressive, sometimes
discouraging work to control this practice.
I believe this demonstrates the com-
mitment of Congress and the administra-
tion, as well, to protect and preserve one
of mankind's most precious possessions-
our oceans and our seashores. So, con-
gratulations to you Members of Congress
for this very fine work. And I now sign
House of Representatives bill number
1962
