June 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Venezuela. Everyone is privileged to vote
and is urged to vote and the decisions
of the people on election day are bind-
ing without question. We also have seen
a country evolve there, looking back on
the superb leadership of the great lib-
erator, Simón Bolívar, and President
Perez' predecessor, President Betancourt,
that is totally committed to the princi-
ple of basic human freedoms, the pride
of people in their own individuality and
the right to make their own decisions,
and in the cherishing and nourishing en-
hancement of human rights.
At the recent Organization of Ameri-
can States meeting in Grenada, the lead-
ing country, above all others, even in-
cluding our own, in insisting upon strong
stands, unequivocal stands on the prin-
ciple of human rights, was Venezuela. We
felt a close partnership with them, and
we felt a great gratitude toward them.
They have been staunch and unswerv-
ing in this commitment in a part of the
world, to be perfectly frank, where this
has not always been a persuasive com-
mitment. And I'm very proud of that.
When I think of any world leader
and a strong, growing, and dynamic and
fairly wealthy country with great ma-
terial wealth and riches and oil and other
products, who has looked on the weak
and poor and deprived and small na-
tions with understanding and compas-
sion and mutual trust, the country again
that comes to my mind, foremost, is
Venezuela. And the leader who epito-
mizes that commitment is President
Perez.
This is an interrelationship that's
growing between our country and theirs
on a relationship of complete mutual
admiration and total equality. Our
country may be larger in size; we may
have a few more Spanish-speaking peo-
ple than Venezuela—[laughter]—but
we are equals in every way except in
those firm attributes where, I have to
admit, they have achieved a superiority
to us. But we are trying to emulate their
example and move more and more to-
ward a pure commitment to the princi-
ples on which our country was formed.
We have seen the great friendship
demonstrated by President Perez and his
wife toward our country. They will go
to Philadelphia, and they will dedicate
very shortly a statue to one of their lib-
erators, Miranda, who, along with Simón
Bolívar earlier, observed the American
Revolution under George Washington.
And this demonstration of mutual com-
mitments to ideals by the establishment
of this statue in Philadelphia very shortly
is another symbol of our equality and
mutual purpose.
He will also be dedicating a great sculp-
ture by the great artist Otero, in Wash-
ington, D.C., another permanent indica-
tion of friendship between our countries.¹
And there is also a bust of a great writer,
Vejo, in Austin, Texas. So, you can see
that from one place to another, there are
permanent indications being established
of the friendships between Venezuela and
the United States.
This is one kind of proliferation to
which I have no objection, Mr. Presi-
dent. [Laughter]
The last point I'd like to make is this:
Speaking of proliferation, our neighbors
to the south at Mexico City, the suburbs
of Mexico City called Tlatelolco, signed
a treaty under the original auspices of the
United Nations a few years ago, com-
mitting all the signatories permanently
to prevent the deployment of nuclear ex-
plosives in the Southern Hemisphere.
There is no other part of the world
that's done this. This was how long ago--
10
years ago? And we are now re-reviving
1 The work by Venezuelan sculptor Alejan-
dro Otero is located on the grounds of the
National Air and Space Museum.
1184
