Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I'd like to ask Ms. Olivarez to comment
on the points that you three people have
raised.
MS. OLIVAREZ. I'd like to point out to
Mr. Doss, I heard the Boston plan being
introduced yesterday in the White House.
And listening to Mr. Maloney, to the De-
troit plan, and the Boston plan, I think
that there's an ingredient missing, and
that is that we can't talk about urban de-
velopment without talking about rural de-
velopment simultaneously. Because as you
start improving the cities, they continue
to be the magnet that create the situation
that Mr. Maloney explains. But no pro-
vision was made for that type of magnet
that is being created in the revitalization
of cities.
So, I guess my recommendation, or my
plea, would be for all who are develop-
ing urban redevelopment or regeneration
plans not to forget that we've got to do
the same thing in the rural areas simul-
taneously, or we're not going to be solving
the problem.
I would like to mention, Mr. President,
that Mrs. Prieto's father is an M.D. in
Chicago who has done more work, prob-
ably more free-of-charge work, among
the poor than any other M.D. who I
know in the country. He has dedicated
his life as a doctor and his services to
people who don't have access to doctors.
So, I'm very pleased to get to know her
because I've known her dad for a while.
Let me just say, Luz, that I'm not try-
ing to polish the President's apple. There's
one great thing in Washington right now.
There are a lot of women in key positions
who are making policy. So, the problems
of the women that you were describing
can be addressed right now if you're will-
ing to go in a joint partnership-Federal,
State, city. And I would recommend that
you get in touch with people like Blandina
Cardenas, Arabella Martinez. Both of
them are in the Office of Human Devel-
opment at HEW. By the same token, you
might want to talk to some of the women
on our staff or at the regional office in
Chicago, because the type of program that
you're doing-if we could do more of the
preventive rather than the remedial,
through training, I think that would help.
For Mr. Webb, I know what you're
talking about when you say that the peo-
ple who need the jobs didn't get them. I
think you have to understand that dur-
ing the last 8 years, the poverty agency
has been victimized, brutalized, gutted,
defunded, maligned. But under this ad-
ministration we're trying to slowly bring
it back together again, not necessarily to
make it a larger agency, but to be a more
effective spokesperson for the poor. And
because of the last 8 years—there was no
supervision, there was no monitoring—
I'm sure that in some instances, the peo-
ple who didn't deserve the jobs got them. I
can assure you that under some of our
regulations that we've issued recently and
for which I'm getting a lot of flak, that is
not going to continue, because we are con-
stantly monitoring to be sure that the
ple who understand the problems are
working at the solution as paid employees
and not perpetual volunteers.
peo-
THE PRESIDENT. Let me add a brief
comment. I noticed all three of you have
talked about some problems that didn't
arise before. One thing that hasn't been
mentioned yet is the welfare reform pro-
posal that we've put to the Congress. This
program is designed to give our people
better jobs and income. That's the name
of it-Better Jobs and Income Program.
And we have in there a heavy allotment
of funds and programs for day care, for
child care, that would specifically relate
to women who want to work. And we also
have included in the program 1.4 million
jobs, Mr. Webb, for the heads of families.
1844
