Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
The Soviets are worried about our
cruise missiles, and we are concerned
about the security of our own deterrent
capability. Our cruise missiles are aimed
at compensating for the growing threat
to our deterrent, represented by the build-
up
of strategic Soviet offensive weapons
forces. If these threats can be controlled,
and I believe they can, then we are pre-
pared to limit our own strategic pro-
grams. But if an agreement cannot be
reached, there should be no doubt that
the United States can and will do what it
must to protect our security and to ensure
the adequacy of our strategic posture.
Our new proposals go beyond those
that have been made before. In many
areas we are in fact addressing for the
first time the tough, complex core of long-
standing problems. We are trying for the
first time to reach agreements that will
not be overturned by the next technologi-
cal breakthrough. We are trying, in a
word, for genuine accommodation.
But none of these proposals that I've
outlined to you involves a sacrifice of
security. All of them are meant to in-
crease the security of both sides. Our
view is that a SALT agreement which
just reflects the lowest common denomi-
nator that can be agreed upon easily will
only create an illusion of progress and,
eventually, a backlash against the entire
arms control process. Our view is that
genuine progress in SALT will not mere-
ly stabilize competition in weapons but
can also provide a basis for improvement
in political relations as well.
When I say that these efforts are in-
tended to relax tensions, I'm not speak-
ing only of military security. I mean as
well the concern among our own individ-
ual citizens, Soviet and American, that
comes from the knowledge which all of
you have that the leaders of our two
countries have the capacity to destroy
human society through misunderstand-
ings or mistakes. If we can relax this ten-
sion by reducing the nuclear threat, not
only will we make the world a safer place
but we'll also free ourselves to concen-
trate on constructive action to give the
world a better life.
We've made some progress toward our
goals, but to be frank, we also hear some
negative comments from the Soviet side
about SALT and about our more general
relations. If these comments are based on
a misconception about our motives, then
we will redouble our efforts to make our
motives clear; but if the Soviets are mere-
ly making comments designed as propa-
ganda to put pressure on us, let no one
doubt that we will persevere.
What matters ultimately is whether we
can create a relationship of cooperation
that will be rooted in the national inter-
ests of both sides. We shape our own pol-
icies to accommodate a constantly chang-
ing world, and we hope the Soviets will
do the same. Together we can give this
change
change a positive direction.
Increased trade between the United
States and the Soviet Union would help
both. The American-Soviet Joint
Commercial Commission has resumed its
meetings after a long interlude. I hope
that conditions can be created that will
make possible steps toward expanded
trade.
In southern Africa we have pressed for
Soviet and Cuban restraint. Throughout
the nonaligned world, our goal is not to
encourage dissension or to redivide the
world into opposing ideological camps,
but to expand the realm of independent,
economically self-reliant nations, and
to oppose attempts at new kinds of
subjugation.
Part of the Soviet Union leaders' cur-
rent attitude may be due to their ap-
parent and incorrect-belief that our
1313
