Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
As the world becomes more and more
interdependent, such mutual understand-
ing becomes increasingly vital. The aim of
this reorganization, therefore, is a more
effective dialogue among peoples of the
earth. Americans-mostly immigrants or
the descendants of immigrants—are par-
ticularly well suited to enter into such an
undertaking. We have already learned
much from those who have brought dif-
fering values, perspectives and experi-
ences to our shores. And we must continue
to learn.
Thus the new agency will lay heavy
emphasis on listening to others, so as to
learn something of their motivations and
aspirations, their histories and cultures.
Several principles guided me in shaping
this reorganization plan. Among the most
important were:
-Maintaining the integrity of the edu-
cational and cultural exchange programs
is imperative. To this end, the plan re-
tains the Board of Foreign Scholarships,
whose strong leadership has done so much
to insure the high quality of the educa-
tional exchange program. In addition, I
intend to nominate an Associate Director
who will be responsible for the adminis-
tration and supervision of educational
and cultural functions consolidated in the
new Agency. The responsibilities presently
exercised by the Department of State in
relation to the Center for Technical and
Cultural Interchange Between East and
West, Inc., will be transferred to the new
agency without alteration.
-Keeping the Voice of America's news
gathering and reporting functions inde-
pendent and objective. The Voice's char-
ter, enacted into law in 1976, provides
that "VOA news will be accurate, objec-
tive, and comprehensive"; that VOA
will "present a balanced and comprehen-
sive projection of significant American
thought and institutions"; and that VOA
will present U.S. policies "clearly and
effectively, and will also present respon-
sible discussion and opinion on these poli-
cies." Under this Administration, VOA
will be solely responsible for the content
of news broadcasts-for there is no more
valued coin than candor in the inter-
national marketplace of ideas. I also plan
to nominate an Associate Director who
will be responsible for the administration
and supervision of the Voice of America.
-The new agency's activities must be
straightforward, open, candid, balanced,
and representative. They will not be given
over to the advancement of the views of
any one group, any one party or any one
Administration. The agency must not
operate in a covert, manipulative, or
propagandistic way.
-Rights of U.S. Information Agency
and State Department employees must be
respected. In the new agency, their career
achievements will be recognized and the
best possible use made of their profes-
sional skills and abilities.
The Director of the new agency will
assess and advise on the impact on world-
wide public opinion of American foreign
policy decisions. The Agency will coordi-
nate the international information, educa-
tional, cultural and exchange programs
conducted by the U.S. Government and
will be a governmental focal point for pri-
vate U.S. international exchange pro-
grams. It will also play a leading role
within the U.S. Government in our efforts
to remove barriers to the international
exchange of ideas and information.
It is not practicable to specify all of the
expenditure reductions and other econo-
mies that will result from the proposed
reorganization, and therefore I do not do
so. The reorganization will result in
greater efficiency by unifying in Washing-
ton the management of programs which
are already administered in a consolidated
manner in the field. For example, field
officers will no longer report to two sepa-
1766
