July 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
along the lines agreed with the IMF, as
well as on the necessity of implementing
the consensus reached at the London sum-
mit to adjust payments imbalances in a
context of expanding trade and economic
development.
The President and the Prime Minister
devoted a major part of their talks to
world energy problems. They affirmed
their intention to enhance and reinvigor-
ate cooperation through the International
Energy Agency and, bilaterally, through
the U.S.-Italy Energy Working Group to
coordinate policies and assist one another
in this area of great significance. In this
connection, the President agreed to ex-
plore ways of meeting Italy's needs for
assured supplies of natural uranium as
well as financing of its nuclear power pro-
gram. The two leaders discussed the spe-
cial energy requirements and objectives
which Italy shares with other major in-
dustrialized countries heavily dependent
on imported fossil fuels. They expressed
their hope that the International Nuclear
Fuel Cycle Evaluation would contribute
to their common objectives in the field of
nuclear nonproliferation and to a satis-
factory solution of the participating coun-
tries' needs for assured fuel. They also
agreed to expand cooperation in energy
conservation, in safe and environmentally
sound operation of nuclear reactors, and
in the development of new sources of en-
ergy—solar, bioconversion, geothermal,
and others.
Recognizing the importance of histori-
cal ties of friendship, a common cultural
heritage, and the contribution of millions
of Americans of Italian descent to the in-
tellectual, spiritual, and economic life of
the United States, the President and the
Prime Minister agreed that every effort
should be made to increase the already
significant exchanges between the two
countries in the fields of education and
culture.
They agreed in particular on the desir-
ability of a new effort of reciprocal assist-
ance, in which Italy would assist in the
strengthening of Italian language and
study programs in the United States, and
the United States would assist in the
strengthening of English language teach-
ing and American studies programs in
Italy.
The two leaders also placed high prior-
ity on a two-way expansion of student and
scholarly exchange and expressed their
support for efforts now underway to fi-
nance additional exchanges, through loan
funds made available by the private sector
in the two countries.
The President and the Prime Minister
discussed other areas where future cooper-
ation between the two countries could
lead to immediate results of mutual bene-
fit, including an agreement on defense
procurement, and follow-up visits by cab-
inet-level officials of the two Governments
in the next few months. These visits will
give impetus to U.S.-Italian cooperation
in the areas of defense; economic, finan-
cial, and investment relations; scientific
and technological cooperation; and ex-
changes of information on administrative
matters.
During the course of the visit, the two
Governments also agreed to announce
that the Chicago Symphony will perform
in Milan in September 1978, in return for
the participation in our Bicentennial cele-
bration of the La Scala Opera Company.
In addition, a major exhibit called "Pom-
peii A.D. 79" will tour the United States
soon.
1364
