Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
about the treaties. And I hope that you
will exhibit not only a knowledge of the
treaties themselves when you go back
home but some political courage and
make speeches to the Lions Clubs or
Rotary Clubs or Jaycees or be interviewed
by your own local television or radio sta-
tions or your local editorial board and let
your own voice be heard and say this is a
difficult and unpopular political question,
but our country will be well-served by
these treaties.
So, I think that the vote in the Senate
might very well come early next year. I
think there's been a great deal of allevia-
tion of previous concern about the treaties
with the recent exchange of clarifying lan-
guage between myself and the Pana-
manian leaders.
Q. Mr. President, I was in favor of the
treaty before I came, so, you know, I
haven't changed my mind.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Q. But most people in Utah aren't in
favor of the treaty, I believe. What spe-
cifically-somehow, if I could say respect-
fully without walking around this ques-
tion-would be your position in case the
Senate doesn't ratify the treaty?
THE PRESIDENT. I would be reluctant
to bring the treaties to the Senate for
action unless I was reasonably sure the
Senate would vote affirmatively, because
I am afraid that even with the best-mean-
ing intentions among the Panamanian
governmental leaders, that a rejection of
the treaty might have very serious conse-
quences in our relationship with Pan-
ama-the ability to keep the canal open
without armed conflict-and also would
damage severely our relationship with
countries in the southern part of this
hemisphere.
So, my expectation is to try to secure
enough votes in the Senate before I ac-
tually ask the Senate to vote on the sub-
ject. Yes, would you have a followup
question?
Q. I don't know how to ask the Presi-
dent of the United States, but-
THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
Q.—what if you don't get the votes?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we've got a
good chance to get them. But if I don't
see that we're going to get the votes, then
my own inclination would be to delay
submission of the treaties for a vote.
Q. And would that create havoc for
Panama?
THE PRESIDENT. It would create a very
difficult condition which we might very
well use as time for me to let the Senators
know how serious the question is. When
the Senate does adjourn this year, a group
of them, the leaders, many of whom op-
pose the treaties at this point, will go to
Panama on their own initiative to see
what the circumstances are there and to
see the advantages of ratification and the
very serious disadvantages that might
come with rejection.
So, I believe that time and education
and knowledge about the treaties will lead
to increasing support in the Senate. So,
I have confidence that the Senate will
ratify when the vote does come.
Q. Mr. President, as another supporter
of the Panama treaties, I want to ask you
a question that's asked of me often. Isn't
the ratification—the potential ratification
of the Panama Canal treaties a symbolic
step in what people perceive as the con-
tinuing process of withdrawal of the
United States from the world, such as
we've seen in Vietnam, Korea, and in
other places in the world? People talk
about withdrawing troops involved in
NATO. It's more of a symbolic question
than it is a pragmatic question.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think that's part
of the emotional commitment to the canal,
because we were, as a nation, embarrassed
1889
