Aug. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The three basic problems have been
obvious for decades. They are being ad-
dressed in detail now in a much more
constructive way than 7 or 8 months ago
when I came into office-territorial
boundaries, defensible borders combined,
the Palestinian refugee question, and a
recognition by the Arab countries that Is-
rael is there, that it has a right to exist,
to exist in peace, and to be accepted as an
equal.
I think we've made progress on all
three of those basic areas. My hope is that
we can bring the parties to Geneva for
discussions under the aegis of ourselves
and the Soviet Union and then let the
world and the participating negotiators
themselves realize that it's going to be a
long, tedious process.
There is no instant solution. Disagree-
ments that have existed in some cases
2,000 years can't be resolved overnight.
But I think as long as each country proves
that they are acting in good faith, which
will require some flexibility, a moving
away from adamant stands that have
been expressed in the past, I think with
that sort of demonstration on their part,
then our commitment will continue to be
very dedicated and very constant.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Q. Mr. President, with the temporary
suspension of the 8(a) program that's
havoc among the special minority busi-
nesses, what, if any-and what can you
state to that minority businessman who
still desires equitable treatment, which
you espoused during your time seeking
election, movement having occurred, but
there is still dilemma there? What can we
expect to occur?
THE PRESIDENT. The 8(a) program
will be reinstituted very quickly. I think
it will be put back into effect, eliminating
the political prostitution of it that did oc-
cur during the last administration. We've
seen, since my own early business experi-
ence with the Small Business Administra-
tion, a deterioration in its quality because
it was injected into the political arena, as
you know.
We got to the point where we were
lending minority business men and wom-
en and others, as well, quite often
enough money to go into bankruptcy.
We'd make an original loan, there would
be no followup, no constancy about it,
no advice, no counsel, no support, and
quite often the entrepreneur that was a
newcomer-and that's the kind that the
Small Business Administration quite often
is designed to help—just couldn't stand
alone.
I think all of those proven defects in
the 8(a) portion of the Small Business
Administration's effort will be corrected.
I think it's accurate to say that they
will be corrected very quickly and the
program in its reinvigorated form initi-
ated very quickly. I can't give you a time
schedule.
I've got to answer one more question,
because I promised him.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. You characterized the Vance talks
as exploratory.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Precisely what was being explored?
Did we talk, for example, about the use
of nuclear weapons, did we talk about
Taiwan? What were the areas that you
were exploring?
THE PRESIDENT. There was a long
agenda prepared before Mr. Vance went
to China that was of great interest to me
for months. He covered a wide range of
interests, different areas of the world-
the Mideast, Africa, obviously, the West-
ern Pacific, peace in Korea, the SALT
talks, comprehensive test ban, the rela-
1516
