Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 30
He was born February 14, 1918, in
Philadelphia, Pa. He received a B.A. from
Dartmouth College in 1940 and a Ph.D.
from Yale University in 1951.
Wriggins was an instructor at Yale
University in 1951-52 and an assistant,
then associate, professor at Vassar Col-
lege from 1952 to 1957. From 1958 to
1961, he was Chief of the Foreign Affairs
Division of the Legislative Reference
Service, Library of Congress, and also
served as a part-time faculty member at
George Washington University.
Wriggins was a member of the Policy
Planning Council at the State Depart-
ment from 1961 to 1966 and was a senior
staff member on the National Security
Council in 1966 and 1967. Since 1967 he
has been director of the Southern Asian
Institute at Columbia.
Wriggins has written several articles
on Southern Asia and was co-editor of
"Sri Lanka Journal of Social and His-
torical Studies" in the autumn of 1975.
He serves on the board of trustees of the
Asia Society and the Institute of Current
World Affairs.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JUNE 30, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I have a brief state-
ment to make before we begin the ques-
tions.
B-1 BOMBER
This has been one of the most difficult
decisions that I have made since I've been
in office. During the last few months, I've
done my best to assess all the factors in-
volving production of the B-1 bomber.
My decision is that we should not con-
tinue with deployment of the B-1, and I
am directing that we discontinue plans
for production of this weapons system.
The Secretary of Defense agrees that this
is a preferable decision, and he will have
a news conference tomorrow morning to
discuss this issue in whatever detail you
consider necessary.
The existing testing and development
program now underway on the B-1
should continue to provide us with the
needed technical base in the unlikely
event that more cost-effective alternative
systems should run into difficulty. Con-
tinued efforts at the research and devel-
opment stage will give us better answers
about the cost and effectiveness of the
bomber and support systems, including
electronic countermeasures techniques.
During the coming months, we will also
be able to assess the progress toward
agreements on strategic arms limitations
in order to determine the need for any
additional investments in nuclear weap-
ons delivery systems. In the meantime, we
should begin deployment of cruise mis-
siles using air-launched platforms, such as
our B-52's, modernized as necessary. Our
triad concept of retaining three basic de-
livery systems will be continued with
submarine-launched ballistic missiles, in-
tercontinental ballistic missiles, and a
bomber fleet, including cruise missiles as
one of its armaments. We will continue
thereby to have an effective and flexible
strategic force whose capability is fully
sufficient for our national defense.
Thank you.
QUESTIONS
B-1 BOMBER
Q. Mr. President, the House at least
seems bent on providing the money for the
B-1. Does this put you on a collision
course with them on the whole subject?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think not. The
Congress took action last year to delay
a final decision on the B-1 bomber pend-
ing my ability to analyze its needs.
1197
