Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Intelligence (DCI)-tasking, resources,
and national analytic production. Left
unchanged are operational and support
activities as they are performed ade-
quately today.
This organizational arrangement builds
on the experience of the past by strength-
ening the role of the NSC system and the
DCI. At the same time, it assures respon-
siveness to both the intelligence require-
ments of major, national-level consumers
of intelligence and the operational needs
of the departments and military services.
-For the first time, the major con-
sumers of intelligence will be charged
with the formal responsibility for formu-
lating their requirements for substantive
intelligence. Thus, the real requirements
of the policymaking level, rather than
technology or ability to collect, will drive
the entire intelligence process.
-The DCI will also have the ability to
respond to these requirements through his
full control of:
1. a new mechanism for setting spe-
cific tasks for all intelligence-collec-
tion organizations, the National
Intelligence Tasking Center;
2. his mandate to manage the budgets
for all predominantly national intel-
ligence activities;
3. his sole responsibility for the
production of national analytical
products.
Placing full responsibility for the most
critical management functions in one
authority should result in more produc-
tive and cost-effective foreign intelligence
activities.
-The National Security Council will
continue to play the leading role in over-
all direction of the intelligence commu-
nity. The NSC Special Coordination
Committee will continue to assume re-
sponsibility for review of the most sensi-
tive intelligence operations and collection
activities. The new Policy Review Com-
mittee, when chaired by the DCI, will
provide the direction to both the collec-
tion and analytical production effort that
was missing in the past.
-The recently strengthened Intelli-
gence Oversight Board will continue to
assist the President in investigating possi-
ble illegal or otherwise improper activi-
ties within the intelligence community
and assuring that appropriate corrective
actions are taken.
Here are the specifics of the reorgani-
zation:
1. The National Security Council
should continue to provide guidance and
direction for the development and for-
mulation of all national intelligence
activities. The NSC Policy Review Com-
mittee, chaired by the Director of Central
Intelligence, will define and assign prior-
ity for substantive intelligence require-
ments and will evaluate the production of
analytical intelligence reporting. The
PRC will submit semi-annual reports to
the NSC on its activities. Its membership
will include the Secretary of State, Secre-
tary of Defense, Secretary of the Treasury,
the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, and other attendees as
deemed appropriate by the Chairman.
2. The Director of Central Intelligence
will have peacetime responsibility and au-
thority for translating PRC-validated
national intelligence requirements devel-
oped by the PRC into specific intelligence
collection objectives and targets and for
assigning these to intelligence collection
organizations. For these purposes
National Intelligence Tasking Center,
jointly manned by civilian and military
personnel, will be established under the
direction of the DCI to assign tasks to all
national intelligence collection systems.
The Tasking Center will also be respon-
sible for ensuring that the resulting flow
1422
