Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
aliens. And I would like to know what
you're going to do to help control the
illegal aliens, particularly in El Paso,
when our border patrol agents have been
cut down. When you were running for
office, you were going to help us increase
the size of our border patrol. We only
have 325 border patrol agents guarding
both the Canadian and Mexican border,
and that's not enough; they're eating us
alive.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have com-
pleted now the drafting of illegal alien
legislation. We call them undocumented
workers or undocumented aliens.
Again, this is a very complicated sub-
ject, as you know-to protect the basic
civil rights of people who might be from
a Chinese family or from a Mexican
family and who are here legally, to be
sure that employers don't discriminate
against them just because of the color of
their skin. That's a problem.
Another one is the demand among em-
ployers of adequate labor supply, partic-
ularly in areas where it's seasonal and also
in areas where the available domestic
labor doesn't fill the need. We have as
many as 7 or 8 million illegal aliens.
They're coming in now at a rate that's
hard to estimate, maybe approaching a
million a year. They obviously contribute
to our unemployment rate. And we're
determined to both reduce the flow of il-
legal aliens, to register those that are here,
let them stay here temporarily, and then
give them the freedom to move back and
forth across the border without any estab-
lishment of citizenship rights and, as has
been the case in the past, historically, to
maybe give permanent residency rights to
those that have been in our country as
long as 7 or 8 years.
I don't know what the Congress will do
about that part of it, but it's a very com-
prehensive bill; it's been worked out after
hard debate and close study. Along with
that will be an increase in the number of
personnel assigned to patrol the borders
and also a much closer correlation among
the different Federal agencies that have
that responsibility.
Q. What are you going to do about the
people, particularly in our part of the
country-the Mexican-Americans are the
ones that are fighting the amnesty pro-
gram. And if amnesty is not accepted
among our people and can be pursued by
the Government, then what alternative do
you have to suggest?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, amnesty is a
gross oversimplification. The only thing
that we are doing is for those that have
been in this country since 1970, 7 years,
to give them the legal right to stay here.
They won't be citizens, but they do have a
right to apply for citizenship.
The ones that have come in since, if
they register, they would have a tempo-
rary right to work. But they could only-
I think that—I've forgotten the exact de-
tails of the bill-but I think they could
only do that for a year, then they would
have to leave our country. And they
would have the right to apply for work
permits.
But to distinguish between those who
have become legal citizens, that we don't
want to hurt, to distinguish between those
who have been here for a long time and
have performed well, established homes,
and who don't yet have citizenship rights
but who want it in the future is another
question. To try to find out who and how
many illegal aliens we presently have and
to have an ability to send them back home
is a third level of the question. And the
fourth question is to keep the illegal aliens
from crossing the border. But just to say
that the entire complicated program con-
sists of amnesty is a ridiculous over-
simplification.
The only amnesty involved is one that
has historically been the case when about
1802
