Aug. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Strong action is needed to guarantee
women total equality in the areas of
politics and government, education, em-
ployment and related benefits, health
care, housing and justice. The needs,
hopes and problems of a complex society
demand the talents, imagination and
dedication of all its citizens without
regard to sex. As women achieve equality,
men, too, are liberated from ancient prej-
udices and relieved of arbitrary barriers
to personal fulfillment.
This is a crucial point in the struggle
to achieve full equality for women under
the law. Ratification of the Equal Rights
Amendment must be completed by the
required number of states by March
1979. The successes of the past were
dearly bought, and this final effort will
not be easy. Achievement of this goal is
essential in order to secure meaningful
equality for all our citizens.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim August 26, 1977,
as Women's Equality Day and do hereby
call upon the people of the United States
to observe this day with appropriate cere-
monies and activity. I further urge all our
people to dedicate themselves anew to the
goal of achieving equal rights for women
under the law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-sixth day
of August, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:24 p.m., August 26, 1977]
Sex Discrimination
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. August 26, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Today, on the anniversary of the ratifi-
cation of the Women's Suffrage Amend-
ment, I am requesting the Attorney Gen-
eral and all the Federal agencies to co-
operate in eliminating sex discrimination
from the laws and policies of the United
States.
This country has a commitment to
equality of opportunity for all citizens, yet
a recent report from the Civil Rights
Commission indicates that sex discrimi-
nation still exists in some Federal laws
and policies. Last year the Department of
Justice was directed to develop a plan for
reviewing and revising Federal laws that
discriminate on the basis of sex. At the re-
quest of this Administration, Congress has
recently appropriated funds for the Task
Force on Sex Discrimination in the Civil
Rights Division of the Department of
Justice to implement the plan.
I am now requesting the heads of all
Federal agencies and departments to
initiate a comprehensive review of all
programs which they administer in order
to identify any regulations, guidelines,
equal treatment based on sex. Some agen-
programs or policies which result in un-
cies have already begun such efforts.
I am requesting that the head of each
department and agency cooperate with
the Attorney General in collecting and
furnishing existing information and
developing additional information where
necessary and that they develop proposals
1504
