Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 26
than had been the losses in the same
States before. So progress has been made,
even in States where we have not yet been
successful.
In dozens of cases when I or my
wife, Rosalynn, have talked directly and
dean for women's studies of the Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences of George Wash-
ington University, and Hazel Hunkins
Hallinan.
personally with State legislators, they Women's Equality Day, 1977
have said, "I believe the equal rights
amendment is right, I think it ought to
pass, but this year I can't vote for it be-
cause of pressure from the working
women in my district." I think there is a
growing realization that those who have
suffered most have quite often been
women who have taken the least action in
encouraging the passage of equal rights
amendment because they've been so hard
at work in their homes and in their jobs
that they've not been educated or in-
spired, nor have they had the time to
become involved. This is changing very
rapidly because of the leadership of
of
you assembled here today.
many
So my commitment is the same as
yours. I believe that if we work together,
we can succeed. And I believe that we are
going to work together and, therefore, I
believe that we will succeed.
I would now like to read and to sign a
proclamation entitled "Women's Equal-
ity Day, 1977."
[At this point, the President read the text of
the proclamation.]
In witness whereof, I have today set
my hand [signing the proclamation], and
we are now mutually pledged to carry out
the purposes of this resolution.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:08 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at
the White House. In his remarks, he referred
to Virginia R. Allan, special assistant to the
Proclamation 4515. August 26, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
August 26, 1977, is the 57th anniver-
sary of the adoption of the 19th Amend-
ment to the Constitution guaranteeing
that the right of United States citizens to
vote shall not be denied or abridged by
the Federal Government or any state on
account of sex.
This was the successful culmination of
the struggle of the American Women's
Suffrage movement. The right to vote, to
participate in the process of framing the
laws under which we all live, is funda-
mental. But it was only the first step in
achieving full equality for women. The
late Dr. Alice Paul realized this, drafted
the Equal Rights Amendment in 1923
and had it introduced in Congress over a
period of 49 years, until it passed on
March 22, 1972.
Dr. Paul and other early leaders of the
movement who did not live to see their
work completed were reviled and im-
prisoned, endured hunger strikes and
force-feeding in order to further their
cause. Their commitment is an inspira-
tion to women and men today who seek
to finally make their dreams a reality.
Equal rights for women are an insepa-
rable part of human rights for all.
1503
