July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
possible with our own American forces.
Under those circumstances, you would not
want to have flames and long-lasting radi-
ation. The neutron bomb radiation is
quick-acting, and it's gone. The whole
thing is very horrible to everybody who
studies the subject.
I might point out to you, too, that an
M-16 rifle destroys human life and not
buildings and property. This is not a new
concept in war when the destruction of
enemy forces is the prime objective. So, I
don't believe that the neutron bomb is
more wicked or immoral than the present
nuclear weapons we have and the Soviets
have as well.
The argument against the neutron
bomb is that because it is "clean," that
there might be more temptation to use it.
That would not be my own attitude as
long as I am President, because I have a
fear that once nuclear weapons are used,
even the smallest ones are used, that there
is a good likelihood that the nuclear war
will escalate rapidly into the exchange of
very heavy weapons between the warring
countries.
So, there are arguments on both sides
of the neutron bomb. If you have a projec-
tile and use it, it's better. I would not let
its characteristics cause me to use it
quicker, and I don't look on it as a way to
prevent war.
So, I'll make a decision later on this
summer based on these principles that I've
described to you. And I hope and pray
that I'll make the right decision.
LABOR LAWS
Q. Mr. President, first off, I'd like to
thank you for correctly pronouncing the
name of this great city, Yazoo City. Sec-
ondly, I would like to ask you my question.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say some of
my staff members, who speak with a heavy
German accent, when they asked me
where I was going, I said "Yazoo," and
they said, Gesundheit. [Laughter]
But I've known about Yazoo City all
my life, and I've known the good sides
and the bad sides of Yazoo. As you know,
one of the most horrible scandals that
we had in Georgia was when Yazoo be-
longed to Georgia and we had the Yazoo
frauds. But we didn't know then the value
of your beautiful farmlands.
I also, of course, have seen the tre-
mendous leaders that have come out of
Yazoo City and all the people who live in
the South. I think the rest of the Nation
knows about Willie Morris and others
who have written beautiful things about
the South, and I'm very proud to be here.
And I think after tonight maybe even
more people will know how nice Yazoo
City is.
I didn't mean to interrupt you. Go
ahead.
Q. Fine. Recently you agreed to sup-
port major changes in the Nation's labor
laws, which will have the effect of mak-
ing it much easier for big labor to organize
in the South. I wonder if you please could
explain that for us.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I am not sure
that the purpose of the legislation would
lead to heavier organization by big labor
in the South. What the legislation does is
expedite and makes clearer the law under
which factories can be organized.
If, under the existing National Labor
Relations Board regulations and laws,
workers in a plant vote to organize, then
the new proposals would make sure that
management has to comply with the law.
There's no doubt about that. It also pro-
vides for a quicker determination of labor
disputes. It also does protect workers who
are injured in violation of the Federal
law.
So, it would expedite the determination
of a labor dispute. It would make sure
1332
