Dec. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
In addition, the Soviets and we are
making progress in how we can prevent
the use in the future of chemical and
biological warfare, and we hope that we
can reinstigate progress in the mutual and
balanced force reductions which have
been stalemated in Vienna for a number
of years. So, I would say that in summary
I am very encouraged at the new progress
that I have witnessed personally among
our negotiators.
When Foreign Minister Gromyko was
in Washington recently, in a few hours we
resolved many of the difficult issues. Our
negotiators are at work on all those sub-
jects at this present time. There has been
no cessation of effort. And I believe that
1978 will see a resolution of many of these
issues.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Asso-
ciated Press].
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, are you likely to go
to Egypt next Wednesday, and if you do,
will it be primarily because President
Sadat has urged you to go, or for some
other purpose, or why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have a stand-
ing invitation from President Sadat to
visit Egypt that he extended to me on his
trip to Washington. And he's reempha-
sized it several times since that date. We
have had no discussions with President
Sadat on that particular visit to Egypt
while I'm on this trip. We will try to keep
our schedule flexible. If it's mutually con-
venient and desirable, we would certainly
consider it. But we have no plans at this
time to stop in Egypt next Wednesday or
any other time on this trip.
I might say that our own relations with
the Arab nations, including, certainly,
Egypt, are very good and harmonious.
There has been no change in our own
position relating to the Middle Eastern
talks. And we communicate almost daily
with the Egyptian and Israeli leaders. And
as you know, I will be meeting King Hus-
sein in Tehran on our next stop on this
trip.
Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press
International].
Q. You said you often don't intend and
don't desire to dictate the terms of a
Middle East settlement.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. This is true.
Q. And yet President Sadat seems to
think that you have pulled the rug out
from under him and that you are in fact
dictating terms when you are backing an
Israeli military presence on the West Bank
at Gaza after there would be a settlement.
THE PRESIDENT. We don't back any
Israeli military settlement in the Gaza
Strip or on the West Bank. We favor, as
you know, a Palestinian homeland or en-
tity there. Our own preference is that this
entity be tied in to Jordan and not be a
separate and independent nation. That is
merely an expression of preference which
we have relayed on numerous occasions
to the Arab leaders, including President
Sadat when he was with me in Washing-
ton. I've expressed the same opinion to
the Israelis, to King Hussein, and to Presi-
dent Asad, and also to the Saudi Arabians.
We have no intention of attempting to
impose a settlement. Any agreement
which can be reached between Israel and
her Arab neighbors would be acceptable
to us. We are in a posture of expressing
opinions, trying to promote intimate and
direct negotiations and communications,
expediting the process when it seems to be
slow, and adding our good offices when-
ever requested. But we have no intention
or desire to impose a settlement.
sir.
Let me go back to the Polish side. Yes,
RELIGION
Q [in Polish]. I will speak Polish. Let
me welcome you not only as the President
2206
