Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 29
Arts at the conclusion of your second
term, I also know that you will be greatly
missed. The eight years of your leader-
ship at the Endowment have been exem-
plary.
Under your thoughtful and creative
stewardship, the Endowment has, among
other things, firmly established in the
country's consciousness the importance of
broad-based public and private support
for the arts. You and your colleagues have
helped to foster a climate in which private
resources and initiative play the leading
role in shaping and nourishing the na-
tion's artistic and cultural life. It is a
source of pleasure and pride to us all that
widely diverse arts activities of the highest
quality are flourishing throughout the
country on an unprecedented scale.
I am fully aware, as I know you are, of
how much we all share in the inestimable
benefits that spring from the creative vi-
sions of our artists. In carrying on the
work you and others have so ably begun,
I shall continue to seek the support and
counsel of artists from every part of our
great country.
Rosalynn joins me in wishing you well
and in thanking you for your extraordi-
nary efforts on behalf of us all.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
White House Fellows
Announcement of Opening of 14th Annual
Program. August 29, 1977
The White House announced today
that applications are now available for
the White House Fellowship program for
1978-79. The program is seeking to in-
crease the number of applicants from
among women, minority groups, union
and business careerists, and previously
under-represented regions of the country,
particularly the Southeast and Southwest.
The White House Fellowship program
is beginning its 12th year. It was estab-
lished by President Lyndon Johnson to
give outstanding individuals, early in
their careers, a unique, firsthand experi-
ence in his administration.
The program is open to all U.S. citizens
at least 23 years old, except those in
civilian Federal positions. Each Fellow is
assigned to a Cabinet officer or senior
member of the White House staff and
participates in a program including semi-
nars with top Government officials, lead-
ing scholars and journalists who deal with
the National Government.
President Carter expanded the Com-
mission which runs the program and ap-
pointed as its chairman John Gardner,
who was among those instrumental in
recommending the program to President
Johnson. On June 22, President Carter
told the 1976-77 and 1977-78 Fellows,
"I think it is a rare occasion in our Na-
tion's Government, history, when a man
who has a brilliant idea that is innova-
tive and constructive can come back sev-
eral administrations later and help to keep
the vigor and the quality of the program
and to observe how it has continued be-
yond his own concept."
Application forms and additional in-
formation can be obtained by sending a
post card to the President's Commission
on White House Fellowships, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20415.
1523
