Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 5
NOTE: The text of the letter was made avail-
able by the White House Press Office. It was
not issued in the form of a White House press
release.
Visit of President Nyerere
of Tanzania
Remarks to Reporters Following the
President's Departure. August 5, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, has President
Asad made it more difficult to arrange for
a Geneva conference?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I
haven't gotten any reports lately. I'd
rather not comment on it, not yet.
Q. What can you tell us, sir, about the
outcome of the visit with President
Nyerere?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, President Ny-
erere is a man who has the best insight
into African problems of anyone I've ever
met. I think he has the trust and confi-
dence of almost all of the other nations in
Africa and obviously is a natural scholar,
student, historian, and political leader.
He and I have reached, I think, almost
complete agreement over the goals and
purposes of diplomatic efforts relating to
Rhodesia and Namibia. And we will try
to carry out those purposes, working as
closely as we can together, recognizing, of
course, that many other nations and
leaders will be involved.
But we have, I think, made a great deal
of progress in our meetings these last 2
days, and I've developed an increasing re-
spect for him.
Q. Did he say that he would let the
American-British effort run to see if it
could have a successful consequence?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we hope and
expect that the basic premises of a so-
called British and American plan would
be supported by President Nyerere. He
can speak for himself. So far as I know,
they are.
Secretary Vance will be consulting
with the British officials in London, with
perhaps the Foreign Minister of South
Africa, and if the schedule can be ar-
ranged, subsequent to that meeting, with
President Nyerere directly. And follow-
ing that series of meetings, which will be
completed, I think, on the 13th of this
month, we'll have a much clearer picture
of where we go from here on both Rho-
desia and Namibia.
I think all parties have come a long
way in the last few weeks. We don't know
what the SWAPO leaders will decide.
Sam Najoma is now in New York to give
the viewpoint of the Namibian political
leaders in exile, known as SWAPO, and
I think they'll be consulting with our rep-
resentative, Ambassador McHenry, with-
in the next couple of days. We have not
yet gotten from them their views.
If there is a general agreement between
South Africa, the frontline presidents,
ourselves, and SWAPO, then I think the
United Nations would be prepared to
move to implement free elections in
Namibia without further delay.
Q. Mr. President, did President Ny-
erere agree to convene a conference of
frontline states, or what was the-
[inaudible.]
THE PRESIDENT. I think that would
have to wait until after he met with Sec-
retary Vance on the 13th. If things go ac-
cording to our hopes, then I think that
he would naturally bring together the
other frontline presidents to see if their
views were compatible with his own. I
hope that will come about.
Q. Mr. President, President Nyerere
also called for stricter enforcement of
U.N. sanctions against the southern Afri-
can minority-[inaudible]-as well as
fewer American-[inaudible]-in South
1433
