Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 21
They would be scrutinized thoroughly.
And I think, perhaps, that's expectable; I
don't deplore that. So, they've been re-
luctant to do it.
I think Bert can very quickly get his
own financial affairs back in order if he
takes care of them himself. He has com-
plied stringently in removing himself
from his own affairs in the blind trust ar-
rangement. He could have cheated on
that arrangement; he did not. So, part of
his reasons for resigning, with which I
have an understanding, is to help himself,
to get his own family affairs and finan-
cial affairs back in good shape. I don't
know what the future might hold if he
couldn't do that. I'm afraid it might get
even worse than it is now. This is no
fault of his. If there's any fault there, it's
mine because of the strict requirements
we placed on him.
Obviously, it takes a great deal of Bert's
time to look up ancient data that goes
back to '72, 73, 74. Did you have a
power of attorney? How many over-
drafts did your in-laws have? How many
trips did you take on the plane to your
home in Sea Island, and so forth. This
has required an enormous amount of
Bert's time.
And my expectation, along with Bert's,
is that this kind of investigation and de-
mand on his time might continue. Bert is
the kind of person who comes to work at
5 o'clock in the morning. He puts in, even
in these past few weeks, I'd say, 12 hours
a day or more on his OMB job.
But it obviously is disconcerting to him.
And I think, to be perfectly frank, the
constant high publicity that has accrued
to this case, even if completely fair and
unbiased, creates doubt among the news
media, among the people of this country,
about the integrity of me and our Gov-
ernment, even though I think there is no
doubt about Bert's being a man of com-
plete integrity.
So, there are multiple reasons for his
decision. And I don't think any of them
should be interpreted as being a reflec-
tion on him.
Q: I suppose there's an obvious follow-
up, Mr. President, and that is, if he had
not offered to resign, would you have
wanted him to stay on?
THE PRESIDENT. That's hard to say. As
I have said several times in brief, im-
promptu news encounters in the last few
weeks, the decision that Bert Lance and
I make together will be acceptable to the
American people. And I have had large
numbers of people who have asked me
not to let Bert Lance resign. A group from
Tennessee and North Carolina were in
the White House this afternoon for a
briefing on the Panama Canal Treaty.
They rose, and the Governor of Tennes-
see said, "We all hope that Bert Lance
will not resign." I had twelve speakers of
the house of State legislatures here last
Friday. They unanimously voted and im-
portuned me not to let Bert resign. I felt,
and still feel, that it's basically a decision
for him.
I don't know the details of Bert's finan-
cial dealings back home. I don't have
the time nor the inclination to learn
them. All I know about it is what I have
had a chance to read in the news media.
So the decision was Bert's. And when he
discussed it with me, it was not from a
posture of a subordinate talking to a su-
perior; it was in the posture of friends
who understood one another, discussing
mutually what ought to be done about a
difficult situation.
I think it was a courageous and also a
patriotic gesture on Bert's part to resign.
Q. Mr. President, how much has your
credibility been damaged by this incident
and by Mr. Lance's resignation?
1639
