Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 14
I have a sense of confidence about it.
I never lacked confidence when I ran my
campaign. I learned a lot about this Na-
tion which strengthened my confidence in
it. I don't have a lack of confidence now.
And the primary reason for that is that
I know that I have a partnership with
you. We have the same goals in mind. We
have the same interests at heart. I can
only be successful if you are. You can
only be successful if I do a good job as
President.
I thank you very much for what you've
contributed to our country. I hope that I
can perform my job in such a way that
will make you proud.
Thank you very much.
QUESTIONS
MR. DEBUTTS. Ladies and gentlemen,
the President has graciously agreed to
answer two or three questions if you have
them.
THE PRESIDENT. I might be taking my
political life in my hands. [Laughter]
If anybody does have a question, I'll
be glad to try to answer it. If not, that's
a very gracious way to treat a guest.
[Laughter]
Yes, sir?
Government control. In fact, we just
bought most of the peanut oil surplus.
We're not allowed to buy it on the free
market. We got rid of most of the agri-
cultural subsidies, and now they're start-
ing to come back. Sugar is back. Wheat
is back. And I suspect that we're going to
have others.
I get very concerned when I see the
subsidy structure coming back again after
we got rid of it in the last administration.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know of any
new subsidy programs that we've com-
menced. I was not involved because of a
conflict of interest in the decisions made
about peanuts. But it's a much looser
structure than it was a year ago. The new
legislation opens up additional produc-
tion and has a much less constraint on
peanuts themselves. We did not change
the basic format of legislation on the pro-
duction of other crops either. We did
raise-I think the Congress raised per-
haps more than I asked for the target
and support prices on grain. But I agree
with you that we ought to have as little
Government interference as possible. We
do have high surpluses on hand, not
brought about by legislation, by new
Q. [Inaudible]—I would like to ask you legislation, because the bill, as you know,
one question.
THE PRESIDENT. I cannot answer the
question you asked me in the receiving
line. That was a decision my daughter
made. [Laughter]
Q. No, this is different.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay, good. [Laughter]
Q. I'm a great believer in the free mar-
ket system. I think that the Government
is trusted to stay out of the free market
system, but some of the policies of this
administration, and some that you appear
to support, I must say bother me, and
that's in the agricultural field.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Peanuts, for example, which you're
very familiar with, which has been under
was not in effect this year.
The high surpluses on hand of agri-
cultural products in most instances is be-
cause of fairly good weather on a world-
wide basis. And we do have reasonable
reserve supplies of soybeans, of wheat and
corn. But we're trying to keep as much of
that reserve in the hands of farmers them-
selves as possible.
We're trying to compensate for it by
reducing the acreage planted next year in
those two or three crops, and we're trying
to escalate our effort on foreign sales.
But I don't disagree with the philosophy
that you've expressed. There have been
no new and innovative programs in the
2111
