Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But we haven't yet seen the full Federal
partnership response to that plan.
Some of the specific things in that plan
and other crucial problems that we're
trying to deal with in Detroit now, which
really relate to moving ahead on our pov-
erty problems and our economic develop-
ment problems, are first of all jobs. Even
though we've made that progress you
talked about, from 24 percent to 8.8 per-
cent, we're still something like 70,000 jobs
short in Detroit, 70,000 people unem-
ployed.
Secondly, we have still very pressing
educational problems. Even though we
are making some progress in education
here, we still have 40,000 young people
in Detroit between the ages of 16 and 20
that are dropouts from the school system.
And our regular programs don't take care
of them. No State programs are dealing
with these young dropouts. So, we need
new alternative education programs that
give us a chance to recapture these young
people and provide a new quality of life
for them, because they will have the edu-
cational base they need.
Another crucial thing in Detroit is to
strengthen our economic base so that we
can become self-sufficient over the long
run. In the short run it's going to take a
great partnership of input from the Fed-
eral Government to accomplish this, and
the kinds of things that we need on that
are things like an urban development
bank and other kinds of Federal incen-
tives that will help to encourage busi-
ness and jobs to locate in urban areas.
We're getting an outflow rather than an
inflow of businesses and the jobs they
bring, and that's one of the things that
creates our 70,000-job shortage.
So, those are some of the crucial kinds
of things that we need in Detroit. And,
most of all, we need to expand this part-
nership that we've developed here, that's
helping to move us forward, by having the
Federal Government help us on these
kinds of things, move us closer to full
employment, and be a full partner in our
efforts to restore Detroit.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Doss.
In order to save time, I'm going to ask
three of the panelists to speak at a time,
and then I'm going to ask my good friend
Grace Olivarez to comment. I think
we've covered most of the basic questions
on the left about new health programs,
job programs, public works programs,
and so forth. Then I'll reserve a right
after Grace comments to add my own, if
necessary.
Mrs. Prieto.
ROLE OF WOMEN IN URBAN PROGRAMS
MRS. PRIETO. Mr. President, I am Luz
Maria Prieto of Chicago, Illinois. I work
for a group called Mujeres Latinas en
Accion, or Latin Women in Action.
We're a group of Latino women in Chi-
cago. And knowing that we know the
problems of the barrios and the problems
of the women. We have to struggle just
to survive. And the woman has the great-
est burden to survive for her family. We
have to struggle through a disastrous edu-
cational system, a health system that we
don't understand and sometimes does us a
great deal of harm, and a great deal of
underemployment because we are work-
ing women and have to work just to keep
our families afloat. We're away from all
the debates of things that affect us-do-
mestic violence, abortion, drug abuse.
The sad part is not that we not only
have no voice in these debates, but these
are all debates about reactions to the
problems. The women in the neighbor-
hoods don't want just to react. We want
to control our own destinies. And we need
very simple answers, it seems to us, if we
could say something about it. We need
1842
