Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 28
four major countries there, will join with
us and the cochairman of the prospective
conference, the Soviet Union, in restrain-
ing their statements, not being so adam-
ant on issues, and trying to cool down the
situation until all can search out common
ground, and then hope to minimize the
differences.
Secretary Vance will leave this week-
end to visit the three Arab nations plus
Saudi Arabia, and then come back
through Israel as well. When he returns
to the United States after about a week
or so, we'll have a clearer picture of the
differences that still divide the countries.
I think the major stumbling block at
this point is the participation in the ne-
gotiations by the Palestinian representa-
tives. Our position has been that they
ought to be represented and that we will
discuss with them these elements that in-
volve the Palestinians and other refugees
at the time they forgo their commitment,
presently publicly espoused, that Israel
should be destroyed. But until the
Palestinian leaders adopt the proposition
that Israel is a nation, that it will be a
nation permanently, that it has a right to
live in peace-until that happens, I see
no way that we would advocate participa-
tion by them in the peace negotiations.
But these matters are still very fluid.
What gives me hope is that I believe that
all national leaders with whom I've
talked genuinely want to go to Geneva
to try to work out permanent peace.
That's the primary basis for
my optimism.
But it's difficult, and past statements by
these leaders when they were at war, or
in the status of prospective war, have been
very rigid and very adamant and some-
times abusive and filled with hatred and
distrust. We're trying to get them to
change from those positions of distrust to
one of genuine search for
peace.
I think it's accurate to say, in closing
my answer, that both sides now have at
least a moderate amount of confidence in
us, and I've tried to take a balanced po-
sition to enhance that trust in us. If I
should ever take a biased position on the
part of one of the parties, then the other
parties would simply forgo any de-
pendence upon us.
So, I'm very careful in my statements,
privately and publicly, to be consistent,
and also to be fair.
ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
Q. Could I follow up on that, Mr.
President? I believe you said just a mo-
ment ago that Mr. Begin gave you no ad-
vance hint of this action that he took this
week on the settlements. You said that
you discussed future settlements. Can
you tell us what he said about that? Is
he going to encourage new settlements
there, and what did you tell him about
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Begin did not
give me any promise about his action on
the settlement question. I did describe to
him our longstanding position on the set-
tlements, which I've already outlined, and
told him that this was a major item of
potential differences between Israel and
the Arab countries and my strong hope
that nothing would be done by the Israeli
Government in establishing new settle-
ments that might exacerbate an already
difficult position.
He listened to me very carefully. He
said this was a major political issue in Is-
rael, that in many instances he and his
opposition political parties in Israel, felt
the same about it, but that he was cer-
tainly aware of our concern. But he did
not give me any commitments about what
he would do.
And to answer the other part of your
question, he did not give me any prior
notice that they were going to recognize
the legality of the settlements involved.
1369
