Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 24
Members of the Congress, the law re-
quires that 10 percent of all those con-
tracts for the first time in the country
have to be given to minority businesses,
and that's the way it ought to be.
And the rate of new jobs that are going
into our urban centers now are at 35,000
per week, which exceeds even what was
done during the depths of the Depression
with the New Deal, the WPA, the CCC-
35,000 a week. It's still not enough, but
it's a great step forward, and we're now
channeling those jobs deliberately and
with a great commitment as they have
not been channeled in the past to the
young people of our country and, partic-
ularly, to young people who happen to be
black. And that's the way it ought to be,
and it's going to be more in the future.
We've had a billion dollars put in the
youth employment programs. I asked for
a billion and a half. We are now going
back to the Congress for the other half
billion dollars.
We are evolving an urban policy.
Within the next week or 10 days, there
will be a final decision made on the form
of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill, so that
for the first time in the history of our
country [applause]--we'll have, as a na-
tional policy, full employment.
When we presented our welfare reform
package to the Congress, which will be
passed next year, an integral part of it,
which can be phased in early, would be
an additional 1.4 million jobs, and, of
course, these jobs will be channeled to
families that have in the past been sup-
ported by welfare.
So, we are making some progress. And
one of the things that we've done, too, is
to direct by executive order that the rate
of purchases of Government supplies from
black enterprises must be doubled in the
next year.
Parren Mitchell and the Black Caucus
members were gracious enough to help us
prepare a recent brief in the Department
of Justice. [Laughter] We confirmed
strongly the principle of affirmative ac-
tion, and we made it clear that race can
be and ought to be an integral part in
alleviating discrimination that has existed
far too long.
Where do we go from here? The prog-
ress has in the past been a source of pride
to all of you assembled in this room, long
before I became involved in our own Fed-
eral Government.
But the extrapolation of what you have
already accomplished to the future is a
goal of yours and also a commitment of
mine. Many of you suffered anguish of
heart, and sometimes physically, in the
years gone by, to achieve civil rights in our
own country. And now, we're involved
together on a concept of enhancing hu-
man rights, here and around the world.
And the example you've set is now an in-
spiration to many throughout the globe.
Just this past week, I publicly endorsed
a concept, for the first time, of human
rights for the District of Columbia. [Ap-
plause] Thank you; you're welcome.
The endorsement by the President, of
course, is not the final step. The Congress
must act, and the people have to ratify a
change in the United States Constitution.
As I say, we still have a long way to go.
We join together in matters that affect
all human beings-a search for peace in
the world, a reduction in armaments, a
channeling of scarce financial and human
resources to give people a better life, a life
with education possible, better health care,
more human freedom, the rule by the
black majorities in the African nations.
And there has been a change among the
developing nations of the world in their at-
titude toward us. And I would say that
the crucial factors that have been involved
1663
