Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Zimbabwe to a majority rule government
with predemocratic elections.
I do feel that it's proper for us to de-
plore, not only in South Africa but in
other nations as well, blatant deprivation
of basic human rights.
In my speech in Los Angeles, I pointed
out for instance in Czechoslovakia that
recently there have been four people tried
there as dissidents. Their only crime was
that they dissented from what government
action has been taken.
But I think it's proper for us to either
enhance or reduce our trade with a coun-
try depending upon its own policies that
are important to us and to the world. I
think it's important for us to decide when
we should and should not sell weapons to
other countries, when we should and
should not invest in another country, when
we should and should not encourage gov-
ernment programs, loans, and grants to
apply to another nation. I don't look upon
that as an interference in the internal
affairs of another country.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
The President. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: President Carter's eighteenth news
conference began at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450
of the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Domestic Airline Industry
Statement on Action by the Senate Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation To
Reduce Regulation of the Industry.
October 27, 1977
I would like to commend Senators
Cannon and Magnuson and the members
of the Senate Commerce Committee for
voting today to report, by an 11-2 margin,
the Cannon-Kennedy bill to reduce
regulation of the domestic airline industry.
This is a breakthrough in our effort to
remove outdated regulatory burdens and
to make sure that Federal regulatory pro-
grams are responsive to the public inter-
est. This bill will eliminate bureaucratic
obstacles which have discouraged air-
lines from charging lower fares where they
are possible and kept new, innovative car-
riers from offering their services to the
public. In addition, it modernizes the
Federal assistance program to small com-
munities, so that air service to small com-
munities can be improved.
I recently approved an order permitting
Laker Airways to fly between London and
New York at drastically reduced prices.
And I have overruled the CAB to permit
carriers to lower their fares on many
North Atlantic markets. These decisions
have made international travel more af-
fordable for Americans and have other-
wise brought substantial benefits to peo-
ple traveling in international markets.
I do believe that the Government
should stop denying similar opportunities
to American consumers who need to travel
within the United States. That is why this
legislation is important, and why we are
pleased by today's favorable action by the
Senate Commerce Committee.
Similar legislation is pending in the
House Aviation Subcommittee of the
House Public Works and Transportation
Committee. Transportation Secretary
Brock Adams joins me in urging the House
Committee to move quickly to resolve this
important issue.
Susquehanna River Basin
Commission
Appointment of Patrick J. Delaney as
Alternate Federal Member. October 27, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of Patrick J. Delaney, of
1916
