Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
dren under age 14. Single parents with
children aged 7 to 14 will be required to
accept part-time work which does not
interfere with caring for the children, and
will be expected to accept full-time work
where appropriate day care is available.
These two levels of assistance are coor-
dinated parts of a unified system which
maintains incentives to work and simpli-
fies administration.
-For those qualifying for income sup-
port the basic benefit for a family of four
with no other income will be $4,200 in
1978 dollars. Benefits will be reduced fifty
cents for each dollar of earnings, phasing
out completely at $8,400 of earnings.
Added benefits would accrue to those in
regular private or public employment
through the Earned Income Tax Credit.
-An aged, blind, or disabled individ-
ual would receive a Federal benefit of
$2,500 and a couple would receive
$3,750-more than they are now receiv-
ing. That is higher than the projected
SSI benefit for either group-about $100
higher than for a couple and $120 higher
for a single person.
-For those persons required to work
who receive a Work Benefit, the basic ben-
efit for a family of four with no other
income will be $2,300. To encourage con-
tinued work, benefits will not be reduced
at all for the first $3,800 of earnings and
will thereafter be reduced by fifty cents
for each dollar eårned up to $8,400.
Again, the Earned Income Tax Credit
will provide added benefits to persons in
regular private or public employment.
-We are committed to assure that in-
flation will not erode the value of the
benefits, and that real benefits will be in-
creased over time as federal resources
grow. To
preserve flexibility in the initial
transition period, however, we do not at
this time propose automatic indexing of
benefits or automatic increases in their
real value. (The figures contained in this
message expressed in 1978 dollars will be
adjusted to retain their real purchasing
power at the time of implementation).
-Single parent family heads will be
able to deduct up to 20% of earned in-
come, up to an amount of $150 per month
to pay for child care expenses required
for the parent to go to work.
-No limits are placed on the right of
states to supplement these basic benefits.
However, only if states adopt supplements
which complement the structure and in-
centives of the Federal program will the
Federal government share in the cost.
Eligibility rules for the Work Benefit
and Income Support will be tightened to
insure that the assistance goes to those who
are most in need.
-To reduce error and direct assistance
to those most in need, benefits will be cal-
culated based on a retrospective account-
ing period, rather than on the prospective
accounting period used in existing pro-
grams. The income of the applicant over
the previous six-month period will deter-
mine the amount of benefits.
-The value of assets will be reviewed
to insure that those with substantial bank
accounts or other resources do not receive
benefits. The value of certain assets will
be imputed as income to the family in
determining the amount of benefits.
-Eligibility has been tightened in cases
where related individuals share the same
household, while preserving the ability of
the aged, disabled and young mothers to
file for benefits separately.
STATE ROLE AND FISCAL RELIEF FOR
STATES AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES
Public assistance has been a shared Fed-
eral and State responsibility for forty
years. The program I propose will signifi-
cantly increase Federal participation but
maintain an important role for the states.
1456
