Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. On the fact that the
letters will be sent or the accuracy of the
letter itself?
Q. This is a
THE PRESIDENT. I welcome the letters.
That description of the position is com-
pletely erroneous in two respects; I think
you only raised two respects. One is that
the joint U.S.-Soviet statement, I think, is
a major move in the right direction to
bringing about an ultimate, peaceful re-
solution of the longstanding Middle East-
ern dispute. The Soviets and we, after long
weeks of negotiation, agreed on a common
approach which did not contravene any
public or private commitments that I've
ever made to Israel or to the American
public and which represented a substan-
tial change in the previous Soviet com-
mitment, almost uniquely, to the PLO
and the Syrian positions.
The Soviets, for instance, for the first
time spelled out the need for a peace
treaty, for full definitions of peace, which
we had espoused. We incorporated the
basic language of U.N. Resolution 242 on
territories. The PLO was not mentioned.
There was an abandonment of the pre-
vious Soviet position calling for the recog-
nition of Palestinian national rights and
an adoption of our own position that we
described earlier.
So, I think it was a major step forward.
As you know, ever since 1973 we and the
Soviets have been cochairmen of the
Geneva conference. This was something
established, as I said, 4 years ago. And to
have a cochairman who might be publicly
and privately opposing any peaceful reso-
lution or openly espousing the unilateral
positions of the Arab countries would have
been a very serious problem for us to
overcome.
I think this is a public commitment of
the Soviets to take a much more objective
and fair and well-balanced position. So,
I think it's a major step in the right direc-
tion.
And the other part of your question is
that I have never violated any commit-
ments made to the Israelis, either by my
administration or by the previous ad-
ministrations. Both I and Foreign Minis-
ter Dayan, within the last month or two,
reviewed in a confidential way all of the
publicly disclosed and private agreements
that had been reached between Mr. Kis-
singer and the Israeli Government, and
between the Presidents who preceded me
here and between myself and the Israeli
Government. There has not been and will
not be any violation of those commit-
ments.
NEW JERSEY GUBERNATORIAL ELECTION
Q. Mr. President, we have an election
of a Governor coming up in New Jersey
in 2 weeks.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. Ex-President Ford was in a week ago
and saw the possibility of this being an
expression of your popularity or lack of it.
Do you see it that way at all?
THE PRESIDENT. No, except to the ex-
tent that I have an utmost confidence in
Brendan Byrne, in his ability and in his
integrity. I think he's done a good job
as Governor under very difficult circum-
stances, and I've let this be known to the
New Jersey people without any equivo-
cation.
I've been up there for a half day to
work with him on his campaign. My wife
has been up there also. And I think on
the same day my wife was there, former
President Ford was in Newark with
Byrne's opponent.
Back in the first part of this year, I
think Brendan only had about a 23-per-
cent support, according to some polls I've
seen. And I've seen a recent New York
Times poll, that I presume is objective
1936
