Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
mately triumph, and mankind will be able
to step into the 21st century in conditions
of peace, stable as never before."
I see no hidden meaning in that. I
credit its sincerity. And I express the same
hope and belief that Mr. Brezhnev ex-
pressed. With all the difficulties, all the
conflicts, I believe that our planet must
finally obey the Biblical injunction to "fol-
low after the things which make for
peace."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:08 p.m. in the
Gaillard Municipal Auditorium. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to State Representa-
tive John T. Bragg of Tennessee, chairman of
the conference.
Jackson, Mississippi
Remarks on Arrival at Allen C. Thompson
Airport. July 21, 1977
Thank you very much, Governor Finch.
Senator Stennis, Senator Eastland, Con-
gressman Sonny Montgomery, and others
who have come here to Mississippi from
Washington with me, I want to express
my thanks to you.
Just so nobody has any doubt that I
know, and just so I don't have any doubt
that you know, do you all remember what
State put me over the top on election
night? [Applause] Very good.
As a matter of fact, we were waiting to
see who would be the next President. I
was talking on a telephone with Governor
Cliff Finch, and the television screens
flashed, "Jimmy Carter wins," and I
know that I busted Cliff Finch's eardrums
when I shouted, "Mississippi did it! Mis-
sissippi did it!" And I thank you for it.
When I first came here, Mayor Rus-
sell Davis met me at the airport, and a
group of business leaders and, later, a
group of students, educators, both black
and white, came to talk and to listen to
me and to learn what I stood for.
I was a former Governor who was not
well known. And over a period of time,
the people of your State and the people
of the country came to realize that I felt
the same way that you do, that I tried
to search in my own heart for those things
that are conservative: basic decency and a
pride in our past, a belief that those who
are able to work ought to work, a belief
that the best government is the govern-
ment closest to the people, that budgets
ought to be balanced, that there ought to
be a careful attention paid to letting peo-
ple's individuality be encouraged, that
people should make their own decisions,
that government officials ought to be ac-
countable to the people back home.
These kinds of principles have bound
us together, deep religious conviction, and
combined with that in a changing world,
as has been demonstrated in Mississippi,
Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, Louisiana,
and other States, has been a willingness
for us to change when we saw that the fu-
ture could be better than the past. And
we did not lack courage to reach our
hands out to our black neighbors, those
of us who were white, and say, "Join us
in creating a better future for everybody."
This was not an easy thing for us to do.
But we have done it, and we are better
off for it.
We also have seen in foreign affairs
that some of our principles that are es-
poused throughout this country can be
put into effect.
One of the most controversial issues so
far has been that of human rights. But
we say
that government ought not to sub-
jugate people, that people ought to have
a right to speak their own voice, that they
ought not be imprisoned because they
believe in a certain political philosophy,
1315
