Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 29
and fair, that shows that he and his op-
ponent are almost equal in popularity.
So, I think the growth in his popularity
from a hopeless position, politically, up
to one of at least equal potential for vic-
tory is already an indication of confi-
dence in him. And I think that in the pri-
vate polls I've seen, my popularity in New
Jersey is fairly high. But I think it's pri-
marily a judgment on the two candidates,
and I would guess that the impact of a
voter's approval or disapproval of me or
President Ford would be a very minor,
inconsequential factor.
GOVERNOR REUBIN ASKEW OF FLORIDA
Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Drane.
that he held. I've never discussed with
him, nor he with me, any appointment
after he leaves the office of Governor.
But there is no position that I could think
of in Government, including the Presi-
dency itself, for which he would not be
qualified.
ADMINISTRATION'S RELATIONS WITH THE
BLACK COMMUNITY
Q. Mr. President, I am D'Army
Bailey. I'm from Memphis, Tennessee,
with the Commercial Appeal.
You have come under increasing crit-
icism from blacks as to what many of us
view as a lack of leadership at the execu-
tive level with regard to some of the most
pressing problems that the black com-
Q. I'm flattered you remember me, by munity faces, particularly with regard to
the way.
THE PRESIDENT. I think I met you
when I was in my lonely days and you
were one of the few people that paid any
attention to me down there-
[laughter]—so, I thank you for it.
Q. This is sort of a regional question.
I hope my colleagues will forgive me for
it, but I think it is important. Governor
Askew has strongly indicated he wants to
join your administration, perhaps in
some foreign post. And I wonder if you
have talked with him about this, and if
not, if he does talk with you about it
later, what are his chances of joining your
administration if there is a suitable open-
ing?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not heard about
that before. When I was putting my Cab-
inet together, I called Reubin Askew and
asked him if he would accept a Cabinet
position, because I think he's one of the
superb political leaders in our Nation and
because I've known him well and respect
him so much.
He told me that he wanted to be Gov-
ernor of Florida and that he would not
accept any position other than the one
employment and housing. I know that
Benjamin Hooks, who is from my own
hometown, and my good friend Vernon
Jordan have criticized the lack of ef-
fective leadership from the national level.
And we've got increasing unemploy-
ment among youth, black youth in par-
ticular, and we've got what appears to
be a hiatus in national concern and move-
ment toward resolving the problems of
race that are generations old.
We, as blacks who voted for your
Presidency and black people giving you
everything that a black could give you, a
substantial percentage of the black vote—
and yet we don't see coming out of the
White House the effective leadership.
Some of the Congressmen I know, the
black Congressmen, are criticizing the
White House for its failure to move effec-
tively. There's been a suggestion that the
White House has not followed through
on a commitment to meet regularly with
the Black Caucus.
THE PRESIDENT. Do you have a ques-
tion? [Laughter]
Q. At what point, Mr. President, can
we expect to see some movement from
1937
