Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 4
represented in this great hall. This is not a matter for the future, even the
near future, but of the immediate present. Worldwide military expendi-
tures are now in the neighborhood of $300 billion a year.
Last year the nations of the world spent more than 60 times as
much—60 times as much—equipping each soldier as we spent educat-
ing each child. The industrial nations spent the most money, but the rate
of growth in military spending is faster in the developing world.
While only a handful of states produce sophisticated weapons, the
number of nations which seek to purchase these weapons is expanding
rapidly.
The conventional arms race both causes and feeds on the threat of
larger and more deadly wars. It levies an enormous burden on an already
troubled world economy.
For our part, the United States has now begun to reduce its arms
exports. Our aim is to reduce both the quantity and the deadliness of
the weapons that we sell. We have already taken the first few steps, but
we cannot go very far alone. Nations whose neighbors are purchasing
large quantities of arms feel constrained to do the same. Supplier nations
who practice restraint in arms sales sometimes find that they simply lose
valuable commercial markets to other suppliers.
We hope to work with other supplier nations to cut back on the flow
of arms and to reduce the rate at which the most advanced and sophisti-
cated weapon technologies spread around the world. We do not expect
this task to be easy or to produce instant results. But we are committed
to stop the spiral of increasing sale of weapons.
Equally important, we hope that purchaser nations, individually
and through regional organizations, will limit their arms imports. We are
ready to provide to some nations the necessary means for legitimate self-
defense, but we are also eager to work with any nation or region in order
to decrease the need for more numerous, more deadly, and ever more
expensive weapons.
Fourteen years ago one of my predecessors spoke in this very room
under circumstances that in certain ways resembled these. It was a time,
he said, of comparative calm, and there was an atmosphere of rising hope
about the prospect of controlling nuclear energy.
The first specific step had been taken to limit the nuclear arms
race—a test ban treaty signed by nearly a hundred nations.
But the succeeding years did not live up to the optimistic prospect
John F. Kennedy placed before this assembly, because as a community
1719
