Aug. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Energy Technology Affairs, in the Bureau
of Oceans and International Environmental
and Scientific Affairs;
JOSEPH S. NYE, JR., Deputy to the Under Sec-
retary of State for Security Assistance, Sci-
ence and Technology;
NELSON F. SIEVERING, JR., Assistant Adminis-
trator of ERDA for International Affairs;
GERARD C. SMITH, Ambassador at Large and
U.S. Special Representative for Non-prolif-
eration Matters, and U.S. Representative
to IAEA;
GALEN L. STONE, Deputy U.S. Representative
to IAEA, with the rank of Ambassador;
ROBERT D. THORNE, Acting Assistant Admin-
istrator of ERDA for Nuclear Energy.
Women's Equality Day, 1977
Remarks on Signing Proclamation 4515.
August 26, 1977
To Dean Virginia Allan and to others
who are assembled here today, I'd like to
say that I appreciate the chance to be
part of this effort.
My wife is sorry that she cannot be
here. She's at an international confer-
ence on mental health in Canada, making
a speech there about the stigma of those
who suffer from mental illness. She repre-
sents me there, as she does in so many
other things.
My daughter-in-law, Judy Carter, is in
California today working on the equal
rights amendment in the Western States.
In an hour or two, I'll be having lunch
with my daughter, Amy, and I'm sure she
will bring up the subject as well. [Laugh-
ter]
During the modern day that we ob-
serve and in which we serve, it's not dan-
gerous, politically or otherwise, to speak
out for equality of opportunity. It's not
a major sacrifice. We don't have to over-
come fear of persecution or even incar-
ceration.
Standing behind me is a woman, Ms.
Hallinan, who in 1917 stood outside the
gates of the White House when Woodrow
Wilson was President, simply holding a
sign in her hand that was photographed,
saying, "How long will it be before women
can have freedom?" She was convicted of
a crime and jailed. Although we've come
a long way since then, we still have a long
way to go.
A recent survey by the Civil Rights
Commission has shown that 3,000 govern-
mental directives and laws have within
them discriminatory concepts against
women. Today, I've issued a directive
prepared by the Justice Department to all
heads of agencies and departments in the
Federal Government, ordering them to
take the personal responsibility to ex-
amine their own attitudes, policies, direc-
tives, laws, to root out those discrimina-
tory practices that have so long been in
existence.
We've not yet been successful in having
the equal rights amendment ratified by
enough States. I think we will succeed. In
the process, however frustrating it has
been, great achievements have already
been realized. Inequities and discrimina-
tion against women have been revealed.
Many actions in local, State, and Fed-
eral governments have already been
taken-I have to admit, in some cases, in
order to block the passage of equal rights
amendment—but those actions have been
taken to lessen discrimination.
And we've also seen that there has been
a great educational process taking place
in this country. Although we've lost the
ERA vote in several States this year,
those losses have been much narrower
1502
