July 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
There is, of course, a strong connection
between elimination or alleviation of ten-
sions in Europe and in other parts of the
world and in the realization of all the
three baskets of the Helsinki declaration,
as was stressed by Secretary Vance just a
couple of days ago.
One glance at the map or at the geo-
political and military facts shows ourselves
the enormous differences between our two
countries at least some of the enormous
differences between our two countries. In
the United States people might not al-
ways realize that my country is no larger
than the State of Oregon, with the one
exception that there are living more than
60 million in that little state of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany, 60 or 62
million.
Of course, no offense is being meant-
no offense toward the good citizens of the
State of Oregon-[laughter]-is being
meant in using their fine State as a yard-
stick for the smallness in territory of my
home country. I'm very well aware of the
importance of Oregon, and of Portland
especially. [Laughter]
But I like to point to the smallness of
my country in order to make itself under-
stood that neither are we a world power
nor do we want to become one. We see
ourselves as a European country integrat-
ing itself within the European community,
with responsibilities determined by its
membership of that community, responsi-
bilities by its membership within the
North Atlantic Alliance, responsibilities
by our role in the economic system of the
world. And we see our role as a country
with very, very limited natural resources
only.
To my view and to the view of most of
my countrymen, intra-European coopéra-
tion and the Atlantic Alliance comple-
ment each other. And for us Germans,
both of them are indispensable. There-
fore, I welcome the practice of your
administration to conduct particularly
intensive consultations with European
allies, with ourselves, and I have the feel-
ing that our meeting today proves that
this is not just theory but a very practical
and successful reality.
My wife and I and the members of
my delegation are grateful for your hos-
pitality, Mr. President, which you have
extended to us here in Washington. We
are really glad of the opportunity to dis-
cuss questions and problems with close
friends here in the United States in, as
you correctly say, a frank and open-
hearted manner, even if there may arise
some points on which we might differ.
I do feel that if the world could show
many more examples of talks conducted
in such a spirit, the world would be quite
a different and much better place.
I would now like to ask my fellow
countrymen to raise their glasses and
drink with me to the health of the Presi-
dent of the United States, Jimmy Carter,
to continuing happiness of the American
people, and to ever closer cooperation and
friendship between our two nations.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Visit of Chancellor Schmidt of the
Federal Republic of Germany
Remarks at the Entertainment Honoring
Chancellor Schmidt. July 13, 1977
Again I want to welcome all of you
here tonight. We are very thrilled and
1248
