Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have been hardly fought for and have
been settled either through litigation at
the Supreme Court level through equit-
able apportionment or by interstate com-
pact.
Now, it seems to me that we have-and
it's Colorado's position that we do-that
these interstate compacts finally and for-
ever settle the question of what the rela-
tive right of the States are to the water,
that where Colorado can benefit from the
Federal Government's assistance is in de-
veloping programs either for salvaging
water or for managing water so that we
can have the maximum ability to meet
our compact obligations.
In the San Luis Valley where I'm from,
for example, we have a valley the size
of Connecticut. The series of rivers run
into the valley. The Conejos River, the
Trinchera, the La Jara all join to form
the Rio Grande, which flows into New
Mexico and Texas, and, as you wisely
recognized, creates obligations to the Re-
public of Mexico as well.
In that area we have had shortfalls
close to a million acre-feet of water in our
delivery obligations under the compact.
At the present time, we have an obliga-
tion of in excess of 700,000 acre-feet. How
can the Federal Government help Colo-
rado to meet its obligations in a manner
consistent with your policies of environ-
mental soundness, economic feasibility,
nonstructural approaches?
It seems to me that the Closed Basin
Project there is a logical place to look.
That project would take water from parts
of the valley that are in the Closed Basin,
so-called, and pump those waters into the
Rio Grande River. That water would
then permit Colorado to receive credit on
its interstate compact obligation to the
two lower States, Texas and New Mexico,
and, of course, make water available to
the Republic of Mexico as well.
One last point on that, Mr. President,
is that when we start talking about fur-
ther competition between States, that's
very disturbing to us, because we feel that
we've already settled some of those mat-
ters. But when we start talking about coal
slurry pipelines, for example, what we are
talking about there is we have already
had equitable division of the waters.
When we take fresh water from Colorado,"
mix it with coal, and send it to the Gulf
of Mexico to Houston, for example-it
seems to me like it's a little bit more of
a division. And it's Colorado's position
that any water that's going to be taken
from the State, Colorado would have to
receive credit on its interstate compacts
for that water.
THE PRESIDENT. I might point out that
Mr. Lucero is the president of the Colo-
rado Bar Association and a recognized
legal expert on the water question. We
are not only going to have competition,
as you know, between States but within
States as well.
I've seen some projections that have
been evolved for Denver that show a dou-
bling in population between now and the
year 2000. We have a lot of water in
Georgia, an average rainfall of anywhere
from 45 to 70 inches. But all of our homes,
so far as I know, have water meters on
them. [Laughter]
MR. LUCERO. We're starting that, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the future
that the competition between farmers and
urban dwellers and between farmers and
urban dwellers and the energy—either
coal miners or energy producers, is going
to be just as intense or perhaps more so
than between States. But this applies all
over the Nation. It doesn't only apply to
the West.
I think we might have some comment
now on an extension of what Mr. Lucero
1866
