Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 28
Smith was born October 9, 1937, in
Ouachita County, Ark. He received a
B.A. from the University of Arkansas in
1960 and an LL.B. from the University of
Arkansas School of Law in 1962.
From 1963 to 1967, Smith was an
assistant professor, then associate profes-
sor of law at Emory University School of
Law. He was the Arkansas securities com-
missioner from 1967 until 1969, when he
became a member of the Arkansas Public
Service Commission. Since 1973 he has
been a Commissioner of the Federal Pow-
er Commission. He served as Vice Chair-
man of the Commission for 1975 and was
reelected Vice Chairman for the latter
half of 1977.
Smith has served as Arkansas member
and chairman of the Southern Interstate
Nuclear Board, chairman of the Laws
and Regulations Committee of the South-
ern Governors' Conference Task Force on
Nuclear Power Policy, and Arkansas
member of the Steering Committee of
the Southern Regional Environmental
Conservation Council. He is a member of
the Executive Committee of the National
Association of Regulatory Utility Com-
missioners and designated official FPC
observer on the Interstate Oil Compact
Commission.
Meeting With Foreign Minister
Abd al Halim Khaddam of Syria
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting Between the President and the
Foreign Minister. September 28, 1977
The President and Syrian Deputy
Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Abd
al Halim Khaddam met in the Cabinet
Room for 1 hour and 5 minutes. The
meeting was also attended by Vice Pres-
ident Mondale; Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance; Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the
President; David Aaron, Deputy Assist-
ant to the President for National Secu-
rity Affairs; Alfred L. Atherton, Jr.,
Assistant Secretary of State for Near East-
ern and South Asian Affairs; Richard
Murphy, U.S. Ambassador to Syria; and
William Quandt, National Security
Council staff member, on the American
side; and His Excellency Dr. Sabah Kab-
bani, Ambassador of the Syrian Arab
Republic to the United States; and Mr.
Abd al-Salam Aqil, private secretary to
the Deputy Prime Minister, on the Syrian
side.
The President began by expressing his
pleasure at this opportunity to meet again
with Minister Khaddam, recalling their
friendly talks at the White House last
April and at the time of President
Carter's meeting with President Asad in
Geneva in May. The President under-
lined the importance he attributes to
Syrian participation in the peace efforts
underway in the Middle East and re-
affirmed his determination to continue
those efforts to reach a comprehensive
settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. In
this connection, the President repeated
his own conviction that a just and last-
ing peace in this vital area of the world
requires compromise and courageous
leadership from all the parties to the
negotiations.
The President and the Minister agreed
on the importance of working to recon-
vene the Geneva conference by the end
of this year. They discussed the substan-
tive issues of a settlement and, while not-
ing that differences exist between our re-
spective views on some points, they agreed
that these efforts at finding concrete solu-
tions to the core issues of the conflict
should continue. Secretary Vance will
pursue the discussion with the Minister,
listening to his ideas and explaining in
detail American suggestions for reconcil-
ing differences between the parties on the
1677
