Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 19, 1977
ABC News Interview
Interview With Correspondents
Harry Reasoner and Sam Donaldson
in Plains, Georgia. August 10, 1977
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. REASONER. Mr. President, I suppose
in 2 or 3 years before your election you
were identified as a man who wanted the
Presidency as much as any candidate in
this century. Now that you've had it for
7 months or so, was it worth it? Are you
having any fun?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. So far, I've en-
joyed it. It's been a pleasant life at the
White House. I think it's brought our
family back together after being divided
all over the country for the last 2 or 3
years. I've been pleasantly surprised at
the degree of cooperation and harmony
that's evolved between me and the Con-
gress after a shaky start. And we are now
slowly but steadily putting into effect the
campaign promises that I made on Gov-
ernment reorganization, welfare reform,
energy policy, a new Energy Department,
and so forth.
So, it's been a pleasant life the first 7
months, but I have to say that we've still
got a long way to go. I'm learning. It's
my first experience in serving in the Fed-
eral Government. But I think, in general,
it's been pleasant.
MR. REASONER. As you know, Louis
Harris' organization, for ABC, has taken
a poll on the first 6 months of the admin-
istration and on how people feel about
you. 1,515 people were talked to. Suppose
you'd been one of the 1,515. What kind of
marks would you give yourself as a leader
and as a person for the first months?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the
major feeling that I have is that my own
administration has fairly accurately repre-
sented what the American people both are
and also want our country to be. I've tried
to open up the White House and my own
decisionmaking process to the public.
I've learned from them. And I think that
there has been a restoration of the confi-
dence of people in the Government, not
because of me but because there's such
a deep desire on the part of our people to
trust Washington, the Congress, the
President, the White House for a change,
after the war in Vietnam and the CIA
and Watergate revelations.
So, I think to the extent that I've accu-
rately represented what the people wanted
our Government to do, it's been a good
administration. Many people are impa-
tient, perhaps overly so. We've made
some good progress already in economic
affairs, but everybody expected perhaps
a much more rapid improvement.
When I took over, the unemployment
rate was about 8 percent, and now it's, I
1467
