Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 25
State, a fraud unit to detect and to root
out and to prevent fraud from continuing.
And this bill also provides more effective
use of the PSRO's, or the professional
standards review organizations, that are
designed to let health care providers them-
selves monitor their own activities and
their own efficiency of operation.
The overwhelming majority of doctors
and hospital and nursing home adminis-
trators are honest, patriotic, and deeply
dedicated to giving good health care ac-
cording to the law and in the best interests
of their patients. And we want to make
sure that they who are honest can have a
more efficient means by which they can
patrol or monitor their own professions.
I'm very thankful today to sign into
law the House of Representatives bill
number 3. And I want to congratulate
Danny Rostenkowski and Paul Rogers and
Senator Talmadge and their fellow
workers in the Congress behind me for
having been so successful in passing this
bill.
We hope, without too much delay, to
have a hospital cost containment legisla-
tion passed as well. All these men and
their committees are working on this. And
I hope, certainly early next year, we might
get this additional law on the books.
But this is a major step forward. And
as I sign this legislation, it's with a great
deal of gratitude to them for their fine
leadership in moving our Nation one step
forward toward better health care, more
efficient for the taxpayers, and with a res-
toration of the confidence in our govern-
ment that is so well deserved.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 3 into
law.]
Thank you very much. I made it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:31 p.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at the
White House.
As enacted, H.R. 3 is Public Law 95-142,
approved October 25.
Meeting With Prince Saud of
Saudi Arabia
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting Between the President and the
Foreign Minister. October 25, 1977
The President and Saudi Arabian
Foreign Minister, His Royal Highness
Prince Saud, met in the Cabinet Room
this morning for 1 hour and 30 minutes.
The President was accompanied by Vice
President Walter Mondale, Secretary of
State Cyrus Vance, Deputy Assistant for
National Security Affairs David L.
Aaron, Counsel to the President Robert
J. Lipshutz, Assistant to the President
Hamilton Jordan, Assistant Secretary of
State for Near Eastern and South Asian
Affairs Alfred L. Atherton, U.S. Ambas-
sador to Saudi Arabia John West, and
National Security Staff member William
Quandt; and Prince Saud by Ambassador
Ali Alireza, Deputy Prime Minister for
Foreign Affairs Sheikh Abdullah Alireza,
Ambassador Ahmed Siraj of the Minis-
try of Foreign Affairs, and First Secretary
of the Saudi Arabia Embassy Dr. Nazar
Madani.
The President began by expressing his
pleasure at this opportunity to discuss
with Prince Saud the wide range of ties
which unite Saudi Arabia and the United
States in friendship. The President asked
the Foreign Minister to convey his per-
sonal best wishes to His Majesty King
Khalid in anticipation of the meeting he
will be having with His Majesty and His
Royal Highness Prince Fahd next month
in Saudi Arabia.
The President and Prince Saud spent
a good deal of their time today reviewing
the current efforts to resume negotiations
on a settlement of the Middle East con-
flict. The President informed the Foreign
Minister of the results of previous meet-
1903
