Nov. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ergy aside from the breeder reactor, and
are you behind the SAREF¹ project?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm glad to see you
again. I remember my visit there. I think
that was when you were having a guber-
natorial election, and I came in to help
Cecil Andrus, who's now helping me. By
the way, I used to go to your area, to
Arco, Idaho, and Pocatello when I was
in the nuclear submarine program and
we had our experimental units out there.
My veto of the Clinch River breeder
reactor is no conclusion at all that I'm
against nuclear power nor against the
breeder reactor program. The reasons for
the veto are multiple in nature. In addi-
tion to the Clinch River breeder reactor,
there are several facets of that authoriza-
tion bill which encroached upon the pre-
rogatives of the President in an unprece-
dented way. I think it's a mistake to
spend more than $2 billion on an actual
production model of a particular breeder
reactor design which, when it is com-
pleted, will already be obsolete. We don't
need to go into the plutonium society
this early. We need to continue our re-
search and development, small pilot proj-
ect construction, to test the three or four
major types of breeder reactors that
might ultimately prove to be most feasible
when they are needed, maybe 20, 25 years
from now.
I think the commitment that we are
making to the nuclear power program is
adequate at the Federal Government
level. There's no inclination to phase it
out.
One thing that we are trying to do is
to decrease the time required for the ap-
proval of projects once they are submitted
for licensing. It now takes about 10 years
in our country, as contrasted to about 3
1 Safety Reactor Experimental Facility.
[Printed in the White House press release.]
years 2 in a nation, for instance, like Ja-
pan, to put into operation a major nu-
clear powerplant once it is conceived and
desired.
We have had another major interna-
tional effort of which I'm proud-and
we've made good progress—and that is to
cut down on the proliferation of nuclear
explosives around the world. A year ago, I
think there was a general feeling of de-
spair that it was too late to do anything
about the nuclear genie being out of the
bottle. But now there's a general sense
among the developed nations of the
world, those who do have nuclear power
capability, that we can stop the spread of
nuclear weapons, although in the past it
seemed to be hopeless. We recently, this
month as a matter of fact, had 36 nations
come into Washington to study the long-
range nuclear fuel cycle, including the de-
posits of uranium, enrichment of thorium
and uranium into usable degrees of pu-
rity, how to distribute those very useful
fuel supplies, how to account for the
wastes, how to prevent their being trans-
ferred into explosives themselves.
And I think this study will be helpful.
So, we are making a major effort around
the world to do two things simultaneously.
One is to give nations who want and need
nuclear power access to fuel and access to
technology to generate electricity and, on
the other hand, to stop or minimize the
opportunity that they might have, and
sometimes desire, to make nuclear weap-
ons. It's a difficult proposition, very com-
plicated, but we are making good progress.
PRESIDENT'S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE
Q. Al Fitzpatrick, the Beacon Journal,
Akron, Ohio. When you were in Akron
2 According to the Department of Energy,
the time frame for Japan is 5-7 years.
[Printed in the White House press release.]
2012
