Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
point. This will probably take about an
hour. I think many of the issues that have
of the issues that have
been on the minds of the audience who
will later participate will have been
answered. But then we'll turn to the au-
dience members, who are not around the
table, for additional questions.
I want you to know that, again, I'm
here as a student, first of all, to learn how
I can be a better President and, secondly,
to let you understand what the present
and future services might be, coming from
your Federal Government.
I'd like to call now on Mr. Lawrence
Hall to make a brief comment and per-
haps ask a question, and then we'll go
around the table.
Lawrence, it's good to have you here.
PANEL DISCUSSION
UNEMPLOYMENT
MR. HALL. Thank you, Mr. President.
My name is Lawrence Hall. I'm from
Gary, Indiana. I'm 56 years old, and I'm
an unemployed steelworker. My views
about the problem-it's a personal prob-
lem, and I'm only speaking for the other
1 million unemployed.
I'm in a desperate situation now. I need
a job. I'm at the age now where I can't
seek other employment. The type of work
that I have I was unable to prepare my-
self to do something on the side. I'm not
a homeowner; I'm a home buyer. I have
four children. I have one daughter at
home; she's just 10.
I have 37 years' service in the steel mill.
I work at Youngstown. This is one of the
places that has been completely-5,000
people put out of a job, just overnight.
What are they going to do? We're in the
same situation in Gary, Indiana. We
finished up working last week. There's not
a piece of material to be worked in. They
welded up our operation. "Go home;
we'll call you; don't call us."
This money that we're able to get
through subpay and et cetera—it's only 85
percent of our earnings. To those of you
who don't know, 85 percent sounds pretty
nice. But when you lose 15 percent of
your earnings, one week you can make it,
but when it goes over a period of 3 years,
this means a house note every month, your
food every month, your utilities every
month that you're losing. You can't make
any plans. You don't know how you're
going to work.
terminology is I'm being ripped off by the
My situation is that I feel that—the
company I've dedicated my life to, trying
to give them a fair day's work for a fair
day's pay. And they say now, "The only
way I can give you a job is the Govern-
ment has got to subsidize you."
I feel frustrated because my union has
not been able to help me to prepare my-
self or to tell me these things are going
to happen. And then the leaders that I
talked to-there are so many problems in
the world-I don't say they're not con-
cerned, but they don't realize how des-
perate I am, that I don't feel much like
talking about energy and foreign policy.
I'm concerned about how am I going to
live. And I don't want to take up as much
time as I'm allowed, but these are my per-
sonal feelings. I can't be too concerned
about other things when I have a daugh-
ter to raise and I don't have a job and
I'm 56 years old.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good statement.
Many of us in Government, when we see
a 6- or 7-percent unemployment rate, are
quite pleased if a year ago it was 8 or 9
percent. And we tend to forget the hu-
man suffering and the challenge and the
loss of self-respect and a deep fear about
the future that comes with someone who
is, as you say, 56 years old, who has
worked all your life in one industry, and
now is unemployed.
1830
