July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Joe Califano will spell out to you some
of the programs that we have already in-
stituted and are instituting to restore
dignity to those who are and have been
dependent upon government to give them
a decent living. Ray Marshall is in charge
of our program for bringing into being
job opportunities, because we know that
there is no end in itself to have a strong
enough economy to balance budgets and
control inflation, unless that is predicated
upon employment-the provision of jobs
for people to stimulate our economy and
to make it viable and to benefit us all.
Friday night when I got home, my
wife met me at the door. She said, “I just
watched Vernon Jordan on television be-
ing interviewed"-[laughter]-"and he
said your administration is not doing any-
thing for people who need help.” And I
read the New York Times yesterday and
this morning, and my wife called me
again this morning about 7:30. She says,
"Vernon doesn't think you are doing as
well as I think you are doing, Jimmy."
[Laughter] And I hope in the months
ahead that I'll be able to work closer with
Vernon Jordan at the White House-
where I spend a great deal of time work-
ing and planning with Members of the
Congress.
Parren Mitchell, the head of the Black
Caucus, was in my office Thursday going
over not only the accomplishments but the
remaining needs that have been addressed
and are being addressed by the Demo-
cratic Congress and the Democratic Presi-
dent. We haven't done everything we
would like to do, nor have we done every-
thing that we're going to do.
I've been in office now 6 months-have
no apologies to make and I was trying
to think of a story to illustrate that some-
times an immediate transformation can't
be accomplished when problems have
been there for years or terms of Presidents
or even generations. Griffin Bell, who will
speak to you later, has a favorite story
about a man who was arrested for getting
drunk and setting a bed on fire. When he
got before the judge, he said, "Judge, I
plead guilty to being drunk, but the bed
was on fire when I got in it." [Laughter]
Well, to some degree, the bed was on fire
when I got in it. [Laughter]
The point I want to make is that we're
trying as best we can to make progress. I
think you'll judge before this convention
is over that I don't speak with a lonely
voice, that the members of my Cabinet
are united with me, and that there is no
division between the Urban League and
my administration. But we do need to
have a closer working relationship because
it's obvious that we have a long way to
go. And we can get to our destination of
having a decent life for all Americans if
we work close together in a constructive
and cooperative fashion.
Among my first proposals as President
was one to stimulate the overall economy
and especially to provide jobs for teen-
agers in the inner cities. We've now es-
tablished a program to provide 1.1 mil-
lion jobs, summer jobs, for youth-more
than ever in history. We proposed, in ad-
dition, a youth employment program with
1.5 million jobs for unemployed youth.
We've doubled the size of the Peace
Corps, the Job Corps, and we've more
than doubled the public service jobs for
the unemployed-from 310,000 to 725,-
000, nearly half of these for the long-term
unemployed.
Soon, before August 5, we'll be sending
to the Congress our proposal for basic wel-
fare reform. Jobs will be the thrust behind
this reform program for those who are
able to work and self-respect and adequate
living conditions for those who are not
able to work. Our goal is for all those who
want to work to be able to find work so
that they can be independent and so they
1348
