Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Although there were a number of
things which I had hoped to accomplish
over the next few years at the Depart-
ment, I feel it best to continue my public
service career in my home state of Penn-
sylvania.
Thank you for permitting me to par-
ticipate in your Administration.
Sincerely,
PETER F. FLAHERTY
edifice of human rights. The immediate
application of those rights extended only
to one country, and only to some of the
people in it. But because those rights were
proclaimed as the natural birthright of all
human beings, the documents that em-
bodied them were rightly seen to have a
profound and universal significance.
It is a lesson of history that no enumera-
tion of rights, however eloquent, can alone
ensure their protection in practice. We
[The President, The White House, Washington, Americans struggled, sometimes bloodily,
D.C. 20500]
NOTE: The texts of the letters were made
available by the White House Press Office on
December 9. They were not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
Bill of Rights Day, Human
Rights Day and Week, 1977
Proclamation 4542. December 9, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
This month marks the anniversaries of
two great events in the long struggle for
the rights of human beings: the ratifica-
tion of the American Bill of Rights on
December 15, 1791, and the adoption of
the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights by the United Nations General
Assembly on December 10, 1948.
The Bill of Rights culminated the
Founders' efforts to create for their new
country a national life grounded in liberty
and respect for individual rights. The
Declaration of Independence proclaimed
the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness. The Constitu-
tion formed a "more perfect Union" in
which those rights could be fulfilled. And
the first ten amendments to the new Con-
stitution placed the keystone on this new
to make the rights promised in our found-
ing documents a reality for all our people.
That experience of successful struggle for
human rights in our own country was both
painful and ennobling, and it propelled us
into a leading role in the adoption of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
by the United Nations. As a people, we
believe what that Declaration says: that
the promotion of respect for human rights
is the shared responsibility of the world
community. We call on the governments
of other nations to join us in discharging
this responsibility.
Everywhere on earth, men and women
have made great personal sacrifices, even
to the laying down of their lives, in the
long struggle for justice and human dig-
nity. By their sacrifices, they have already
hallowed the human rights anniversaries
I proclaim today.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim December 10,
1977, as Human Rights Day and Decem-
ber 15, 1977, as Bill of Rights Day, and
call on all Americans to observe Human
Rights Week beginning December 10,
1977. Let us reflect on the significance of
the Bill of Rights, which has given pur-
pose to our national life, and of the Uni-
versal Declaration of Human Rights,
which holds the promise of greater liberty
in the lives of all the inhabitants of our
planet. Let us recommit ourselves, as in-
2086
