Nov. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
public of Korea. United States Ambas-
sador to Korea Richard L. Sneider, in a
series of meetings with President Chung
Hee Park, Foreign Minister Tong-jin
Park and other senior officials of the Ko-
rean Government, stressed that Mr.
Tongsun Park's testimony was critical to
the satisfactory conclusion of the Justice
Department investigation and urged that
efforts be made by the Korean Govern-
ment to have him fully cooperate. The
Korean Government responded that
whether Mr. Park cooperated with the
Department of Justice investigation was
entirely for him to decide as a private
person.
In early July, the United States Gov-
ernment delivered an offer by the De-
partment of Justice to grant Mr. Park
complete immunity from criminal prose-
cution if he returned to the United States
and testified in a full and truthful manner
concerning his knowledge of illegal pay-
ments involving U.S. officials. It was ex-
plained that the scandal created by Mr.
Park's illegal activities in the U.S. could
not be resolved without Mr. Park's co-
operation.
the investigation to a just and early con-
clusion.
In late August, President Carter sent a
letter to President Park expressing grave
concern at the effect Tongsun Park's lack
of cooperation was having on our mutual
interests. The President urged that the
Korean Government assist in getting Mr.
Park to return immediately to the United
States in order that these matters be con-
cluded satisfactorily as soon as possible.
On two occasions the Korean Govern-
ment provided statements by Mr. Tongsun
Park, including a statement to the Seoul
District Prosecutor. These statements,
however, were not requested by the
United States and were totally unhelpful
to the Justice Department investigation.
The Korean Government informed
Ambassador Sneider in early September
that Foreign Minister Tong-jin Park had
talked with Mr. Park in an effort to per-
suade him to return to the United States.
According to the Foreign Minister, Mr.
Park nevertheless expressed an unwilling-
ness to return to the United States. Fur-
thermore, the Korean
the Korean Government
The Korean Government in July ad- pointed out that there is no extradition
vised the U.S. Government that it was
seeking to persuade Mr. Park (who was
then in London) to return to the United
States to testify under the guarantee of
immunity. The U.S. Government was
subsequently informed by the Korean
Government that Mr. Park would not
agree to return to the United States, and
that the Korean Government could not
force him to return against his will.
On August 18, Mr. Tongsun Park ar-
rived in Korea from Europe. As he was
now directly within the jurisdiction of the
Republic of Korea, the United States
Government intensified its requests to the
Korean Government to help it obtain Mr.
Park's truthful testimony in order to bring
treaty between the United States and the
Republic of Korea, and that it had no
legal means to force him to return to the
United States.
After the indictment of Mr. Park by the
Grand Jury in the U.S. District Court of
the District of Columbia, Ambassador
Sneider informed the Korean Government
that Mr. Park was now considered a fugi-
tive from U.S. justice. Therefore, his re-
turn was even more urgent.
On September 12, President Park re-
sponded to President Carter, expressing
hope that an early resolution of the prob-
lem could be effected within the principles
of national laws and international prac-
tice. President Park stated that the Korean
1970
