Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ulously abandon their chosen course on
their own.
Apartheid and the belief in the superi-
ority of one race over another is the fun-
damental belief among the white groups
in South Africa and Rhodesia. This be-
lief has been systematized and sustained
by a whole range of state operators of vio-
of state operators of vio-
lence. We therefore believe that only the
eventual bankruptcy of the system will
bring about acceptable change in south-
ern Africa. But this will be a long process,
which we cannot expect the principal vic-
tims to patiently endure. This is why we
believe that an armed liberation struggle
by the oppressed is justifiable and bound
to succeed. This is a commitment which
we in Africa have a duty to support.
While we acknowledge that some coun-
tries outside Africa may not feel able to
subscribe to this position, we think they
can assist in this effort by discontinuing
their current involvement with the racist
system in terms of their massive invest-
ment and their deliveries of arms and, in
particular, the technology of armaments.
If, as almost the whole world seems to
be agreed, apartheid is a uniquely evil
system, then no one should hesitate to feel
we have a moral duty to humanity to take
these minimum steps.
Mr. President, other aspects which
touch directly on the bilateral relations
between our two countries flow from the
premise of our mutual commitment to
common ideals. In spite of the undue
and often misleading publicity given to
Nigeria's petroleum resources, ours is a
developing country. Eighty percent of
Nigeria's working population is in the
agricultural sector. Our per capita income
is less than $350 per annum. Thus we can-
not be considered as a rich nation. It is
our hope, therefore, that we will continue
to enjoy the cooperation of the United
States in the execution of programs de-
signed to improve the quality of life for
our people.
Our resources and available technology
cannot yet support self-sustained improve-
ment in the standard of living of the bulk
of our population. As with other tech-
nologically and industrially advanced
countries, we shall seek to consult more
closely with the United States in explor-
ing further ways of strengthening coop-
eration in our endeavor to develop a
strong technological base for the mecha-
nization of production and the resultant
improvement to the material well-being
of our people.
Mr. President, as you are aware, the
dialog between the industrialized coun-
tries and the developing nations on the
structure of a new world economic order
ended inconclusively, and there was no
agreement as to what system should re-
place the existing one.
We are encouraged to know that the
United States is committed to work to-
wards the creation of a more just world
economic system, because we also desire
the elimination of a situation in which na-
tions of the world are prominently cate-
gorized as industrialized and developing
states, haves and have-nots. I am happy
that we are both committed to the crea-
tion of a new world order which will take
due cognizance of the interdependence
between states, a world in which nation
states will relate to one another on the
basis of equality, understanding, and mu-
tual respect.
May I once again express my sincere
gratitude and that of my delegation for
your generous hospitality. I also seize this
opportunity to assure you that we wel-
come your impending visit to Nigeria. It
certainly will add a new dimension and
impetus to the efforts of all who desire to
forge meaningful and mutually beneficial
relations between the peoples and govern-
ments of our two countries.
Honorable Members of Congress, dis-
tinguished ladies and gentlemen, may I
1776
