Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Cabinet officers who have a direct respon-
sibility, from the government point of
view, in your own professional lives and
deal directly with them. They have, I
think, an unprecedented degree of inde-
pendence and autonomy. And I think only
in that fashion can you hope to have a
constant dialog with them that permits
you to tell us when we can take action to
improve Government administration.
In most instances the Congress and my
predecessors in the White House, when
they passed laws, obviously had the best
I would get invited inside the factories
and get a chance to meet their employers.
[Laughter] And I'm glad to meet the top
tonight, to meet the top business execu-
tives of our Nation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:49 p.m. in
the Grand Ballroom at the Mayflower Hotel.
He was introduced by John D. deButts, chair-
man of the council.
interest of our Nation at heart. But quite Quetico-Superior Committee
often the intent of Congress is lost over
a period of years, as it sometimes is in
your own firm, by subordinates who get
preoccupied with their own responsibili-
ties and forget if they ever knew the pur-
pose of the legislation they are admin-
istering.
Executive Order 12029. December 14, 1977
If you find something to be irrational
or improper or unnecessary, that unneces-
sarily encroaches on your own effective-
ness, I hope you'll let either my Cabinet
officers or me know, and I'll do the best
I can to correct it. I feel like this is a
responsibility that you have, and if you
will let me have those recommendations,
I'll do the best I can to comply with your
request.
I want to say again, in closing, that I
am honored to be invited to come. Every
President has come to speak to you, in-
cluding Franklin Roosevelt, and since his
time. I've got a lot to learn, and I'm learn-
ing rapidly. I've had some good teachers.
As I said, I feel at ease with the job.
I learned a lot about our country during
the long, tedious 2-year campaign. And I
had a chance to meet many of the top
business leaders. The first year I stood
outside the factory gates and shook hands
with the workers coming to and from their
shops; the last half of the year, quite often,
TERMINATION OF A PRESIDENTIAL ADVI-
SORY COMMITTEE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America,
in order to terminate an advisory com-
mittee in accordance with the provisions
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act
(5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered
as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Quetico-Superior
Committee is terminated.
(b) Executive Order No. 11342, as
amended, is revoked.
SEC. 2. Subsection (e) of Section 1 of
Executive Order No. 11948 of Decem-
ber 20, 1976, which extended the above
advisory committee until December 31,
1978, is superseded.
The White House,
December 14, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:37 p.m., December 15, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was
released on December 15.
2114
