Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
I also have a 10-year-old daughter, as
you know. She was 10 this week. So, I feel
a kinship with you. I can point this out to
you to begin with: You are one of the
fortunate unemployed, in that the steel
industry is a special impacted industry
and there are special assistance programs
for you. But that's not the way you want
to live. You want to earn your own living
by working and not get even the assist-
ance that comes from the impacted area.
I had a meeting this past week with
executives, your own labor leaders, the
Members of Congress who represent the
steel industry, who came to the Oval
Office, to the White House, to meet about
what we are going to do concerning the
steel industry itself.
One of the problems, obviously, is a
worldwide semirecession. The growth rate
in our economy, the construction of build-
ings, the construction of homes, the con-
struction of machinery is not growing as
rapidly as it has been sometimes in the
past, and the order for steel from Eu-
ropean, Japanese, and American sources
is just down. I think that we will see in
our own Nation an increasing demand for
steel. Our housing construction now is
the highest it's been in many years. Over 2
million housing units per year is the pres-
ent rate. I think, with passage of a new
energy bill-although you're not con-
cerned with energy right now; you're con-
cerned with a job-will provide increas-
ing demands for steel.
One of the first things that the steel
executives and labor leaders told me when
I came into the room to meet with them
was that they don't want to build a wall
around our country. They don't want im-
port quotas. They don't want high tariffs,
because that hurts the trade on which our
Nation relies so heavily. But they want to
stop the dumping procedures that have
been in place for steel this year and in
years past where producers of steel in other
nations, in Europe and Japan, for in-
stance, sell on our market-against the
law, I might say-steel at a price below
what it costs them to produce it.
And we can stay competitive with other
nations if they comply with our law. So,
that's one thing that I can promise that we
will do, is enforce the antidumping laws,
cut down on the illegal competition from
overseas, continue the impacted area or
industry programs that will keep you at
least on your feet until we can get you an-
other job, and with our public works pro-
grams, which I'll discuss later after some
other questions, with our housing pro-
grams that we're keeping going, and also
with our new tax reform measures that
will be forthcoming next year that will
stimulate the economy, I believe we have
a good chance, Mr. Hall, to put you back
to work. I'll do my best on this subject.
And every time I consider a measure that
might relieve the unemployment ques-
tion, you're one of those people that I'll be
thinking about.
Mrs. Emma Molina.
MIGRANT WORKERS
MRS. MOLINA. My name is Emma
Molina, and I'm the mother of 10 chil-
dren, and I'm an ex-migrant. Presently,
I'm minority affairs director with the
Community Action Agency in Findlay,
Ohio.
Mr. President, my hopes today are to
make you aware of the problems of the
poor people that I have come to repre-
sent from my area. They could not be
here personally, but I will try to speak for
them.
First of all, their needs in the housing
area. Now, in our area housing is so poor,
poor people are forced to live in sub-
standard homes because they have no
choice. And they're asking why, if there
are so many projects that are designed to
help the low-incomed, why can't it be for
1831
