Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 6
SUPPORT FOR WELFARE REFORM
Q. Mr. President, one of your predeces-
sors, former President Nixon, proposed
welfare reform. Senator Long essentially
killed it. Senator Long has indeed been
critical of your proposal so far, and con-
servative groups also criticized your pro-
posals. My question is, without this con-
servative constituency, where is your
constituency to reform, and who will sup-
port this?
THE PRESIDENT. My belief is that Sen-
ator Long will support the program. The
chairman of the subcommittee in Senator
Long's committee is Senator Pat Moyni-
han. He was extremely complimentary
about the program as it was outlined to
him. There's strong support for the pro-
gram in the House. Every single State
government has been consulted in depth
about this program. And I would say it
was overwhelmingly supported.
Families will be benefited. The ones
who want to keep families together will
be benefited. Almost all of the recipients
of aid who are not able to work will be
better off under this program. And I
think this is part of the American way of
life. To not only emphasize the desire for
others to work but to provide jobs for them
to be able to work is an integral part of
this program that will make it politically
attractive. I have very great confidence
that this program, in its basic form, will
be adopted by the Congress next year.
NEW YORK CITY WELFARE PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, during your cam-
paign you promised that you would lift
the entire welfare load off New York City
as soon as possible. This program contains
substantial fiscal relief for New York, but
still leaves them paying a great deal of
welfare costs at the local level. How soon
do you think it will be possible to lift the
entire load off New York City, as you
pledged in the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question. I think that the estimate here of
financial relief for the States would
amount to roughly $175 million for New
York. The amount of reduction in cost to
New York City under the present stimulus
package far exceeds their welfare cost
payments. This is brought about by hous-
ing and urban development programs,
public works programs, and job programs
for adults and youth.
But as far as the welfare system, which
is being replaced by this new program,
the direct benefit that we contemplate to
New York would be $175 million.
Q. Could I follow that up? Would you
envision in future years, after the program
is put into effect, there would be addi-
tional dividends to the States and to the
cities, such as the $2 billion that's esti-
mated at the start of program? In other
words, would they get more beyond the
$175 million in the second, third, or fourth
year of the program?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know what my
successor and the Congress might do after
1980, but I have to say this, that every
time we reduce the unemployment roll,
every time we put young people to work,
that reduces greatly both unemployment
compensation, it reduces welfare pay-
ments, and as we care for people with
preventive health care programs and cut
down hospital costs with the cost con-
tainment bill, it cuts down Medicaid and
Medicare payments. So, I think the over-
all thrust of our programs has already far
exceeded in benefits what we promised
New York City on welfare cost reductions.
But as far as the welfare cost reductions
themselves, I think that the most that they
could hope for between now and the im-
plementation of this program in the fall of
1980 would be what I've outlined to you.
1449
