Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 9
with OMB from time to time to revise the
existing standard forms where experience
indicates that a change is necessary.
• Federal-State-Local Cooperation in
Data Collection. Agencies should establish
cooperative data collection programs with
State and local governments wherever
practical to eliminate duplicative report-
ing of similar data by more than one level
of government, so long as no legal pro-
hibition against this exists.
Signatures. Federal agencies should
ensure that no State or local chief execu-
tive officer or other certifying official is
required to sign a single reporting or ap-
plication submission to Federal agencies
more than one time, except as specifically
required by law.
Copies. Applicants and grantees shall
be required to submit to Federal agencies
no more than one original and two copies
of any application, financial or perform-
ance report.
II. Revision of Regulations
• Phase-In of Changed Regulations.
Whenever an agency revises a grant-in-aid
regulation, grantees then participating in
the program will normally not be required
to comply with the revised regulation un-
til the beginning of the first grant program
year after the effective date of the new
regulation. Exceptions would be when (1)
immediate compliance is specifically re-
quired by law, or (2) the head of the
promulgating agency demonstrates that
deferral of the regulations would be detri-
mental to the public health or safety, or
the rights of individuals. Grantees may
choose to comply with the revised regula-
tions immediately upon promulgation.
III. Grant Payments
• Full Usage of Letters of Credit.
Agencies should work with the Depart-
ment of the Treasury to convert all eligi-
ble grants to letters of credits. Grant pay-
ments should be made by letter of credit
if they are advanced for costs incurred
and if they are made over a period of at
least a year.
Timely Reimbursements. Agencies
should work with OMB and the Depart-
ment of the Treasury to reduce to a mini-
mum the time it takes to pay grantees
under reimbursable programs.
• Electronic Funds Transfer. Agencies
should work with the Department of the
Treasury to identify grant programs for
inclusion in an electronic fund transfer
system as Treasury develops its EFTS
capability for making payments to State
and local governments.
Agencies should label all checks sent to
Identification of Grant Payments.
grant-in-aid recipients, indicating the
program to which each grant payment
shall be credited. The Department of the
Treasury will provide guidance on proce-
dures.
I have asked that the Director of OMB
take overall responsibility for implement-
ing these directives except that those
matters relating to grant payments shall
be the responsibility of the Secretary of
the Treasury.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
International Atomic
Energy Agency
Nomination of Robert S. Rochlin To Be an
Alternate Representative to the 21st Session
of the General Conference. September 9,
1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Robert S. Rochlin, of
Chevy Chase, Md., to be an Alternate
Representative of the United States to the
1565
