Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
It's based on the number of people in a
family. That's a difference of opinion be-
tween ourselves and Chairman Ullman.
That has not been changed. Chairman
Long has questions about how small a
child should be in the family before the
mother is encouraged—or the father, if it
is a single-parent family-should be en-
couraged to go to work. And I think that
the 6-year level is the proper level. I agree
completely with that. I think maybe Sen-
ator Long would like a lower age. But I
think that by the time the child is enrolled
in school, that if a part-time job is avail-
able to the parent, or if a full-time job is
available to the parent, with day care
center services, that that parent ought to
be in the expected-to-work category.
But those differences, which are sin-
cere, compared to the overall breadth of
the program, are relatively minor. And
since we were quite ready, since all our
plans had been made to reveal the pro-
grams to the other Members of the Con-
gress, and since they did not request me
personally to delay the program, we de-
cided not to.
Q. Any idea as to why they would ap-
ply this indirect pressure, come out after
talking with you when they had an oppor-
tunity to ask you to delay it personally.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think they-
Q. And yet they left the impression
that they did ask that?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I can't answer
that question. I think that there are
many Members of the Congress who
would like to see this plan modified to
mirror their exact desires. And of course,
the Congress now will have a chance to
go to work on it. I've been very pleased
at the action that the Speaker announced
yesterday in setting up a special commit-
tee, because in the past there have been
several committees in the House directly
responsible for welfare, in the Senate also
three committees.
And I think in the case of energy leg-
islation in the House, where the Ad Hoc
Committee on Energy was set up, this
expedited the process greatly. And the
Speaker has set a target date for House
completion on this very complex welfare
program to be next spring. So, I think
that the leadership in the House and Sen-
ate are ready for the legislation to be in-
troduced. They'll have adequate time
now to work their will, and I hope we'll
be able to work compatibly.
FAMILIES ON WELFARE
Q. In your opening statement you
mentioned the practice of welfare fa-
thers leaving the family so that the family
will indeed get more welfare benefits.
How will your proposal counter that?
What is there to keep the family
together?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, now there will
be no penalty on a family if the father
lives in the household. If, say, a two-par-
ent family with children exists and a job
is available to that family through public
service jobs or through the Employment
able, if the parent refuses to take the job,
Security Agency a private job is avail-
then those parents would lose their wel-
fare benefits. We would then provide ade-
quate payments for income maintenance
to meet the needs of the children. But
there would be a strong and very heavy
financial incentive to that family, both to
stay together and also for the mother or
father who's the head of the household
to work.
So, now, as you well know, if a father
gets a job and moves out of the house or
pretends to move out of the house, then
the family's income is greatly increased.
Under this proposed system, that would
no longer be the case.
1448
