Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 12
these treaties. I know that each Senator
and each Member of the House of Repre-
sentatives will give the utmost and careful
consideration to these agreements-not
only to the treaties themselves but to the
positive influence that their approval will
have in our own country and in our posi-
tion in the world as a strong and generous
nation.
We will work with Panama to assess the
need for a sea-level canal and will also
cooperate on possible improvements to the
existing canal.
I believe that these treaties will help to
usher in a new day in hemispheric rela-
tions. All of the countries in Latin
America are joined with us in a conviction
that a new treaty which properly responds
to the Panamanian aspirations and fully
preserves our own security and other in-
terests will give us an opportunity to work
together more effectively toward our com-
mon objectives.
Our two leading negotiators have been
Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker and Am-
bassador Sol Linowitz, and they are here
this afternoon to answer specific questions
that you might have on the treaties them-
selves and the negotiations and agree-
ments that have been reached with
Panama.
I'm glad now to introduce Ambassador
Bunker and Ambassador Linowitz.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:30 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Government Reorganization
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. August 11, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Government reorganization for better
Government performance is one of my
main goals, and I am encouraged by the
progress made so far. How we handle the
personnel aspects will be important to our
ultimate success. I am committed to ac-
complishing the reorganization with a
minimum of hardship to employees.
The reorganization will unquestion-
ably require consolidation of functions
and, in some cases, the closing of certain
activities. In the event employees of your
agency cannot be transferred with the
same functions, you should do every-
thing you can to place them in other
suitable positions, including filling va-
cancies within your agency with qualified
employees scheduled to be displaced,
working through the Civil Service Com-
mission's Displaced Employee Program to
facilitate placements in other agencies,
and providing opportunities for retrain-
ing.
This is a two-way responsibility. Just as
I expect you to give all possible assistance
to your own displaced employees, it is also
your responsibility to give full considera-
tion to hiring displaced workers of other
agencies. This is the only way we can en-
sure that employees will not be adversely
affected by the reorganization.
I have asked the Chairman of the Civil
Service Commission to set up additional
mechanisms to aid in the placement of
employees affected, including mandatory
priorities in hiring, and to provide you
with other assistance as necessary. Chair-
man Campbell will follow through with
these efforts and will report the results
to me.
I am counting on your cooperation and
resourcefulness to help us carry out the
transition to greater governmental effec-
tiveness as smoothly as we can.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on August 12.
1463
