July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have not yet decided whether to ad-
vocate deployment of the neutron bomb.
I think the essence of it is that for a given
projectile size or for a given missile head
size, that the destruction that would re-
sult from the explosion of a neutron bomb
is much less than the destruction from an
equivalent weapon of other types.
The essence of the question is that if
the neutron weapon or atomic weapon
ever should have to be used against enemy
forces in occupied territory of our allies
or ourselves, the destruction would be
much less.
Before I make a final decision on the
neutron bomb's deployment, I would do a
complete impact statement analysis on it,
submit this information to the Congress.
But I have not yet decided whether to
approve the neutron bomb. I do think it
ought to be one of our options, however.
Q. Mr. President, if you decided to go
ahead, would you renounce the first use of
the bomb? For example, you would not
use it unless there was an oppressive
enemy action?
THE PRESIDENT. This is something that
I have not yet decided. Of course, we hope
that we can reach an agreement among
all nations in the future to forgo the use
of all atomic weapons and also to elimi-
nate the possession of all nuclear weapons.
There are two distinct classes of weap-
ons. One is the tactical weapons which
have not been under the purview of dis-
cussions with the Soviets or others. The
other one is the strategic nuclear weapons.
But the definition of under what cir-
cumstances we would use such atomic
weapons has not yet been spelled out
publicly. I obviously hope that our con-
tinuing inclination toward peace, shared,
I'm sure, by the Soviets and others, will
prevent any use of atomic weapons. They
are there as a deterrent, however, and the
option for their use has to be maintained
as one of the viable options.
MINIMUM WAGE
Q. Mr. President, just today, I believe,
you are reported on the brink of approv-
ing a compromise minimum wage pro-
posal of $2.60 an hour. Now, if that's true,
did you raise your sights because of po-
litical factors, economic factors, or a com-
bination?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the fact of the
matter is that the minimum wage pro-
posals are being handled by the congres-
sional committees Congressman Dent,
Congressman Perkins. This afternoon, I
think at 4 or 5 o'clock, Congressman Per-
kins will have a press conference to spell
out the committee proposal.
We have no administration legislation
to propose, and I do not intend to send
the Congress any message on the mini-
mum wage. I might say in advance that
we have come to agree with the proposal
that Congressman Perkins will propose,
but it is not an administration bill.
ATOMIC WEAPONS
Q. Mr. President, may I go back to the
neutron bomb?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. How much do you think there is to
the argument that if you have a cleaner
weapon, as you define it, it makes war
more possible; that it might be used? And
secondly, where do you stand on that age-
old question of nuclear weapons in Eu-
rope, for instance, as to whether if you
start using them it wouldn't automatically
escalate to a full-scale nuclear war?
THE PRESIDENT. I think one of the
concepts that must be avoided is an exact
description ahead of time of what I as
President would do under every conceiv-
able circumstance.
1232
