Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 15
vice president of Warner-Lambert since
1973.
National Commission on the
Observance of International
Women's Year
Appointment of Rita Elway as a
Member. November 14, 1977
The President has appointed Rita El-
way, of Seattle, Wash., to be a member of
the National Commission on the Observ-
ance of International Women's Year. She
replaces March Fong Eu, who has re-
signed from the Commission. Elway, 26,
is a partner and co-owner of Communica-
tions Design of Seattle, a public opinion
research firm. She teaches communica-
tions and Asian American studies at the
University of Washington, and serves on
the board of directors of the Japanese-
American Citizens League.
Department of Commerce
Nomination of Andrew E. Manatos To Be an
Assistant Secretary. November 14, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Andrew E. Manatos, of
Bethesda, Md., to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce. This is a new posi-
tion which was created by the signing of
S. 1019, the authorization bill for marine
programs in the Commerce Department.
Manatos was born December 7, 1944.
He received a B.A. and an M.A. from
American University. From 1969 to 1973,
he was on the staff of the Senate Com-
mittee on the Post Office and Civil Serv-
ice. From 1973 to 1976, he was associate
staff director of the Senate Committee
on the District of Columbia and legis-
lative assistant to Senator Thomas Eagle-
ton. Since earlier this year, Manatos has
been Counselor to the Secretary of Com-
merce for Congressional Liaison.
Federal Cash Management
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
November 14, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Federal Cash Management
I have directed my reorganization staff,
in conjunction with the Treasury Depart-
ment, to conduct a comprehensive review
of cash management policies, practices
and organization throughout the Federal
government.
The purpose of this effort is to identify
further opportunities to apply modern
cash management techniques to our mas-
sive cash flow. Within the constraints of
monetary and economic policy, and
building on the continuing work of the
Treasury Department, the effort will seek
ways to use our cash more efficiently with
a view toward reducing Federal debt re-
quirements and interest costs. The study
will pay special attention to how effec-
tively the government collects and dis-
burses money, compensates banks and
other financial institutions for services,
controls cash balances, and provides in-
centives to make Federal managers more
aware of the cash management implica-
tions of their decisions.
Representatives of my reorganization
staff will contact you. They may ask you
for help, advice, staff resources, or to
participate in reviewing your own cash
management activities. Inasmuch as I
2025
