Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
countries to the south of us. There was a
new spirit of friendship and cooperation
and equality and partnership. There was
no mention of this new feeling being
based on economics. So, symbolically, the
fair treatment of Panama, the end of
what they look upon as colonialism by the
United States will be a tremendous boon
to us.
Almost without exception, the business
leaders of our country approve the
Panama Canal treaties. They are out-
spoken in their support because they know
that trade and jobs and exchange and
exports of our agricultural products and
so forth are heavily dependent upon this
good will that ought to exist between our-
selves and other nations of the hemisphere.
President Ford has endorsed the
treaties. Secretary Kissinger has endorsed
the treaties. Secretary William Rogers has
endorsed the treaties. Secretary Dean
Rusk has endorsed the treaties. Former
Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird has
endorsed the treaties. All five members of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff have endorsed
and support strongly the treaties as being
in the best interest of our Nation's defense.
There is almost unanimity among those
who are responsible for our foreign affairs,
our trade, and the Nation's defense to
support the treaties. With all these advan-
tages for it-and these statements are
absolutely accurate—what is the political
problem?
There's an emotional feeling about the
Panama Canal. And there is a lot of dis-
tortion about the significance of the Pana-
ma Canal. People say we bought it; it's
ours; we ought not to give it away. We've
never bought it. It's not been ours. We
are not giving it away. There is no sem-
blance between the status of, say, the
Panama Canal Zone and Texas or Alaska
that were bought and paid for and over
which we've always had sovereignty.
There's no similarity at all.
What we're doing is continuing a part-
nership that has existed for a long time
between ourselves and Panama. They will
continue to have sovereignty over the
canal. But we will continue to guarantee
that the canal is open. And we have the
absolute right, in this century and later,
to defend the canal against any attack
from Panamanian terrorists or from other
countries. We have the right for our ships
to use it.
So, I believe that when the American
people know the facts about these treaties,
that you will give us your support. It's
very important that this be done.
I think, had the canal negotiations not
begun 14 years ago, we might very well
withstand, for a time being, no action.
But there's been a tremendous expecta-
tion built up in Panama because of the
negotiations that have taken place now
under four Presidents. And the treaties
have been signed with a great deal of
ceremony. And they feel that we are treat-
ing them fairly. They feel that in the past
we have not treated them fairly. And now
to have the treaties rejected, I think, might
very well arouse in them a feeling of re-
sentment and deep animosity.
The last point I want to make is this:
One reason that there is such a feeling
about Panama is that we withdrew from
Vietnam after we had committed major
efforts of our country in that war, and
that our country was almost universally
condemned by the rest of the world for
our investment of military effort in Viet-
nam. Most of the people of our country
felt at the initial stages, and maybe even
later on, that we should have been in Viet-
nam as we were in South Korea to defend
democracy and freedom and let people
have the right to choose their own
government.
1887
