Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
difficult, mechanically difficult, in addi-
tion to the physics, it is to build a reactor.
THE PRESIDENT. This reactor is cooled
by highly purified water?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Yes, sir. It's cooled
by ordinary water. And that is the differ-
ence between it and the liquid metal
breeder, which will be a much better
breeder. But ultimately, if you go long
enough in years-it makes no difference
whether it's light water or liquid metal—
you will ultimately get the same result on
energy usage, although the liquid metal
breeder will do it faster.
THE PRESIDENT. So, you create as much
fuel in this breeder as you consume.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Ultimately, you
do, yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. I see
we are up to 100 percent, apparently.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Mr. Kirby, the
chairman of the board of Westinghouse,
and Mr. Arthur, the chairman of the
board of the Duquesne Light Company,
are ready to carry out your orders.
As you know, the Westinghouse Com-
pany operates the Bettis Laboratory near
Pittsburgh at which this reactor was de-
signed and built.
And Mr. Arthur, with the Duquesne
Company, operates the plant for the
Energy Department, of which Dr.
Schlesinger is the boss. And I would like
to say he has backed us fully, both when
he was Chairman of the Atomic Energy
Commission and his present capacity. I'd
like to thank him very much.
I also would like to thank Mr. David
Leighton, who has been the project man-
ager for me. And he may have hazed
you
because—I don't know whether he did;
he was a class ahead of you at the Naval
Academy. However, Mr. Wegner, who's
my deputy, was in a class lower than
yours. You may have hazed him. So, I
think that calls it quits. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Do we have any re-
port from Mr. Kirby?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Yes, sir. Mr. Kirby
will now tell you if it is ready. You can
tell him. You tell Mr. Kirby that the
plant is ready.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kirby, are we
ready?
MR. KIRBY [in Shippingport]. Mr. Pres-
ident, this is Robert Kirby speaking. For
the Bettis Laboratory and the many hun-
dreds of Westinghouse employees who
have worked on developing the light water
breeder reactor over the past 12 years, I
am pleased to inform you that the reactor
is now at 100 percent rated reactor power.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kirby, I'm very
glad to hear that. This is indeed an his-
toric day in the life of our country. As a
matter of fact, and not coincidentally, 35
years ago today, the first sustained chain
reaction in the nuclear cycle was com-
menced at Stagg Field in Chicago, in
1942.
And as you know, 20 years ago today,
December 2, we had the first central
powerplant operation at Shippingport,
where you are located. So, I think the
December 2 date, again, will be com-
memorating a major step forward in the
technological development of our coun-
try. This is the first time we have ever
had
power produced in our country from
a breeder reactor which uses a very plen-
tiful supply of fuel that can multiply the
power supply maybe 30 times over in the
breeder cycle.
And I'm very proud to congratulate
you, all the people at Bettis, all the people
at Westinghouse, on this remarkable tech-
nological achievement.
MR. KIRBY. Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. ARTHUR [in Shippingport]. Mr.
President, this is John Arthur, Duquesne
Light Company. Based on our experience
in operating this light water breeder reac-
2070
