Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Your Majesty, it's a great honor for me
to have you here with us at the White
House to renew your old friendship for
our country and to express our renewed
commitment for friendship in the future.
And on behalf of the people of our Na-
tion, I would like to propose a toast to the
Shah and to the Empress of Iran and to
the great people of that country who are
our close, present, and future friends.
THE SHAH. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
It is not very easy to speak after the
warmth and the kind words that the
President of the United States of America
has pronounced towards my country, our
people, and the Shahbanou and myself.
But I would like to reemphasize once
more that we look to your country, to
your people, and today, to the new Presi-
dent that you have elected, as such good
and trusted friends, that this gives us
even more fortitude and courage to pur-
sue our goals which are understood so
well and which have been said so elo-
quently by your President.
My personal association with your
country is a long one, but even before that,
the United States has always shown to-
wards our country and our people what
could be expected of a great, unselfish,
humanitarian nation which is standing
by high principles of honor and dignity.
The reassuring words that the Pres-
ident has pronounced tonight will be felt
deeply in my country with appreciation
and gratitude. This is a world in which
those who stand for the same ideals have
to get even closer together. You can rest
assured that with us you will find such
people who, through any circumstances,
will cherish their friendship and their
ties with the United States of America
and with their noble people.
I must say that since you took this
high office, Mr. President, I was looking
forward to meeting you, knowing you,
and hoping to establish personal relation-
ships. I can say with happiness and with
pride that what I saw was absolutely
equal, if not more than, anything that I
could have expected.
I will take back with me to my country
this memorable impression that I have
had through my talks with you, through
your great understanding of problems,
through your vision of our present world
and the world of tomorrow.
The important thing is that what we
do for today could also serve the future.
And I can see that you have that vision,
and very clearly, too.
Because of your high position and the
importance of your country, we only hope
that you will continue to offer the leader-
ship of your country, the potentials of
your country, for a future world assured
of peace and dignity and the certainty
that it will be a better world to live in,
better chances for all people of every race,
of every creed, of every belief, that, to-
gether, we can surmount all the difficul-
ties that can face us by the turn of this
century.
I would like to reassure you that you
will always find in my country and my
people wholehearted support in your
noble task, which is to serve your coun-
try and also human mankind.
I have to express also our deep appre-
ciation for your hospitality and the friend-
ship that you have shown towards us and,
through us, towards our people, and ask
all the friends gathered tonight here to
join with me in a toast to the President
of the United States of America and Mrs.
Carter.
2032
