Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 16, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
December 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. Have a seat, please. I apologize for
interrupting your meeting. [Laughter]
First of all, I want to thank you for
coming to the White House to interview
our people and to let me see some old
friends. Jody ¹ began this program at the
beginning of this year over some opposi-
tion of mine, because I thought it would
be too time-consuming, and I was afraid
we couldn't get enough benefit from it
and understanding of what we are doing
in the White House. This is the 16th
meeting we've had so far, more than 450
editors and others from around the
country.
Jody tells me every State except three—
we haven't had anybody yet from Hawaii
or Alaska or, just because of scheduling,
Vermont-but 20 percent of the news-
papers in the United States have had edi-
tors here at the White House this year to
talk to me personally and to ask questions
in an unrestricted way. It's been a very
helpful thing for us in telling the Ameri-
can people accurately what we are doing,
¹ Jody Powell, Press Secretary to the
President.
what our problems are, what our achieve-
ments have been, what our plans are for
the future.
As has been my custom, I'd like to take
about 5 minutes to outline present circum-
stances, what's going on right now, and
then spend the other 25 minutes answer-
ing your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
The two major items that the Congress
is dealing with, of course, are social se-
curity and energy. We've had a very
productive year so far, and I think when
a tabulation is made of what the Congress
has done, it will be well received. We've
had a major agenda. The Congress com-
mittees have been heavily overloaded, and
they've responded very well in my opinion.
They certainly have my appreciation and
admiration.
In the energy package we've got five
major programs. I'd say three of them
have been successfully resolved. We have
made a good bit of progress lately on the
crude oil equalization tax; we still have
natural gas pricing to go. But the com-
mittees are working in a very difficult,
complicated, and politically unattractive
field or subject.
I think the American public is in favor
of a comprehensive energy package being
passed. But they are not in favor of some
2091
