Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 15
scorecard, I think, is very good. We don't
get every item of what we put into the
Congress, and we can't expect to. There
are some other items that I have not tried
to name.
On the international scene, I've named
the major ones. There is nothing on the
international scene in which we are deeply
involved that I would undo. Now, we are
trying to resolve the problem in Rhodesia,
Namibia, and we are trying to add our
good offices to the Middle Eastern ques-
tion, deal with the Soviets on these ques-
tions that I've already described to you.
We wanted to strengthen NATO and to
revive the spirit of support for NATO
among our European allies. I think we've
done that successfully. And we also
wanted to restore a sense of compatibility
and friendship with nations that in the
past
have looked on us almost as enemies.
The visit that I had this week from the
Nigerian leader, Obasanjo, was a point in
fact. I wish that when all of you get home
that you would get an atlas and read
about Nigeria, what the country is.
They've got 80 million people in Nigeria.
This is more than a third of all the popu-
lation of Africa. It's by far the greatest
country economically in Africa. It's been
torn by civil war. General Obasanjo was
the leader of the armed forces in the civil
war. He's an engineer and helped to re-
build the country.
They have got a military government
now of 23 people. They have already had
elected, through completely democratic
means, a 236-person constitutional con-
vention. They've just about completed the
first draft of a constitution. They will have
a freely, democratically elected president,
a bicameral legislature. They have kept
intact already a completely independent
judiciary. And a year ago Secretary Kis-
singer, for the third time, tried to get per-
mission to go into Nigeria, unsuccessfully.
Because of Andy Young's good work and
so forth, we've kind of turned that around.
It's just a typical example of one of the
most difficult political questions that I
have to face is the one I mentioned first
this afternoon, and that's the Panama
Canal treaties. If they can be ratified, our
country will be greatly benefited through
this process.
So, the multiplicity of these questions is
almost overwhelming, and I know that
politically speaking, it's not very good. If
we've got 10 different major things on
the fire at one time, and we win and
finally finish, say, a reorganization pack-
age or an urban program or a stimulus
package, and we still have 9 or 10 more
that we're working on, it looks like every-
thing is all confused, we're not making
any progress.
But I recognize the legitimacy of hav-
ing too many things going at once. I am
trying to carry out my promises that I
made during the campaign. It would be
much easier for me to deal in foreign
affairs just with SALT and let the Middle
East and Africa and everything else drift.
But that is not my nature, and I don't
think it's in the best interest of the Ameri-
can people.
We can't succeed in every international
effort. I don't expect to. And I recognize
the natural inclination of the news media
and the American people to concentrate
on the exciting stories, the defeats and
the combat and the debates and the dis-
agreements and arguments. That's okay.
But I think as far as the best interests
of the country is concerned, there's
nothing that I've mentioned in this kind
of a rambling and fairly brief analysis
that I would withdraw from just to cre-
ate an increased sense of harmony or
achievement.
1809
