Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 25
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Reorganization Study of Fed-
eral Preparedness and Response to Dis-
asters
I have directed my Reorganization
Project staff at the Office of Management
and Budget to carry out a comprehensive
study of the Federal Government's role in
preparing for and responding to natural,
accidental, and wartime civil disasters.
Three different departments have ma-
jor responsibility for disaster and civil de-
fense preparedness. Many other Federal
organizations have some disaster plan-
ning, relief, or recovery responsibilities.
In national emergencies the resources of
the entire Federal Government are on call,
but they must be deployed effectively.
After local disasters Federal agencies
should be effectively coordinated to be
able to assist State and local authorities
without delay.
A preliminary review indicates that
there are opportunities for the Executive
Branch to improve its performance in
planning for and helping to cope with the
effects of major disaster. But this is a
shared responsibility. The cooperation of
State and local government, Congress,
private sector organizations, and indi-
vidual citizens is essential. Successful com-
pletion of this important reorganization
study will require their participation as
well as the full cooperation of Federal
departments and agencies. If you are
asked to contribute staff support or other
assistance to this effort, I encourage you
to do so.
In order to inform all affected parties
that the review is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Examination of the Federal
Government's Legal Representation Sys-
tem
I have directed my Reorganization
Project Staff at the Office of Management
and Budget to review the Federal Gov-
ernment's system for providing legal ad-
vice and representation to its departments,
agencies, and regulatory commissions.
This study is designed to improve the
way governmental units use the legal re-
sources at their disposal, which include
their own legal offices and the services of
the Department of Justice, including
United States Attorneys. Better use of
these resources should help prevent un-
necessary litigation and administrative
delay by enabling the Federal Govern-
ment to do a better job of complying with
its own rules and regulations.
A second objective will be to improve
the way litigation is conducted in order to
ensure better and more uniform applica-
tion of the law.
This study will rely heavily on the
advice and counsel of the Congress, Fed-
commissions, State and local officials, pri-
eral departments, agencies, and regulatory
vate organizations and the public.
I consider the effective use of legal re-
sources to be a vital part of my Adminis-
tration's effort to improve the perform-
ance of the Federal government; accord-
ingly, I ask for your cooperation in pro-
viding staff assistance and other resources
to assure the success of this review.
In order to inform all interested parties
that this study is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
1497
