Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 31
National Energy Plan
Statement on a Resolution Adopted by the
National Conference of Black Mayors.
October 29, 1977
The President was informed that the
National Conference of Black Mayors,
meeting in Washington, D.C., adopted a
resolution supporting the proposed Na-
tional Energy Plan. He issued the follow-
ing statement from Camp David:
“This is an important statement of sup-
port from an organization of leaders rep-
resenting a sizable constituency in
America. I appreciate this action by the
National Conference of Black Mayors.
"The mayors have shown that they rec-
ognize that a failure to face up to our
energy problem will most adversely affect
poor people and black people. It shows
recognition that passage of the energy pro-
gram is not a contest between the branches
of Government--that, instead, it is a test
of our national will. It is my hope that this
action by the mayors will add momentum
to passage of the National Energy Plan."
NOTE: The statement was made available
by the White House Press Office. It was not is-
sued in the form of a White House press release.
Consumer Product Safety
Commission
Nomination of R. David Pittle To Be a
Commissioner. October 31, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate R. David Pittle, of Rock-
ville, Md., for reappointment as a Com-
missioner of the Consumer Product Safety
Commission.
Pittle was born October 7, 1938, in
Washington, D.C. He received a B.S. in
electrical engineering from the University
of Maryland and an M.S.E.E. and Ph.D.
in electrical engineering from the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin.
From 1963 to 1969, he was an instruc-
tor in electrical engineering at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin. He also taught for
2 years at the Wisconsin School of Elec-
tronics. He taught electrical engineering
and public affairs at Carnegie-Mellon
University from 1969 until his appoint-
ment to the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in 1973.
Between 1971 and 1973, Pittle served
as president of the Alliance for Consumer
Protection, a voluntary consumer orga-
nization in Pittsburgh.
Prior to his appointment to the Com-
mission, Pittle was a member of the con-
sumer advisory committee of the Penn-
sylvania Insurance Department, the
consumer relations panel of the National
Association of Homebuilders, the Con-
sumer Federation of America, the Amer-
ican Council on Consumer Interests, the
consumer standards committees of the
American Society for Testing and Mate-
rials, and the American National Stand-
ards Institute.
A frequent lecturer on consumer pro-
tection, Pittle was the principal investi-
gator for a 3-year National Science Foun-
dation grant entitled "Research
Improving Consumer Safety Through In-
novative Consumer Education." In June
1977, he received the first annual Eastern
Consumer Conference Award "for his
outstanding work for the Commission on
behalf of consumers and their concerns."
1945
