Sept. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
-Decision Memorandum
Where appropriate, a Presidential Deci-
sion Memorandum summarizing decision
options will be prepared by the Domestic
Policy Staff with review by affected De-
partments and Agencies and Senior Pres-
idential advisers.
-Domestic Presidential Directive
Where appropriate, Presidential decisions
will be set forth through a Domestic Pres-
idential Directive.
Organization
Because of the number of Departments
and Agencies involved, there will be no
permanent standing committees associ-
ated with the Domestic Policy Review
System. There will, however, be a coordi-
nating committee established for each
issue and the composition of that commit-
tee will be defined in the Issue Definition
Memorandum.
A member of the Domestic Policy Staff
will be assigned responsibility for working
with the appropriate lead Agency. In ad-
dition, these committees will normally in-
clude representatives from OMB and
CEA.
Alternatives to Memoranda Process
Domestic issues which otherwise would
be covered by the Domestic Policy Review
System may have to be handled differ-
ently because of excessive time pressures
or unusual policy sensitivity. And on some
domestic policy issues, extensive and
formal interagency coordination will sim-
ply not be required. However, in each of
these circumstances, the intent of the Sys-
tem is to establish early and extensive in-
volvement between the Domestic Policy
Staff and the affected agencies, whether
through the Memorandum process or
more informal communication.
Confidentiality
Use of this process will result in in-
creased circulation of domestic policy
documents. Circulation of draft Memo-
randa must be closely supervised by all
parties to maintain confidentiality and
avoid premature disclosure.
Identification of current issues
As a first step in implementing the new
System, I would like each of you to submit
a brief list of domestic issues (indicating
priorities among them) to Stu Eizenstat,
for possible inclusion in the Domestic
Policy Review System. The list should be
limited to those issues which have sub-
stantial impact on domestic policy and
which require significant interagency in-
volvement. The list should be submitted
by September 23.
JIMMY CARTER
Visit of Prime Minister
Raymond Barre of France
Remarks of the President and the Prime
Minister at the Welcoming Ceremony.
September 15, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Prime Minister Barre
and Mrs. Barre, other distinguished guests
who have come here from France:
On behalf of the more than 200 mil-
lion people of our country, I would like to
extend to you a hearty welcome to our
country. This is the first time we've been
honored by a visit of the French Prime
Minister in more than 20 years. And we
hope that in the years ahead, that we
might be blessed with additional visits
from you in order to further strengthen
the understanding and mutual purpose
and friendship that has always existed
between our two great countries.
I think it's accurate to say that of all
the nations in the world, our own coun-
try owes its greatest debt to France, be-
cause 200 years ago when we were strug-
gling for our own independence, for the
freedom of our people, for the formation
of our country itself, our closest ally and
1590
