Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
A year and a half ago, I had the privi-
lege to accompany President Giscard
d'Estaing of the French Republic when
he came to the United States to celebrate
both the Bicentennial of American Inde-
pendence and that of the unbroken friend-
ship and alliance which binds our two
countries.
Faced with the challenges of our time,
this friendship, this alliance are necessary
more than ever. My visit as your guest,
Mr. President, displays the will of our two
countries to seek, in concert with all the
states sharing our ideals of democracy
and freedom, the means to contribute to
strengthening peace and prosperity
throughout the world.
The conversations that you have been
good enough to invite me to have with
you will give me an opportunity to ex-
press, in the straightforward and candid
manner that friendship requires, what is
France's policy in her dignity and her
continuity.
I do not doubt that profound concur-
rence of our basic objectives will come out
of these meetings, even if, as is only natu-
ral, the different situations and the dif-
ferent interests are sometimes reflected in
a different approach to the problems.
What matters, above all, Mr. President, is
the dialog in mutual good faith and
friendship.
Mr. President, rest assured, you and the
American people, that this is gratitude by
the French Government, and I salute to-
day the American people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:38 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. Prime
Minister Barre spoke in French, and his re-
marks were translated by an interpreter.
Executive Office of the President
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Amendments to Reorganization Plan No. 1 of
of 1977. September 15, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit amendments to
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, which
I transmitted to you on July 15, 1977.
Except as specifically amended hereby,
Reorganization Plan No. 1 remains un-
modified.
September 15, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
AMENDMENTS TO
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 1 OF 1977
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representatives
in Congress assembled September 14, 1977,
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 9 of
Title 5 of the United States Code.
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977,
which was transmitted to the Senate and
the House of Representatives in Congress
assembled on July 15, 1977, is hereby
amended as follows:
A. Section 2. is amended to read:
"Section 2. Establishment of an Office
of Administration.
"There is hereby established in the Ex-
ecutive Office of the President the Office
of Administration which shall be headed
by the President. There shall be a Direc-
tor of the Office of Administration. The
Director shall be appointed by the Presi-
dent and shall serve as chief administra-
tive officer of the Office of Administra-
tion. The President is authorized to fix
the compensation and duties of the
Director.
"The Office of Administration shall
provide components of the Executive Of-
fice of the President with such adminis-
1592
