Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
are less than the costs of the services they
are intended to procure. Because of this
deficiency in the current level of these
allowances, it is my considered judgment
that a reallocation of the October 1, 1977
military basic pay increase is appropriate.
However, in consideration of the negative
impact of reallocation on some military
members, I am not going to reallocate the
full 25 percent which I am authorized
by law to do. I plan to reallocate 12 per-
cent of the basic pay increase, by grade,
all to the basic allowance for quarters,
and to increase the partial quarters allow-
ance to bachelors in government quarters,
and to those on sea duty or on field duty,
by an amount equal to that reallocated
from the basic pay increase. This action
takes a positive step toward improving
the current relationship of the quarters
allowance to the costs of off-post housing
and, at the same time, recognizes the
adverse impact of reallocation on some
military members by limiting it to a mod-
erate amount.
Specifically, the amount allocated to
the element of monthly basic pay for
each grade shall be 88 percent of the
amount that would have been allocated
to that element under 37 U.S.C. 1009
(b) (3); the elements of monthly basic
allowance for subsistence and monthly
basic allowance for quarters for each
grade shall be increased by an amount
which is of the same percentage as the
overall average percentage increase in the
General Schedule rates, except that the
element of monthly basic allowance for
quarters shall be increased by an addi-
tional amount by grade equal to 12 per-
cent of the amount that would have been
allocated to the element of monthly basic
pay under 37 U.S.C. 1009 (b) (3). Mem-
bers without dependents, who, under 37
U.S.C. 403 (b) or (c), are not entitled to
receive a basic allowance for quarters,
shall be paid an increase in the monthly
partial basic allowance for quarters in an
amount equal to the additional amount
allocated by grade to the element of
monthly basic allowance for quarters
under 37 U.S.C. 1009 (c).
The White House,
September 29, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Federal Maritime Commission
Nomination of Thomas F. Moakley To Be a
Commissioner. September 29, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Thomas F. Moakley, of
Whitman, Mass., to be a Commissioner of
the Federal Maritime Commission for
the remainder of the term expiring June
30, 1978. He would replace Bob Casey,
resigned.
Moakley was born November 3, 1921,
in Boston, Mass. He graduated from
Bentley College in 1940.
Moakley worked in steamship opera-
tions and administration for the United
Fruit Co. for 12 years and in 1960 was
cofounder of Dataman Associates, a con-
sulting company specializing in electronic
data processing and personnel. He was
treasurer of Dataman Associates until
1966.
From 1966 to 1968, Moakley was a
personnel consultant, and from 1968 to
1970 he was postmaster of Whitman,
Mass.
Since 1970 he has worked for the Mas-
sachusetts Port Authority, serving as port
auditor, then comptroller and assistant
treasurer, and currently as port director
of the Port of Boston.
1683
