Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
office who represent the finest aspects of
your heritage-an old State, but always
vigorous and young in your attitude. You
are confident about the future, confident
in yourselves, eager to search out com-
mon ground on which we can approach
problems jointly, as partners.
I'm grateful to come back to Virginia.
I was here in this room, as some of you
may remember, the night after the third
debate that I had with President Ford.
And I thanked you then and thank you
now for a chance to participate in your
lives now and in the future.
Tonight I'm here not to speak on my
own behalf but to speak on behalf of
you and the citizens of Virginia who have
an opportunity, in my opinion, to elect fine
men to represent you as Governor in
Henry Howell, Lieutenant Governor in
Chuck Robb, and Ed Lane as your attor-
ney general.
These men have formed a team.
They're different from one another-
newcomers to politics, those with long
years of experience, those who've served
in the legislative branch of Government,
those who've served in the executive
branch of Government, one who's not
served yet but has a bright future ahead
of him. And I know that as history evolves
in the future, you'll all be proud that
you've had a part tonight and, hopefully,
with an even greater fervor in the next
few weeks to participate in the election
of these good men, good men to lead
your
State.
Virginia also has a commitment and
almost a unique heritage, particularly in
the South, to nonpartisan approach to
the election of public officials. It's been
difficult for me in the past to know who
was an Independent and who was a Dem-
ocrat and who was a Republican, and
particularly in Virginia. [Laughter] To-
night I hope, and in the next few weeks
I hope, that we'll all be Democrats be-
cause we have such a fine ticket here.
But this, I think, again, is a symbol of
your own independence. I've examined,
in preparing for this visit, the campaign
platforms of Ed and Chuck and Henry,
and I can certainly endorse them without
equivocation or doubt. They are eager to
be examined. They are eager to debate
the issues publicly, whether those issues
might be safe ones or controversial.
And I think in particular my longtime
friend, Henry Howell, has what some
people describe as a problem but which
I describe as a very fine political at-
tribute, and that is a willingness to ex-
press himself openly and publicly and
without fear or trepidation and with a
maximum of courage on issues that are
not safe because those are quite often the
issues that are most important to people
like yourselves and those who look to you
for leadership.
I know that attendance here tonight in
a way is a mark of esteem, and I was
proud to get what was a very hurried
picture with each one of you because I
know that you are leaders in your own,
in business or the professions, in educa-
tion, in labor, in protecting the interest
of people who depend upon you.
Most of you are not in public office,
but you are in public life, and you are
public servants whether you are attorneys
or teachers or in the business community
or operate a railroad-those kinds of
things don't separate you from Henry
and Ed and Chuck and me in our re-
sponsibilities now and in the future.
This is an opportunity for our country
this year, I think, to overcome some of
the problems of the past, the embarrass-
ing things that have afflicted our people
in Vietnam and Watergate and CIA. But
there's a burgeoning hope, changing into
a quiet confidence, that our country is
1660
