Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 23
Veterans will also be eligible to have a por-
tion of their loan canceled through
matching action by the Federal and State
Governments.
This means that a single veteran is now
eligible for up to $4,745 in grants for a
9-month school year, plus an additional
$2,500 in low-interest loans. The current
GI bill now has a 65-percent participation
rate, which far exceeds the final partici-
pation rate under both the Korean con-
flict program (43 percent) and the World
War II GI bill (50 percent). That rate
will rise even farther when nearly 1,700,-
000 veterans benefit from the GI Bill Im-
provement Act.
The nearly $25 billion that we have
spent under the current GI bill has been
an excellent investment in our Nation's
future. The measure I sign today should
further improve this program.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8701 is Public Law
95-202, approved November 23.
Thanksgiving Holiday
Remarks Upon Departure for Camp David,
Maryland, for the Holiday Weekend.
November 23, 1977
Happy Thanksgiving, everybody.
I would like to say to the American peo-
ple that no nation in the history of hu-
mankind has been more deeply blessed
than have we. We've got a lot to be thank-
ful for. The original settlers of this coun-
try, more than 300 years ago, began to
express our thanks to God every year for
the blessing that came on them. This year,
we have just before Thanksgiving a good
omen in the Middle East which might
bring to humankind one of the greatest
blessings of all, and that's peace. And all
of us want to remember in our prayers the
hopes that we harbor for a peaceful set-
tlement of those differences there and
those around the world.
Thanksgiving is historically a family af-
fair. I've just returned from Stevens
School and had Thanksgiving dinner pre-
pared by my daughter and the fifth and
sixth graders of the public school. It was
a very good affair. But I think it's time
now for us to look outward as a nation,
recognizing that we are leaders, that we
have extraordinary good fortune in the
material things of life, and remember
others, both our neighbors here at home
and around the world who are not so
fortunate as we.
As President, though, I would like to
wish the American people a happy
Thanksgiving and urge them to remember
those who haven't been blessed so fortu-
nately as we have in our own lives. Also,
to the press, I want to say that I'm thank-
ful that I don't have to answer questions
now on matters of great moment, except
that Thanksgiving is a matter of great
moment.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. to
reporters assembled on the South Lawn of the
White House.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
November 19
The President met at the White House
with David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant
to the President for National Security
Affairs.
2049
