Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 2
mulated mistrust and the deep emotions
which divide Israelis from Arabs. Some
would say that we must realistically re-
sign ourselves to the prospect of unending
struggle and conflict in the Middle East.
With such an attitude of resignation,
Israel would never have been created.
And with such an attitude now, peace will
never be achieved. What is needed is both
vision and realism so that strong leader-
ship can transform the hostility of the past
into a peaceful and constructive future.
This was a vision of the Zionist move-
ment in the first generation after the Bal-
four declaration, and it can be the
achievement of Israel in its second gen-
eration as an independent state.
Since becoming President, I've spent
much of my time in trying to promote a
peace settlement between Israel and her
Arab neighbors. All Americans know that
peace in the Middle East is of vital con-
cern to our own country. We cannot
merely be idle bystanders. Our friend-
ships and our interests require that we
continue to devote ourselves to the cause
of peace in this most dangerous region of
the world.
Earlier this year, I outlined the ele-
ments of a comprehensive peace-not in
order to impose our views on the parties
concerned, but rather as a way of defining
some of the elements of an overall settle-
ment which would have to be achieved
through detailed negotiations.
I continue to believe that the three key
issues are, first, the obligations of real
peace, including the full normalization of
political, economic, and cultural rela-
tions; second, the establishment of effec-
tive security measures, coupled to Israeli
withdrawal from occupied territories, and
agreement on final, recognized, and se-
cure borders; and third, the resolution of
the Palestinian question.
These issues are interrelated in complex
ways, and for peace to be achieved that's
permanent and real, all of them will have
to be resolved. Recently, our diplomatic
efforts have focused on establishing a
framework for negotiations so that the
parties themselves will become engaged
in the resolution of the many substantive
issues that have divided them so long.
We can offer our good offices as media-
tors, we can make suggestions, but we
cannot do the negotiating.
For serious peace talks to begin, a re-
convening of the Geneva conference has
become essential. All the parties have ac-
cepted the idea of comprehensive nego-
tiations at Geneva. An agreement has
already been reached on several of the
important procedural arrangements.
Israel has accepted, for Geneva, the idea
of a unified Arab delegation, which will
include Palestinians, and has agreed to
discuss the future of the West Bank and
the Gaza Strip with Jordan, with Egypt,
and with Palestinian Arabs. This can
provide the means for a Palestinian voice
to be heard in the shaping of a Middle
East peace, and this represents a positive
and a very constructive step.
Israel has also repeated its willingness
to negotiate without preconditions and
has stressed that all issues are negotiable.
This is an attitude that others must ac-
cept if peace talks are to succeed.
For their part, the Arab states have
accepted Israel's status as a nation. They
are increasingly willing to work toward
peace treaties and to form individual
working groups to negotiate settlement of
border issues and other disputes. No
longer do they refuse to sit down at the
negotiating table with Israel, nor do they
dispute Israel's right to live within secure
and recognized borders.
That must be taken as a measure of
how far we have come from the intransi-
1955
