July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
hereinafter referred to as the Administra-
tor, shall develop, with the concurrence
of the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and in consultation
with the Secretary of Defense, the Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Development,
the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs,
the Administrator of the Energy Re-
search and Development Administration,
the Administrator of General Services,
and the heads of such other Executive
agencies as he deems appropriate, the
ten-year plan for energy conservation
with respect to Government buildings, as
provided by section 381 (a) (2) of the En-
ergy Policy and Conservation Act (42
U.S.C. 6361 (a) (2)).
(2) The goals established in subsection
(b) shall apply to the following cate-
gories of Federally-owned buildings: (i)
office buildings, (ii) hospitals, (iii)
schools, (iv) prison facilities, (v) multi-
family dwellings, (vi) storage facilities,
and (vii) such other categories of build-
ings for which the Administrator deter-
mines the establishment of energy-effi-
ciency performance goals is feasible.
"(b) The Administrator shall establish
requirements and procedures, which shall
be observed by each agency unless a
waiver is granted by the Administrator,
designed to ensure that each agency to the
maximum extent practicable aims to
achieve the following goals:
(1) For the total of all Federally-
owned existing buildings the goal shall be
a reduction of 20 percent in the average
annual energy use per gross square foot
of floor area in 1985 from the average en-
ergy use per gross square foot of floor area
in 1975. This goal shall apply to all build-
ings for which construction was or design
specifications were completed prior to the
date of promulgation of the guidelines
pursuant to subsection (d) of this Section.
(2) For the total of all Federally-
owned new buildings the goal shall be a
reduction of 45 percent in the average
annual energy requirement per gross
square foot of floor area in 1985 from the
average annual energy use per gross
square foot of floor area in 1975. This
goal shall apply to all new buildings for
which design specifications are completed
after the date of promulgation of the
guidelines pursuant to subsection (d) of
this Section.
"(c) The Administrator, with the con-
currence of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, in consulta-
tion with the heads of the Executive
agencies specified in subsection (a) and
the Director of the National Bureau of
Standards, shall establish, for purposes
of developing the ten-year plan, a prac-
tical and effective method for estimating
and comparing life cycle capital and
operating costs for Federal buildings, in-
cluding residential, commercial, and in-
dustrial type categories. Such method
shall be consistent with the Office of
Management and Budget Circular No.
A-94, and shall be adopted and used by
all agencies in developing their plans
pursuant to subsection (e), annual re-
ports pursuant to subsection (g), and
budget estimates pursuant to subsection
(h). For purposes of this paragraph, the
term "life cycle cost" means the total
costs of owning, operating, and main-
taining a building over its economic life,
including its fuel and energy costs, deter-
mined on the basis of a systematic evalu-
ation and comparison of alternative
building systems.
"(d) Not later than November 1,
1977, the Administrator, with the con-
currence of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, and after con-
sultation with the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services and the heads of the Execu-
tive agencies specified in subsection (a)
shall issue guidelines for the plans to be
submitted pursuant to subsection (e).
1300
