Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 30
in hunting preserves, and the rabbits are
trained to return to Poland. [Laughter]
When I was running for President of
the United States for 2 years, I met hun-
dreds of thousands of Americans of Pol-
ish ancestry. I saw very quickly that they
had a deep love for the United States
and, simultaneously, for Poland. They
recognize the historical ties which have
bound our nations together since the very
origins of our country. They have a natu-
ral hospitality inherited from their an-
cestors, and this made us look forward to
this trip with great anticipation.
Our country has observed closely the
distinguished Poles who have affected
world history and our own Nation-an-
cient and modern scientists like Coperni-
cus and Madam Curie, favorite authors
like Joseph Conrad, musicians, Artur
Rubinstein, who still loves Poland very
deeply, and one of the greatest engineers
of all time, Admiral Hyman Rickover,
who developed the peaceful use of atomic
power.
We have much to learn from Poland-
how to use coal, and particularly brown
coal, efficiently in this day of short energy
supplies. We share cultural and scientific
and engineering knowledge.
A hundred and twenty thousand
Americans each year come back to visit
their homeland here. And today I have
seen at firsthand at your memorials a
demonstration of affection for those who
suffered so bravely in recent wars.
Georgia's capital city of Atlanta was
completely destroyed in war, as was the
city of Warsaw. But although we have
suffered greatly, no other nation has
borne such suffering as Poland. In the
World War, six million Poles died—800,-
000 in Warsaw alone. Poles were the first
people to fight the horrors of Nazism and
earn the admiration and appreciation of
the world. You were the ones who dem-
onstrated a deep commitment to human
rights, a belief in the value of human free-
dom and human life.
You have seen the horrible conse-
quences of racial hatred when the Polish
Jews were exterminated by Nazi terrorists.
From these terrible experiences, valuable
lessons have been learned. There is a tend-
ency for those in the West to distrust those
nations in the East. Sometimes, perhaps,
you distrust our motives and our judg-
ment. Sometimes we feel that you might
be a danger to us as the NATO allies face
the Warsaw Pact nations. But I know in
more vivid terms than before that nations
like your own and like the Soviet Union,
which have suffered so deeply, will never
commence a war unless there is the most
profound provocation or misunderstand-
ing brought about by lack of communi-
cation.
We also want peace and would never
start a war except by mistake, when we
didn't understand the motives and atti-
tudes and desire for peace on the part
of our potential adversaries.
I am pleased to know that there is in-
creasing communication, consultation,
and cooperation between the Socialist
nations and the nations of the West. Al-
alliances, our hunger for peace is the
though we belong to different military
same. We are working closely with the
Soviet leaders to eliminate the constant
and horrible threat of atomic destruction.
This is an extremely complicated and
technical discussion, but good motivations
and common purposes can resolve those
differences.
I have every expectation that this next
year will bring success. We will do our
utmost to realize this dream. We want to
prevent the development of new and more
2215
