Nov. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Navy and Office of Strategic Services
from 1942 to 1946.
From 1941 to 1950, he was an asso-
ciate attorney with the New York firm of
Chadbourne, Wallace, Parke & Whiteside.
From 1950 to 1954, he was a consultant to
the State Department and negotiated the
Military Aid Treaty with the United
States, France, and Indochina in 1950.
From 1950 to 1958, he was a partner and
head of the corporate law department at
the New York firm of Lewis and Mac-
Donald.
From 1958 to 1967, de Saint Phalle was
director of Becton, Dickinson and Co. in
Rutherford, N.J., where he was in charge
of all legal matters. From 1962 to 1966, he
was also senior partner at Coudert Broth-
ers, an international law firm.
From 1965 to 1970, de Saint Phalle was
an investment banker, serving as vice
chairman of the board of directors of
Stralem, Saint Phalle & Co. from 1968 to
1970, and limited partner and president
of Witter Overseas Finance Corp. from
1967 to 1968.
From 1971 to 1976, de Saint Phalle was
a professor of international finance and
law at the Centre d'Etudes Industrielles
in Geneva, Switzerland, and a consultant
to multinational companies and banks on
legal and financial matters. Since 1976 he
has been a visiting professor at the Centre
d'Etudes Industrielles, a lecturer at Fair-
leigh Dickinson University in New Jersey,
and a counsel at Coudert Brothers in New
York City.
Strategy Council
Remarks to Members of the Council.
November 7, 1977
I'd like to say a few things to start
with before I ask you to report on what
you have decided.
This Strategy Council, as you know,
is responsible under the law for evolving
broad policy matters for the drug control
program.
Dr. Bourne, who is working in the
White House, will coordinate what you
decide and work very closely with the
agencies involved as well. We've had re-
markable success, I think, already in this
first 10 months.
The purity of heroin is at the lowest
point that it's been in 7 years. We've had,
as well as that, an increase of 25 percent
in heroin prices on the street, which is
another good indication of the scarcity
of it. In the first 6 months of this year,
we've had about a 7-percent reduction in
the National Crime Index, which I think
is quite often directly related to heroin
use, at least in some types of crimes.
We've also had good, perhaps even
unprecedented, communication and co-
operation among the agencies involved—
between Justice and Treasury, for in-
stance, and between HEW and State,
Agriculture, the United Nations as we
try to not only control the sources of
heroin but provide alternative crops to be
produced and approach the United Na-
tions and other countries, other than our-
selves, to join with us in holding down
drug traffic.
We've got an opportunity, I think, as
we go into the new domestic programs, to
provide adequate treatment for those who
are addicted to drugs, including alcohol.
And I'm particularly interested in pur-
suing-working with HEW and others-
the control of the so-called legal drugs,
barbiturates, that have probably caused
almost as many deaths as most of the
other drugs. And this overprescription of
barbiturates by medical doctors is almost
a matter of habit in some communities
of our country, and we need to make sure
that they aren't used in a destructive way
1976
