Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 20
you had the guts to do it. And I'm proud
to be here today.
with me to give us a tax reform package
in 1978 which will be more progressive in
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Jim Guy, nature, that is, put the burden of taxation
very much.
SENATOR LONG. Mr. President, nobody
really enjoys voting for taxes if he has to
run for office. I know you know that as
well as all the rest of us do. But in view
of the fact that we are going to be paying
anyway, I think that most people would
prefer to pay a little more if need be, as
they will, and have a sound program
rather than be worried about whether or
not the program will be financed.
Nelson Cruikshank and some others
who were advocating the original social
security bill are here, and Wilbur Cohen
was here, who was part of it back at that
time. And they advocated and visualized
a system where people would be free of
fear in old age. And that's what we're
doing with this bill. We are proud to
participate with you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
REPRESENTATIVE ULLMAN. Mr. Presi-
dent, I am sorry that our subcommittee
chairman, Jim Burke, isn't here.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I was hopeful
he would be.
REPRESENTATIVE ULLMAN. He is back
in Massachusetts, but he was chairman of
the subcommittee. This has been a long,
onerous, difficult task, as you know. It's
never easy to set a program straight by
adding taxes, but this does it in a very
responsible way. And I wanted to men-
tion Jim Burke; he's been very important
in this operation.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Well,
with the help of these same leaders of
Congress in 1978 we'll have tax reduc-
tions [laughter]-which for every tax-
payer will result in a lesser tax burden,
even in spite of the fact that this does
increase taxes to some degree. But I know
that all of these leaders will be working
where it can best be borne, will be greatly
simplified, and will also be substantially
reduced. So, we are looking forward to
good tax reductions in 1978.
REPRESENTATIVE ULLMAN. That will
be easy to pass. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 a.m. in the
Indian Treaty Room at the Old Executive
Office Building.
As enacted, H.R. 9346 is Public Law 95-
216, approved December 20.
Social Security Amendments
of 1977
Statement on Signing S. 305 Into Law.
December 20, 1977
Before I became President, the concern
expressed to me most often was the fear
that the social security system was in
danger of bankruptcy. This fear was
backed up by facts:
-A flaw had been introduced into the
benefit formula which overcompen-
sated for inflation and threw the sys-
tem out of actuarial balance.
-Declines in birth rates meant that
there would be fewer workers to sup-
port the system in the future-down
from over 100 to 1 when the system
started, to 14 to 1 in 1950, to 3 to 1
today, and to 2 to 1 in the next
century.
-The worst recession since the Great
Depression and the worst inflation
since the Civil War had depleted the
reserves in the trust funds to the point
that the Disability Trust Fund
would be depleted by 1979 and the
2155
