Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 30
We deeply appreciate the warm wel-
come extended to us tonight by First Sec-
retary Gierek and by the Polish people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10:40 p.m. at
the Civilian Terminal, Okecie International
Airport. First Secretary Gierek spoke in Polish,
and his remarks were translated by an inter-
preter.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
DECEMBER 30, 1977
Held in Warsaw, Poland
THE PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO POLAND
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. Dzien
dobry.
It's a great honor for me to be here in
Poland to reaffirm and to strengthen the
historic and strong ties of friendship and
mutual purpose which exist between our
two countries. I have had very fruitful
discussions with First Secretary Gierek
and the other officials of Poland on bi-
lateral questions, on questions involving
NATO and the Warsaw Pact countries,
matters relating to SALT, mutual and
balanced force reductions, and general
commitments to peace in the future.
This morning I had a chance to visit
memorials to the brave people of Poland,
and particularly of Warsaw. I doubt that
there is any nation on Earth which has
suffered more from the ravages of war. In
the Second World War the Nazis killed
800,000 people in Warsaw alone and 6
million Poles. And I was able to pay hom-
age to their courage and bravery.
I also visited the Ghetto Monument, a
memorial to Polish Jews who stood alone
to face the Nazis but who will forever live
in the conscience of the world.
This afternoon I would like to answer
questions from the reporters assembled
here. There were a few who wanted to
attend who were not permitted to come.
Their questions will be answered by me
in writing. And now I would be glad to
respond to questions, beginning with Mr.
Wojna [Riczrd Wojna, Tribuna Ludu].
QUESTIONS
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q [in Polish]. Mr. President, Poland
and the entire world has attached great
importance to the relations between the
United States and the Soviet Union.
Could you answer what is your assess-
ment of the chance for a prompt conclu-
sion on SALT talks and in other discus-
sions on strategic matters, and how in this
respect do you assess the latest pronounce-
ment by Leonid Brezhnev in an interview
for the Pravda Daily?
THE PRESIDENT. In the last few
months, the United States and the Soviet
Union have made great progress in deal-
ing with a long list of important issues,
the most important of which is to control
the deployment of strategic nuclear weap-
ons. We hope to conclude the SALT II
talks this year, hopefully in the spring.
We have resolved many of the major is-
sues. A few still remain. We have made
good progress in recent months.
At the same time, we have made prog-
ress for the first time in establishing prin-
ciples on which there can be a total pro-
hibition against all tests of nuclear ex-
plosives in the future. We've made prog-
ress on prohibiting additional military
buildup in the Indian Ocean, recently
commenced talks to reduce the sale of
conventional weapons to other nations in
the world. And I will pursue this same
subject with President Giscard next week.
2205
