Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 11
Activity of Korean Agents
in the United States
Letter to Congressional Leaders Transmitting
a Report on the Justice Department
Investigation. November 4, 1977
In accordance with Section 28 of the
International Security Assistance Act of
1977 (Public Law 95-92), I am transmit-
ting herewith a report concerning the ex-
tent to which the Republic of Korea is
cooperating with the Department of Jus-
tice investigation into allegations of im-
proper activity in the United States by
agents of the Republic of Korea.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
COOPERATION BY THE REPUBLIC OF
KOREA WITH JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
INVESTIGATIONS
This report is submitted in accordance
with Section 28 of the International Se-
curity Assistance Act of 1977 (Public Law
95-92), enacted August 4, 1977. Subsec-
tion (a) (2) of Section 28 requests that
the President report to the Congress with-
in ninety days of the enactment of the Act
concerning "the extent to which the Re-
public of Korea is cooperating with" the
Department of Justice investigation into
allegations of improper activity in the
United States by agents of the Republic
of Korea.
The principal cooperation sought from
the Government of the Republic of Korea
by the Department of Justice has been
the important testimony which could be
supplied by Korean businessman Tong-
sun Park (Pak Tong-son). The Depart-
ment of Justice considers Mr. Park's veri-
fiable and truthful testimony essential to
the full investigation and successful prose-
cution of illegal acts by U.S. officials in
the United States. The cooperation
needed from Mr. Park involves both his
early interrogation in connection with
Grand Jury investigations and his even-
tual appearance before trial juries in re-
sulting prosecutions in the United States.
The United States Government has
sought the full cooperation of the Repub-
lic of Korea Government in securing the
return of Mr. Tongsun Park to the United
States. At the time of this report to the
Congress, our two governments are in the
midst of active and delicate discussions,
and proposals are being considered in an
effort to reach a mutually satisfactory
agreement. The present report is therefore
an interim report which will summarize
the efforts made by the United States
Government to date to obtain coopera-
tion, and the responses of the Govern-
ment of Korea thereto.
In April, the Department of State, on
behalf of and in full coordination with
the Department of Justice, initiated dis-
cussions with the Government of the Re-
1969
