Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I request that the addressees of this
memorandum designate a person to serve
on this Task Force. Members from ex-
ecutive departments shall be of a rank
of not less than Deputy Assistant Secre-
tary, and members from other agencies
should be of a comparable rank. The
designee of the Commerce Department
shall chair the Task Force. A member of
the White House Domestic Policy staff
shall serve as an ex officio member of the
Task Force.
Executive departments and agencies
not represented by membership on the
Task Force may participate on commit-
tees established by the Task Force to carry
out its work. In addition, I request that
all heads of executive departments and
agencies, upon request, furnish to the
Task Force such information and assist-
ance as is relevant to the purpose of the
Task Force.
The Task Force is authorized to take
such additional actions, not inconsistent
with this Memorandum, as it determines
to be necessary and appropriate in ful-
filling its purpose. The Secretary of Com-
merce may appoint or designate staff to
carry out the functions of the Task Force.
The Task Force shall report its find-
ings and recommendations to me, con-
clude its work, and dissolve itself within
120 days of its first meeting.
JIMMY CARTER
cc: Heads of Executive Departments and
Agencies
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on August 5.
Interagency Task Force on
Occupational Safety and Health
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. August 5, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
I have frequently expressed my com-
mitment to review and reform the Fed-
eral role in combatting safety and health
hazards in the workplace. My aim is to
improve the effectiveness of our efforts to
protect the health and safety of American
workers.
The Secretary of Labor, Ray Marshall,
and the Assistant Secretary for Occupa-
tional Safety and Health, Eula Bingham,
have already moved vigorously to make
our approach to occupational safety and
health more sensible and effective. On
May 19, 1977, the Labor Department an-
nounced a program to redirect the re-
sources of the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) away
from trivial problems and toward more
serious hazards to safety and health.
In another step towards common sense
priorities, the Department of Labor an-
nounced on July 19 a program to reduce
OSHA paperwork and streamline its rec-
ordkeeping requirements. The nation's
3.4 million small businesses will be ex-
empt from filling out complicated job
health and safety forms, and the paper-
work for 1.5 million larger employers will
be cut in half. Over the coming weeks,
the Administration will take additional
steps to reduce unnecessary burdens and
allow OSHA to concentrate on the most
serious hazards.
1430
