Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 28
viously increases the difficulty in ulti-
mate peace.
It's not an insurmountable problem.
The matter of legalizing existing settle-
ments was a subject that was never dis-
cussed by me or Prime Minister Begin.
My own concern was with the establish-
ment of new settlements. And I let him
know very strongly that this would be a
matter that would cause our own Gov-
ernment deep concern.
This matter of settlements in the oc-
cupied territories has always been
characterized by our Government, by
me and my predecessors as an illegal
action. But I think that the establish-
ment of new territories [settlements] or
the recognition of existing territories [set-
tlements] to be legal, both provide ob-
stacles to peace, obstacles which I think
we can overcome, by the way.
FOREIGN ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, since you came
into office, you have stressed so many
times that your policy is to restrain arms
sales, we should not be the arms mer-
chant of the world. Now you are propos-
ing arms to Egypt, Sudan, Somalia, Iran,
and there are billions of dollars worth
of arms in the pipeline for Israel—all
areas of potential conflict. Why?
The President. These proposals are
compatible with my new arms sales
policy, which is to reduce the level of
arms sales in each succeeding year.
Many of these agreements are the re-
sult of longstanding commitments by our
own Government to those nations which
are our allies and friends. We have tried
to keep a well-balanced approach to the
whole question.
The most highly divisive issue recently
has been the AWACS sale to Iran. They
were contemplating a radar detection
system using ground-based and air-
launched mechanisms that would have
been about twice as expensive.
But we are determined to begin a
downward trend in the sale of weapons
throughout the world. But at the same
time, of course, we have to have as a pre-
eminent consideration the defense of our
own country and an adequate defense
capability for our allies.
And I would comply with my policy
that after this fiscal year, 1977, that in '78
and subsequent years there would be an
overall reduction in sales.
I am also trying to get our own allies,
France, England, and others, and also the
Soviet Union, to join us in this effort. And
next year, under the auspices of the
United Nations there will be a world dis-
armament conference in which we would
not only participate but hope to play a
leading role. But the policies that I have
pursued will be a much greater constraint
on arms sales than has been the policy
in the past.
Q. Then you are not setting up a
competition with the Soviet Union in
Africa on the question of arms supplies?
THE PRESIDENT. No, ma'am, we aren't.
I think it's accurate to say that in the case
of Somalia, which has been almost com-
pletely under the friendly influence of the
Soviet Union and to whom they've been
completely obligated, there has been a
change. We are trying to work not on a
unilateral basis, but in conjunction with
other nations like the Saudis, and France,
Italy, and others, to deal with the Soma-
lia-Ethiopian-Djibouti questions on a
multinational basis to reduce the com-
petition between ourselves and the Soviet
Union.
I might say that in the Libyan-Ethio-
pian [Egyptian] conflict that's recently
taken place, and which has now been
changed into a peaceful relationship for
the time being at least, both ourselves and
1367
