Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 22
compared with other alternative trans-
mission capabilities.
The other part of the question is about
its need. I have only mentioned the oil
and natural gas transportation, but as you
know, our major warships, large tankers
and cargo ships cannot presently use the
Panama Canal at all. And I would guess
that before the year 2000 comes and the
existing treaty with Panama and our con-
trol of the Panama Canal might expire,
that the need for this larger, wider, deep-
er canal without the multiple locks might
be in the interest of our national security,
militarily as well as economically.
But all of these are conjectural points.
I've not gone into the question in any
depth and I'm not prepared to answer
any further.
Go ahead.
Q. Are you planning to make any spe-
cific presentation to Congress or to start
further study for expanding President
Johnson's report?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We've begun to
look now at the report that was prepared
when President Johnson was in office to
see its applicability now under the new
circumstances that I've described. The
two new factors that I've mentioned are
the dispute with Panama with continued
operation of the Canal under the existing
treaty, and the other one is the need to
transport Alaskan oil and natural gas.
But those two new factors will be assessed,
and I can't predict the outcome of it. I've
not spent much time on it myself.
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I might see if the
Senators or the Congress Members or the
Governor have an additional comment to
make, and then I'm going to have to leave.
Senator? Senator Johnston.
SENATOR JOHNSTON. Mr. President, we
are very pleased at the action you've taken
lately that pertains to energy, and that is,
to give us what we think is a favorable
statement on our offshore impact fund,
and also the agreement to sign the bill that
approves all of the Louisiana water proj-
ects, including the Boeuf, Black and
Chene, which is the bayou that comes
down from Morgan City, that through
which the largest construction platform in
the world just came this week. We think
that is progress. We haven't gone all the
way we want to go with you, but you're
making progress.
THE PRESIDENT. I knew I made a mis-
take. [Laughter]
SENATOR LONG. I want to thank you for
coming and seeing what our situation is
here, Mr. President. You've been very
kind to hear our views. I'm not one of
those who complains about not being able
to explain our position to you. I wish we
could be sure you are going to agree with
us after you heard it. But you're most kind
to come and see what the situation is and
decide this for yourself, and we very
much appreciate it. Thanks for coming.
GOVERNOR EDWARDS. I want to per-
sonally express my appreciation to the
President for coming to Louisiana, and for
viewing firsthand the technology that ex-
ists in this area, and how we can produce
oil and gas without doing any damage to
the environment. And I think it shows a
great willingness on his part to learn and
to be involved and to be concerned, and
I want to personally say how pleased and
proud I am on behalf of the people of
the State that he has chosen Louisiana
this date to visit this facility.
So much of what's gone on in the world
in the field of oil and gas, especially where
water is concerned, came about as a result
of the technology and the efforts and
dedication of men and women in Louisi-
ana. And we are very proud of that.
1339
