Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 2
Vice President Mondale's Visit
to Mexico
Statement Announcing the Visit.
December 2, 1977
At the invitation of President López
Portillo and the Government of Mexico,
Vice President Mondale will pay an offi-
cial visit to Mexico on January 20-21,
1978.
President López Portillo was the first
Chief of State to visit Washington in my
administration. Mrs. Carter and Mrs.
López Portillo participated respectively
in President López Portillo's inauguration
ceremonies and my own. Subsequently,
Mrs. López Portillo and Mrs. Carter met
in Mexico this November.
The Vice President will be visiting
Mexico as my personal representative to
continue this important process of con-
sultations on both bilateral and multilat-
eral issues with our good friends and
neighbors in Mexico. His visit will again
underscore the very great importance and
value I attach to our relations with
Mexico.
NOTE: The statement was made available by
the White House Press Office. It was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
Vice President Mondale's Visit
to Canada
Statement Announcing the Visit.
December 2, 1977
At the invitation of Prime Minister
Trudeau and the Government of Canada,
Vice President Mondale will pay an offi-
cial visit to Canada on January 18–19,
1978.
I have asked the Vice President to serve
as my personal representative during this
visit, which marks a welcome continua-
tion of high-level U.S.-Canadian con-
sultations begun at the outset of my
administration with Prime Minister Tru-
deau's visit to Washington. Canada is one
of our very closest friends, allies, and trad-
ing partners. The breadth of our bilateral
and multilateral interests is great. The
Vice President's visit will ensure that with
our friends in Canada we continue to ad-
dress those interests with the greatest pos-
sible cooperation and effectiveness.
NOTE: The statement was made available by
the White House Press Office. It was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
Dinner Honoring Senator
Hubert H. Humphrey
Remarks at the Dinner. December 2, 1977
Early this week, my good friend
Charles Kirbo came to Washington. He
said he was getting very worried about
me, that he couldn't understand how
every time he saw me, I looked older and
older and Senator Humphrey looked
younger and younger.
He said Senator Humphrey always has
a smile on his face. He said, "Jimmy, your
smile is gone." [Laughter] He said, "Your
hair is turning gray; his has gotten curly."
I said, "Well, the difference is that Sen-
ator Humphrey has been here long
enough in Washington to know how to
handle the political scene and I haven't
learned yet."
Last summer, just as the Senate was
beginning its long 2-month filibuster,
Senator Humphrey went back to Min-
nesota for a vacation. And at the end of
the vacation, when he got ready to come
back, again being very conversant with
political ways, he called me up and said,
"Mr. President, I'd like to come back to
Washington." I said, "Well, Senator
2073
