Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 6
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
AUGUST 6, 1977
Held at Plains, Georgia
WELFARE REFORM
THE PRESIDENT. As I pledged during my
campaign for the Presidency, I am today
asking Congress to totally scrap our exist-
ing welfare system and to replace it with
a Program for Better Jobs and Income,
which will provide job opportunities for
those able to work and a simplified, uni-
form cash assistance program for those
who are unable to work due to disability,
age, or family circumstances.
In May I think May 1-after almost
4 months of intensive study, I said that
the welfare system was worse than I had
expected, and I stand by that conclusion.
Each of the individual programs has a
high purpose and serves some needy peo-
ple. But taken as a whole, the system is
neither rational nor is it fair, and the wel-
fare system is antiwork and antifamily.
It's unfair to the poor and wasteful to
taxpayers' dollars.
The defects of the current system are
very clear. First of all, it treats people dif-
ferently who have similar needs, and eli-
gibility requirements vary for each sep-
arate program. Second, it creates exag-
gerated differences in benefits based on
where people live. Third, it encourages
the breakup of families. In most cases,
two-parent families are not eligible for
cash assistance, and a working father can
most often increase his family's income by
leaving home.
It also discourages work. In one Mid-
western State, for example, a father who
leaves part-time employment paying $2,-
400 a year and goes to a full-time job
paying $4,800 a year, can actually lose
more than $1,250. At the same time, well-
intentioned efforts to find jobs for current
recipients of welfare payments have
floundered and been ineffective.
And finally, the complexity of current
programs and regulations tends to waste,
fraud, redtape, and errors. HEW has re-
cently discovered even Government em-
ployees unlawfully receiving benefits and
numbers of people receiving benefits in
several different communities.
There is no perfect solution for these
difficult problems, but it's time to begin.
The welfare system is too hopeless to be
cured by minor modifications; we must
make a complete and clean break with
the past.
The program that I propose today to
the Congress does just that. It will pro-
vide for jobs for those who need work, a
work bonus for those who do work but
whose incomes are inadequate to support
their family. It provides income support
for those who are able to work part-time
or who are unable to work due to age or
physical disability or who need to care for
little children 6 years of age or younger.
It provides an earned income tax credit
to strengthen work incentives and to pro-
vide tax relief for working families who
have been hard hit by payroll tax in-
creases.
If enacted by the Congress, this new
program will have major benefits. It will
significantly reduce the number of peo-
ple who rely on welfare payments pri-
marily by doubling the number of single-
parent families who are supported pri-
marily through work. Twice as many
single-parent families will now be sup-
ported by work. It will insure that work
will always be more profitable than wel-
fare and that a private job or a public
job not supported by the Federal Govern-
ment will always bring in more income
than a special job created with Federal
funds. It will combine effective work re-
1443
