Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
ing increase in Korea's ability to defend
itself;
-our continued firm determination to
maintain our basic security commitment
to Korea, and to retain a significant mili-
tary presence there, composed mainly of
air and key support units, together with
the continuing presence of U.S. naval
units in the area; we believe that these
forces, as well as the major U.S. forces
remaining in the Western Pacific, provide
a clear and visible U.S. deterrent to North
Korean miscalculation;
-our assessment of the broader inter-
national context of the Korea question,
particularly the pattern of interrelation-
ships between the great powers in the
area;
our readiness, subject to Congres-
sional consultations and approval, to take
appropriate actions to assure that the
ground force withdrawal does not weaken
Republic of Korea defense capabilities.
The decision to withdraw ground com-
bat forces from Korea has involved full
consultations with the Korean Govern-
ment. The Governments of Japan and
other friendly nations in Asia have been
kept fully informed, both of our with-
drawal intentions and of our continuing
firm commitment to Korean security. We
have made it clear to both the People's
Republic of China and the Soviet Union
that the withdrawal decision signals no
weakening of our commitment. The
North Korean Government should be in
no doubt about our position.
The legislation I am proposing is de-
signed to help make certain that Korean
defense capabilities are not weakened by
our ground force withdrawal. It provides
for the transfer of certain U.S.-owned
military equipment (primarily in the cus-
tody of U.S. forces in Korea) and related
services to the Korean Government, with-
out reimbursement. We envisage at most
the transfer of equipment with a depreci-
ated value of about $800 million.
Even with this no-cost transfer, the
withdrawal will require the Korean Gov-
ernment to devote a larger share of its
financial resources, both foreign exchange
and local currency, to defense. In my
judgment, the transfer provided for in the
draft legislation will ease the incremental
fiscal burden of withdrawal on the Korean
Government to an amount which can be
borne without diverting excessive re-
sources from the high priority task of
economic development.
The bill provides that the President
shall transmit an annual report to the
Congress, through the five-year period
during which the anticipated equipment
transfer will take place, detailing the
types, quantities and value of defense ar-
ticles furnished to Korea under this Act.
The transfer of equipment to the Ko-
rean Government to be authorized by the
bill will ensure that the withdrawal of
U.S. ground forces is accomplished in a
way that will not disturb the stability that
must be maintained in the region. Since
the initial phase of that withdrawal will
take place in 1978, I urge the Congress to
enact promptly the proposed legislation.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to the Honorable Walter F. Mondale,
President of the Senate, the Honorable Thomas
P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and the Honorable Robert C. Byrd,
Majority Leader of the Senate.
Department of Defense
Nomination of Harold W. Chase To Be
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Reserve
Affairs. October 21, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Harold W. Chase, of
1823
