Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
vantageous services to the American peo-
ple. And of course, that would include, in
my opinion, the local newspapers whom
you represent.
But I think it's good to set the record
straight that there is absolutely no ac-
countability now from the Post Office de-
partment to the President. The only rights
that we have are through the Congress
when supplementary appropriations are
required. And this is established, as you
know, by formula.
We'll do the best we can through pub-
lic expressions of concern, and we're try-
ing to work with the Congress now to
have more accountability built in.
I want to say one other thing in clos-
ing. My grandfather was a postmaster,
and my mother worked in the Post Office.
My mother-in-law has just retired at the
age of 70 from the Post Office in Plains-
my grandfather was the one who proposed
to Georgia Congressmen the establish-
ment of rural free delivery of mail sys-
tem. So, I've seen the problem from both
sides, and now, of course, I'm seeing it
from the viewpoint of the Presidency.
I know that you have, speaking to your
convention, congressional leaders, com-
mittee chairmen who will be evolving leg-
islation. I've also consulted with the Sen-
ators, particularly Senator John Glenn,
who is very interested on the Senate side.
But I believe that we'll come out with a
proposal that will be not everything that
you want, but highly sensitive to the spe-
cial needs of the newspapers represented
by the National Newspaper Association,
because our country recognizes the tre-
mendous contribution that you do make
in providing a better life for our people.
Let me say that I'm grateful for this
chance to exchange ideas with you. The
questions asked me were very sharp and
pertinent and, in some instances, difficult
to answer. I don't know all the answers.
I'm learning as best I can.
I think we have put to the Congress
and to the people, proposed solutions to
some of the most controversial issues. And
it's always beneficial to me as President to
have a chance to explain with you,
George Joplin, and with Mr. Hudson,
Bailey, and others, the questions that you
proposed to me.
Good luck to all of you. I hope you
have a very successful convention, and I
look forward to hearing from you often.
And particularly, I'm looking forward,
Mr. Joplin, to having your analysis of the
labor reform legislation. Thank you very
much.
MR. JOPLIN. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m.
from the Oval Office by telephone hookup to
members of the association meeting in Houston,
Tex. George Joplin was the outgoing president
of the association.
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting on Progress
Toward a Negotiated Settlement.
October 28, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Public Law 94-104, this
report describes the efforts that the United
States has made over the past sixty days to
promote a settlement on Cyprus.
There have been no further intercom-
munal talks under U.N. auspices since
the submission of my last report to the
Congress in August, and none are pres-
ently scheduled. This negotiating pause
could easily last for several months more,
through the forthcoming Greek elections
in November and the Cyprus Presidential
elections in February. However, we have
not allowed ourselves to proceed on this
assumption. Instead, we have continued
actively to encourage a resumption of the
1928
