Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 2
operative efforts of the various agencies
involved, we will attack the financial
resources of these traffickers who provide
the capital needed to support the smug-
gling of drugs into the country. Drug
traffickers must understand that they face
swift, certain, and severe punishment; and
our law enforcement and judicial systems
must have the resources to make this
prospect a very real threat. We must
allocate our resources intelligently, revise
our penalty structure where necessary to
concentrate on the actions (and the
drugs) that are most dangerous, and im-
prove the administration of justice.
Therefore:
I am directing the Attorney General
to intensify investigations of the link be-
tween organized crime and the drug traf-
fic, and to recommend appropriate meas-
ures to be taken against these organiza-
tions.
• I am directing the Department of
Justice in conjunction with the Depart-
ments of State and Treasury to study ar-
rangements with other countries, consist-
ent with Constitutional principles, to re-
voke the passports of known major traf-
fickers, and to freeze assets accumulated
in the illegal drug traffic.
• To ease the burden on the United
States District Courts, which must hear
major drug cases, I support legislation
widening the jurisdiction of U.S. Magis-
trates under certain circumstances to in-
clude misdemeanor offenses which carry
sentences of up to one year.
• In 18 United States Attorneys' Of-
fices, special units devoted to the prose-
cution of major drug traffickers exist. The
Department of Justice is now expanding
this program to include additional units.
• I support legislation raising from
$2,500 to $10,000 the value of property
which can be seized and forfeited from
drug violators by administrative action,
including cash within the definition of
seizable property. Amounts above this
figure will continue to require court
proceedings.
• I am directing my staff to recom-
mend to me the appropriate Federal drug
law enforcement role in the light of cur-
rently available resources-state, local
and Federal. For nearly a decade, Federal
support of state and local enforcement
activity has steadily expanded. The time
is ripe to evaluate the results of this effort,
to determine whether federal participa-
tion should be altered, and to determine
the proper division of responsibility be-
tween Federal and local officials. The
Office of Drug Abuse Policy has already
begun the first phase of this review, which
includes consideration of border security
and drug trafficking intelligence.
• I am directing the Attorney General
to study the necessity for and constitu-
tionality of proposals which would deny
pre-trial release to certain persons
charged with trafficking in drugs posing
the greatest threat to health, and to give
me his recommendations within 90 days.
At the present time, some persons charged
with major drug offenses can use their
immense wealth to post bail and escape
justice. If enactment of such proposals
appears to be necessary and constitutional,
their application should be tightly re-
stricted and they should include a provi-
sion granting the accused an expedited
trial.
• I am directing the Attorney General
to review the adequacy of the penalties
for major trafficking offenses and to give
me his recommendations within 90 days.
I also have considered requesting
changes in the Tax Reform Act of 1976.
Some of its provisions such as those for
disclosure and summonsing-were de-
signed to protect the privacy of citizens
but may also impede unnecessarily the in-
1403
