Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 15
MR. DONALDSON. Now after 6 months
of looking at the problems and finding
that the bureaucracy doesn't move as
rapidly as you might have thought and
the Congress doesn't roll over as you
might have suspected, what's your esti-
mate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's hard to
say. I think it's primarily dependent on
both the support that I can maintain
among the people of the country and the
Congress for the next 32 years. A 6- or
7-month period is brief in the historical
trends that relate to problems that have
been there for generations. And if all of
our programs are adopted, then I think
this administration will be a great one.
But we're going to have a lot of failures
and a lot of frustrations, and I think the
American people have got to realize that
the Government can't provide magic
answers for difficult questions and prob-
lems. But I think history would have to
decide that 20 years from now, looking
backward, rather than for me to decide
after just 6 months of experience in
Washington.
We've got some great ideas and goals.
I think the American people have seen a
substantial rebuilding of pride in our
But as far as whether greatness or
mediocrity will result from this adminis-
tration, it's just too early to say.
MR. REASONER. Mr. President, one
final question. We're sort of taking a poll,
too. How would you rate Sam Donaldson
as a White House correspondent? [Laugh-
ter]
THE PRESIDENT. I tell you, it's too early
to say. [Laughter] Maybe history will re-
veal whether Sam has been adequate or
below average or great. But after just
7 months, I've not been able to decide.
I've put a lot of time in thinking about
this question [laughter]-but so far the
answer has escaped me.
MR. DONALDSON. You've wasted your
time, thank you. You owe about $10,000
back to the American people. [Laughter]
MR. REASONER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Harry, Sam.
NOTE:
The interview began at 11:30 a.m.
on August 10 at the Pond House in Plains, Ga.
The transcript was released on August 14 when
portions of the interview were broadcast on an
ABC News television program at 10:30 p.m.
Equal Employment
country. I think that all the polls and my Opportunity Commission
own relations with American people have
indicated that there's a renewed sense
that our country stands for something
that's clean and decent and open, that the
American people have more of a partici-
pation in the decisionmaking process.
I think there's a general feeling that
when we make a mistake, that the mis-
take is not concealed but is instantly re-
vealed. I think the frequent news con-
ferences and the frankness with which
we've discussed formerly secret issues has
been constructive.
Designation of Daniel E. Leach as
Vice Chairman. August 15, 1977
The President today announced the
designation of Daniel E. Leach, of Alex-
andria, Va., as Vice Chairman of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission. He replaces Ethel B. Walsh.
Leach, 40, has been a member of the
EEOC since March 1976. From 1966 to
1976, he was associate chief counsel of
the Democratic Policy Committee in the
U.S. Senate.
1473
