Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
scramble for ratings, public broadcasting
has room for experimentation and risk-
taking. Public broadcasting is for all
Americans. It can meet the needs of audi-
ences that number in the millions but are
seldom served anywhere else. That is
why, during my campaign for the Presi-
dency, I pledged my best efforts to
strengthen it.
The bill I am submitting with this
message continues and increases long-
term Federal funding for public television
and radio. Financial stability is needed if
public broadcasting is to provide better
programs for more citizens and protect
those programs from political pressures.
The bill also makes statutory changes
to increase cooperation, reduce overlap,
and clarify the missions of the three pri-
mary national organizations in the field-
the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
(CPB), the Public Broadcasting Service
(PBS), and National Public Radio
(NPR).
These changes will also increase pub-
lic broadcasting's insulation from inap-
propriate political influence. Other
amendments will give it greater journal-
istic independence. I want to encourage
public broadcasters at all levels to engage
in active news reporting and public af-
fairs programming. This Administration
will not try to stifle controversy on public
television and radio. No President should
try to dictate what issues public broad-
casting should cover or how it should
cover them. And this legislation will
make such an attempt more unlikely.
This bill also proposes amendments
that require public broadcasting to:
-Devote more resources to high-qual-
ity national programming.
-Set long-range goals by which its
progress can be judged.
-Plan how public television and radio
signals can be brought within reach
of all citizens.
-Provide greater accountability to
the public.
-Stimulate greater participation by
minorities and women.
Without these statutory changes, not
even a long-term authorization bill would
insure diverse and high-quality program-
ming.
Public broadcasting's organizational
problems and its need for better planning
and greater diversity should not blind us
to its accomplishments. In the ten years
since the Public Broadcasting Act first
provided Federal funds for programming,
public broadcasting has set new stand-
ards in children's programs, drama, music,
science, history, and educational services.
Its coverage of local, state, and national
hearings, its documentaries, and its in-
depth news analyses have helped make
government more understandable.
Public broadcasting has done more
than simply entertain us. It has encour-
aged us and our children to think and to
act. It has also pioneered in such tech-
nical innovations as captioning for the
deaf and satellite broadcasting.
This bill will renew Federal funding
while improving the ways the money is
spent. The money will be used, among
other purposes, to:
-Strengthen the PBS national tele-
vision service to provide a first-rate
schedule of cultural and public af-
fairs programs.
-Support and expand National Public
Radio, which provides a lively alter-
native schedule that includes music,
public hearings and events, news
analysis, and original radio drama.
1738
