Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 13
Visit of Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt of the Federal
Republic of Germany
Remarks of the President and the Chancellor
at the Welcoming Ceremony. July 13, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This morning we have
the great honor and pleasure, in the
United States, of welcoming to our coun-
try a great friend and one of the world's
foremost leaders, Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt, his wife, accompanied by For-
eign Minister Genscher and distinguished
leaders from industrial and labor and the
cultural component parts of the society
of the Federal Republic of Germany. We
are very grateful that they've honored us
by coming.
This friendship that exists between the
United States and the Federal Republic
has existed from the very day the Federal
Republic was formed.
I've come to know Helmut Schmidt
first of all at a distance, as a candidate
and a new President, because of the ad-
miration expressed by other leaders
who've known him and worked with him
over the years. Following my Inaugura-
tion, I had a chance to talk with him sev-
eral times by phone and exchange diplo-
matic messages. And I've always
welcomed his advice and his counsel and
his friendship.
In London, recently, at the summit
meeting with himself and me and five
other leaders, we had a chance to ex-
change ideas and concepts and hopes and
plans and aspirations for the future that
vividly demonstrated to all of us that the
ties that have been so strong between us
and the people of Germany are still as
strong as ever, and that our future is tied
closely together.
I have a great admiration for him. The
international questions determine
own attitudes toward other countries, and
there are no differences between us. We
have frank discussions, as is the nature of
Helmut Schmidt. He's an accomplished
economist, a very fine political leader, and
an experienced and enlightened states-
man.
The great progress that has been made
in the Federal Republic of Germany has
made it possible for him to demonstrate
in many ways the restrained and enlight-
ened and very effective leadership that is
inherent in his own character and capa-
bilities.
We're very proud that we share with
the Federal Republic of Germany a com-
plete commitment to democratic proc-
esses, a complete commitment for a hope
of world peace, the alleviation of tensions,
and the enhancement of the quality of
life of those whose people are not so fortu-
nate as those who live in our two coun-
tries.
We recognize that progress is only pos-
sible with joint efforts and that the private
and public support between allies is al-
ways a crucial element of continued
strength and beneficent influence.
And so this morning, my good friend,
Helmut Schmidt, on behalf of more than
200 million Americans, we welcome you
to our country with open arms and deep
appreciation for what you and your lead-
ership have meant to us and will mean to
us and the world in the months ahead.
Thank
you very much for coming. You
are welcome, friend.
THE CHANCELLOR. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you, Mr. President, very much
for this cordial reception and the friendly
words of welcome which you have ex-
tended to me and the members of my
party.
I have been visiting the White House
several times in different capacities, but
1241
