Aug. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
will be a growing realization of the value
of Andrew Young to our country-both
his work in the United Nations and also
his work among the developing countries
of the world, who in the past have been
turned away from us almost unanimously.
There has been a time in years gone
by when in the very crucial international
organizations we couldn't get 20 percent
of the other nations to support our posi-
tions even when we thought we had the
right positions.
Now I think there's a growing feeling
among those small and poor and weak
countries that they can trust us for a
change, that there's someone in our Gov-
ernment who can listen to them with an
open mind, represent the best interests of
the United States, and still represent their
best interests as well.
Andrew Young is intelligent, cou-
rageous, articulate, accurately represents
the position that I and the Secretary of
State and others have evolved for our own
country and is building up trust in our
country among the nations who didn't
trust us before.
He's a great national treasure, in my
opinion, and he has my complete confi-
dence and I think I have his complete
confidence.
I might say that there has never been
any difference of opinion on basic issues
among Andrew Young, the Secretary of
State and the National Security Council
or myself.
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
MR. REASONER. Mr. President, you've
been sleeping in the White House for
nearly 7 months now. You campaigned
sort of against the White House and
Washington and the establishment and
the bureaucracy.
Have you changed your attitude about
that? There was a comic strip the other
day that said that you were going
Washington, you are now an insider.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I feel more and
more like an insider. I think the thing
that's made me naturally come to that
sense of my position has been the increas-
ingly good relationship between the White
House and the Congress.
I've been deeply grateful at the spirit
of cooperation and harmony that has
evolved because of the leadership in the
House and the Senate-I might say, on
many occasions both Republican and
Democratic leadership.
We face some tough decisions in the
future that's going to require bipartisan
support-Middle East questions; normal-
izing relations with China, if they want
normal relations; how to deal with the
Panama Canal treaty, which has been
attempted for 13 years and which is now
approaching a final conclusion; how to
evolve our Nation's position on the matter
of nuclear weapons or comprehensive test
bans; the degree of commitment to differ-
ent aspects of defense capability. All these
matters involving defense and foreign af-
fairs have got to be based on a bipartisan
support.
way,
But I feel part of the Washington Gov-
ernment now, not in an embarrassed
but in a natural way. And I believe that
there's been a restoration of harmony and
cooperation and mutual purpose between
the White House and Republicans and
Democrats in the Congress, which is
healthy for our country.
THE PRESIDENT'S GOALS
very
MR. DONALDSON. Mr. President, the
day before you took the oath of office I
asked
you if
you thought you were just
going to be an ordinary President or
whether you had a chance for greatness,
and you said you thought you had a
chance for greatness.
THE PRESIDENT. A chance.
1472
