July 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
extract oil and natural gas in a hasty
fashion from American supplies is advis-
able under any circumstances.
I think that the emphasis on conserva-
tion and a shift toward coal, which we
advocate, is the best approach. I also
don't think there would be substantially
increased exploration if oil was worth $20
a barrel and if natural gas was $3 or $4 a
thousand cubic feet. I think the present
rate of exploration would not be sub-
stantially enhanced, but it would be a
great windfall to the oil and natural gas
companies of our Nation.
As I said in the letter that Dolph Bris-
coe has, as I said in my speech on the
energy proposal to the Congress back on
April 20, our first move toward deregu-
lation is one that will be followed later
by others. It's a first move to carry out
my commitment. But I can't bring myself
to accept the proposition it ought to be
done peremptorily. We've advocated, by
the way, a $1.75 price for natural gas to
be moved in interstate and intrastate
supply lines, which is a substantial in-
crease over interstate price now, and I
think is adequate.
OIL LOCATION AND PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, last week in New Or-
board has been the oil companies them-
selves. They don't like the legitimate con-
straints that are placed on them by the
Department of Interior and the Federal
energy agency and others.
As Governor of Georgia, though, I
worked with the Governors of our two
neighboring States to the north—North
and South Carolina-to provide, along
with the oil companies, I might say, some
assessment of what we ought to do. And
we identified five places along the coast
where we would like to see oil brought
ashore, five places near this seacoast
where we would like to see oil refineries
built. And I would hope that all the
States north of us on the eastern seaboard
would do the same.
This new drill rig, one of the most
modern in the world, I think, has greatly
enhanced safety devices and oil spill con-
trol devices that were not extant when the
Santa Barbara spills took place and were
not applicable or installed in the North
Sea spill. So, I don't think that we need
fear, to the extent we did in the past,
environmental consequences of offshore
oil exploration and production.
So, to answer your question in a nut-
shell, I do favor a rapid increase in oil ex-
leans when you visited the Zapata plat- ploration and production on the eastern
form in the Gulf of Mexico, in your re-
marks after that, you indicated that you
weren't disturbed by anything you had
seen so far as a threat to the environment
was concerned.
seaboard, and I hope that they find oil
near the Georgia coast, first of all.
[Laughter]
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I think to do the oil
THE PRESIDENT. On that drill rig, companies justice and the drilling rig pro-
that's correct.
Q. Does this mean you would step up
encouraging drilling off the Atlantic sea-
board?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. But I think it's
accurate to point out that the major im-
pediment-one of the major impediments
to increased drilling on the Atlantic sea-
ducers justice, it's a superb machine. And
I was amazed at the quality of its con-
struction, the electronics control devices,
the safety devices, the training of the
crew. I was really impressed with it. And
as an engineer, it made me proud of what
our country's technological ability could
produce.
1390
