Oct. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
As you know, there has never been, I
believe, as close a relationship between a
President and a Vice President as exists
in our country today, and I'm very proud
of him, what he means to me personally
and politically and in the governance of
this country. He's a great ally and friend
to have.
What you decide as far as the mech-
anism of the Democratic Party, what you
decide as an equitable way to ensure rep-
resentation in all our conferences, what
you decide about the site, the format, the
choosing of delegates, the size of the dele-
gations is very crucial to me.
I want to be sure that the 1978 con-
ference, for instance, can consider in some
depth the controversial issues that face
me and our country and you, and so that
I can deal with the conference in a per-
sonal way, so that members of my own
administration can come to the conven-
tion site and receive from you and from
other delegates accurate assessments of
the needs and desires and hopes and
dreams and aspirations and concerns and
advice of Democrats throughout the
country.
I personally hope that you will main-
tain a manageable size, and I'm sure
you've already agreed to do that. That
will be very helpful.
I'm involved, along with many on this
stage and many of you, in raising money
for the Democratic Party. I hope the costs
can be held within reasonable bounds
and, at the same time, without interfering
with an open, frank, thorough discussion
of all the issues that face us.
I've enjoyed my own administration so
far. I have welcomed the controversy that
has swirled around the White House since
I've been in office. It's not been a sign
of weakness. It's not been a sign of fail-
ure. It's been a sign that we as Democrats
intend to carry out the commitments that
we made to the people of the United
States in the 1976 campaign, and that's
what I intend to do.
Many of the issues that we are now
approaching strongly and boldly and for
the best interests of the American people
have been avoided for years, for decades,
for generations, because of a fear of
arousing controversy and open debate.
But they can't be avoided any longer,
and I have no inclination to do so.
When I campaigned throughout this
country in every one of your States, for
the 2 years preceding my own election, I
listened, I considered very carefully, I
made my own position known, which ac-
curately, I believe, represents the inclina-
tions of the American people. And now
we're trying to carry out those commit-
ments.
We have proposed, as you know, an
energy policy for our country, for the first
time to avoid an almost inevitable crisis
that might afflict every person in our
Nation. It's not easy. The shadow of the
oil lobby hovers over Capitol Hill. This
has got to be addressed frankly, and we
have to make sure that when the energy
package comes out this year, it doesn't
work contrary to the best interests of the
consumers and the homeowners and the
people of this country.
The House of Representatives, under
the leadership of Tip O'Neill, has acted
strongly and courageously and well, and
Bob Byrd in the Senate is doing the best
he can to bring forth the crucial elements
of our energy package, but it is difficult.
It is difficult. What we don't get this year,
I'll be back next year again. I don't in-
tend to fail, because the people need it.
We've also proposed to the Congress a
comprehensive revision of the welfare
programs to give our people a better job
and income possibility. It's an integral
part of what we are trying to do as an
1746
