July 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in the first 6 months. We have had a $4
billion tax reduction. The average family
that makes $10,000 a year, all the family
members put together, have had their
taxes cut already 30 percent. That is on
a permanent basis. In addition to that,
we have started many programs whose
impact would not be felt for a year or
two. But we are now beginning to see the
benefits of the public works program,
which is going to be building, say, in New
York, Chicago, Indianapolis, and Los
Angeles.
We also see the public service jobs,
which will have 715,000 people employed
plus over a million summer jobs for
young people. These programs are just
now beginning to be seen, because it took
a while to get them started. But I think
for the average family in this country
there has been a change already in tone
and attitude and confidence in the
Government.
And the thing that I want to make
sure of is that we deserve that confidence.
We are not trying to rest on our laurels.
We are not trying to brag on ourselves.
There are other things that can be done
and will be done.
We are trying to make sure the social
security system is sound, and we are try-
ing to make it sound not by cutting bene-
fits to poor people, not by taxing the work-
ing family. If the Congress goes ahead
with our recommendation, this can be
done. We are trying to make sure people
who have been kept from voting in the
past have a chance to register to vote
easily and to increase their participation
in government. And I have directed all
my Cabinet officers to get out in the field
and in the streets of the cities to listen to
suggestions and listen to complaints.
So, I cannot guarantee that everybody
is living now a better life. That would
be asking too much. But I think the trend
is in that direction, and I don't think
there is a single member of my Cabinet
or a single staff member who works in the
White House who does not have as our
major goal the improvement of the lives
of the poor people in this country who
have been ignored.
MR. SANDERS. We will have more ques-
tions right after this word.
We will resume our questions with Joe
Brown.
WELFARE PROGRAM
MR. BROWN. Mr. Carter, your deci-
sion-it is reported you have made a de-
cision to put an arbitrary ceiling on
welfare-welfare and jobs programs when
there has been no ceiling placed on such
programs as tax reform, energy, defense,
and the rest of it. We are wondering why
has it been here that there has been a ceil-
ing placed when the
ing placed when the poor and the disad-
vantaged are at the very bottom of the
special needs department?
THE PRESIDENT. We are trying to have
a comprehensive welfare reform program.
The defense budget has been cut, and as
we change from a welfare program that
is not fair to one that is simple and fair
at the same time, we are trying to plow
into it a combination work and welfare
effort.
I want to be sure, for instance, that we
add on to the new welfare program, in ad-
dition to the jobs I have described to you
so far, about 1 million extra jobs. Our
goal is to be sure that every family in the
United States, that at least one member
of that family will have a job, either in
private life or a public job that pays a
wage adequate to finance that family. So,
as we shift away from welfare cost, not
reducing it at all and make it more fair,
more widely spread, with an emphasis
on a job where there is no limit on in-
come, that is a step in the right direction.
1344
