Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 19
tion?" And then saying to ourselves,
"Rise for a just cause. Endanger your life;
it is a present given to you. And create
conditions in which never again will an
enemy raise his hand on a Jewish child
and escape with impunity.”
So we did fight. And we suffered. And
there was great heroism and singing of the
Hatikvah with the last breath in one's
lungs. But ultimately, with God's help-
indeed, only with God's help-we won
the day. We have a country, a parliament,
a government, a land to till, cities to
build, the field to make green, to take in
our persecuted people from scores of
countries, from the Arab lands. We took
in 800,000 of our brethren from the
Arab countries. The others came from
Europe, what we call in Hebrew Sharei
Pleyta—that term is absolutely unknown
to other nations-the remnants of our
people from generation to generation; we
are the remnants of the remnants.
And now we want to have peace, more
than anything in the world to have peace.
We didn't have, in our time, one day of
real peace there with all the tragic events,
and in our own land, terror and blood-
shed, always living on the hinge, always
threatened with extinction and standing
on guard for our people and for human
liberty and for human dignity. This is the
story of our generation.
Therefore, Mr. President, I have come
to you, as the democratically elected
Prime Minister of Israel, with a deep
sense of responsibility. May I inform you,
sir, that our spiritual leadership, the rab-
binate, the day before yesterday asked the
people to pray every day for the success of
my mission. And they decided that there
is a special song to say every day, a people
praving for the success of one's mission.
This is some phenomenon, because they
know we have a great friend, the United
States of America. And we, Israel, are a
faithful ally of the United States. We do
whatever we can to serve the free world.
We contribute to the national security-
as tonight I will show you, Mr. Presi-
dent to the national security of the
United States.
We are a guardian of human liberty
and democracy in the Middle East. We
look around; I don't see any country in
our neighborhood which can, through a
free vote of proud citizens, say one leader-
ship should take a vacation and there
should be another leadership. And then
the transfer of power is being carried out
in so orderly a way-my predecessor
waiting for me in his office; I coming in,
shaking hands, expressing the best feel-
ings for each other, and then the prede-
cessor saying, "Now, take over," and I go-
ing into my office and then, indeed, giv-
ing the first order to bring in the Viet-
namese refugees into our country.
Democracy is beautiful. When you look
at what is happening under tyranny or
whatever comes, and you compare democ-
racy-as Churchill used to say, it also
has its faults, but basically how beauti-
ful is democracy.
We are proud that we are a democracy,
as the United States carries the banner of
democracy. This is our contribution to
freedom, national security of the free
world. We shall continue to do so to the
best of our ability.
Our talks, Mr. President, I do hope,
first of all, will result in the deepening of
the friendship between our countries. One
day, one day I pray for it—perhaps I
will be able to say that in pride I will call
you my friend, in pride. And then our
talks may result in progress towards that
goal called peace.
We must have the sense of urgency, but
we also must have some patience. May I
respectfully submit that I prove to have
1291
