Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 1
1
efficacious means to promote effective
respect for the rights of man;
Express interest in increasing the au-
tonomy and resources of the Commission;
Express their interest in seeking ways to
promote throughout the Hemisphere
broadened programs in the care, protec-
tion and resettlement of political refugees;
and
Strongly support the Costa Rican initia-
tive to create the post of a United Nations
High Commissioner on Human Rights.
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was
released simultaneously in Washington and
Caracas.
National Heart, Blood Vessel,
Lung, and Blood Program
Message to the Congress Transmitting an
Annual Report. July 1, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith a copy of
the Fourth Report of the Director of the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Insti-
tute, prepared in accordance with the
requirements of Sec. 413(b) (2) of the
Public Health Service Act, as amended by
Public Law 94-278. The report contains
two funding plans which have been gen-
erated by the National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute. Both of these proposed
levels are substantially in excess of my
current budget request for 1978. While the
research conducted by this Institute is of
great importance, there are a large num-
ber of competing urgent national needs.
Individual program activities and funding
levels must be carefully considered not
only on the basis of individual program
merit, but also in light of overall resource
availability and fiscal policy.
The White House,
July 1, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Heart,
Blood Vessel, Lung, and Blood Program-
Fourth Report of the Director of the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute" (Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare, 173
pp.).
The message was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Independence Day, 1977
Statement by the President. July 1, 1977
The Fourth of July is Americans' tra-
ditional day of celebration, a chance to
remind ourselves of the heritage we share
with each other and with the men of
great spirit and wise vision who brought
our Nation into being 201 years ago
today.
But July Fourth should also be a day
of reflection. Freedom, the ideal which
created our Nation and continues to give
it meaning throughout the world, has
flourished in human history far more sel-
dom than we would like to believe.
The work of freedom can never be
finished, for freedom is not a temple that
is completed when the last stone is in
place, but a living thing that each gen-
eration must create anew.
In 1977 we must face this task-for
ourselves and for the world—with a re-
newed sense of optimism, confident in the
strength of our own beliefs and in the
signs that other nations share them.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
1209
