Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We have, in addition, many other de-
fense matters that have come to my desk.
Quite often, we have foreign matters that
don't relate to the prospect of war or the
issue of peace. A recent one, concluded
last week, was with the Canadians, on a
means by which we might bring natural
gas down to our country. And this is the
biggest construction project ever under-
taken in the history of the world, and I
think we arrived at a common purpose
there.
We have already implemented the con-
struction of a new Department of Energy.
I approved it this week. Dr. Schlesinger
has been working on this ever since I've
been in office.
We have finished in the House, I think,
substantial legislation to set up an energy
policy that might guide the new Depart-
ment in its functions. We are running into
additional problems in the Senate. The
political pressures are enormous from the
oil companies and others on the subject of
energy. I think the House took very coura-
geous action in this respect, and my hope
and expectation is that the Senate will do
the same.
Welfare reform has been presented to
the House and to the Senate this week in
its final, legally drafted version of legisla-
tion. And before the Congress adjourns
this year, hopefully in October, I will
present to them my tax reform package as
well. This will take a great deal of debate
and study, along with welfare. And that,
obviously, can't be concluded during this
calendar year.
We have, I think, been fairly successful
so far. We've been learning, and I think
that we put together a good organization
here.
I've obviously been concerned recently
about the Bert Lance case, and I've not let
it interfere with my own functions. I don't
think Bert has let it interfere with his
functions as the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget.
This is an agency with which I'm most
intimately involved, personally, on
multiple basis every day. And because of
my own engineering background and my
habits acquired while I was Governor, I
set very specific and rigid time schedules
for the accomplishment of each compo-
nent part of a major undertaking. And I
can assure you that there has been ab-
solutely zero slippage in the Office of
Management and Budget because of this
series of allegations that are now being an-
swered by Bert Lance to the Senate-I
hope, successfully.
We've initiated this year-and this is
the last point I'll make a brand new
budgeting system that I used in Georgia,
called zero-based budgeting. It's a massive
undertaking for a bureaucracy of our size
to completely change its mechanism by
which next year's budget will be prepared.
But the fiscal year '79 budget will be
pre-
pared in its entirety using the zero-based
budgeting technique, where you don't
make any assumptions that present pro-
grams or expenditures are sacred. You
don't just deal with the new additions next
year for the budget considerations, but
you start from zero and analyze the entire
appropriation of funds.
The reorganization effort is on sched-
ule, and I think by the end of the 3-year
period that's been given me by the Con-
gress, we will complete it to the satis-
faction of the people of our country.
I'll be glad now to answer any questions
that you might have.
John [John McCormally, Hawk Eye,
Burlington, Iowa].
QUESTIONS
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, you say you read the
editorials, so I might as well get what's
coming to me. [Laughter] We are very
1616
