Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
United Nations Resolution 242, that we
would meet with them and discuss the
future of the Palestinians in the Middle
East. We have never called on the PLO
to be part of the future negotiations. We
have said that the Palestinian people
should be represented in the future ne-
gotiations. That is one of the three major
elements of any agreement that might
lead to lasting peace-one is the terri-
torial boundaries; the other one is the
Arab countries accepting Israel, to live in
peace as neighbors; and the third one is
some resolution of the Palestinian ques-
tion.
I've never called for an independent
Palestinian country. We have used the
word "entity." And my own preference as
expressed in that talk that I made in New
Jersey, I think, and now, is that we think
that if there is a Palestinian entity estab-
lished on the West Bank, that it ought to
be associated with Jordan, for instance. I
think this was the case among many
Israeli leaders as their preference in the
past.
So, we have been very cautious, very
careful, very consistent in spelling out our
posture on the Middle Eastern settle-
ments. When we have gone around, for
instance-I haven't, but Cy Vance has
gone around to Israel, to Jordan, to Syria,
to Egypt, to Saudi Arabia—to talk about
a future Middle Eastern conference and,
hopefully, a settlement, we have taken the
same exact written set of principles
so there would be no difference among
them, and discussed it with Sadat and
Hussein and Asad and Fahd and with
Mr. Begin, so that there would never
be any allegation on any part of theirs
that we took one position with the Israelis
and a different position with the Arabs.
Sometimes the Israelis would say, “We
don't accept this principle number 4."
Sometimes the Arabs would say, “We
don't accept principle number 1." But
we've tried to negotiate in good faith.
I might say one other thing. We are not
just an idle bystander. We are not just an
uninterested intermediary or mediator.
Our country has a direct, substantial in-
terest in a permanent peace in the Middle
East. And I sincerely hope and I believe
that the nations who live there also want
to have a permanent settlement and a
permanent peace in the Middle East. And
the principles that I described in that
speech, the principles that the Vice Presi-
dent described in a speech he made in
California earlier this year, and the princi-
ples that we espouse in our public and
private conversations with Arabs and
Israelis and with Prime Minister Barre,
yesterday, from France, and others who
are interested, are exactly the same. We've
never deviated.
We have learned a lot. And as we've
learned, we've added additional new items
onto our basic proposal. But ultimately,
the Middle Eastern settlement has got to
be an agreement among the parties in-
volved.
Now, I hope that all the countries are
eager to negotiate in good faith. I hope
that none of them are putting up deliber-
ate obstacles to prevent a Geneva confer-
ence from being convened. That's my
hope and that's my present expectation.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry that I have
to leave. I've enjoyed it. You asked superb
questions, and I always appreciate your
coming.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on September 17.
1624
