July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
supplied by your selection commission to
choose the man to replace Clarence Kel-
ley? And if so, isn't that an indictment of
the manner in which that search was con-
ducted?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet.
When I announced the five names that
had been recommended to me, I pointed
out that we would interview those five.
If one of them is patently the best person
to hold the job of FBI Director, in the
judgment of the Attorney General and
approved by me, then we would go with
those five. But we reserve the right to in-
terview others in addition to the first five
recommended. If we do so, then we would
use the information derived by the search
committee as the basis for our own as-
sessment of those additional candidates.
I've only met so far with two of the five.
think, this week, I'm scheduled to meet
with two others, and I'll meet with the
fifth one. And then the Attorney General
and I will decide together whether or
not to interview others. It's not an indict-
ment of them. I think they did a good job.
We deliberately made public the names of
those whom they did recommend to get
information and so forth from those who
knew the candidates that we would not
have gotten otherwise.
We did not do an FBI, full-field back-
ground check on any of those five candi-
dates or any of the other 225 who were
assessed until they were recommended to
us. And so we are now accumulating in-
formation about the nominees and then
having an interview with them. The At-
torney General meets with them 2 or 3
hours, gives me a report on what he
thinks; I meet with them 15 or 20 minutes
to get acquainted.
And my expectation is that the Attor-
ney General will make a recommendation
to me, and I will go along with his rec-
ommendation. But I will reserve the final
judgment.
RELATIONS WITH THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, could I get back to
relations with the Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Despite the hopes that
you expressed
for better relations, there are several
things that suggest that, in fact, relations
have grown worse between the United
States and the Soviet Union since you took
office. Do you think that's the case, and if
so, where are we headed in this? Are we
seeing an end to the period of détente?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't think so. I
believe that it's inherent that tough and
public debates will accrue when con-
troversial issues are addressed. It would
be very easy for me and the Congress to
get along completely harmoniously if I
never made a proposal and if I agreed
with everything the Congress did and we
didn't address any of the controversial is-
sues like welfare reform, tax reform, re-
organization, or energy policy.
The same thing applies to the Soviet
Union. We have never before made an
attempt with the Soviet Union drastically
to reduce the level of atomic weaponry. In
the past, we've put limits on increasing
production of atomic weaponry. We've
never tried with the Soviet Union to get a
complete prohibition against all testing of
atomic devices. Now we are trying to work
with the Soviet Union to get this very
controversial and very difficult goal
realized.
We've never tried before to work with
the Soviet Union to demilitarize the In-
dian Ocean or to restrict any further mili-
1238
