Aug. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The details of each deferral are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
August 16, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the defer-
rals are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
August 19, 1977.
The message was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Death of Elvis Presley
Statement by the President. August 17, 1977
Elvis Presley's death deprives our coun-
try of a part of itself. He was unique and
irreplaceable. More than 20 years ago, he
burst upon the scene with an impact that
was unprecedented and will probably
never be equaled. His music and his per-
sonality, fusing the styles of white country
and black rhythm and blues, permanently
changed the face of Amerian popular
culture. His following was immense, and
he was a symbol to people the world over
of the vitality, rebelliousness, and good
humor of his country.
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Nomination of Frank M. Johnson, Jr., To Be
Director. August 17, 1977
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Frank M. Johnson,
Jr., Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court
for the Middle District of Alabama, to be
Director of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation.
Judge Johnson was appointed United
States Attorney for the Northern District
of Alabama in 1953, serving in that post
until he was appointed to the Federal
bench by President Eisenhower in 1955.
Judge Johnson became nationally
known because of a series of decisions in
civil rights cases, beginning with the
famous Montgomery bus boycott case.
He sat as a member of the three-judge
court that abolished the Alabama poll
tax; that handed down the first order re-
quiring a State to reapportion its voting
districts; that produced the first reappor-
tionment plan designed by judges; that in
1967, ordered the desegregation of over
100 Alabama school districts-the first
such statewide ruling in the Nation and
one of the most important school orders
since the Supreme Court decision of
1954.
In the field of women's rights, he was
a member of the panel that gave women
the right to serve on juries in the State
courts of Alabama, and he was the first
United States District Judge in the South
to put women on Federal juries after the
1957 Civil Rights Act made it possible.
He has ruled that an employer in con-
sidering employees for promotion may
not discriminate against women on ac-
count of their sex, and that female sales-
clerks in department stores must be paid
the same as male salesclerks. He was a
member of the three-judge court called
upon to decide a female Air Force offi-
cer's suit seeking benefits for dependents
of female military personnel equal to
those enjoyed by male personnel.
During the 22 years that Judge John-
son has been a Federal judge, in the trial
of both criminal and civil cases, he has
had the opportunity to appraise the per-
formance of the FBI investigative tech-
niques and procedures. He is familiar
with the scope of the FBI's jurisdiction
1478
