Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
while not interfering with their legitimate
medical use.
I supported change in law to end Fed-
eral criminal penalties for possession of up
to one ounce of marijuana, leaving the
States free to adopt whatever laws they
wish concerning marijuana. Decriminali-
zation is not legalization. I do not con-
done any drug abuse, and we'll do every-
thing possible to reduce the serious threat
to our society. Federal civil penalties
should be continued as a deterrent to the
possession and use of marijuana.
Drug research and treatment programs
will also be improved to lessen the adverse
effect of drugs on the lives of our people.
But it's ultimately the strength of the peo-
ple of our country, of our values and of
our society that will determine whether
we can be successful in our fight against
drug abuse.
The seriousness of this problem has
caused us all in the Government, this first
6 months of my own administration, to
try to come up with a coherent proposal
to the Congress and with administrative
action, both within our own country and
in our relations with other nations.
The center of this effort, now and in
the future, is and will be Dr. Peter Bourne,
a man of international reputation, and
has been an expert in the control of the
production, transport, and treatment of
the drug problem. Dr. Bourne is my per-
sonal adviser on this subject, and he will
now be available to answer your questions
about any aspects of the drug problem.
Dr. Bourne.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Drug Abuse
Message to the Congress. August 2, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Drug abuse continues to be a serious
social problem in America. The lives of
hundreds of thousands of people are
blighted by their dependence on drugs.
Many communities remain unsafe because
of drug-related street crime, and the im-
mense profits made in the illicit drug
traffic help support the power and influ-
ence of organized crime. Among young
American men aged 18-24 years, drugs
are the fourth most common cause of
death: only automobile accidents, homi-
cides, and suicides rank higher. The esti-
mated cost of drug abuse in America ex-
ceeds 15 billion dollars each year. Among
some minority groups, the incidence of
addiction and the harm it inflicts are
disproportionate.
Drug addiction, which in recent years
was viewed as a problem peculiar to
America, now affects people throughout
the world. We can no longer concern our-
selves merely with keeping illicit drugs
out of the United States, but we must join
with other nations to deal with this global
problem by combating drug traffickers and
sharing our knowledge and resources to
help treat addiction wherever it occurs.
We must set realistic objectives, giving
our foremost attention domestically to
those drugs that pose the greatest threat to
health, and to our ability to reduce crime.
Since heroin, barbiturates and other
sedative/hypnotic drugs account for 90
percent of the deaths from drug abuse,
they should receive our principal em-
phasis.
1400
