Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
DON TUCKER
Q. Mr. President, do you plan to with-
draw your nomination of Don Tucker to
the CAB, and do you think the Lance
matter has hurt that?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't any inten-
tions to withdraw the nomination. I un-
derstand that there has been some con-
cern raised within the committee. I have
not received that report; I've just read
about it in the news. But I will look into it,
and if there are some provable allegations
there that I didn't know about when the
recommendation was made, then I would
certainly reconsider. But I don't have any
intention now, knowing what I know, to
withdraw the recommendation.
Tucker is speaker of the house in Florida.
He's been recommended strongly by the
two Senators in Florida. He's been recom-
mended strongly by Governor Reubin
Askew from Florida. And I don't even
know what the reason for the hesitancy in
the Senate staff is at this point.
SUGAR PRICE SUPPORTS
Don
think that a 132-cent sugar price is about
the minimum that would be advisable,
both for domestic producers and also for
imported sugar. We have supported the
new farm bill which provides price sup-
ports until the international sugar agree-
ment can be implemented.
I did this reluctantly, as you may know.
We did not support the de la Garza
amendment in its original form and ac-
cepted it only if the conferees would agree
that the price support mechanism would
be terminated at the time an international
sugar agreement was reached, if the inter-
national sugar agreement encompassed a
price of about 132 cents.
Tariffs are a terrible thing to impose,
because many of our friends in Latin
America depend heavily upon sugar. One
of the most democratic nations in the
world derives almost its entire income
from the export of sugar. And for us to
put an obstacle to their shipment of
sugar to our country would, I think, al-
most destroy their economy, their govern-
ment, probably shift it toward a complete
Q. Mr. President, during the House- dependence on totalitarian assistance and
Senate conference committee on this
year's agriculture act, an administration.
spokesman said he felt that tariffs should
be used-or tariffs would be used to main-
tain the price of sugar, rather than a
price support program of Government
subsidies.
Yesterday, Secretary of Agriculture
Bergland announced that a payments pro-
gram, very similar to the one declared
illegal by the Comptroller General, was
going to be proposed. Why are you insist-
ing on Government subsidies rather than
tariffs or import restrictions to support
the price of sugar? And, secondly, do you
think that sugar prices should be sup-
ported at all?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think that
sugar prices ought to be supported. I
would not be fair, as well.
We've tried to avoid a protectionist
policy since I've been in office. And I
think the best way to do it is through in-
ternational agreements that, in effect, set
minimum and maximum prices for com-
modities whose prices, without constraint,
fluctuate so wildly.
We've seen this happen in the case of
coffee. We've seen it happen in the case
of sugar, where it went almost up to a
dollar and then dropped down to about 8
cents. Well, we can accommodate that.
It's devastating to a sugar farmer or to
the sugar producers, but our national
economy is so varied that we can accom-
modate it. But for a country where 85
percent of all their exports is sugar, this
is devastating.
1622
