July 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
mistake, as I said in my press conference
yesterday, to condemn Mr. Begin about
this action because this was a campaign
commitment he made. I think what he
did was in consonance with the desires of
the Israeli people.
But I don't want anybody to misunder-
stand our feelings about it. We think it's
wrong to establish these settlements, it's
wrong to insinuate that they are legal, it's
certainly wrong to ever claim that they
are permanent. And to establish new set-
tlements would be even more unsettling
to their Arab neighbors, as we try to go to
Geneva in a good spirit of compromise
and cooperation, than the allocation of
legality by the Government to those al-
ready in existence.
Q. Well, this hasn't passed your opti-
mism for a resumption of a peace con-
ference in Geneva?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I'm still optimis-
tic about it. But it's an additional obstacle
that we had not anticipated.
POWER FAILURE IN NEW YORK
Q. With that concern for the cities,
how and why did you arrive at the de-
cision not to declare New York a Federal
disaster area after the blackout in the
city?
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't consider it
to fall in the legal definition of a disaster
area. Those definitions are established
very clearly in the Federal law. And the
department leaders involved, Patricia
Harris in HUD and others, analyzed the
situation in New York as best we could,
analyzed the definition of a disaster area
in the law, and found out that it didn't
match.
We did make a special allocation
through Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, Commerce, EDA, Labor, and other
departments—including the Justice De-
partment, to expedite the hearings on
those that were accused of looting-I
think a total package of about $11.4
million. I doubt that any more money
would have been allocated to the city if
it had received an official declaration. So
we did all we could within the bounds
of the law to recognize the problem in
New York.
Q. Thank you, sir.
OPENNESS WITH AMERICAN PUBLIC
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all. I'm
sorry I have to go, but I've got another
meeting in a few minutes. I've enjoyed
it, and I hope that you had a chance to
meet with some of our staff members.
I didn't make a speech at first, but I
would like to say that it's important to us
to have you come here. We learn, I'm
sure, a lot more from listening to your
questions and from my staff members
talking to you about domestic and foreign
affairs than you learn from us.
And I think it's important for your
readers and listeners and viewers to know
that this is their White House, and that
we don't have anything to conceal here.
We've made mistakes. We're obviously
going to make them, like you do at home
in your own business. But we don't try
to cover up, conceal anything.
I've enjoyed the press conferences
twice a week. Cy Vance has a press con-
ference every month. It happens to be
this afternoon.
And on many of the controversial issues
that in the past have been decided in a
very secret way between the Secretary of
State and the President, for instance, are
now discussed openly with the American
people. I feel that's a good move. It ex-
poses our doubts and uncertainties and
controversies on occasion, but after that
debate goes back and forth in the Con-
gress and throughout the Nation, among
American people, we monitor that opinion
very closely. And I think that by the time
I make a decision—which may or may
1394
