Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 12
needed is to have the American people
become supportive of an overall energy
package, component parts of which were
not attractive. And this is what I tried to
do, is to let the American people know
the importance of it, to let them know the
difficulty of it, to let them know some of
the consequences if the Congress didn't
hear from the public and didn't have pub-
lic support.
Obviously, the special interest groups,
some of whom are quite benevolent, are
here, and their voice is heard every hour
or every day by every Member of Con-
gress. That would include the UAW, the
automobile manufacturers, the oil and gas
producers, the electric power companies,
large manufacturing entities, and so forth.
They all let their voice be heard. But
when you don't hear from the general
public, the consumers, there's an unbal-
anced impression made on the Congress,
and the Members of Congress need some
support.
So, I think the speech has been almost
universally praised by the Members of
Congress, and we've probably checked
with 60 or 70 of them. I don't know
of anyone that thought it was a wrong
tone.
It also pointed out that this legislation
is extremely complicated, extremely diffi-
cult, extremely technical, and not popu-
lar, and that it's not a test of strength
or will between the President and the
Congress, between the House and the
Senate. It's not even a test of will between
the oil and gas producers and the oil and
gas consumers. It's really a test of our na-
tional will to deal with a complicated
question in a forceful and courageous
way.
And the other thing I want to point out
is just one thing on the imports. It's a
direct threat to our security to be increas-
ingly dependent upon imports. We've
gotten up now to where roughly 50 per-
cent of our oil that we burn in this coun-
try or use in this country comes from
overseas. This is creating about a $45
billion cost to our Nation this year.
If we didn't have oil, we'd have about
a $15 or $20 [billion] trade surplus. As it
is, we are going to wind up with about a
$30 billion trade deficit. And that's $30
billion that goes out of our economy that
could be used to build new factories, to
expand presently existing businesses, and
to provide new jobs. And it's getting
worse.
It's almost like a hemorrhage, and un-
less we do take this action, we're going to
be in very serious problems in the future
economically, militarily, and for the bene-
fit of our country's living standards.
NEWS LEAKS ON SALT NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Don Corbet, the Arkansas Radio
Network. I was talking to our Senator
Bumpers earlier this week. He seems ex-
tremely concerned, sitting on a subcom-
mittee that heard bimonthly reports on the
SALT talks, about the news leaks and to
the effect that they might have an effect on
the SALT talks themselves. Do you have
a comment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's one of the
most difficult things I've had to face in
Washington, how to deal with breaches of
secrecy. It's obvious that the American
people need to know what's going on, but
I'm not in a position, as President, to go
to the American people and reveal our
negotiating positions when I and Presi-
dent Brezhnev, our negotiators and the
Soviet negotiators, have agreed to keep
the negotiating points confidential until
some agreement is reached.
I think the revelation of the details of
our negotiating position has been ill-ad-
2017
