Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
come vary from $720 per year in Missis-
sippi to $5,954 in Hawaii.
-It provides incentives for family
breakup. In most cases two-parent fami-
lies are not eligible for cash assistance and,
therefore, a working father often can in-
crease his family's income by leaving
home. In Michigan a two-parent family
with the father working at the minimum
wage has a total income, including tax
credits and food stamps, of $5,922. But if
the father leaves, the family will be eli-
gible for benefits totalling $7,076.
-It discourages work. In one Mid-
western state, for example, a father who
leaves part-time employment paying
$2,400 for a full-time job paying $4,800
reduces his family's income by $1,250.
-Efforts to find jobs for current recipi-
ents have floundered.
-The complexity of current programs
leads to waste, fraud, red tape, and errors.
HEW has recently discovered even gov-
ernment workers unlawfully receiving
benefits, and numbers of people receive
benefits in more than one jurisdiction at
the same time.
The solutions to these problems are not
easy and no solution can be perfect; but
it is time to begin. The welfare system is
too hopeless to be cured by minor modifi-
cations. We must make a complete and
clean break with the past.
People in poverty want to work, and
most of them do. This program is intended
to give them the opportunity for self-
support by providing jobs for those who
need them, and by increasing the rewards
from working for those who earn low
wages.
PROGRAM SUMMARY
The Program for Better Jobs and In-
come has the following major elements:
-Strengthened services through the
employment and training system for
placement in the private sector jobs.
-Creation of up to 1.4 million public
service and training positions for principal
earners in families with children, at or
slightly above the minimum wage through
state and local government and non-profit
sponsors.
-An expansion of the Earned Income
Tax Credit to provide an income supple-
ment of up to a maximum of well over
$600 for a family of four through the tax
system, by a 10% credit for earnings up
to $4,000, a 5% credit for earnings
from $4,000 to the entry point of
the positive tax system, and a declin-
ing 10% credit thereafter until phase-out.
A major share of the benefit will accrue
to hard-pressed workers with modest in-
comes struggling successfully to avoid
welfare.
-Strong work requirements applying
to single persons, childless couples and
family heads, with work requirements of
a more flexible nature for single-parent
family heads with children aged 7 to 14.
Single-parent family heads with pre-
school aged children are not required to
work.
-A Work Benefit for two-parent fami-
lies, single-parent families with older chil-
dren, singles and childless couples. The
Federal benefit for a family of four would
be a maximum of $2,300 and, after $3,800
of earnings, would be reduced fifty cents
for each dollar of earnings.
-Income Support for single-parent
families with younger children and aged,
blind or disabled persons. The Federal
benefit would be a base of $4,200 for a
family of four and would be reduced fifty
cents for each dollar of earnings.
-New eligibility requirements for cash
assistance which insure that benefits go to
those most in need.
-Fiscal relief to States and localities of
$2 billion in the first year, growing in sub-
sequent years.
1452
