Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
per thousand cubic feet if that would
mean that it would get passed?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I haven't ex-
cluded any reasonable compromise solu-
tion from a bill that I would sign. My
only requirements are that the bill in my
judgment be fair to the consumers of this
country, that the bill in my judgment
give an adequate shift away from exces-
sive consumption of oil and natural gas to
other alternative supplies and also have
conservation of energy on top of that and
also that the bill not bankrupt the Na-
tion, not be too great a burden on the
budget itself.
If those requirements are met, then I
will sign the bill. I still favor the proposal
that I made to the Congress last April 20,
and very close to that is what the House
passed back in August. I can see good in-
dications of compromise solutions that
would meet my requirements that have
already been divulged to me by conferees.
When I come back from my overseas trip
in 10 days from now, we will play an ac-
tive role in trying to encourage the Sen-
ate leadership and the conferees to ne-
gotiate with a great deal of enthusiasm.
And I think there will be a growing reali-
zation in our country of the importance
of this bill.
It hurts our domestic economy, it hurts
our foreign economy, it weakens the
price, the value of the dollar. We im-
ported this year about $45 billion worth
of oil in addition to what we consumed
of our own oil. It's a very heavy drain
on our economy, on international oil sup-
plies, and the Nation needs it very badly.
And I think as the conferees and the
Members of Congress see this need in a
more and more dramatic way expressed
here in our own country and by leaders
overseas, then I think they will act. We've
also had encouraging word from the
OPEC nations this past week when they
froze the price of oil for another year. I
think they did that at least partially on
the basis that the Congress would act to
cut down on the excessive consumption of
oil in this country.
And I think there will be a great pres-
sure internationally for increased prices
of oil and, therefore, higher inflation if
the Congress doesn't act. It is a very im-
portant issue. I think most of the Con-
gress Members still now feel the import-
ance of what they are about to do. I
don't think there's any doubt that they
will pass this legislation early in the
session.
DOMESTIC ISSUES
MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, looking
back a little retrospectively over your first
year
in domestic issues, is there any do-
mestic issue which just baffles you?
THE PRESIDENT. There are a lot of
them that I don't completely compre-
hend. I've been criticized for introducing
too much legislation. I've been criticized
for not introducing enough legislation.
I've been criticized for dealing too much
in specifics and trying to learn too much
about the Government and how it works,
how the economy functions and what the
Congress does, the attitudes and orga-
nization of the Congress and the Federal
Government agencies.
But this is my nature. I think having
come into Washington for the first time
to serve in the Federal Government, I had
an obligation to learn. I enjoy it. And I
obviously realize that there are many
things that I don't completely compre-
hend.
UNEMPLOYMENT
MR. MACNEIL. I had an example in
mind of a particularly intractable thing
about which in the plethora of proposals
that have come out there is no sort of
very innovative solution yet, and that is
2197
