Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 4
United Nations
Remarks to Members of the U.S. Delegation
and U.S. Officials of the United Nations
Secretariat. October 4, 1977
In case you're wondering, additionally,
who I am, I'm the one who works for
Andy Young. [Laughter]
I know it's not appropriate for me to
charge you with a special responsibility
just to our own great Nation alone, be-
cause in a special way you represent the
United States in an expanded role. You
work in the international community
which we were very grateful to have
come, with its headquarters, to our free
country.
In the past years there has been, I
think, a constant growth in the influence
of the United Nations. And more and
more, there has been a realization that
without the U.N. there could be no reso-
lution of any regional disputes and prob-
lems and the realization of hopes that, if
thwarted, could possibly even embroil our
own country in warfare quite unneces-
sarily.
I, myself, have a deep commitment to
the United Nations and want to see its
role expanded in the future. The world is
too complex to be dealt with even as well
as in the past by one powerful country or
three or four powerful countries. The
other nations of the world resent it, and
it's much better to have a forum where
each nation's voice can be heard.
I want to say, also, that there's a special
reason for the U.N. to be in our country.
This kind of a kinship sometimes goes un-
recognized because our Nation for the last
200 years has, in effect, done what the
United Nations has done in the last 32
years.
There's hardly a country represented
in this body now or its predecessors that
doesn't have citizens who come to our
country to learn how to get along with
one another, to share religious compat-
ibilities and differences, to compare so-
cial compatibilities and differences, to
share past political compatibilities and
differences.
Those who have been mortal enemies
in the heart of Europe or in Africa or
other parts of the world, when they come
here to our country to be citizens, they've
had to learn to live in harmony. And at
the same time, they've also preserved their
own precious heritage in a unique and
very proud and effective way.
The foundation of the United Nations,
as you know, is similar to our own. The
Charter of the United Nations, signed in
1945, I believe, has as its basic premise
individual freedom, the reaching for a
higher capacity for human life, existence
with the worth of each human protected,
a search for equality of opportunity.
These kinds of bases, not coincidentally,
exist in both our own Constitution and
Declaration of Independence and in the
United Nations Charter.
I think it's accurate to say that there
is a growing realization that the United
Nations is accepted better by the Ameri-
can people. It hasn't always been a fact
that the U.N. could take the major re-
sponsibility in a potential trouble spot
like Namibia and retain that role, deal
with South Africa, deal with SWAPO,
deal with the other nations in southern
Africa, deal with the other parts of the
world who are interested.
I know that as far as our own role is
concerned in Zimbabwe, we and the
British are very eager to see the United
Nations come in and play a larger and
larger role.
Just the prevention of war is certainly
not enough. But the enhancement of ed-
ucation opportunities, better health care
for the people of the world, a searching
out of commerce, dealing with the laws
1725
