Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 31
highest levels, as well as visits by other
leading personalities of both countries,
serve the interests of both countries and
the development of détente and interna-
tional cooperation.
President Carter expressed his gratitude
to the First Secretary and to Mrs. Gierek
for the splendid hospitality accorded in
Poland to him, Mrs. Carter, and the en-
tire delegation.
President Carter invited First Secretary
Gierek to visit the United States. The in-
vitation was accepted with pleasure. The
dates for this visit will be agreed upon
through diplomatic channels.
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was
released at Warsaw, Poland.
Tehran, Iran
Remarks of the President and Mohammad
Reza Palavi, Shahanshah of Iran at the
Welcoming Ceremony. December 31, 1977
THE SHAH. Mr. President, on behalf of
the Shahbanou, myself, and the Iranian
people, I welcome you, Mrs. Carter, and
your delegation on Iranian soil.
We cherish your arrival as the head of
state of a country with which Iran always
had unshakable bonds and the best of
relations and at the same time as an
exalted friend and a most esteemed guest.
We sincerely hope that you will take
back with you happy memories of your
short visit to our country, and in the
meantime we sincerely hope that all the
stages of your present trip will be marked
by the best of successes.
For the Shahbanou and I, it is great
pleasure to be your host only a few weeks
after our trip to your country. Your dis-
tinguished personality, sincerity, good
will, moral virtues, and also the hospitality
and kindness of Mrs. Carter have re-
mained close to our hearts.
On behalf of all the people of Iran,
welcome to our country.
THE PRESIDENT. Your Imperial Maj-
esties, distinguished officials, and citizens
of Iran:
My own Nation has been blessed this
year by an official visit of His Imperial
Majesty, the Shah, and by the Shah-
banou, Empress Farah. This was a fine
gesture of friendship. And we also bene-
fited from extensive discussions between
the Shah and myself of important issues
for Iran and for the United States. I am
proud and pleased to be able to come to
Iran at the end of this year, my first year
in office and, I believe, your 27th year
(37th year)¹ as a leader of this great
nation, and to begin another new year
with our close friends and allies.
In these times of endings and begin-
nings, I look forward to consulting with
the Shah about two of the issues that have
most dominated our thoughts in the
year
just past and will require our best actions
in the years ahead.
One is finding solutions to the eco-
nomic problems of the world's rich and
the world's poor. None of these problems
is more important than that of energy.
Neither producer nor consumer nations
can survive and prosper if we recklessly
exhaust the world's limited supplies of
oil, and neither group of nations can
solve the problem without the coopera-
tion of the other. It is because my Nation
takes this problem seriously that we are
determined soon to have a comprehensive
energy plan designed to eliminate waste
and to develop alternate sources of energy
supplies. We are cooperating closely with
Iran, and it is because I respect the
leadership of the Shah in this area that
1 Printed in the White House press release.
2217
