Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
something that we cannot undo except by the painstaking process of nego-
tiation. But the existence of these weapons does not mean that other
nations need to develop their own weapons any more than it provides a
reason for those of us who have them to share them with others.
Rather, it imposes two solemn obligations on the nations which have
the capacity to export nuclear fuel and nuclear technology-the obliga-
tions to meet legitimate energy needs and, in doing so, to ensure that
nothing that we export contributes directly or indirectly to the production
of nuclear explosives. That is why the supplier nations are seeking a
common policy, and that is why the United States and the Soviet Union,
even as we struggle to find common ground in the SALT talks, have
already moved closer toward agreement and cooperation in our efforts to
limit nuclear proliferation.
I believe that the London Suppliers Group must conclude its work
as it's presently constituted so that the world security will be safeguarded
from the pressures of commercial competition. We have learned it is not
enough to safeguard just some facilities or some materials. Full-scope,
comprehensive safeguards are necessary.
Two weeks from now in our own country, more than 30 supplier and
consuming nations will convene for the International Fuel Cycle Evalua-
tion, which we proposed last spring. For the next several years experts
will work together on every facet of the nuclear fuel cycle.
The scientists and the policymakers of these nations will face a tre-
mendous challenge. We know that by the year 2000, nuclear power re-
actors could be producing enough plutonium to make tens of thousands of
bombs every year.
I believe from my own personal knowledge of this issue that there are
ways to solve the problems that we face. I believe that there are alternative
fuel cycles that can be managed safely on a global basis. I hope, therefore,
that the International Fuel Cycle Evaluation will have the support and
the encouragement of every nation.
I've heard it said that efforts to control nuclear proliferation are
futile, that the genie is already out of the bottle. I do not believe this to
be true. It should not be forgotten that for 25 years the nuclear club did
not expand its membership. By genuine cooperation, we can make certain
that this terrible club expands no further.
Now, I've talked about the special problems of nuclear arms control
and nuclear proliferation at length. Let me turn to the problem of con-
ventional arms control, which affects potentially or directly every nation
1718
