Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 30
and constructive and also instructive for
both him and me.
He'll be received with the kind of
friendship that's always been a charac-
teristic of the American people's attitude
toward Israel. An overwhelming consid-
eration for us is the preservation of Israel
as a free and independent and, hopefully,
peaceful nation. That is preeminent. At
the same time, I believe that it has been
good during this year, when I hope we
can reach a major step toward a peace-
ful resolution in the Middle East, to have
the discussions much more open, to en-
courage the Arab nations and Israel to
frankly understand some of the feelings
that each of them has toward the other,
and to address the basic questions of
territories, the definition of peace, the
Palestinian question.
I really think it is best for this next
roughly 3 weeks before Mr. Begin comes
that we refrain from additional comments
on specifics because I think we've covered
the specifics adequately. And if I or some-
one in the State Department or some-
one on my staff emphasizes territory and
the definition of peace, the immediate re-
sponse is: Why didn't you say something
about the Palestinians, and so forth. So, I
believe that we've discussed it adequately.
I believe all the issues are fairly clearly
defined. It's accurate to say that our own
Nation has no plan or solution that we
intend to impose on anyone. We'll act
to the degree that the two sides trust us
in the role of an intermediary or media-
tor, and I still have high hopes that this
year might lead toward peace.
But it will never be with any sort of
abandonment of our deep and perma-
nent commitment to Israel. And I have
made this clear in specific terms to every
Arab leader who has been to our
country.
SUPPORT OF DEMOCRATIC PARTY
CANDIDATES
Q. Mr. President, as the leader of
the Democratic Party, how important do
you believe it is for Democratic leaders
on the State and local level to support
the nominees of their party even when
their preferred candidates may happen
to lose in a primary? And, second, sir,
do you plan to support the Democratic
nominee for mayor of New York City
regardless of who it may be?
THE PRESIDENT. My general belief is
that Democrats ought to support the
Democratic nominees. I have not ever
violated that premise in my own voting
habits. I've never departed from voting
for a Democratic nominee after they were
chosen. My own inclination is to stay
clear of Democratic primaries. Let the
Democrats in a particular State or ju-
risdiction make their own choice.
But I think every Democrat, every
American can reserve the right to par-
ticipate with varying degrees of commit-
ment or intensity or enthusiasm. And
I would certainly not ever disavow a
Democratic candidate unless he was
completely abhorrent to me, which I
think would be highly unlikely.
So, in general, I think Democrats
ought to support their nominees. But I'm
going to be fairly reluctant to inject my-
self directly and personally in very many
elections around the country. We do
have two important gubernatorial elec-
tions this year, and I think all Democrats
will be looking with great interest on the
outcome of the general election in Vir-
ginia and also New Jersey. And I hope
personally that the Democratic candidates
win. But that's a decision for the people in
Virginia and New Jersey to make.
As far as New York is concerned, I
1201
