Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
grains next year will be, I think, an indi-
cation of my understanding of the farm
needs. And I think the increase in sup-
port price and target prices for the '77
crops will also help.
But I would guess that political popu-
larity with the President will always go
up and down, depending upon the general
attitude of farmers.
When I wasn't in office, I used to cuss
the President and cuss the Secretary of
Agriculture when my crop was poor. And
when it was good, of course, I didn't give
the President and the Secretary of Agri-
culture any credit for it. I figured it was
because of me.
And so, my answer in a nutshell is, I
don't think that I've varied much in my
political support among farm families. I
do think that the new legislation that I've
helped to provide will be an indication
that the farm families can trust me not
only to understand their problems but to
carry out my campaign commitments.
TRADE WITH THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA
Q. Mr. President, several times this
morning in our conversations with people
on your staff, the question was raised
about penetrating the Chinese market
with American exports. And thus far,
we've been effectively shut out. And I'm
wondering if this is a concern of yours?
THE PRESIDENT. It is. Nothing would
please me more than to see our trade with
all the nations in the world build up.
There's some question now about the
result of the Russians' crop year. There's
a possibility they might buy 5 million more
tons of food grains, for instance. We don't
know that yet. I would hope that we could
provide the major part of that to the
Soviet Union. As you know, we have a
permanent contract now with them, a
multiyear contract, for the sale of specified
quantities of wheat.
Since Nixon went to China, there has
been, first of all, a brief flurry of trade
with China—nothing earthshaking, but at
least some and there's been a steady de-
crease since then.
I think the Chinese have, this past 8
or 9 months, bought large quantities of
wheat from some of the other countries-
Canada, Argentina, and perhaps, Aus-
tralia. I would like to see us get our share
of those Chinese purchases, and we are
doing everything we can to meet that
goal. This was one of the items on the
agenda when Secretary Vance met with
the new Chinese leaders.
Q. What are some of the roadblocks
immediately to trading with China, as you
said?
THE PRESIDENT. It's a very compli-
cated question. Let me give you one ex-
ample. We have an old claims question
with China that has never yet been re-
solved. When the Communist Chinese
took over from Chiang Kai-shek 35 years
ago or so, they confiscated some property
that was owned by Americans. In retali-
ation for that, we impounded Chinese
bank deposits and other financial re-
sources in this country. The amount of
$200 million. We've never yet been able
money involved is in the neighborhood of
to work out with the Chinese an agree-
ment of how to settle those counterclaims.
There are lawsuits involved on our part.
For instance, if a Chinese ship should
come into, say, New Orleans or to Los
Angeles to load a cargo of wheat, that ship
would be subject to impoundment by
some American citizen who still claims
they've got property in China and the
Chinese owe it for them. I would guess
that the American courts would uphold
that American citizen's claim. That's one
of the complicated obstacles to it.
1708
