Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
an adequate chance to participate in that.
Historically in our country, the President
and the Senate, ratifying a treaty, has
been able to take action as we are taking
now.
Q. Mr. President, I am Sue Joshel from
Denver. You told us that a number of
Congressmen who are now against the
treaty will eventually go over to Panama.
And you are pretty sure that they will
come back and have their minds changed.
What will it be-what will they hear and
see which will change their minds?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, I
you know, I
can't really predict the details, and it may
be presumptuous of me to think that the
Senators who go down there will all come
back convinced that the treaties will be
advantageous. I can't say that for sure.
But my own experience so far has been
that as people in a position of responsibil-
ity, like you all and the other public lead-
ers, have studied the treaties and under-
stand the provisions and the advantages to
our country in carrying out the treaties,
they've become convinced that it was
good.
I've seen a shift among Senators who
being ratified. And now the UAW, the
AFL-CIO, and others who represent
those American workers in the canal for
the first time have endorsed the treaties.
Maybe one more question. We've just
about run out of time.
Q. My name is Abbott Sekaquaptewa,
Mr. President. I'm the chairman of the
Hopi Indian Tribal Council from Ari-
zona.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
Q. This afternoon we have heard many
things, and as I understand it, one of the
goals of the treaty is to channel our rela-
tions to a more positive atmosphere, not
only in the Western Hemisphere but in
the larger world community, in the proc-
ess to give a better status and self-respect
and better opportunities to the Panama-
nians in the process.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Now, based on your support for
these treaties I would like to know, my
people would like to know, I'm sure, does
this then set a policy for your admin-
istration and the administration of in-
ternal decisions made for the Indian peo-
pire to?
ple of this country with the same high
give me their private commitments to-goals as these two treaties seem to as-
ward approval for the treaties themselves.
One thing that has always been a con-
sideration is how do the American citizens
who live in the zone have their rights
guaranteed.
Whenever we've discussed that point
with the negotiators, we have had repre-
sentatives of the citizens there in the meet-
ings themselves and also labor leaders who
in the past have opposed the treaties. But
we have guaranteed the right in the
treaties themselves for American citizens
to have their jobs protected, to have pro-
motion rights, to have all their retirement
benefits protected.
So, that was one of the major obstacles
in the past that did exist to the treaties
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes,
it does. Thank you, sir.
I see you represent the American Le-
gion?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm a Legionnaire
myself. I want to have
your question.
Q. Mr. President, I'd just like to make
a few comments here. I'm Harry Taylor,
State commander of the Republic of New
Mexico American Legion. I have the
pleasure, of course, to address you
now, Mr. President, and explain the po-
sition of the American Legion in regard
to the Panama Canal, the Canal Zone.
1892
