Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 28
intercommunal talks and, more impor-
tantly, have sought to ensure that, once
these do reconvene, there will be meaning-
ful discussion of the major unresolved
issues.
We directed our attention to this goal
during the special U.N. Security Council
consideration of the Cyprus issue re-
quested by the Government of Cyprus in
late August and early September. A con-
sensus resolution eventually emerged that
was both equitable and nonpolemical,
which called upon the parties to avoid
provocative acts and resume intercom-
munal negotiations.
At the same time, we consulted with the
Greek and Turkish governments to set
the stage for a series of meetings in New
York in which Secretary Vance and my
lasting settlement, and that we stand
ready, as in the past, to support the cur-
rent U.N. negotiating effort in any way
we can. President Kyprianou in turn as-
sured me of his people's earnest desire for
a settlement and of their hope that the
United States can help bring this about.
In sum, therefore, I believe that I can
record here as I have not been able to
do in the last two such reports-a cautious
anticipation that movement toward mean-
ingful Cyprus negotiations may soon be
possible.
The White House,
October 28, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Special Representative, Clark Clifford, National Science Foundation
met with President Kyprianou and For-
eign Minister Christofides of Cyprus and
with Foreign Ministers Bitsios and Cag-
layangil of Greece and Turkey. These
New York meetings have encouraged us to
believe that progress on Cyprus may be
possible in the months ahead. We noted
a growing recognition in the region that
a just solution to the Cyprus issue will
serve the long-term interests of all the na-
tions in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Secretary Vance also met in New York
with U.N. Secretary General Waldheim
and with the Foreign Ministers of Great
Britain, the Federal Republic of Germany,
and other interested Western allies. All
view the situation in the Eastern Mediter-
ranean much as we do, and urgently wish
to see progress towards a Cyprus settle-
ment.
So too do the Cypriots. While in New
York for the U.N. General Assembly, I
had a useful discussion with Cyprus Pres-
ident Spyros Kyprianou. I assured him
that the United States sincerely wishes to
help the people of Cyprus find a just and
Nomination of James A. Krumhansl To Be
an Assistant Director. October 28, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate James A. Krumhansl, of
Trumansburg, N.Y., to be an Assistant
Director of the National Science Founda-
tion. He would replace Edward C. Creutz,
resigned.
Krumhansl was born August 2, 1919,
in Cleveland, Ohio. He received a B.S. in
electrical engineering from the University
of Dayton in 1939, an M.S. from Case
Institute of Technology in 1940, and a
Ph. D. in physics from Cornell University
in 1943.
Krumhansl was a physicist for the
Stromberg-Carlson Co. from 1944 to
1946, and was on the faculty at Brown
University from 1946 to 1948. He was on
the faculty at Cornell University from
1948 to 1955, serving as an assistant pro-
fessor, then associate professor.
Krumhansl was at the National Carbon
Co. from 1955 to 1958, serving as assist-
ant, then associate, director of research.
1929
