Sept. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
21st session of the General Conference of
the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA), which is scheduled to be held
in Vienna, Austria, from September 26 to
October 3.
Rochlin was born June 25, 1922, in
New York. He received a B.E.E. in 1944
and a Ph.D. in 1952 from Cornell Univer-
sity. He served in the U.S. Navy from
1944 to 1949.
From 1951 to 1963, Rochlin was a
physicist with General Electric Co. in
Schenectady, N.Y. He has been with the
U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency since 1963, serving as a physical
science officer (1963-66), Chief of the
Office of Policy-Measures and Research
(1966-68), Chief of Policy-Measures
Division, Bureau of Science and Technol-
ogy (1968-74), Chief of the Strategic
Arms Division (1974-76), Chief of the
Weapons Technology Division (1976-
77), and since 1977 has been Deputy
Assistant Director of the Bureau of Non-
Proliferation.
Rochlin is coauthor of "Radioisotopes
for Industry," "National Bureau of
Standards Handbook 66," "The Tech-
nical Problems of Arms Control," and the
author of numerous articles.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Eric M. Gairy of Grenada
Exchange of Remarks With Reporter
Following the Meeting. September 9, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Sam [Sam Don-
aldson, ABC News]. Do you have a ques-
tion about Grenada?
Q. The former U.S. attorney in At-
lanta, a man named Stokes, says that peo-
ple in your administration withheld FBI
reports from the committee on Bert
Lance. Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. Not as far as I know.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 2:45
p.m. on the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Meeting With President
Daniel Oduber Quirós
of Costa Rica
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meet-
ing. September 9, 1977
REPORTER. Would you be so kind as to
inform us about your discussions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's very difficult
to find any differences that exist between
Costa Rica and the United States. If
there is a pure democracy in the world
which has been an example for all nations
in preserving human freedoms, it would
be Costa Rica.
This is a nation which has protected
itself, not through military might, since
you don't even have an army, but which
has preserved its own freedom by mak-
ing those freedoms so attractive.
We have followed in the footsteps of
President Oduber and his predecessors in
own insistence on publicizing the
deprivation of human rights in this
hemisphere.
Our trade arrangements with Costa
Rica are mutually advantageous. The
friendship that has long existed between
our countries is a very precious posses-
sion for us. I've been to Costa Rica to
visit. My wife has been there twice; Am-
bassador Young has been there recently;
Mr. Todman has been there recently.
And we are very proud that President
Oduber could come here for this meeting.
1566
