Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 22
Institute in Columbus, Ohio. From 1969
to 1972, he was president of Action-Anal-
ysis in Washington. He served as president
of Antec, Inc., in Oklahoma City from
1970 until 1972. Since 1972 he has been a
member of the Oklahoma State Regents
for Higher Education.
handicapped individuals to manmade en-
vironment. He has spoken at the con-
ventions of the American Coalition of
Citizens with Disabilities and the Na-
tional Council of State Agencies for the
Blind.
Rehabilitation Services
Administration
Nomination of Robert R. Humphreys To Be
Commissioner. September 22, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert R. Humphreys, of
Alexandria, Va., to be Commissioner of
the Rehabilitation Services Administra-
tion. He would replace Andrew S. Adams,
resigned.
Humphreys was born May 7, 1938, in
Eugene, Oreg. He received a B.A. from
the University of Washington in 1959 and
an LL.B. from George Washington Uni-
versity Law School in 1965. He served in
the U.S. Army from 1959 to 1962.
Humphreys worked as a law clerk in
1963 and 1964, and from 1965 to 1971
he was with the Air Transport Association
of America, serving as manager of public
affairs services, then assistant to the vice
president for Federal affairs.
Since 1971 Humphreys has been special
counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on
Human Resources, where he is chief legis-
lative adviser on the committee to Sena-
tor Jennings Randolph, the ranking ma-
jority member.
Humphreys is a director of the National
Center for a Barrier Free Environment, a
nonprofit corporation promoting access of
Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation System
Message to the Congress. September 22, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Natural gas has become the Nation's
scarcest and most desired fuel. It is in our
interest to bring the reserves in Alaska to
market at the lowest possible price. Con-
sequently, I am today sending the Con-
gress my decision and report on an Alaska
Natural Gas Transportation System.
The selection of the Alcan project was
made after an exhaustive review required
by the Alaska Natural Gas Transporta-
tion Act of 1976 determined that the
Alcan Pipeline System will deliver more
natural gas at less cost to a greater number
of Americans than any other proposed
transportation system.
The Alcan proposal, taken together
with the recently signed Agreement on
Principles with Canada, demonstrates
that our two countries working together
can transport more energy more efficiently
than either of us could transport alone.
Unnecessary delay would greatly in-
crease the total cost of the pipeline system.
I urge the Congress to act expeditiously
to approve this important project.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 22, 1977.
1645
