Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
believe it to be important that this power-
ful country, whose Founding Fathers
gave to the world that immortal libera-
tion manifesto, the American Declara-
tion of Independence, is now allowing
this concern for human rights to influence
its policies on major world issues and
its relations with other countries in the
world.
open
You have also said, Mr. President,
that questions of human rights cannot
be the only factor affecting America's
relations with others, especially when the
security of the United States is concerned.
In saying that you were, it seems to me,
just being honest and with the peo-
ple who elected you. For there is a real-
ism in action forced upon practicing
politicians, but which philosophers and
others without responsibility can evade.
This is also, unfortunately, the kind of
realism which can lead to differences
between statesmen who share the same
broad political goals.
In the case of southern Africa, how-
ever, we believe that the long-term in-
terests of the United States lie in the
rapid end of racialism and colonialism in
southern Africa.
In particular, the United States is now
struggling to rectify the bitter effects of
centuries of racial inequality and dis-
crimination in your own country. I do
not believe this struggle within your coun-
try would be made easier by the con-
tinued racial insult of apartheid in South
Africa and the institutionalized racial
domination in Rhodesia.
We have been greatly impressed and
encouraged by what you, Mr. President,
and your colleagues, the Vice President,
the Secretary of State, and your Ambas-
sador to the United Nations have been
saying about these matters. And now I've
had the chance to exchange views with
you, and I'm greatly impressed and
greatly encouraged. For in the past,
American power has been an impedi-
ment to Africa's liberation; now, we feel
that your power can be an aid to our
struggle.
Your coming to the White House, Mr.
President, has not changed the interna-
tional law of the jungle, but our appre-
hensions have been greatly reduced by
your coming to the White House.
Mr. President, our two countries are
also mutually involved in other issues,
especially matters relating to the interna-
tional economic system, the law of the
sea, and the general relations between
the rich and the poor nations of this
world. On these and similar subjects,
the differences in our power and wealth
and our different approach to questions
of production and distribution may con-
tinue to keep our representatives on dif-
ferent sides at relevant international
conferences. I do not pretend that these
matters are small matters. Malnutrition
and preventable disease, ignorance, and
the lack of any resources with which to
fight these evils are very fundamental to
those personally affected.
But even in this area, it may be that
we can extend our points of agreement
a little. And I do believe that greater
mutual understanding can flow from our
discussion on these topics also, and that
this will be promoted by the good will
which you and your colleagues have
shown to me and my colleagues and which
we in Tanzania feel towards you, Mr.
President, and the people of your
country.
And now, friends, I also ask you to
stand up and join me in a toast to Presi-
dent Carter and to the people of the
United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
1426
