Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to work and a place to live and an educa-
tion and an absence of disease, and, per-
haps, an alleviation of hunger. And I
know that in many countries of the world
represented here, those are ever-present
problems for you as they are even for
a wealthy and powerful nation like the
United States.
I've also observed that it's important
for us to have good relations with you,
not just politically and in a military way
but also for commercial advantages. We
have about $75 billion in trade with your
countries every year. And this encom-
passes the most rudimentary raw mate-
rials as well as the most advanced elec-
tronics and automotive technology. And
it's crucial to us to have your friendship
and your understanding and a constant
means of communication and consulta-
tion with your nations.
I know that in the brief time that I've
been President, I have personally asked
you or your own national leaders to help
with bilateral and multilateral and re-
gional problems. And the constructive at-
titude that you have taken in forming
either transient or permanent partner-
ships with us is very important indeed.
We also have changing relationships
with many of your nations. In Southeast
Asia we are trying to repair the damages
of recent war and stretch out a hand of
friendship to those countries with whom
in the past we have had animosity.
A few of you are nations where we
don't yet enjoy full diplomatic relations.
We would like to establish those dip-
lomatic exchanges with you without de-
lay so that we might probe to alleviate
the differences that divide us and also
assess and take advantage of the com-
mon problems that we can address to-
gether. So, we are eager to proceed to re-
pair the damages of the past and to ap-
proach the future in a spirit of friendship
and cooperation.
In parts of your world, economic de-
velopment is the most important part of
your national purposes, and we want to be
a part of that, because when your people's
progress is enhanced, it helps the life of
everyone who lives in my own country.
In the Middle East, I've spent a great
deal of time in the last 9 months working
with many of you represented here and
have been encouraged so far with the
prospects for ultimate success. What
seemed to be despair and an absence of
communication and consultation a year
ago is now, I think, improved. And it will
require flexible attitudes on the part of
countries that in the past have been in-
flexible and confidence in one's neighbors
where in the past confidence has been
completely absent.
And I hope and expect a growing trust
in our own good offices to help bring the
parties together to arrive at mutual peace,
because a war in the Middle East could
be a devastating blow to the entire world.
These opportunities that we have to-
gether are very important to me, and I'm
honored and pleased to be part of this
luncheon. I have a lot to learn. I'm new
in national political affairs. I'm an eager
student, and I would always welcome a
chance to learn from you.
We value the friendship that has been
exhibited here in this room. And my
dream is that this kind of relationship
that exists in the United Nations environ-
ment might, ultimately, spread to the
national capitals and, I think, mirror ac-
curately the natural friendship which the
peoples of the world have toward one
another. It's leaders like myself and, per-
1736
