Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
belongs-that this wonderful legislation,
both pieces, would not be before us today.
I hope that the world really takes note
of what we're doing here, because I think
once again the United States is doing a
wonderful thing, showing the world what
should be done, what can be done in a
humanitarian way. And I hope other na-
tions will respond in similar ways.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
SENATOR SPARKMAN. Well, Mr. Presi-
dent, I can only echo what these others
have said. I think it is a great day.
With reference to the treaties involving
the same matters, I think I'm correct in
saying that every one of them passed
through the Senate with a unanimous
vote.
The PRESIDENT. I hope all the rest of
the treaties that you face will do the same
thing. [Laughter]
SENATOR SPARKMAN. Well, we'll have
to wait a little while on some of those.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, sir.
SENATOR KENNEDY. I too want to join
in congratulating the President in the
leadership that he has shown in terms of
pointing the way for the American people
to meet its responsibilities to the 115,000
people that have come from Southeast
Asia and have joined the American peo-
ple.
This is an extraordinary act of continu-
ing generosity. It's a great tribute to the
voluntary agencies, the church agencies,
which represent all the great faiths of this
country, who have worked so hard with
local communities to help to provide a
new opportunity for these citizens to join
with our fellow citizens.
As the President understands, there still
remains a problem-some 15,000 addi-
tional boat cases that homes are going to
have to be found for. And so, as we're
mindful of this continued step forward
that will provide for language training,
for counseling, for job training, will help
and assist local communities, help and
assist States, we're mindful of our contin-
uing responsibility.
Mr. President, I think, as you know,
the employment rates among the Viet-
namese refugees are about a half of what
it is for other Americans. These men and
women who have come to this country,
have shown their commitment to the
ideals of this Nation, their willingness to
participate in our country, and I think we
ought to recognize their contribution as
well.
I congratulate you on your leadership
and congratulate the Members of the
Congress in responding to what is in our
great tradition as a humanitarian nation.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Senator.
I won't call on others, but I know that
you recognize that Frank Church and Joe
Biden and Pete Stark and Hamilton Fish
and many others here have done a great
deal of work on this legislation.
I'm very proud of all of you. It's a good
day for our country. And I believe that
this will indicate to the American people,
who always have some concern about the
impact of refugees, that as a nation we
ought to open our arms and open our
hearts to these fine men and women,
courageous men and women who have lost
their homes because they formed a part-
nership with us and because they formed
ties of kinship and brotherhood and sister-
hood with us for a common purpose, that
is, human freedoms.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at
the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 7769 is Public Law 95-145,
and S. 1682 is Public Law 95-144, approved
October 28.
1920
