Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
gram above existing costs is $2.8 billion
in spending. In addition, $3.3 billion of
tax relief is given to working low and
moderate income taxpayers through an
expanded income tax credit.
COST OF NEW PROGRAM
Work Benefit and Income Support.
Earned Income Tax Credit
Employment and Training_.
TOTAL
Billions
$20.4
1.5
8.8
30.7
The additional cost above current ex-
penditures has been used to make im-
portant improvements in our original
plan:
-Increased fiscal relief has been pro-
vided for states and localities, particular-
ly for those which have borne the greatest
financial burdens.
-Incentives which strengthen family
ties have been improved by adopting a
broader definition of eligible applicants
to permit more generous payment than in
the earlier plan to older persons and
young mothers with children who live in
extended families.
-Work incentives for low wage work-
ers have been increased by expanding the
Earned Income Tax Credit for those in
private and non-subsidized public work
to cover and supplement approximately
twice the income covered by the existing
EITC.
-A deduction for child care will per-
mit and encourage single parents to take
work which will lift them out of poverty.
-Up to 300,000 additional part-time
jobs have been added for single parent
families with school age children (if ade-
quate day care is available, such parents
will be expected to accept full-time jobs).
This is the cost of the portion of the ex-
panded EITC which will be received by those
who do not pay income taxes. Income taxpay-
ers with families will receive benefits totalling
$3.3 billion.
With these improvements the Program
for Better Jobs and Income will help turn
low income Americans away from wel-
fare dependence with a system that is
fair, and fundamentally based on work
for those who can and should work.
PROGRAM DETAIL
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND JOB SEARCH
A central element of this proposal is a
new effort to match low-income persons
with available work in the private and
public sector. It will be the responsibility
of State and local officials to assure an un-
broken sequence of employment and
training services, including job search,
training, and placement. Prime sponsors
under the Comprehensive Employment
and Training Act, state employment serv-
ice agencies, and community-based orga-
nizations will play major roles in this
effort.
JOBS FOR FAMILIES
A major component of the program is
a national effort to secure jobs for the
principal wage earners in low income
families with children. The majority of
poor families-including many who are
on welfare for brief periods of time-de-
pend upon earnings from work for most
of their income. People want to support
themselves and we should help them
do so. I propose that the Federal govern-
ment assist workers from low income fam-
ilies to find regular employment in the
private and public sectors. When such
employment cannot be found I propose
to provide up to 1.4 million public serv-
ice jobs (including part-time jobs and
training) paying at the minimum wage,
or slightly above where states supplement
the basic Federal program.
This program represents a commit-
ment by my Administration to ensure
that families will have both the skills and
the opportunity for self-support.
1454
