Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 11
million Americans, I extend to you our
heartiest welcome and our gratitude for
your superb leadership and the greatness
of your country.
LIEUTENANT GENERAL OBASAN JO.
President Carter, your Excellencies, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am delighted to be here in this great
country and to have the opportunity of
personally conveying to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, the Government and the people of
the United States, greetings and good
wishes of the Government and people of
Nigeria.
My present visit to the United States
marks a new and favorable tone in the
efforts to foster cooperation and amity
between our two countries.
Mr. President, Nigeria and the United
States share many common experiences.
Our two countries have behind them a
history of colonial rule and political
struggles for independence. Both have
progressive, dynamic, and resourceful
peoples deeply committed to freedom,
equality, social justice, and the pursuit of
international peace and security. Of equal
importance is the element of ethnic affin-
ity between our two countries. I have no
doubt that this visit will afford both our
Governments the opportunity to build
upon these and the many other bonds that
unite us.
We also look forward to elaborating
upon the initiatives and dialog we have
started regarding the many matters of
crucial importance to Africa and the
world. Indeed, it is only recently that the
Western Powers as a whole have come to
realize that the quest for global peace
and security also involves ensuring the
stability and rapid development of Africa.
We in Nigeria, particularly, welcome
such a realization on the part of the
United States Government and people.
We hope that our discussions will con-
tribute towards the progress of the Afri-
can Continent, a process in which your
Government and people can make sig-
nificant and welcome contributions. In
this respect, Mr. President, I am sure that
we shall pay appropriate attention to the
specific issues of the highly volatile and
potentially dangerous situation in south-
ern Africa, a situation which threatens in-
ternational peace and security.
Human degradation, oppression and
deprivation, as rationalized and perpetu-
ated in southern Africa by the racist
regimes there, is a crime against which
not only Africa but all mankind as a
whole must fight.
Needless to say, we also attach great
importance to other elements of our bi-
lateral relations, particularly in the eco-
nomic and technical spheres. We in Ni-
geria have embarked upon a program of
economic and industrial development for
the period 1975 through 1980. We are
happy to note that the major industrial-
ized countries are already actually partici-
pating in this program. It is our hope
that the United States, with its enormous
economic and technological capabilities,
will find ample opportunities in the pro-
gram for fuller participation.
Mr. President, may I express the im-
mense appreciation of myself and my
delegation to you and the Government
and people of the United States for invit-
ing us to visit you. We look forward to a
happy stay in your country.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:37 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
United States Ambassador to
Paraguay
Nomination of Robert E. White.
October 11, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert E. White, of Mel-
1763
