Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
as terms of Senators and Representatives,
would be a positive contribution to better
government. Would you care to com-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope you're
not thinking about cutting it down below
4
years. I would certainly hate to see that
done, certainly, you know, within the next
few months. [Laughter]
I believe that the present arrangement
is the best one. I've seen proposals made
and highly publicized to change the
Presidential term from two 4-year terms
to one 6-year term.
I think if you look back on the Presi-
dential tenure in office since Eisenhower,
for instance, with Kennedy, Johnson,
Nixon, and Ford, you see that the Ameri-
can people have, either through tragedy
or through votes or voluntary withdrawals
by Presidents from running for reelection,
had a very tight control over the Presi-
dency itself. Even with President Truman,
I think that the pressures of the office and,
perhaps, a very low popularity after he
discharged General MacArthur caused
him to decide not to run for reelection.
So, I believe that the present arrange-
ment is the best one, with accountability
every 4 years, and in times of strife or tur-
moil or lack of confidence, the President
either voluntarily deciding not to run for
reelection or the voters deciding to
change. So, my summary is leave it like
it is.
ADMINISTRATION'S POSTAL POLICY
Q. Mr. President, I'm John Andrist
from the Crosby, North Dakota, Journal.
My question is, do you realize that the
postal policy announced by your admin-
istration on September 20, if imple-
mented, would literally destroy many
small newspapers?
THE PRESIDENT. No, sir. I don't recog-
nize that it would destroy many small
newspapers. I recognize, though, that the
small newspapers, the large newspapers,
the magazines, and also the companies
that sell books would like to have a much
more liberal postal policy than the one
that we advocate.
I believe that the position that we took
is reasonable. It does provide direct aid
or subsidies for postal costs. We recom-
mend a line-item approval for this sub-
sidy, and I believe that the small news-
papers would have a very high priority
within the Congress and certainly would
with my own administration.
We are faced with a very high budget
impact if all those groups that I described
got what they wanted. We're talking
about 3, 4, perhaps even 5 billion dollars
a year which, over the 4-year period that
we are talking about, would mean about
15 or 16 billion dollars in drain on the
American Government Treasury.
But I believe that if we put it on the
basis that we advocated, with the line-item
or individual decision by Congress on
which subsidies should be supported, that
the small newspapers will come out very
well.
LABOR LAW REFORM BILL
Q. Mr. President, George Joplin, again.
The so-called labor law reform bill, re-
cently passed in the House and now pend-
ing in the Senate, would impose severe
economic sanctions against employers,
deprive employers of their rights in rep-
resentation elections, and give unrecog-
nized unions access to the premises and
time of employers. It says nothing about
the rights of the employers. Why do you
so strongly support this, what seems to be
one-sided and unfair legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, George, I have
to say that if I agreed with your descrip-
tion of it, I would not support it. [Laugh-
ter]
I have gone over every item in this
labor reform package. It's much more
1924
