Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
As you are aware, the American Legion
held our national convention here in
Denver on August 19 to the 26th.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I heard about
that. [Laughter]
Q. And the delegates at that time unan-
imously endorsed Resolution 445 concern-
ing the rejection of the treaty to turn
the Canal Zone back to the Panamanians.
We have been warned of this over a
long time and by many of the former
high military naval personnel of our
Government that if this would happen
and it would result in the greatest eco-
nomic, geographical, and sovereignty loss
that our country as a republic has en-
dured in the last 200 years.
The American Legion will not stand
still or wait for this to happen. We in-
tend and we will use our influence to in-
form the United States Senate and the
American people to reject this treaty,
and with the help of God and the wis-
dom of the American people, we will
succeed, because we dare to care about the
future of America and the American
people.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, sir. I understand how the Ameri-
can Legion felt back in those days, and
perhaps you haven't changed your mind.
Certainly, you haven't.
I think there has been some clarifica-
tion, as I said a little earlier, about the
emergency ahead of other ships in order
to defend our country. I think that to the
best of my ability that has also now been
answered.
Very great military leaders, including
our own Joint Chiefs of Staff, have en-
dorsed the canal. In the last week, for in-
stance, Admiral Zumwalt, who was a very
forceful and very strong naval leader, has
endorsed the canal itself. The Chief of
Naval Operations of the Navy now
strongly endorses the canal. Former com-
manding officer of our forces in South
Korea, Matthew Ridgway, this past week
came out, endorsed the canal. Melvin
Laird, former Secretary of Defense under
the Republican administration, has en-
dorsed the canal, and others who are
deeply concerned about the defense of
our Nation.
As a fellow Legionnaire, though, I
know that there is a very strong and
forceful desire on the part of Legionnaires
to express your opinion openly and ag-
gressively, and I'm very glad to have you
do that this afternoon, sir.
Thank you very much, everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:55 p.m. in the
Silver Room at the Denver Hilton Hotel. The
briefing was attended by approximately 150
citizens from the States of Arizona, Colorado,
Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah,
and Wyoming.
Remarks at a Democratic National
Committee Fundraising Dinner.
October 22, 1977
two most important questions that were Los Angeles, California
raised at your convention. One was a
claim that our country did not have the
right to defend the canal the rest of this
century and into the next century. I be-
lieve that to the best of my ability that
particular question has been answered.
And the other major question that was
raised then and since by the American
Legionnaires has been that we didn't have
the right to use the canal in a time of
Thank you very much, everybody. I see
all the Imperial Valley farmers are not
outside [laughter]—and I want to thank
you for it.
It's really a great pleasure for me to be
back in Los Angeles with you and with
1893
