Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
staff, is that he has enhanced his position,
because he was in a situation where,
literally, for weeks, all kinds of allegations
or charges were made, including criminal
violation of the writing of checks to avoid
paying of taxes, which is fraudulent and
illegal. He was alleged to be an embezzler
by a convicted felon. And on that basis,
the chairman and the minority leader of
the Senate [committee] had called for his
immediate resignation, and he had not
had a chance to answer those charges.
Now that he has answered the
charges I hope and believe success-
fully-I think he's certainly enhanced his
position.
PUERTO RICO
Q. Mr. President, I'm from San Juan,
Puerto Rico. Buenas tardes.
THE PRESIDENT. Muchas gracias.
Q. Would you object to a U.N. fact-
finding team going to Puerto Rico to look
into the idea, the charges that have been
raised, that we are a colony of the United
States?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would object to
that. I don't have any objection to any
analysis of the question, but I think my
own statement and the statement of all
the leaders of our country that whatever
Puerto Rico's people want to do is accept-
able to me. If the Puerto Rican people
want to be a commonwealth, I will sup-
port it. If the Puerto Rican people want
to be a State, I will support it. If the
Puerto Rican people want to be an inde-
pendent nation, I would support it.
Q. But the U.N. has no jurisdiction?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the U.N.
has any jurisdiction. And particularly
when this question is raised by Cuba, a
government that has no respect for in-
dividual freedom or individual liberty
and permits no vote of any kind in their
own country, to accuse us of trying to sub-
jugate the people of Puerto Rico, to me,
is absolutely and patently ridiculous.
TRAVEL TO LATIN AMERICA
Q. Are you planning a trip down that
way or the Caribbean way in the Latin
American trip?
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to come
down there as soon as I can. An impor-
tant goal of my administration is to build
up a renewed understanding and trust
and communication with the nations and
the people who live south of here in our
hemisphere. My wife's already visited
seven nations, as you know.
Q. She is coming to San Juan in 2
weeks?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, she's coming
there in 2 weeks to make a speech to a
news group. In addition to that, Andy
Young has been down to visit several of
the countries in the South. Assistant Sec-
retary Todman has been down. Very
shortly, I think next month, the Secre-
tary of State will come down to Latin
America. And I hope to come, too. I don't
have any specific date yet.
NATURAL GAS PIPELINE
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned the
pipeline from the North Slope. The Gov-
ernor of our State, California, Governor
Brown, has been running around saying
that you have given California a finger
instead of a leg regarding the western leg
that goes into California. Would you com-
ment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would like to
say one thing to start with, that the people
of California are my constituents just as
much as they are the Governor's constit-
uents, and I have just as deep a concern
about the future prosperity and good life
of the people of California as the Gov-
ernor or anyone else.
I've never had any disagreements with
Governor Brown. So far as I know, he's
1620
