Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
MRS. WILLIAM GERALD MCMURTRIE, of Mary-
land, a member of the board of Mount
Vernon College and member of the Chil-
dren's Hearing and Speech Committee of
Children's Hospital;
ROBERT L. MCNEIL, JR., currently on the Com-
mittee and retired chairman of McNeil
Laboratories;
BILL O. MEAD, chairman of the board and
chief executive officer of Campbell Taggart,
Inc., in Dallas, Tex.;
WALTER H. SHORENSTEIN, chairman of the
board of the San Francisco Chamber of
Commerce and a real estate executive;
SHIRLEY VERRETT, opera star;
PHILIP M. WALDEN, owner of Capricorn
Records in Macon, Ga.;
MRS. LEW WASSERMAN, of Beverly Hills, who
is active in civic affairs there.
Securities Investor Protection
Corporation
Nomination of Hugh F. Owens To Be a
Director. December 28, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Hugh F. Owens, of
Washington, D.C., for reappointment as
a Director of the Securities Investor Pro-
tection Corporation for a term expiring
December 31, 1979. The President also
indicated that on confirmation by the
Senate, Owens would be redesignated
Chairman of the Corporation.
Owens was born October 15, 1909, in
Muskogee, Okla. He received an A.B.
from the University of Illinois in 1931
and an LL.B. from the University of Ok-
lahoma in 1934.
Between 1934 and 1959, Owens prac-
ticed law in Illinois, Texas, and Okla-
homa. He served in the U.S. Navy as
lieutenant commander from 1942 to
1945. From 1959 to 1964, he was admin-
istrator of the Oklahoma Securities Com-
mission.
Owens was appointed a member of the
Securities and Exchange Commission by
President Johnson in 1964. He served on
the SEC until 1973, when he resigned to
accept appointment as Chairman of the
Securities Investor Protection Corpora-
tion.
Federal Reserve System
Remarks Announcing the Nomination of G.
William Miller To Be Chairman of the Board
of Governors. December 28, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body.
I'm very proud to announce that G.
William Miller will be my nominee as
Chairman of the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System.
For the last 8 years, through two terms
as Chairman, Dr. Arthur Burns has done
an outstanding job of directing the Fed-
eral Reserve System. He has symbolized
the integrity of our monetary system and
the independence of the Federal Reserve.
He has defended the strength of the dol-
lar at home and abroad. In this and in
every other public position which he has
held, he has served the people of our
country well and has earned our respect
and our gratitude. And I am very thank-
ful that he has also become my close, per-
sonal friend.
There are few positions more demand-
ing than the chairmanship of the Federal
Reserve, and few appointments that any
President makes that have a greater in-
fluence on our country. Apart from the
President himself, no one else plays a
larger part in determining our Nation's
economic policy.
I believe that an independent Federal
Reserve must be led by a person of strong
character, broad experience, and first-
hand knowledge of how to cope effec-
tively with our Nation's economic prob-
lems. That is why Dr. Burns has served
2183
