Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
tion. And I think meeting with you today
will help to expedite what we want to do.
I think that everybody in the audience
would agree that we've had a superb
panel. They've asked very good questions,
brought forward very good ideas for us.
And I and all my staff members who are
here, the different Federal agencies rep-
resented and almost all of them are rep-
resented the national news media that
will repeat what you have said to the
world at large tonight will benefit greatly
from the sound, good judgment that you
have provided and the personal experi-
ence that make your words carry even
more authority than the words of a Presi-
dent. You know what you're talking
talking
about. I'm trying to learn what you're
talking about.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. in
the Ballroom at the Veterans Memorial Build-
ing.
Des Moines, Iowa
Remarks on Arrival at Des Moines
International Airport. October 21, 1977
Did any of you see the plane that just
took off? During the campaign, I
traveled through Iowa seven different
times. I visited 110 of your cities and
towns. And all those times put together, I
never saw this many people. The small
plane that took off just before the airline
plane, the single engine, was much larger
and much more modern than the one
that I used to fly around over your beau-
tiful fields.
I was reading the other day about the
great American poet Robert Frost who,
the first time he came to Iowa and saw
your rich black earth, said he saw no rea-
son to process that earth through vege-
tables, for it was good enough to eat.
And I feel almost that good, coming from
Washington back here.
As I told your own congressional dele-
gation a few minutes ago, as is the case
with all of you, with Iowa Congressmen
and Senators, I feel like I'm coming home.
And I do feel like I've come home to you.
When I was lonely, you took me in.
When I needed support, you gave it to
me. The first time I came to Iowa there
was a Gallup poll. There were 36 names
on the Gallup poll. Mine was not even on
the list.
But still, many of these folks that are
standing in the front row here let me come
in your homes. You introduced me to your
friends. I got to know you. You got to
know me. And it was the beginning of a
successful campaign.
I think one of the things that tied me
closer to the Iowa people than anything
else, at least in those early days, was the
fact that I was a farmer; I understood the
soil and the earth. I knew then and I
know now that in all the economy of our
great Nation, the single most important
factor is farming and agriculture. And
that made me feel at home when I came
to Iowa.
Ours is the nation that's the greatest
food producer on Earth. Iowa is number
one in corn production, number one in
hog production. You produce 10 percent
of all our Nation's food. And this gives us
a tremendous strategic weapon to be used
in a peaceful way to tie the nation to the
world together.
During this past 12 months, we have
exported $24 billion worth of food and
feed products, and Iowa is an integral
part of all that. We've got great needs in
our country. But I think you represent the
solutions to many of those problems, be-
cause you are an agricultural State and,
at the same time, are moving forward in
technology, in industry, and business.
1853
