Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
employers can give us the attention we
need to become a productive citizen in
today's job world. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good and a
tough question to answer. And, Courtney,
I can't tell you that I've got the answer.
We have, in the whole country, now
brought the unemployment rate down,
I'd say, about 1 percent below what it
was a year ago. And as you've already
heard, in Detroit itself in the last 2 or 3
years, the unemployment rate has dropped
about 75 percent. But that still means that
when you have a 6 or 7 percent unem-
ployment rate nationwide among young
men like you, who are black, who have
a fairly good education even, the unem-
ployment rate runs 35 or 40 percent,
which is entirely too high.
What we have tried to do already-
and I would say the Congress has coop-
erated-is to concentrate our efforts on
the Comprehensive Education and Train-
ing Act among young people themselves.
We are now building up those jobs to
725,000. It will take a while to get up to
that level. We are adding about, I'd say,
in that particular program about 15,000
new jobs per week, which is a fairly big
increase. About half those jobs will go to
minority young people.
In addition, we've got a $12 billion
youth employment bill that the Congress
passed, I signed into law. This has been
within the last month or so. And it's just
beginning to be put into effect.
Another thing that will help you is
that in the public works projects that will
be built in your area-and we're concen-
trating them more and more not in the
wealthy suburban areas, but in the down-
town areas where the need is greatest-at
least 10 percent of those contracts in the
future must go to minority business enter-
prises, and we're trying to make sure that
the business is actually owned by a mi-
nority and not owned by the majority
with just a figurehead black person whose
name is used to qualify for the funds
themselves.
Another thing that I'd like to point out
to you is this: We've got a better econ-
omy than most of the nations of the world,
but we've still got a long way to go. My
goal, already established, is that before
this term of mine is over that we'll bring
that unemployment rate down from 8
percent, which it was last December, to
well under 5 percent by the time 1981
rolls around.
There are not any automatic or easy
answers. It's a very tough proposition. But
the only thing we can do is make sure the
jobs are made available in private indus-
try, first of all, in government, second of
all, and to make sure that the discrimina-
tion that has existed in the past against
minority young people like you is wiped
away and that we give a first priority
in all our programs to the areas of
the Nation, the areas of cities that have
been hurt the worst. All those things are
of substantial change or improvement
over what we've seen in the past. But it's
going to be a hard, long, tough proposi-
tion, and I wish you well.
Are
you unemployed right now?
MR. MATTHEWS. Right now, yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we'll try to help
you in those ways.
Joan Shaw.
COMMUNITY ACTION PROGRAMS
MS. SHAW. Afternoon, Mr. President.
My name is Joan Shaw, and I'm from St.
Cloud, Minnesota, and I work for a CAP
agency. I guess I worked on your Crisis In-
tervention Program, and I'd like to say
that our State of Minnesota spent its $8.5
million in 5 weeks' time about. And
there's lots of people out there, thousands,
that our agency had alone that we
1838
