Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 15
And I might say that my own attitude
on the human rights question has been
fairly moderate. I'm proud of it. But I
think it's accurate to say that some Mem-
bers of Congress would go much further
than I and even terminate all relation-
ships with other countries who don't
measure up to our standards of human
rights. We can't do that.
So, I think a slow, careful, methodical
but persistent expression of our concern
about human rights violations has already
been effective and will continue to be ef-
fective in the future. I don't believe there
is a single leader of a nation in the world
now who doesn't have at least in his or
her consciousness the concept of human
rights and how that country is measuring
up to the expectations of one's own people
or trying to avoid worldwide condemna-
tion. So, I think our efforts have had an
impact, and I would not do it otherwise.
MR. POWELL. Mr. President, one more
question.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I promised
you.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH
Q. Thank you. This morning we had a
presentation from Mr. Warren on the
subject of environment and energy con-
servation, and the entire thrust of his
presentation was conservation efforts.
if
There was no discussion and I'd like,
you could address yourself to this fun-
damental question, as to whether or not
the administration is prepared to do or
suggest anything to limit growth as a
fundamental effort to deal with the en-
vironmental and energy questions con-
fronting the country?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a concept that
is partially my responsibility, yes. When
we put forward the energy proposal to
establish a policy for our country, one of
the presumptions was that we would con-
tinue to grow economically.
Our goal is to have, roughly, about a 5
percent per year growth in our own econ-
omy to sustain the needs of the rest of
the world and also to keep our people
employed.
We set as a goal for ourselves on energy
consumption, however, an annual growth
of about 2 percent.
We think the difference there might be
achievable because of the efficiency and
elimination of waste. For a given stand-
ard of living now, we use about twice as
much energy as other peoples, like Ger-
many, Sweden, Japan, who have an
equivalent standard of living.
I think there's a historical trend that
is almost inevitable that I detect and have
to recognize; and that is, that we're shift-
ing more and more toward having eco-
nomic growth based on a higher quality
of life, which means an increasing founda-
tion of things like better health care, bet-
ter education, more recreation, and not
the long, tedious hours of labor that went
into the production of goods.
So, I think that in general a shift to-
wards service employment is a good part
of the increase in the economic strength
of our country.
This can be done with efficiency, com-
pared to what we have been doing in the
past, and without further deterioration in
the quality of our environment. There
again, without belaboring the point, just
the expenditures on the protection of our
environment, air pollution control, water
pollution control, the handling of waste
products, the protection of the purity of
the oceans, for instance, those kind of
things are expenditures which give us a
better life, which don't waste our natural
resources but preserve them and, at the
same time, give us economic growth be-
cause of the expenditure that goes into
1275
