Aug. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
a very determined effort, which will last
all of 3 years, to reorganize the structure
of our Government and to put into effect
more efficient and economical ways to op-
erate it.
In the field of foreign policy we have
very carefully delineated a set of goals
that will take us through a 4-year period,
obviously recognizing that unforeseen
challenges and opportunities can present
themselves at any moment.
But some of those major goals that are
obvious to all of you are the SALT talks.
They will be recommenced next week
when Cy Vance, after a short rest period,
will go on over to Vienna. We are nego-
tiating with the Soviets every day on that
item.
The comprehensive test ban, for which
we have good hopes at this moment, has
been joined in by Great Britain. This may
or may not materialize as we envision it.
We've been quite active in the Middle
Eastern negotiations, and I think that it's
completely accurate and a very cautious
thing to say that Cy Vance's last trip to
the Middle East was very successful, cer-
tainly compared to the news reports
from it.
We've found a much more compatible
relationship among the Arab leaders, a
much more flexible attitude on their part.
And I think we still have a chance for
progress there. Obviously, the chances
are directly determined by the attitudes
of the parties involved, although we have
a very major interest in the Middle East.
We're not just idle bystanders. We don't
play a narrowly defined negotiating or
intermediary role. But we are not try-
ing to impose an American or United
States settlement upon the other nations
involved. We will be aggressive. But I
have to say that there's going to be a
great deal of disillusionment on our part
in the Middle East and around the world
if some progress is not demonstrated
within this year.
I doubt that our Government could
continue to spend as much time and effort
on my part, the State Department's, and
all the other agencies involved, on a con-
tinuing basis, unless it's obvious to us that
all the parties involved genuinely want
a comprehensive peace settlement.
In southern Africa we have three major
and simultaneous and interrelated goals.
Again, we can't order people around. We
can't impose a settlement on others. One
is concerning Namibia, where we have
taken the initiative and have recruited
Germany, England, France, and Canada
to join in with us to encourage South
Africa to comply with the United Nations
demands and international law concern-
ing what was formerly Southwest Africa,
now known as Namibia.
We have had encouragement from the
South Africans. I think they want a settle-
ment. We're now working with the so-
called SWAPO group to get them to
accept free and democratic elections. This
is still conjectural, but we are encour-
aged now compared to what we were 3
months ago.
In Rhodesia, or Zimbabwe, we have
the same problem. We and the British
are working jointly on this project. The
British have a tangible and a legal and
historical responsibility in Rhodesia. Andy
Young and David Owen, who is the For-
eign Minister of Great Britain, will be
meeting tomorrow with the five frontline
presidents. We've evolved what I think
is a rational and fair approach, which, if
adopted, would be very beneficial.
And of course, the other problem is the
continuing one with South Africa—their
apartheid policy. We would like to en-
courage them to, at the most rapid pos-
sible rate, eliminate the grossly discrimi-
1510
