Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 30
of the United States but as an eminent
American Baptist. I am a Baptist myself.
I am preoccupied with editing a Baptist
magazine in Poland, and I would like to
express my gladness that you have been
elected to the post of the President of the
United States, as a man, as a believer who
is not ashamed of it and of his evangeli-
cal convictions. This prompts me to wish
you and your family the best of the very
best in 1978 and also in your activity in
strengthening peace the world over.
And now over to our question. We all
know that you are a practicing Christian,
as every Baptist should be-as every good
Baptist should be. And I would like to ask
whether your religious convictions help
you in executing the job of a President of
such a big country. Can you quote an
example in how the evangelical principles
helped you in solving any complicated
problem?
And the second question, we the Polish
Baptists live in an extra-Catholic country,
and on occasions we are discriminated
against. As a believer, as a Baptist, can
you influence the change of a situation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, the
United States believes in religious free-
dom. And I'm very grateful for the degree
of religious freedom that also exists in
Poland.
Dr. Brzezinski, my national security ad-
viser, and my wife, Rosalynn, had a visit
with Cardinal Wyszynski this morning
and did this as an expression of our ap-
preciation for the degree of freedom to
worship in this country.
This is a matter of conscience, as a
Baptist and as an American leader. We
believe in separation of church and state,
that there should be no unwarranted in-
fluence on the church or religion by the
state, and vice versa. My own religious
convictions are deep and personal. I seek
divine guidance when I make a difficult
decision as President and also am sup-
ported, of course, by a common purpose
which binds Christians together in a be-
lief in the human dignity of mankind and
in the search for worldwide peace-rec-
ognizing, of course, that those who don't
share my faith quite often have the
same desires and hopes.
My own constant hope is that all na-
tions would give maximum freedom of
religion and freedom of expression to their
people, and I will do all I can, within the
bounds of propriety, to bring that hope
into realization.
POLISH AUTONOMY
Q. Mr. President, during those Presi-
dential debates, in a celebrated exchange,
President Ford claimed that Eastern Eu-
rope was not under Soviet domination.
And you replied, "Tell it to the Poles."
Well, now that you're here, is it your view
that this domination will continue almost
into perpetuity, or do you see a day when
Poland may be actually free? And if so,
how would that come about?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is obviously
a decision for the Polish leaders and the
Polish people to make. Our nation is com-
mitted to the proposition that all coun-
tries would be autonomous, they would
all be independent, and they would all be
free of unwanted interference and en-
tanglements with other nations.
The Polish people have been bound
very closely to the Soviet Union since the
Second World War, and they belong to a
Warsaw Pact military alliance, which is,
of course, different from the NATO re-
lationship to which we belong.
My own assessment within the Eu-
ropean theater, Eastern European thea-
ter, is that here, compared to some other
nations, there is a great religious free-
dom and otherwise, and I think this is a
hope that we all share and cherish. I think
this has been the origin of the Polish na-
tion more than a thousand years ago, and
2207
