June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and he has extensive experience in trans-
portation and also in the insurance field.
Walter Page, from Huntington, Long
Island, New York. He is president of
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. He is
associated with the Foreign Policy As-
sociation, a trustee of the Carnegie
Institution.
And Thomas Ehrlich from Washing-
ton. He is a lawyer. He is president of the
Legal Services Corporation; he is a former
dean, Stanford Law School, and a Special
Assistant to the Under Secretary of State.
These distinguished men and women
have the background of analysis, of plan-
ning careers, of the legal profession, mili-
tary profession, National Security
Council, foreign affairs, and the trust of
myself and the Secretary of Defense as
well, and they and an adequate staff and
detailed research and study, I think, will
guide me and the other officials of our
Government to make the right decision in
giving the members of our Armed Forces
in the future an attractive career oppor-
tunity with the most effective fighting
force available to us.
I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense
to comment further.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Executive Schedule
Executive Order 11999. June 27, 1977
RELATING TO CERTAIN POSITIONS IN
LEVEL V OF THE EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Section 5317 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, and as President of the
United States of America, Section 2 of
Executive Order No. 11861, as amended,
placing certain positions in level V of the
Executive Schedule, is further amended
by adding thereto "(14) Assistant to the
Secretary and Land Utilization Adviser,
Department of the Interior.” and “(15)
Executive Assistant and Counselor to the
Secretary, Department of Labor.".
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 27, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:38 p.m., June 28, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
Visit of President Carlos Andres
Perez of Venezuela
J
Remarks of the President and President Perez
at the Welcoming Ceremony. June 28, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. This morning we
have a great honor paid to our Nation by
the visit of President Perez of Venezuela.
In our hemisphere, the nation of
Venezuela has earned the great admira-
tion of all those who believe in freedom
and in the open, democratic processes of
government.
President Perez represents a country
which has set an example for many others
in its firm and unswerving commitment
to the proposition that the people of a na-
tion should be the ones with universal
suffrage and complete participation in an
open and free electoral process to choose
the leaders of that country.
But his influence has extended far be-
yond the borders of his beautiful and
great nation. Because of his dynamism
and his great leadership qualities, Presi-
dent Perez has become an active and ef-
fective spokesman for the Third World
nations and one who can truly represent
the highest aspirations of all the nations
in Latin America.
His commitment to the basic principles
of human rights, individual freedom, and
1180
