Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 12
invite you to rise and drink with me a
hearty toast to the continued good health
and happiness of President Carter and to
the well-being of the people of the United
States of America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:47 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Housing and Community
Development Act of 1977
Remarks on Signing H.R. 6655 Into Law.
October 12, 1977
Good morning, everybody. I'm glad to
be here on this occasion, which I think is a
very happy one for our country.
There's been a great deal of work that's
gone into the production of the Housing
and Community Development Act of
1977. One of the first recommendations
that I made to Congress was to stimulate
improvements in the housing field, which
had come in a sad state, I think, in the
last number of years.
During the campaign, I spent a couple
of years moving around the country, try-
ing to learn about our people's needs. And
there are some devastated areas where
American citizens live that are a disgrace
to our great country.
structed. Now, as a matter of fact, about
a fourth of the total multifamily houses
in the Nation are assisted housing.
But this bill takes a giant step forward
and gives me and the administration, the
lending institutions, private developers,
local and State officials, a framework
within which we can make great im-
provements in the housing of our people.
Because of the good work of the Mem-
bers of the House and the Senators be-
hind me, there's been a focusing of at-
tention to the more devastated and needy
communities of our country, in large and
small cities and in rural areas.
The formulae that have been evolved
will permit this to be done. There will be
$12.4 billion over the next 3 years that
will go into the community development
block grant program, again concentrated
in older and more distressed communities
of our country.
In the urban development action
grant, which is designed primarily to
stimulate private investment, there will
be $400 million a year. Rent subsidies will
permit a substantial increase. 317,000
more families can be housed under the
Section 8 program, again stimulating pri-
marily private investment into renovation
and building of adequate housing for our
people.
The Congress has added a restraint on
unwarranted redlining of depressed areas.
There's no immediate solution that can Although this will require some addition-
be offered. I visited the South Bronx last
week, which is enough to shake our con-
fidence in the structure that we've
evolved. And I know that in many other
places in the country there are similar
areas which need to be addressed by all
of the leaders in this country in the pri-
vate and public sector. We have made
some progress in the last 9 months under
Pat Harris' leadership.
We've already more than doubled the
number of assisted houses being con-
al effort in administration, I think it
spells out the Congress attitude that this
is not a proper way to deal with areas
that are on the decline, that we need to
work together to restimulate them.
In general, this is a very excellent piece
of legislation. There's one portion of it
that does cause me some concern and
that's Title VII, which removes the con-
straints on the building of homes in flood
plain areas.
1777
