Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 2
My goals are to discourage all drug
abuse in America and also discourage
the excessive use of alcohol and tobacco-
and to reduce to a minimum the harm
drug abuse causes when it does occur. To
achieve these goals with the resources
available, effective management and di-
rection are essential. Because the federal
effort is currently divided among more
than twenty different, and often com-
peting, agencies, I have directed my staff
to coordinate Federal action and to for-
mulate a comprehensive national policy.
This will end the long-standing fragmen-
tation among our international programs,
drug law enforcement, treatment and re-
habilitation, prevention, and regulatory
activities. I will also seek the counsel and
active involvement of members of the
Cabinet and heads of major independent
agencies on all drug abuse policy ques-
tions, through a revitalized Strategy
Council on Drug Abuse. My staff will
examine the functions of the various
agencies involved in this field and will
recommend to me whatever organiza-
tional changes are appropriate.
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
For certain drugs originally derived
from plant sources outside the United
States, especially heroin and cocaine,
diplomatic agreements against cultiva-
tion and trafficking are indispensable.
Turkey-once virtually the sole source of
heroin supply in this country-is now
gone from the illicit market as the result
of such an agreement. The enormous
profits generated by the illicit drug traf-
fic distort the economies of many smaller
countries, aggravating inflation and
draining tax revenues; they also engen-
der corruption and corrode political sta-
bility. We must work closely with other
governments to assist them in their efforts
to eradicate the cultivation of drugs, and
to develop legitimate alternative sources
of income for the impoverished farmers
who have for generations raised and sold
crops such as opium.
We have made significant progress in
the last few months. In February, I dis-
cussed with President Lopez-Portillo of
Mexico my deep concern about the ille-
gal cultivation of opium in his country.
Under his strong leadership, the eradi-
cation program has been intensified and
is producing dramatic results, signifi-
cantly reducing the availability of heroin
in many American cities. In addition,
President Ne Win of Burma and Prime
Minister Thanin of Thailand have shown
a resolute determination to control drug
cultivation and trafficking in their coun-
tries. Most recently I have received strong
assurances from President Lopez-Michel-
sen of Colombia that he plans to give the
problem of drug trafficking his highest
priority. We are establishing a commis-
sion made up of government officials
from our two countries to coordinate a
stepped up effort to deal with the major
international trafficking of cocaine and
marihuana between our two countries,
and the devastating economic impact of
that traffic.
As a result of these efforts and those of
the Drug Enforcement Administration,
the purity of heroin in our country has
dropped in the last six months to 4.9%,
the lowest level in 4 years.
There is, however, more that we can
do:
1401
