Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the California Democrats. I've been look-
ing forward to coming. This has been
something that is obviously the result of a
lot of work.
I got a personal handwritten letter
from your Governor, Jerry Brown. I de-
cided to come on out here anyway.
[Laughter] And as you know, we formed
a partnership way back in the campaign,
and we've been moving toward the same
goal for a long time. [Laughter] I'm very
thankful I finally made it.
I see how successful the evening is, and
I want to thank personally all the co-
chairmen and, particularly, Lew Wasser-
man, one of the greatest people I know.
It's obvious that he met his goal and that
the supper is a very fine financial success.
I was hoping that you would meet my
goal to raise enough money to have my
brother, Billy, come out and speak next
year. Billy brings me a lot of good pub-
licity, as you well know. I wish we could
have gone along with my plans to involve
him in the Government. I had it all
arranged. I was going to reorganize and
put the CIA and the FBI together, but
Billy said he wouldn't head up any agency
that he couldn't spell, so that fell through.
[Laughter]
As you know, my family is very close to
California. My mother has been following
the Los Angeles Dodgers around the coun-
try for the last couple of weeks. She's
really angry at the Yankees. She was sup-
posed to spend a night or two with us at
the White House, but after the World
Series game, she refused to come. She said
I live too close to the Mason-Dixon line.
She wasn't going to have anything to do
with me anymore. As you know, we've
had trouble with the Yankees around
Atlanta, too. At least they didn't burn
Los Angeles. [Laughter]
Tonight I want to talk to you about a
few things that are important to me as
the head of the Democratic Party and
also as the leader of our great country. I
spent 2 years campaigning and learned a
lot about our Nation and got to know
many of you and formed some close and
fast friendships and learned from you.
On this very brief trip, since I left
Washington, I've had a chance to go into
Iowa, where I won my first primary vic-
tory, and to meet with farmers. And I got
up early this morning to talk to them
about the new farm legislation. Before
that, I was in Detroit, in a city that 2 years
ago had a 24 percent unemployment rate,
and they're very proud now to be down to
8 percent. They've cut the murder rate
64 percent in the last couple of years and
are making great progress. I talked about
the poverty-stricken areas of our Nation.
Later this morning I went to Omaha,
Nebraska, to visit, as Commander in
Chief, the Command Center for our Stra-
tegic Air Forces, on which the defense of
our country and the free world rests. And
then I went from there to Denver, Colo-
rado, to spend all afternoon meeting with
a broad representation from the central
Rocky Mountain West on all aspects of
the water problem, and then had an en-
counter or a debate or meeting with
leaders from eight States on the Panama
Canal treaties. And there was a live tele-
vision coverage of it. And now I've come
here.
And after spending 9 or 10 months in
the White House, I've begun to value very
deeply my own knowledge of the interests
and concerns and yearnings and hopes of
you and other people who gave me your
friendship and your support when I was
running for President.
We've begun to make progress on the
strategic arms limitation talks. For the
first time there seems to be a desire on the
part of the Soviet Union to put a lower
limit on strategic launches and MIRV'd
1894
