Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ularly economic and political power, no longer lies solely in the hands of a
few nations.
Power is now widely shared among many nations with different cul-
tures and different histories and different aspirations. The question is
whether we will allow our differences to defeat us or whether we will
work together to realize our common hopes for peace.
Today I want to address the major dimensions of peace and the role
the United States intends to play in limiting and reducing all armaments,
controlling nuclear technology, restricting the arms trade, and settling
disputes by peaceful means.
When atomic weapons were used for the first time, Winston Church-
ill described the power of the atom as a revelation long, mercifully with-
held from man. Since then we have learned in Dürrenmatt's chilling
words that "what has once been thought can never be un-thought."
If we are to have any assurance that our children are to live out their
lives in a world which satisfies our hope—or that they will have a chance
to live at all—we must finally come to terms with this enormous nuclear
force and turn it exclusively to beneficial ends.
Peace will not be assured until the weapons of war are finally put
away. While we work toward that goal, nations will want sufficient arms
to preserve their security.
The United States purpose is to ensure peace. It is for that reason
that our military posture and our alliances will remain as strong as neces-
sary to deter attack. However, the security of the global community can-
not forever rest on a balance of terror.
In the past, war has been accepted as the ultimate arbiter of disputes
among nations. But in the nuclear era we can no longer think of war as
merely a continuation of diplomacy by other means. Nuclear war cannot
be measured by the archaic standards of victory or defeat.
This stark reality imposes on the United States and the Soviet Union
an awesome and special responsibility. The United States is engaged,
along with other nations, in a broad range of negotiations. In strategic
arms limitation talks, we and the Soviets are within sight of a significant
agreement in limiting the total numbers of weapons and in restricting
certain categories of weapons of special concern to each of us. We can also
start the crucial process of curbing the relentless march of technological
development which makes nuclear weapons ever more difficult to control.
We must look beyond the present and work to prevent the critical
threats and instabilities of the future. In the principles of self-restraint,
1716
