Aug. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Study of Federal Justice Sys-
tem Improvement Activities
The weaknesses of our present system
of justice are painfully clear to many citi-
zens. Lawyers are often available only
to the wealthy or the very poor. There
are substantial backlogs in the courts.
While many people have proposed plans
for resolving disputes outside of the courts,
few of these plans are now operating.
The Federal Government does not bear
full responsibility for correcting these in-
equities, but it should make its own sys-
tem a model and encourage State and
local governments to improve the quality
of their systems of justice.
I have therefore directed my Reorga-
nization Project Staff at the Office of
Management and Budget to review all
Federal activities designed to improve the
system of justice in this country. These
include: (1) justice research programs;
(2) justice information and statistical
services; (3) justice policy and planning
offices; (4) financial assistance for State
and local systems; and (5) other reform
activities such as juvenile justice and de-
linquency prevention programs.
This review will rely heavily on advice
and counsel from Congress, Executive de-
partments and agencies, the Judiciary,
State and local officials, and the public.
You may
be asked to contribute time,
resources, and staff support to this effort.
I consider this to be a high priority matter,
and I know I can count on your coopera-
tion and assistance.
In order to inform all affected parties
that this review is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: Fact sheets on each of the studies
were also included in the release.
Presidential Management
Intern Program
Remarks on Signing an Executive Order
Establishing the Program. August 25, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. About a year ago at
Syracuse University, I espoused a proposal
that had been made earlier by others, in-
cluding Elmer Staats, to begin a Presi-
dential Management Intern Program,
bringing into our Government graduates
of the public management programs.
We now have about 20,000 graduate
students in public management in about
150 universities and colleges. I'm sure
we'll have intense competition for these
jobs in Government.
Many of the people in the audience
today in the educational institutions have
been involved in the preparation of the
program which I will initiate today by
signing an Executive order. But equally
important are the administrators of our
Government agencies who are also in the
audience, who will find very valuable,
I'm sure, these interns who will come in
to serve for 2 years.
There won't be a special allotment of
funds for this program; the billets are
there, and the normal budget processes
will prevail. But we will have a chance to
bring into our Government the finest
graduates of our business management
schools.
I think it's accurate to point out that
those who serve in management positions
in our Government now are also of superb
quality-deeply dedicated, highly compe-
tent professionals in every way. Quite
often, they are not adequately recognized,
and I think it's accurate to say that these
new interns-and the program will un-
doubtedly be highly publicized-will help
to reassure the American public about the
high quality of all those who serve profes-
sionally in our Government itself.
1498
