Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
legislation does not reach these issues and
some administration spokesmen seem to
express other views even to the effect that
independent refiners are expendable in
our Nation's overall energy program.
My question is, do you still intend to
take these actions to protect competition
and preserve the competitive viability of
the small independent refiners; and pend-
ing long-term solutions, would you sup-
port the continuation of present Federal
programs designed to provide temporary
solutions?
The President. Yes. The basic ques-
tion is whether or not we will do what we
can as an administration to treat the small
and independent oil and gas companies
on the same basis as the large ones; also,
I understand your question is whether or
not we're going to vigorously enforce the
antitrust laws which do mean if they are
enforced that the true competition in our
country can be restored.
The answer to both those questions is
yes.
HEALTH CARE COSTS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Dr. R. W. Har-
rison, a local dentist. I would like to ask
what are your plans for increasing the
availability of all phases of health care to
rural, underserved areas, and do you be-
lieve that Public Law 93-641, dealing
with health care delivery, can be imple-
mented effectively?
THE PRESIDENT. You're going to have
to tell me what Public Law 93-641 is.
[Laughter]
Let me answer part of your question. I'll
let you ask me that following up. The
first step in the delivery of better health
care to our people is to control runaway
costs. In hospitals now, for instance, we
have the cost of the same level of health
care doubling every 5 years. So, no mat-
ter what kind of health program you
have, if the hospital costs are twice as
high every 5 years, there's no way for the
Federal Government or local and State
governments or private citizens to pay
for it.
We have introduced in the Congress
this
year a cost containment bill which
will limit the increase in hospital charges
to about 9 percent a year, with some flex-
ibility in there to accommodate wage in-
creases. That's the first step.
Another step is to cut down on the
waste which goes into our health care
system, when people are admitted into the
hospital as inpatients, when they can just
as well be treated either at home or in out-
patient care, where the person comes to
the hospital, gets treated, and goes back
home. As you know, in many instances
both doctors and hospitals benefit if the
patient is admitted to the hospital. When
you have a very simple operation, for in-
stance, if you go into the hospital, stay 3
or 4 days, the costs are enormous. We
need to do away with that as much as
possible.
Another thing we need to do is that
when people are treated in that fashion,
that we have an increasing dependence
upon nonphysicians-registered nurses,
physicians' assistants, and others—who
can give the same examinations, basic
examinations and simple treatment,
under the supervision of doctors so it
won't cost as much.
We also need to have an emphasis on
prevention of disease. When those of you
who are my age were young, most of our
contact either with private doctors or
with the public health doctors and nurses
was to prevent disease. We've gotten
away from that now. We need to go back
to the prevention of disease.
Another last thing I'd like to say on the
cost of health care is this: There are in-
creasingly wasteful, very expensive ma-
1321
