Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 7
than has been the case with his baseball
team, the Atlanta Braves. [Laughter]
This is an evening of historic impor-
tance, and I invited another special guest
from Georgia, a woman whose husband
inspired the world, Mrs. Martin Luther
King, Jr.
I was talking to General Torrijos a few
moments ago about how important the
treaty was to Panama. It was shown
throughout Latin America for a full hour
live this evening-the ceremonies. And
he said that because of the demands of
his own people, that he used helicopters
to carry to all the remote villages in
Panama television sets; and since they
didn't have electricity, that he also car-
ried small electric generators so that he
wouldn't have to carry all the people from
the remote areas into Panama City this
evening. And I think this demonstrates
the importance of the treaty to Panama.
you
He said, "Mr. President, I can tell
without fear of being wrong that more
than a million Panamanians wept this
evening during the ceremonies."
And I could tell from his own private
conversations with me the tremendous
importance of this long search for an
equitable treaty that has been consum-
mated this evening.
There is another special difference be-
tween this treaty and the one that was
signed in 1903. The Panamanians had a
chance to read it before it was signed-
[laughter]-which was not the case with
the first treaty. And I believe that the
American people are big enough and
strong enough, courageous enough and
understanding enough to be proud of
what has been accomplished, initiated by
President Johnson in 1963, following a
temporary outbreak of violence in the
Panama Canal Zone. And the demonstra-
tion that President Johnson gave of our
good intentions caused an equal demon-
stration of patience and perseverance and
good faith and good manners on the part
of the Panamanians.
And the negotiations continued under
President Nixon and under President
Ford. And I am very glad that my prede-
cessors, their Secretaries of State, their
Vice Presidents and negotiators have led
up to this successful conclusion of the
effort this day.
We have an opportunity now in our
own country to demonstrate again the
respect and the appreciation which we
feel toward our neighbors in the southern
part of this hemisphere. This has not
always been apparent to our neighbors,
but I think the American people feel this
deep within them, that the most precious
friendships, the staunchest historical sup-
porters, and those with whom we share a
common history and a common future
are those who live in Canada and in the
nations to the south. And I believe that
this treaty can open up a new era of un-
derstanding and comprehension, friend-
ship and mutual respect, throughout not
only this hemisphere but throughout the
world.
It's not an easy thing to accept a
change which has been so profoundly bal-
anced in our favor and which can now
be of equal benefit to both countries. But
ours is a great country, and it's great
enough to be fair.
I think it's accurate to say that never
in the last 14 years has there been any
semblance of a threat or an expression of
displeasure on the part of the Panamani-
ans toward our negotiators. Ambassador
Bunker has told me this more than once.
And President Torrijos, I thank you for
the good will that has been brought by
you for the last 9 years as President and
leader of your country to the negotiating
table. And many other leaders who are
represented here-27 countries in our
1545
