July 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I believe these goals can be met
through the following changes in our
labor laws:
• An election on union representation
should be held within a fixed, brief period
of time after a request for an election is
filed with the Board. This period should
be as short as is administratively feasible.
The Board, however, should be allowed
some additional time to deal with com-
plex cases.
• The Board should be instructed to
establish clear rules defining appropriate
bargaining units. This change would not
only help to streamline the time-consum-
ing, case-by-case procedures now in effect,
but would also allow labor and manage-
ment to rely more fully on individual
Board decisions.
• The Board should be expanded from
five to seven members. This change would
enable the NLRB to handle better its in-
creasing caseload.
• The Board should establish proce-
dures that would allow two members of
the Board to affirm summarily the less
complex decision of its administrative
law judges. Similar procedures have al-
ready been adopted by the Federal courts
of appeal.
• All appeals of Board decisions should
be required to be filed within 30 days of
the Board's decision. If no appeal is filed,
the Board should refer its orders to the
courts for enforcement without further
delay. This procedure is similar to that
used by such other Federal regulatory
agencies as the Federal Trade Com-
mission.
• When employers are found to have
refused to bargain for a first contract, the
Board should be able to order them to
compensate workers for the wages that
were lost during the period of unfair de-
lay. This compensation should be based
on a fixed standard, such as the Quar-
terly Report of Major Collective Bargain-
ing Settlements published by the Bureau
of Labor Statistics (BLS). Workers
would be entitled to the difference be-
tween the wages actually received during
the delay and those which would have
been received had their wages increased
at the average rate for settlements re-
ported during that period, as recorded in
the BLS index.
The Board should be authorized to
award double back-pay without mitiga-
tion to workers who were illegally dis-
charged before the initial contract. This
flat-rate formula would simplify the pres-
ent time-consuming back-pay process and
would more fully compensate employees
for the real cost of a lost job.
The Board should be authorized to
prohibit a firm from obtaining Federal
contracts for a period of three years, if
the firm is found to have willfully and
repeatedly violated NLRB orders. Such
a debarment should be limited to cases
of serious violations and should not af-
fect existing contracts. This restriction
could be lifted under two conditions: if
the Secretary of Labor determines that
debarment is not in the national interest,
or if the affected Federal agency deter-
mines that no other supplier is available.
• Under current law, the Board is only
required to seek a preliminary injunction
against a few types of serious union unfair
labor practices, such as secondary boy-
cotts or "hot cargo" agreements. The
Board should also be required to seek
preliminary injunctions against certain
unfair labor practices which interfere
seriously with employee rights, such as
unlawful discharges.
1278
