Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 24
elected Lieutenant Governor, and who is
elected Governor-Ed Lane, Chuck
Robb, Henry Howell are a good team.
And I believe you and our country will
be served well if they are elected. I trust
the judgment of Virginia people. And
that's why I predict that you and they are
going to be very happy when the election
night comes.
Thank
with you.
you very much. I'm glad to be
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:07 p.m. at the
Azalea Gardens.
Williamsburg, Virginia
Remarks at a Democratic Fundraising Dinner.
September 24, 1977
In every State, there are a few people
who are willing to sacrifice their time and
their financial wealth and their own per-
sonal investment for the benefit of their
fellow men and women. And I want to
let
you know how much I appreciate the
generous contribution that you are mak-
ing tonight by being here.
I'm touched to be present, not touched
quite as much as some of you have been,
have been,
perhaps [laughter]-but it's an enjoy-
able and a voluntary thing on my part,
and I know an enjoyable and a voluntary
thing on your part.
Virginia is a great State with a history
that makes us all proud who know it.
Three hundred and almost forty years
ago, my own Carter family settled not too
far from here, just across the James River
from Jamestown in what was then the
Isle of Wight County and later became
Surry County; later moved to North
Carolina, and later, then moved on down
to Georgia. And when I was first married,
I lived in Norfolk with my new bride, and
that's where my first son was born.
As President, I feel an even deeper
sense of kinship with Virginia. Georgia
has now produced one President; Vir-
ginia has produced
ginia has produced eight. [Laughter] I
have to say that the quality of some of
your Presidents has been very, very good,
and I hope to measure up to that stand-
ard.
But our country is a partnership for us,
and State government is also a partner-
ship. Our Nation is, in a way, a child of
the States. And of course, county govern-
ment, city government are children of
the State. But the interrelationship has
got to be a strong one for our basic sys-
tem of government, federalism, to con-
tinue to exist.
The number of democracies in the
world is not as great as it should be. I
spent 3 hours yesterday in detailed dis-
cussions with Foreign Minister Gromyko
about matters that are transcendent in
their importance to our own people and
our future—to world peace and world
progress, to a lessening of tension, a re-
duction in armaments, an enhancement
of human freedom, the protection of hu-
man rights. And it was a very real re-
sponsibility on me to prepare carefully for
that exchange of ideas.
I believe some progress was made in
establishing terms for a comprehensive
test ban that would prohibit all testing
of nuclear explosions in the future by our
countries. And I believe that progress was
made in limiting strategic nuclear weap-
ons with unbelievable destructive power.
We don't yet know what our success
might be, but at least we made progress
forward.
Virginia is a State that's always prided
itself on strength and unchanging princi-
ple and a search for candidates for public
1659
