Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment, the State Department, as well as the
Department of Agriculture.
We're trying to establish a comprehen-
sive world food policy to match the tre-
mendous production that we have with
the tremendous need among the hungry
people of the world. And we're trying to
explore new markets, not only in Western
Europe and Japan but in Eastern Europe
and other countries as well.
So, in the export of food we're trying to
increase the quality of service that the
great farm areas of our Nation provide
for the rest of the world. We've got a long
way to go. We have to work out the prob-
lem with food reserves, and my promise
to the farmers of this area was that when
we did have high-yielding crops and this
is the greatest crop we have ever had in
corn; it's the greatest crop we've ever had
in soybeans that we would have reserves
that would be not under the control of
the Government, but supported and con-
trolled by farmers so there can be no
dumping on the market, artificially, to
lower prices. And I promised you that
we'd do the best I could to get the Gov-
ernment out of interference in the pro-
duction, storage, and marketing of crops.
These kinds of challenges are constantly
on my mind.
We have a long way to go in soil and
water conservation efforts, and we've got
a long way to go in providing a compre-
hensive disaster assistance program.
There's another item I'd like to men-
tion tonight, and that's the subject of en-
ergy. I presented to the Congress and to
the American people last April, for the
first time in the history of our Nation, a
comprehensive energy policy.
We had a severe blow in 1973 when
the prices of oil were quadrupled almost
overnight. And when an oil embargo was
slapped on our country, that economically
almost brought us to our knees.
Other nations suffered the same chal-
lenge. They have reacted well. The con-
sumption of oil in Germany, compared to
1973, is down. The consumption of oil in
Sweden is down, France down, Italy
down, Japan down. The consumption of
oil in the United States since 1973 is up
87 percent. This year we are importing
$45
$45 billion worth of oil from overseas,
half of the oil we use. And that's almost
exactly the amount that we waste, that
we don't have to waste. Notice that this
is twice as much oil imported as all the
agricultural products that we export.
Something must be done.
It's not easy to remove the hold on our
government processes that have been in
existence for a long time by the oil and
gas companies, but I'm determined to do
it with your help. In many ways, the ac-
ceptance by the American people and the
acceptance by the American Congress of
a comprehensive energy policy is a test
of our strength and a test of our national
will. The rest of the nations of the world
watch us very closely to see if we can
sacrifice in a time of international need.
The proposal that we've put forward
is bitter medicine, but it's not nearly so
bitter as the catastrophe that might befall
us if we don't take rapid action. We have
put forward a well-balanced program
that will induce our own selves to con-
serve energy of all kinds. It will induce
us, without hurting us deeply, to shift to
other forms of energy, away from oil and
natural gas. I'm determined that the
consumers of our Nation will not be hurt
and that the oil suppliers, the companies
that produce oil and gas, will not be en-
riched in an unwarranted fashion. We
have built into our proposal adequate in-
centives to encourage oil and gas explora-
tion and production.
Under our own program new oil dis-
covered by American companies in the
1858
