Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
The farm bill that you have just signed
into law provides some aid, but it is not
enough. It limits the family farmer to
less than 70 percent on his products, as
compared to those products that he is hav-
ing to buy to produce and to live in this
country. We cannot go on working for
70 cents or less on the dollar when the
products and services we have to pur-
chase are costing us a dollar on the dollar.
I ask you, surely you do not feel that
the American family farmer is a subparity
citizen?
The President. The answer to your
question is no. [Laughter] As you may or
may not know, I am a farmer myself. And
I believe that the Congress has placed on
my desk and I have signed a farm bill
that's very far-reaching in its benefits to
agriculture.
In spite of the fact that two-thirds of
all the counties in this Nation are desig-
nated officially as disaster areas, we have
had the highest production of corn in
history. We have had the highest produc-
tion of soybeans in history. And through-
out the world there is a fairly good grow-
ing season, which means that the demand
for our exports is not as great as it has
been in the past.
In spite of that, in this last year which
ended the end of September, we had the
greatest exports also in the history of our
country-$24 billion. We expect to pay
out to farmers in this new fiscal year that
began the 1st of October three times as
much as we did during this past fiscal year
just completed.
This farm bill will cost the taxpayers
about $62 billion, and I think it's money
well spent.
Of course, much of that which is
charged against the Federal Treasury be-
cause of longstanding bookkeeping prin-
ciples are not payments, but they are
loans. But I believe that within the frame-
work of the Federal budget restrictions
that the agriculture bill that has just been
signed is the best that we can expect. And
I believe that it is adequate.
The farmers in many areas have made
a bumper crop. The price is presently
low. But based on information that has
been received from the land grant colleges
and other sources, with the exception of
land depreciation, we have tried to meet
the average cost of production in our tar-
get price base. And as you well know,
there are some areas that have much
higher cost of production than does the
average, and those areas do suffer. I cer-
tainly realize that. We hope to continue
our increase in agricultural exports in the
years ahead.
The last point I would like to say
that in addition to the President having a
background in agriculture, we have a
dirt farmer who is Secretary of Agricul-
ture. And the new bill does give the Sec-
retary a great deal of flexibility. And I
believe that his own background, a man
who went to Florida as a migrant worker
in his young age, came back to the north-
ernmost parts of Minnesota, borrowed
some money, started a small operation,
now farms about 600 acres his back-
ground, I think, is close enough to your
own so that as he administers this bill,
he can take full advantages of all the po-
tential that exists in it to make you and
the other American farmers have a pros-
perous and an enjoyable life. So, it's not
everything you would have wanted. There
are budget constraints that keep us from
having a perfect bill, but I believe that
as Mr. Alvey said, it's a great step in the
right direction.
Thank you very much, sir.
FOREIGN AID
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dave
Sanders. I am from Boulder, and I have
1879
