Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of state. Can you tell us what overall
objective you have in mind for this trip
and if there is any foreign policy theme
that you want to accomplish? And I'd
like to add to that, do you intend to press
this issue of human rights, that you men-
tioned earlier, in your stops in Poland and
Iran?
The PRESIDENT. Yes, I do intend to
press the subject of human rights. My
time set aside for negotiation with foreign
leaders where I'll visit is equivalent to the
time that I set aside for discussions with
foreign leaders who come here and visit
me. There are literally weeks of prepara-
tion that go into the visit to any country,
days of preparation on my own part. I'll
spend a lot of my time over the Christmas
holidays reading thick notebooks on the
nations to be visited. Each nation is
different.
I'll start off my trip with Poland. I
think it's very important that an Ameri-
can President indicate our interest in
Eastern European countries. Poland is
one that has very close ties to us. We have
strong trade relationships with Poland,
and my presence there is just as important
as is the presence of President Brezhnev
when he visits a nation like France or
Germany. And we will be discussing a
broad range of questions with Poland.
We are just making a brief stop in
Saudi Arabia and Iran, to and from
India. But we'll have time for several
hours of intensive discussions with the
leaders in those two Middle Eastern
countries. They are major suppliers of oil
to ourselves and to the rest of the country
(world).ยน They have a major political
and military influence in the Middle East.
And it is very important that I let their
people and those leaders know that I care
about our friendship with them and vice
versa.
1 Printed in the White House Press Office
transcript.
India, as you know, is the world's
largest democracy, with hundreds of mil-
lions of people. In the past under Mrs.
Gandhi, their primary orientation shifted
toward friendship with the Soviet Union.
I would like very much for the people of
India, for Prime Minister Desai, with
whom I have a continuing correspond-
ence, to know how much we value a
restoration of those strong ties of friend-
ship, trade, commerce with India. And I
think this is a very important considera-
tion for me.
I have already visited England. Early
next summer or late spring, I'll be visiting
West Germany, and I particularly wanted
to visit France as well. When I was in
London last May, President Giscard par-
ticularly asked me if I could come to
France later this year, late this year. I
replied that I would if I could schedule it.
And so, I am very eager to negotiate
major problems with France. They have
a much greater historical presence, for
instance, in Africa than we do. I think
many of the African nations, particularly
those that speak French, look toward
France as a source of advice and counsel,
economic aid to them. And it will help
me to have a better avenue or understand-
ing of Africa to meet with Giscard.
France is not a member of NATO. But
they are very supportive of the European
defense effort. They retain very rigidly
their autonomy and independence from
the influence of other countries, which
is good. But I want to discuss with Giscard
our negotiations with the Soviet Union,
our influence in the Middle East, our
growing influence in Africa.
Of course, to visit NATO headquarters
is important as well, because we are trying
to increase our contribution and our in-
fluence in NATO.
Those trips are not tied harmoniously
or homogeneously together, because each
2122
