Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
pendence as a nation. Appropriate cere-
monies will mark this occasion in our own
country and throughout the world, in-
cluding, of course, the United States. I
hope I shall not be misunderstood if, in
the present context, I say that we look
upon the United States as a big brother.
Both our countries, Mr. President, are
today faced with tremendous challenges,
both in the field of politics and that of
economics.
I do believe that while, of course, vary-
ing in degree, our responsibilities are
identical in nature and our search for the
proper solutions. We both believe in the
dignity of man. We both stand for an
economic system which is at the same time
free and equitable. We both share pre-
occupation for the progress of the devel-
oping countries.
Rest assured, Mr. President, that in its
quest for answers to our present day prob-
lems, Belgium will not lose sight of those
guiding principles in the firm belief that
auguration, we had the pleasure of re-
ceiving in Brussels the visit of Vice
President Mondale. And in May, it was
my privilege to meet you, Mr. President,
in London.
Following my present visit to the
United States, we shall be anticipating
with the greatest interest and pleasure the
visit that you plan to pay to Belgium on
the first day of December next. These
meetings at the highest level are proof
enough of our common desire to work
closely together.
May I finally add, Mr. President, how
eagerly we are looking forward to your
visit to Brussels, because it will give us the
opportunity to repay all the warmth and
kindness that you show us today.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:08 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
we shall join company with the United Federal Regional Councils
States on this common ground.
By nature, by temperament, and by
necessity, we Belgians are international-
ists. We learned long ago that we cannot
live in isolation. And since the signing of
the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union
in 1921, my country has not ceased to
enlarge its cooperation with our neighbors
and other countries of the world in a
series of concentric circles-Belgium-
Luxembourg Economic Union, Benelux,
European Economic Community, OECD,
the world organizations. More than ever,
as the interdependence of nations in-
creases, we are convinced that progress
for mankind is dependent on international
consultation and cooperation.
In this respect, we have been especially
happy to maintain a close relationship
with the United States. At the beginning
of this year, immediately after your in-
Designation of Chairpersons for the 10 Federal
Regions. October 19, 1977
The President has designated 10 per-
sons for 1-year terms as Federal Re-
gional Council Chairpersons for the 10
Federal regions.
In letters to the 10 persons chosen, the
President stated that the Federal Regional
Council should help implement his initia-
tive in streamlining and simplifying the
Federal grant-in-aid system. "I am relying
on you to identify problems and potential
solutions for management improvement
in concert with State and local officials in
your region," the letters state.
The 10 persons are:
Region I (Boston)-Ivan Ashley, Regional
Director, Community Services Administra-
tion
1816
