Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
exist concerning Namibia, and we hope
for early and complete peace in the Horn
of Africa. And we are eager to cooperate
with you in these noble efforts.
I might add, also, that we want to have
very close and friendly bilateral relation-
ships between the United States and every
one of your countries. We now have about
2,000 Peace Corps volunteers in 23 na-
tions in Africa. In the past, I know that
this has been an effort about which there
has been some doubt. But if you have a
special need for technical help or help
with agriculture, education, health, if you
would let me know or Secretary of State
Vance or Ambassador Andrew Young, we
would be glad to participate with you on
this basis, with your having control, of
course, over how these volunteers might
strengthen the ties between our country
and yours.
We do this and offer this in a spirit of
partnership and equality. And, of course,
we also welcome delegations of your own
We share a common purpose. Friendship
can bind us together, and I'm very eager
to meet you more than halfway.
I hope that those of you who represent
your countries here will extend my heart-
iest and personal best wishes to the leaders
of your country. And I know that many of
them have been here already; some will
come next year. And I look forward to a
chance in the future, perhaps, of visiting
your nation, to extend a stronger expres-
sion of friendship from the United States
to the people whom you represent.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:03 p.m. at the
headquarters of the U.S. Mission to the United
Nations in New York City. He was introduced
by Andrew J. Young, U.S. Representative to
the United Nations.
The President hosted the luncheon for foreign
ministers and heads of delegations to the United
Nations.
citizens or individual students or others, Natural Gas Deregulation
who would like to come to our country
and to learn about us and to form closer
ties of friendship between our people.
I might close by saying that we are very
eager to have a reduction in expenditures
for weapons and arms, as I mentioned in
my speech this morning. We have a sub-
stantial aid program. Our hopes would be
that this could be in the form of humani-
tarian aid and not military aid.
We need to understand your special
problems and your special hopes and
dreams and aspirations for the future so
that the opportunities in your own coun-
try might be realized. And I would per-
sonally appreciate direct communication
from the leaders of your nations if a spe-
cial occasion should arise where the
United States might be of help in some
matter that is important to your people.
Again, let me say how deeply grateful
I am for the honor of meeting all of
you.
Statement on Senate Action. October 4, 1977
This legislation is unacceptable. It is an
injustice to the working people of this
country.
The bill passed by the House is a fair
one and one that I and the American
people can support. I hope and expect
that a reasonable bill will emerge from the
conference committee and be approved by
both Houses.
I look forward to signing legislation
that provides adequate production incen-
tives while protecting the interests of
American consumers. I will not sign an
unfair bill.
NOTE: Earlier in the day, the Senate had passed
H.R. 5289, a bill to establish a comprehensive
natural gas pricing policy.
The statement was made available by the
White House Press Office. It was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
1724
