Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 30
Q. Mr. President, you want them to be
together. You don't want to separate the
two?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. They
will be together. Some of the more contro-
versial items on tax reform that have been
proposed to me—they would be very time-
consuming and have very little monetary
significance might be delayed until
later on, because I feel that it's necessary
to expedite the effectiveness of substantial
tax reduction, and I'm committed and the
Democratic congressional leaders, at least,
are committed to substantial tax reduc-
tion in 1978 as soon as we can put it
through.
BALANCE OF TRADE
Q. Mr. President, the foreign trade def-
icit is running about $27 billion a year.
I wondered, sir, since this is putting down-
ward pressure on the dollar in some cur-
rencies, what can you do about it?
THE PRESIDENT. The revelations about
October's balance-of-trade deficit were
quite disturbing. We analyzed this and
found that the same monthly rate of def-
icit that had existed ever since last May
or June, about $2.4 billion per month, is
exactly the average of September and
October.
So, we apparently have a fairly stable
pattern per month of a $2.4 billion deficit,
primarily caused by two factors: One is
our extraordinary importation of foreign
oil. We import $3.7 billion worth of oil
every month. This means that we have, if
we didn't import the oil, about a $15
billion trade surplus per year. And we
have got to cut down on the excessive im-
porting of oil from overseas before we can
hope to get our trade balanced.
The other reason for an adverse bal-
ance is that our own economy has im-
proved in the last few years-few months,
much more than has the rest of the world.
Because of our improvement in the econ-
omy, we are much more able to buy and
much more willing to buy goods from
overseas than those nations are able to
buy from us because their economies have
not been restored as much as ours.
We have one major element that can be
introduced to cut down on our trade def-
icits and that's obvious-and that is to
reduce oil imports.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
[President Carter's twentieth news conference
began at 10:30 a.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building and was broadcast
live on radio and television. Following the news
conference, the President remained in the room
to answer questions from reporters on an in-
formal basis, as follows:]
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't decided.
Q. What changed to cause you to re-
lease him from the commitment? I mean,
he knew back in January that Shapp
would have to be out and a new Governor
elected.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. Pete ¹
never discussed it with me directly.
Q. You talked about depoliticizing Jus-
tice during the campaign, and do you
think that releasing him from this com-
mitment to allow him to get back into
politics is going to cut against that trend
that you've instituted?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know enough
to comment about that because I was not
involved in the hiring of him, nor in his
resignation.
Q. Do you know how cold it is in
Normandy in January? [Laughter] I
mean, seriously, let's get down to brass
tacks.
THE PRESIDENT. We'll find out.
1 On November 26, Deputy Attorney General
Peter F. Flaherty announced his intention to
resign in order to explore the possibilities of
running for the office of Governor of Penn-
sylvania.
2061
