Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 19
The President and the Prime Minister
expressed their satisfaction with the agree-
ment reached by the United States and
Belgium on October 18, under which Bel-
gium acquires a route to Atlanta in addi-
tion to the one already enjoyed to New
York. The two leaders also endorsed the
emphasis given by the new agreement to
promoting low-fare scheduled service and
liberalized charter arrangements over the
Atlantic.
Prime Minister Tindemans offered the
President his analysis of the state of the
movement towards European unification.
Specifically he mentioned the progress
represented by direct election of the Euro-
pean Parliament, which is scheduled for
1978. The Prime Minister also underlined
that Greece, Portugal, and Spain had all
applied for membership in the Commu-
nity. President Carter repeated that the
United States remained unequivocally
committed to European unity and a strong
Community.
Prime Minister Tindemans expressed
his view that the Community should be
represented at Western summit meetings
and involved in any followup. The Presi-
dent said that we fully support the prin-
ciple of E.C. participation but believe the
nature of that participation must be deter-
mined by the Community itself.
The Prime Minister and the President
agreed on the importance of cooperative
efforts to assist developing countries with
sustaining economic growth and meeting
the basic needs of their poor. In that con-
text, Prime Minister Tindemans raised
the issue of a major economic develop-
ment program for Zaire to be imple-
mented in the framework of a joint inter-
national effort, an issue which had been
raised with the Belgian Government by
President Mobutu in June. The President
indicated that he supported the principle
of such an aid program for Zaire, and he
expressed the hope that Belgium would
continue to promote a joint program
within a multilateral framework, in har-
mony with the important economic and
reform measures now underway in Zaire.
The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent noted the close harmony in the
approaches of their two Governments to
the CSCE review conference in Belgrade,
and expressed their intent to consult
closely on developments at the conference.
They emphasized the need for a full,
frank review of the entire Final Act,
without polemics, and stressed the impor-
tance of human rights aspects. The Prime
Minister and the President reiterated
their support for participation at the con-
ference by the Community.
President's Award for
Distinguished Federal Civilian
Service
Executive Order 12014. October 19, 1977
RELATING TO THE PRESIDENT'S AWARD
FOR DISTINGUISHED FEDERAL CIVILIAN
SERVICE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, the
Distinguished Civilian Service Awards
Board is hereby abolished and Executive
Order No. 10717, as amended, is further
amended by deleting Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8 and 9 and by adding the following new
Sections:
"Sec. 3. The Chairman of the United
States Civil Service Commission shall ad-
vise and assist the President in selecting
persons to receive this award. In perform-
ing this function, the Chairman shall care-
fully review nominations submitted pur-
1819
