Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 28
to SALT. Smith has been a member of
the Washington law firm of Wilmer, Cut-
ler and Pickering since 1972.
Visit of President Perez
of Venezuela
Toasts of the President and President Perez
at a Dinner Honoring the Venezuelan
President. June 28, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. First of all, I want
to welcome all of you here tonight.
This is the first state visit we've had
in quite a while. And one of the great
things about having this kind of a ban-
quet is to bring people to the White House
from all over our country to meet distin-
guished visitors who mean so much to us.
During the morning sessions we have
ceremonies on the lawn and then we have
long, detailed, sometimes boring—but not
this morning-discussions about matters
of great world import. But in the evening
we have a chance to get to know one an-
other. And I've enjoyed it very much,
talking to our good friend, President
Perez, and his wife, Blanca.
We get to know about one another's
government. We were discussing the prob-
lems of democracies all over the world,
who are held back in quick decisions by
the parliamentary process and congresses.
[Laughter] We both agreed that these
problems did not apply to Venezuela and
the United States. [Laughter]
President Perez commented on the
charm of the people at the table here with
us, and particularly noticed that Jack
Brooks-whenever he spoke I got very
quiet and listened to what he said, some-
times even ignoring our guest. [Laughter]
He pointed out how delightful and charm-
ing Jack was. I did not tell him that the
conference committee on establishing a
Department of Energy was going to meet
very shortly, and Jack was the chairman
of the Government Operations Commit-
tee. [Laughter]
But we have a chance to learn, and I
was also very interested in his analysis
of Rosalynn's visit. She was gone for a
long time, and you may not be able to
detect it from the atmosphere tonight,
but this house was built when John
Adams was President and it's gotten larger
as time goes on. And I have never seen
a lonelier place in my life than the
White House when Rosalynn was in
South and Central America and in the
Caribbean. Chip and his wife were in
England; later they went to California.
Jeff was in Guatemala and Honduras
and Mexico on an archeological expedi-
tion with George Washington University.
Jack is building a grain and soybean ele-
vator in Georgia. And I was here all alone.
He pointed out how brief her visit
was to Venezuela. He wished she could
have stayed longer. And I thought about
the cartoon I saw, I think in the Mil-
waukee paper, which showed me talk-
ing to Jody Powell, my Press Secretary,
Mr. President, and I was saying, "Jody,
I don't give a damn about Idi Amin.
Where is Rosalynn?" [Laughter]
So we have a chance to learn about
one another. And there's an opportu-
nity to draw ourselves together in the
friendliest and most persuasive and per-
sonal way-not only between me and
all of those of you who've come here to
visit tonight from our country, but to get
to know our distinguished visitors.
We share a great deal. But I think
it's accurate to say that among all the
visitors that we've had here at this great
center of our Government's life, Vene-
zuela is represented by a man who epito-
mizes the finest aspects of our own coun-
try's hopes and dreams and aspirations
and ideals.
For 19 years now, there's been an ab-
solute, total, and pure democracy in
1183
