July 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cuse me, Dr. Schlesinger-welcome to
Washington—and with the members of
the Cabinet in what I thought was a
very good give-and-take, and then this
morning again discussing some vital areas.
So, I think it's really been a very construc-
tive and useful discussion.
I might add I was asked by one of the
members of the press early on whether or
not this was an attempt to use us to help
lobby the President's program. That
would be totally incorrect because there's
been no attempt at any point on this. By
and large it's been a very good exchange,
not only in the areas that were structured
by the staffs of the White House and the
National Governors' Conference, but
every Governor was given the latitude
they would have otherwise asserted any-
way to ask any questions on anything con-
cerning energy.
And I truly believe that it marks a be-
ginning, or I should say not the beginning,
because we started at our last conference
here, but a real dialog between the Fed-
eral Government that will be setting a lot
of policies, and the States by and large
will have to implement them. And I think
it's been a very healthy situation.
I certainly am looking forward to some
of the remaining discussions we will be
having today on the question of welfare.
Some of us will be meeting with Secretary
Califano, some will be meeting with Sec-
retary of Transportation Brock Adams,
some of us met yesterday afternoon with
Secretary Marshall. So, frankly, it's been
a very constructive and productive day
and a half for us.
And we thank you, Mr. President, not
only for the continuing partnership that
you truly have set up. It's really sort of
a new thing, I guess, for Governors to
find Cabinet members as easy to reach
and to be as responsive as they have, and
then also, the constant personal attention
that the President has given them. So, we
certainly thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Reubin.
I'd like to respond briefly.
During the first 3 months that I was
President we spent a great deal of time
in evolving for the first time in our Na-
tion's history a comprehensive approach
to energy planning and policy, presented
that proposal to the Congress. And we've
been very pleased—the Vice President,
Dr. Schlesinger, I, and others at the
good progress that's been made in Con-
gress to date.
If we should not get 100 percent of
our program this year, we'll be back next
year. And I don't think there is any doubt
that the Nation faces devastating conse-
quences in the absence of a comprehen-
sive and fair and understandable energy
policy.
The implementation of such a policy—
oil and natural gas exploration, produc-
tion of those fuels plus coal, the proper
use of atomic power, the increasing use
of solar energy and other more exotic
types of fuels, the reduction in environ-
mental damage as new exploration is
undertaken these kinds of responsibili-
ties fall to a major degree on the shoulders
of Governors and also officials at the local
level of government.
My own inclination, when a decision
must be reached, would be to give those
responsibilities to State and local officials.
One of the obvious needs is to prepare for
emergencies that might be very damaging
to our country if not adequately antici-
pated.
We would have varying stages of this,
from a total rationing plan to an alloca-
tion of fuel on the part of the Governors
themselves, as was the case in the winter
of 1973. But how to change from one re-
sponsibility to another between the Fed-
eral, State, and local levels of government
1226
