Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 27
nations of the world. This will be joined
with a direction from me that this be car-
ried out. It would include prohibition
against the sale of spare parts to weapons.
And we will also, of course, assess other
actions that might be taken in the future.
We don't know yet what the negotia-
tions might bring between us and the na-
tions that I described to you. But this is
an appropriate action, in my opinion, and
we still hope that South Africa will not
sever themselves from the rest of the world
community, that they will cooperate with
us in bringing peace, that they will move
in a rapid but evolutionary way toward
restoring or granting for the first time
those human rights that we hold so dear.
ENERGY LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, there's talk on Cap-
itol Hill that the administration would
accept a bill that sets the pricing of nat-
ural gas at $1.85 per mcf. And you've said
that you would only sign a bill that's fair
to consumers. If the Congress were to pass
a bill setting the price at $1.85, would you
sign it? And I have a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. Judy [Judy Woodruff,
NBC News], I don't want to get into the
role of saying I will or will not sign a bill
that has this or that in it. As you know,
the negotiations on the House and Senate
side both are very sensitive at this point.
And we had prospects several months ago,
in June and July, of having a complete
failure in the House. They debated and
worked and very courageously came out
with an acceptable package fairly close to
what we proposed.
and it had an accurate, I think an ade-
quate description of the definition of new
gas.
We also proposed to include both intra-
state and interstate gas in this new pro-
gram. That's still my position, and that's
what I'm going to fight for and work hard
for in the conference committee, and then
when the conference committee comes
back to the House and Senate.
I've not had any secret or private agree-
ments with anyone to modify our own
original proposal. We stuck with that pro-
posal throughout the House deliberations,
and because of that tenacity that we dem-
onstrated, I think it kept our whole pro-
gram together. And that's my present
stance, and that's my future stance.
I have told Members of the House and
Senate who come to see me, I've told
labor leaders, business groups, and also
consumer groups that before I modify at
all our own official position on these very
controversial energy policies, that I would
consult with them ahead of time. It obvi-
ously might be necessary to do some com-
promising; otherwise, the conference com-
mittee report could not function. But my
position is still completely compatible
back in April.
with what we proposed to the Congress
I outlined in my opening statement the
three basic principles. One is to protect
the interest of American consumers and
not to permit windfall profits for the oil
companies; secondly, to meet the con-
servation and conversion goals, and also
production goals; and, thirdly, not to seri-
ously unbalance the Federal Government.
Within that framework, which is quite
constrictive, we will work with the House
and Senate leaders.
I still stand behind the proposals that
we made to Congress in April. I believe
that's the best approach. The price for
natural gas that we put forward was
$1.75. It involves a slow but predictable Q. What about a bill that included any
increase in the price of natural gas that amount of plowback to the oil industry?
would be compatible with world prices, Could you accept that sort of bill?
1911
