Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I hope and believe that I can sign the
bill as introduced to me. In the absence of
new legislation, there are many options
that will be considered within the present
authority of the President and the new
Department of Energy. Those that you
mentioned are among the options, but we
certainly have not decided on which op-
tion to choose.
Q. Mr. President, gasoline rationing is
one of the options that you would seri-
ously consider?
Members naturally became better ac-
quainted with what our proposals were.
I think that in retrospect it would have
helped had I had more meetings with
the Members of the Senate. But the fact
that I did not meet with them personally
doesn't mean that they didn't have an
adequate awareness of what our own pro-
posals were and what their impact might
be, because Dr. Schlesinger and all of his
people have spent full time there, and
I have met several times with the key
THE PRESIDENT. That's one of the op- leaders of the Senate about energy.
tions, yes.
RELATIONS WITH THE SENATE ON ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, Speaker O'Neill said
yesterday that if you had made a mistake
with your energy package in the Senate,
it's perhaps that you didn't follow it along
with your lobbyists on the Hill step by
step as you did in the House. I'm wonder-
ing if you feel that your inexperience in
Washington and the inexperience with
the so-called outsiders you brought with
you to Washington has caused your pro-
grams to suffer?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, to tell you the
truth, I had more experience when the
bill got to the Senate than I did when it
got to the House first. We did put in an
enormous of time with the House Mem-
bers. I did myself with breakfast meetings
two or three times a week and bringing
the different subcommittee members and
full committee members over.
The reason that I did that, more than
I did with the Senate, was because this
was when the bill was first introduced, not
only to the Congress but to the people of
our country. And there were many ques-
tions about the ultimate impact of the
legislative proposals that we put forward.
In the process, though, of the House
meetings with me, with Dr. Schlesinger,
and others, and the House debates and
news coverage, of course, the Senate
So, I don't deny the fact that that may
have been a factor, but there are reasons
for my having spent more time with the
House in the initial stages of energy de-
bate than I did with the Senate after the
debate had been carried on in the House.
OIL COMPANY DIVESTITURE
Q. Mr. President, if you are serious
about the oil industry and the oil lobbies
working contrary to what you perceive
the public interest to be, you've got a club
in the closet, and that's divestiture. Why
don't you move to break them up?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's a matter
of raising too many issues at once. And
I'm not trying to threaten anybody or use
a club. It's obvious that the influence of
the oil companies, both in the legislative
process, in the executive branch of Gov-
ernment as well, in the economic struc-
ture of our country is enormous.
Part of that is inevitable, and part of
it is not to be deplored-it's appropriate.
There is a concern to me. For instance, in
the uranium industry, which is another
major and future alternative for large por-
tions of our energy supplies, the oil com-
panies already own about 50 percent of
the uranium deposits. They have substan-
tial holdings in coal.
But whether or not divestiture is needed
is a matter on which I have not yet de-
cided, and I don't think that now is the
1786
