Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Visit of Lieutenant General
Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria
Remarks of the President and the Nigerian
Head of State at the Welcoming Ceremony.
October 11, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This morning we're
greatly pleased and honored to have as
our guest General Obasanjo, the head of
state of one of the great nations of Africa,
indeed, one of the great nations of the
world.
Historically, Nigeria has been a friend
of our country. This is a nation with about
80 million people-a federation, like ours,
of 19 states, a country fairly new in its
own present government.
And our distinguished guest this morn-
ing was not only a courageous fighter for
liberty and independence but, in his first
visit to our own Nation, he came here as
one seeking to reconstruct the economy
and the people's lives of Nigeria. He's a
distinguished military man in war and
also has proven himself to be a distin-
guished military leader in peace.
Nigeria is a country of great importance
to us. There is no doubt that this is a most
important nation economically in Africa.
We have great trade already between our
country and Nigeria, a total of about $6
billion per year. Nigeria is a nation mak-
ing great social and political progress. A
new constitution has already been drafted
for this great country, substantially similar
to our own, providing for a president, a
bicameral legislature, and the continua-
tion of a completely independent judici-
ary, which has always been a part of the
political life of Nigeria.
Nigeria has also moved to establish uni-
versal primary education and to use the
wealth that has come from their natural
resources, as has our own country in the
past and at present, to enrich the lives of
the people who live there.
Nigeria is a nation of great pride and
also a growing leadership, not only among
the nations of Africa but throughout the
developing world and, indeed, throughout
all nations on Earth.
We are very proud of the presence of
this great leader. Seventeen years ago
President Eisenhower met with the Prime
Minister of Nigeria. A year later Presi-
dent Kennedy met with the Prime Minis-
ter of Nigeria. And now we have the head
of state of a new and independent Nigeria.
It's a great honor for us to have General
Obasanjo here with us, with his leading
fellow executives and diplomats, to con-
sult with me and my own Cabinet
members.
We will be probing ways of increased
mutual partnership in dealing with the
troubled region of the world and seeking
for ways to tie our countries even closer
together in a mutual partnership involv-
ing politics and economics.
I'm very proud that General Obasanjo
has been able to come to our country.
And I will be visiting his country in about
6 weeks. This will be the first state visit
of a President to the black nations of
Africa, and it's no coincidence that my
point of visit will be Lagos, the capital of
Nigeria.
Let me say in closing that in addition
to forming mutual positions and com-
patible positions on matters of great mo-
ment to us and to the rest of the world,
I will be seeking General Obasanjo's ad-
vice in how best we can orient our own
foreign policy to accommodate the special
needs, the special problems, and the spe-
cial hopes of the great continent of
Africa.
So, in many ways this will be a fruitful
meeting for us, for Nigeria, I believe, for
the continent of Africa, and for the entire
world.
General Obasanjo, we are very proud
to have you here. And on behalf of 215
1762
