Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
all over the country and especially down
in my part of the country, which is Louisi-
ana-big gas producers, oil companies—
I'm sure they feel that some kind of an
all-out war has now been declared be-
tween the White House and the oil com-
panies. Could you comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I'd be glad to. There
is no all-out war. I deeply and genuinely
believe that the proposal that we put to
the Congress back in April is not only fair
but very generous to the oil and gas indus-
try in ensuring adequate profits, prices,
accumulation of capital, to continue an
effective exploration program and, also, a
production program for oil and gas. I
think the price structure also is very gen-
erous and much superior to what we have
now. There would be a commensurate re-
duction in the involvement of the Federal
Government in the oil and gas industry.
And over a fairly short period of time, the
circumstances that I've just described to
you would be improved year by year.
The major thrust of our own program
is to cut down on consumption. The price
of oil and gas in this country at the present
time, I think, is abnormally low, compared
to the value of the oil and gas and the
cost of replacement. So, what we'd like to
do is to increase the price of those prod-
ucts gradually toward a free and uncon-
trolled price, certainly based all the time
on factors such as the international oil
market, the equivalent heat value in nat-
ural gas, and the distinction between oil
and gas that has been discovered and is
being produced now and new gas and oil
to be discovered.
I think that the rejection by some, not
all, of the members of the oil and gas in-
dustry of this proposal is unwarranted.
And they are faced with a possibility of
failure this year to come out with any leg-
islation concerning oil and gas production
and pricing. If that should occur, then
the present laws and administrative rul-
ings would stay in effect, a much less at-
tractive prospect than what we have
proposed.
I have spent literally weeks working on
this question and many others related to
it-the building up of adequate reserves,
the bringing of oil and gas down from
Alaska, the adverse impact of rapidly in-
creasing imports, the definition of what
is new gas, what is new oil, the future con-
struction of pipelines, the use of the Pan-
ama Canal to bring about oil and gas
from Alaska to our eastern freeboard, and
so forth.
I'm convinced that the oil and gas com-
panies, through their efforts on Capitol
Hill to get more profit, to define what is
actually old gas as new gas under the sub-
terfuge of exploration, to also cover tax
benefits and price benefits for production
of gas which has already been discovered
and so forth, that they are trying to get an
unwarranted advantage at the expense of
the American consumers. And I'm just
not going to stand for it.
want, go ahead and
Now, nothing would please me better
than to see the House version of our
package, which is not completely what I
ahead and pass. But I think that
I've been fair about it. And there's no
way that I can deal with the question by
being quiet or timid or quiescent. We've
gone as far as we can.
I made a statement to the public last
April with a fireside chat, my only speech
to the Congress since I was inaugurated,
and since then, of course, there's been a
tremendous volume of constant and legiti-
mate advertising by the oil companies and
the natural gas companies over a period
of days and weeks and months. There's a
cloudy impression built up among the
American people that we do have ade-
quate supplies of oil and gas if the Gov-
ernment would just let the oil and gas
companies set whatever price they choose
and take the profits, which they claim to
1806
