Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 10
enormous. But if you look at our allies do you have a dominant White House
and friends, Japan, Germany, Italy, and
others, they are almost completely de-
pendent on the Middle Eastern oil. And
so I don't know of any area that concerns
more. There's nothing in foreign
affairs that has equaled the time and ef-
fort I've spent both studying long-past
history of the Middle Eastern problem
and also analyzing possible solutions in
the future. So, I would do almost anything
within reason if I thought it was neces-
sary to bring permanent peace to the
Middle East.
RELATIONSHIP WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, looking back over
your first year in office, is there anything
you would do differently if you could
attack that problem again?
that
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Scotty Reston
[James B. Reston, New York Times]
asked me that the other day. Always, I
think, in your life—and mine as a farmer
and mine as a naval officer and mine as a
candidate, if I knew everything then that
I know now, I would have done some
things differently.
I made some mistakes in judgment that
weren't fatal. I underestimated, first of
all, the quality of the Congress, the in-
tense concentration that individual Mem-
bers of Congress put on a specific issue,
sometimes for 25 or 30 or 40 years. They
become experts in that issue. And the
quality of their staff work is equivalent
completely to the quality of my own staff
work here in the White House.
This was something that I had not ex-
perienced in the Georgia State Legisla-
ture, when they only meet for 40 days and
then go home. There's no continuity of
the legislative process in my State. And I
was pleasantly surprised and underesti-
mated the competence of Congress. I
think it's a very good thing that no longer
as sometimes existed-I don't say the
country suffered when, say, Franklin
Roosevelt was here and he could send up
bills to the Congress and almost immedi-
ately they would be voted on without thor-
ough analysis.
I overestimated the Congress in its abil-
ity to deal with complicated subjects ex-
peditiously. This is particularly the case
with the Senate, where every Member of
the Senate is autonomous and prides him-
self on being independent, has the ability
if he chooses to delay action on any bill no
matter how important it is to the country;
a constant threat sometimes realized,
some not exercised, of a filibuster. Even
when you have enough votes to override
a filibuster, it takes 5 or 6 days to go
through the legislative procedures to do
that.
And I think you've noticed that the
burden of work we've put on the Con-
gress has just been more than they could
handle in the time allotted, so I've had
to delay the implementation of some of
the programs that I wanted to put for-
ward much earlier. I had anticipated
having a comprehensive tax proposal to
the Congress by September. And now, of
course, we are ready to go with it as far
as the executive branch is concerned, but
I don't want to send up a comprehensive
tax proposal until I see what the impact
on the tax structure might be from social
security and, say, energy. And as soon as
I get those answers, we'll have the pack-
age ready to go.
But I don't know of any serious mis-
takes we've made; probably expecting a
little too much from the Congress on ex-
peditious passage, underestimating their
competence on the other hand.
At first, we had a shaky start in just
knowing how to deal with the Congress.
We were eager to do the best we could.
2099
