Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 16
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
In his remarks, the President referred to an
incident which occurred outside the White
House grounds. Tear gas was used during an
attempt by police forces to separate two groups
of demonstrators, one supporting and one op-
posing the Shah and his visit to the United
States.
Visit of the Shah of Iran
White House Statement Issued Following the
Second Meeting Between the President and
the Shah. November 16, 1977
President Carter and His Imperial
Majesty The Shahanshah of Iran met
November 16 in the Cabinet Room for
90 minutes. The President was accom-
panied by Vice President Mondale; Sec-
retary of State Cyrus Vance; Zbigniew
Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs; Alfred L.
Atherton, Jr., Assistant Secretary of State
for Near Eastern and South Asian Af-
fairs; U.S. Ambassador to Iran William
Sullivan; and Gary Sick, National Secu-
rity Council staff member; and His
Majesty, by Foreign Minister, His Ex-
cellency A. A. Khalatbary and Iranian
Ambassador to the United States Arde-
shir Zahedi.
The President and His Majesty this
morning, as well as in their discussions
last evening, concluded their review of
broad international developments of key
interest to them both. In this discussion
the President reviewed his approach to
human rights throughout the world.
The meeting this morning centered
largely on bilateral issues. They discussed
the broad economic ties between our two
countries and noted that the economic
cooperation will continue to expand. In
this part of the conversation, they exam-
ined the progress of our negotiations to
reach accord on an agreement on the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The Pres-
ident also offered suggestions for resolv-
ing some points that remain pending and
expressed confidence that agreement can
be achieved within his nonproliferation
policy.
The President and His Majesty re-
viewed a number of military supply
issues. The President again reaffirmed our
support for a strong Iran, noting that
Iran's security is a matter of the highest
priority for this country. The President
informed His Majesty that he would wish
to work closely with Congress in meeting
Iran's security needs.
The President concluded by expressing
his great pleasure at the personal ties he
and His Majesty had established during
this visit. They agreed that these personal
ties are valuable in maintaining the long-
standing and close relations between our
two countries. They look forward to re-
suming their discussions during the visit
the President hopes to make soon to
Tehran.
Urban Mass Transportation Act
of 1964 Amendments
Statement on Signing H.R. 8346 Into Law.
November 16, 1977
I am signing H.R. 8346 today even
though I have serious reservations about
several of its provisions. I decided to sign
it primarily to avoid any possibility that
certain commuter rail services might be
disrupted.
This bill essentially benefits those who
now use subsidized commuter trains.
2033
