Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
I think it's accurate to say this month I'll
be able to sign that legislation.
I asked the Congress to help me stim-
ulate the American economy, and they
did so to the tune of about $21 billion to
put our people back to work. Late in De-
cember, we had an unemployment rate
of 8.1 percent. That's down now to about
7 percent. We have more than a million
people at work now, more than we had
when I came into office and, as you know,
the inflation rate has now leveled off;
still too high but it's leveled off.
We have summer programs for young
people amounting to about 1.1 million
jobs for them, and we have public works
programs that will be putting our people
back to work shortly, in addition, through-
out the country. These basic programs
have already been passed.
We've had a $4 billion permanent tax
reduction already, which means that an
average family that makes $10,000 a year
will have a 30-percent permanent tax
reduction.
So far we've had good progress. We're
now dealing with some very difficult addi-
tional subjects. One is a comprehensive
policy on energy. We've never had that in
our country. We are one of the few de-
veloped nations in the world who hasn't.
It's based primarily on conservation and
an end of waste of energy and a shift
toward increasing use of coal, solar energy
and so forth, and a reduction of our con-
sumption of oil and gas.
The Congress is now struggling with
that. I think it's accurate to say they will
complete this work before they adjourn
for the year in October.
We have other things, like social secu-
rity—to make sure that our social security
reserve funds are sound. So far the Con-
gress has not acted on that. There's no
doubt in my mind that this year they will.
So, I would say that the major programs
that we put forward already are well on
the way to being passed with a lot of other
programs-strip mining legislation, agri-
culture bills. Later, welfare reform, tax
reform, are still to be presented.
So, to summarize, I'm very pleased. The
of
things that have disappointed me,
course, are the things that disappoint you.
We've still got too many people unem-
ployed. Last month, we had 270,000 new
jobs, but the work force has increased
to such an extent that we still have about
7 percent of our people without work.
As we put the new welfare legislation
to the Congress, one part of it will be to
encompass an additional 1 million new
jobs. I want to put people who are able to
work, to work, and get them off of welfare.
I also, of course, want to make sure that
those who are on welfare who cannot
work are treated with respect and de-
cency and an ability to live with pride in
themselves and not be ashamed. That's
still got to come. The inflation rate is
still too high. So, in domestic affairs, we
still have not been completely satisfied.
We're working on a SALT talk with
the Soviet Union to cut down on atomic
weapons. We haven't made enough prog-
ress yet. We're still trying. We're trying
to get a comprehensive test ban so we
won't have any more tests of atomic
weapons. We're trying to bring peace to
the Middle East, peace to southern
Africa, and these things still have to be
done. But I think the progress is in the
right direction. So, we've had kind of a
mixed bag the first 6 months. I think
we've done a lot of new things that had
been avoided or ignored for a long time,
and I have been, overall, pleased. I have
enjoyed it. So far I like the job very
much.
1319
