Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Presidential Task Force on the
District of Columbia
Remarks of the Vice President on the
President's Decisions on Task Force
Recommendations. September 21, 1977
For the past several months a congres-
sional, District government, and executive
branch task force has been meeting at the
request of the President to review the
major issues in Federal relations with the
District of Columbia. On behalf of the
President, I would particularly like to ex-
press our appreciation for the advice, help,
and cooperation of the members of that
task force. They include the Chairman,
Charles Diggs, Senator Thomas Eagleton,
Mayor Walter Washington, Chairman
William Natcher, District Delegate Wal-
ter Fauntroy, Congressman Stewart Mc-
Kinney, Senator Patrick Leahy, Senator
Charles Mathias, and Council Chairman
Sterling Tucker.
The President has now reviewed the
major issues identified by the task force
and reached his conclusions based on the
facts and views presented, and we are
outlining his decisions here this morning.
Three overriding commitments are re-
flected in the President's judgments on
the individual issues that have been re-
viewed.
First, the President is dedicated to up-
holding the principle of full voting rep-
resentation for the citizens of the District.
He believes that there is no justification
for denying citizens equal representation
at the Federal level simply because they
happen to reside in the District of
Columbia.
Second, we are determined to reduce
and eliminate, where possible, Federal in-
trusion in decisions that are of purely local
concern. The people of this city should not
be subjected to burdensome and wasteful
executive review procedures in matters
that involve no significant Federal interest
whatsoever. Where substantial Federal in-
terest may be involved, we propose to
streamline and simplify review procedures
wherever possible.
Third, while the financial relationship
between the Federal Government and the
District are extremely complex, we have
tried to identify several specific areas in
which progress can be made now toward
greater equity, predictability, and com-
parability with other cities and to pin-
point other areas and issues which require
longer and more detailed analysis.
Following are some of the highlights of
some of the specific decisions reached by
the President, and attached to my state-
ment is a more detailed analysis of many
of the other issues.
First, to promote equal representation
the administration supports approval of a
constitutional amendment proposed by
District Delegate Fauntroy, which would
provide full voting representation in both
Houses of the Congress, as well as in the
selection of the President and the Vice
President and in the ratification of con-
stitutional amendments.
Secondly, to expand home rule for the
District, the President supports congres-
sional action to eliminate Presidential
review of mayoral vetoes that are over-
ridden by the City Council and to repeal
the so-called Federal enclave and to
streamline the procedures for congres-
sional review of locally enacted legislation.
Third, to provide greater equity and
predictability in the financial relationship
between the Federal Government and the
District, the administration is committed
to an increase in the fiscal '79 Federal
payment authorization from $300 to $317
million, with a simultaneous effort by the
District to improve use of existing re-
sources through reductions in any exces-
sive employee authorization levels; to
1632
