Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 27
Air Services Between the United
States and United Kingdom
Letter to the Chairman of the Civil
Aeronautics Board. July 21, 1977
To Chairman Alfred Kahn
On July 23, 1977, the United States
intends to sign a new Air Services Agree-
ment with the United Kingdom.
The Agreement authorizes new non-
stop services to certain U.S. cities for U.S.
and U.K. carriers. Also, the carrier au-
thorizations and designations under the
new Agreement at certain currently cer-
tificated cities must be revised pursuant to
the Agreement's new provisions regarding
multiple designation.
The United States is entitled to desig-
nate a U.S. carrier to provide immediate
service in the Atlanta-London and Dal-
las/Fort Worth-London markets. Fair-
ness to the public requires the authoriza-
tion of immediate U.S.-flag service. And
to promote our foreign commerce policy
of increased competition worldwide we
should act with the greatest possible
speed. For these reasons, I am requesting
that you submit a recommendation to me
by early October designating a carrier to
begin service to the Atlanta-London mar-
ket and a carrier to begin service to the
Dallas/Fort Worth-London market.
I hope to make designations by No-
vember 1, 1977, after considering your
recommendation. Service could then be-
gin shortly thereafter. The services you
recommend should enhance the competi-
tiveness of the U.S.-flag air system and be
economically viable. I would also urge
you to take into account in your recom-
mendation the fact that a U.S. carrier
may provide nonstop Houston-London
service after July 23, 1980, and U.S. car-
riers may provide one-stop service in this
market upon signing of the Agreement.
The United States must move promptly
to issue the requisite foreign air carrier
permits under ยง 402 of the Federal Avia-
tion Act to those carriers designated by
the United Kingdom for scheduled opera-
tions. Therefore, I request that you send
me by early October, your recommenda-
tions for any necessary amendments of
the ยง 402 permits of the designated
U.K. carriers which have filed timely
applications with the Board for such
amendments.
With respect to those cities which are
already gateways for service to the United
Kingdom, the United States is required
to submit new designations by Novem-
ber 1, 1977, and I also request your rec-
ommendation on these designations by
early October, consistent with the provi-
sions of the new Agreement regarding
single and multiple designation.
Finally, I request that you move expe-
ditiously to forward to me your recom-
mendations concerning the other air serv-
ices which were addressed by the Board
in the Transatlantic Route Proceedings,
but on which final action was postponed
pending completion of the bilateral air
negotiations with the United Kingdom.
I have directed the Secretaries of State
and Transportation to provide any assist-
ance that you may require in meeting
these dates and implementing the new
Agreement.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Alfred Edward Kahn, Chair-
man, Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington,
D.C. 20428]
NOTE: The text of the letter was made avail-
able by the White House Press Office on July
27. It was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
1365
