July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But I have no quarrel with Vernon
Jordan. I think he's a strong and able
spokesman. I think, though, that my state-
ment, my conversation with him, which
was very friendly and mutually respect-
ful, was an accurate assessment of what
I've told you.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Q. Mr. President, sir, whom did you
promise?
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead. I'll be
glad to answer your question.
Q. Will you take my question?
THE PRESIDENT. I will be glad to.
Q. Thank you, sir. [Laughter]
Sir, there's a very interesting question
about the FBI. They were created, I be-
lieve, about 1908 by Teddy Roosevelt
with an Executive order, and there's
really no overall, comprehensive enabling
law that applies to them. And they han-
dle so many matters concerning crimi-
nal as well as civils-civilians.
I wondered if you don't think that we
ought to patch up this piecemeal statute
situation with the FBI and pass an over-
all, enabling law?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am, I do
think that we need to have a congres-
sional charter evolved both for the FBI
and also the CIA. And I think your con-
cern is one that's well justified. I think
it's accurate also to say that both my own
administration, including the Attorney
General and the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, and the Congress
leaders are working on this project, and
I would hope that this would be one of
the accomplishments of my administra-
tion.
Q. Mr. Carter, speaking of the FBI,
can you bring us up to date on the search
for a new Director, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we're proceed-
ing very slowly and methodically and, I
think, with the prospect of good results.
We have now interviewed six candidates
for the job. We reserve the right to inter-
view more in the future if we like. We've
not made a final decision on who would
be the Director. My own inclination is to
defer to the recommendation of the At-
torney General, unless we have an un-
anticipated difference of opinion. But we
don't feel any time pressure to arrive at a
final conclusion.
I might say that in the meantime, Di-
rector Kelley is doing a good job. He
served on the selection committee, as you
well know. But we'll have a good selec-
tion to make before the whole process is
completed.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Cor-
mier.
NOTE: President Carter's twelfth news confer-
ence began at 10:30 a.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
International Navigational Rules
Act of 1977
Statement on Signing H.R. 186 Into Law.
July 28, 1977
I have signed H.R. 185, a bill to imple-
ment the Convention on the International
Regulations for Preventing Collisions at
Sea, 1972. This convention brings Inter-
national Rules of the Nautical Road in
line with modern maritime practices and
technology. The convention, which has
been ratified by the Senate, became effec-
tive for its international signatories on
July 15, 1977. This bill would implement
the convention fully for United States
vessels.
1374
