Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 2, 1977
John L. McClellan
THE PRESIDENT'S
Statement on the Death of the Senator From NEWS CONFERENCE OF
Arkansas. November 28, 1977
The unexpected death of Senator John
L. McClellan deprives the Senate of a
resolute and gifted lawmaker. During his
39 years of service on Capitol Hill—4 in
the House of Representatives and almost
35 in the Senate-he persistently spoke
out for a strong national defense and up-
held integrity in the operations of Gov-
ernment. The economic development of
the Arkansas River is an achievement for
which he will be long remembered and
in which he took a deep personal pride.
I am especially grateful for his wise and
generous counsel during the early months
of my administration.
In the distinguished history of the
Senate, only eight Members have ever
served longer than John McClellan. His
passing is a loss to the Congress and to the
Nation.
NOTE: At his November 29 news conference
at the White House, Press Secretary Jody
Powell announced that Vice President Walter
F. Mondale and Rosalynn Carter would repre-
sent the President at funeral services for Sen-
ator McClellan in Little Rock, Ark., on No-
vember 30.
NOVEMBER 30, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning. Thank
you.
I have two brief statements to make.
SENATOR JOHN L. MCCLELLAN
One concerns Senator John McClellan
from Arkansas, whose funeral is being
held today. He served in the Congress for
39 years and exemplified a deep commit-
ment to his own major committee assign-
ments. He has recently been the chair-
man of the Appropriations Committee.
He was always a strong fighter for an ade-
quate national defense, and he was a man
of supreme integrity.
In a few minutes, the Vice President
and my wife, the First Lady, will be going
to the funeral along with a large delega-
tion of Members of Congress. And I want
publicly to express, on behalf of the
American people, my admiration for what
he has done, my public condolences, in
addition to the private condolences I've
already extended to his wife, and my ap-
preciation for his tremendous contribu-
tion to our country.
2053
