Aug. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The cause of lupus still eludes investi-
gators, but promising leads into its rela-
tionship to the immune system, as well as
to other factors, may yield new under-
standing of the origin of this chronic
inflammatory disease, which afflicts an
estimated fifty thousand new victims
annually.
The Federal Government is supporting
an aggressive program of research into the
cause and treatment of lupus, which, it is
hoped, will ultimately lead to its preven-
tion or control. Genetic studies suggest-
ing the role of heredity in the occurrence
of lupus have begun to provide important
information. The study of immunity, the
body's ability to resist disease, is now
pointing the way to an understanding of
the relationship to lupus of abnormal im-
mune reactions of the body. Although a
cure must await further knowledge of the
basic cause, presently available forms of
treatment can frequently delay the often
grave consequences of the disease.
In recognition of the seriousness of
lupus and America's commitment to its
control, the Congress, by joint resolution
approved July 25, 1977, has requested the
President to issue a proclamation desig-
nating the week of September 18 through
24, 1977, as National Lupus Week and
calling for its appropriate observance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week of Septem-
ber 18 through 24, 1977, as National
Lupus Week. I invite the Governors of the
several States and the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the Mayor of the District of
Columbia, the chief officials of local gov-
ernments, the medical profession, and the
people of the United States to observe
that week with appropriate ceremonies
and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:42 p.m., August 31, 1977]
United States Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency
Nomination of Charles N. Van Doren To Be
an Assistant Director. August 31, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Charles N. Van Doren, of
Washington, D.C., to be Assistant Direc-
tor of the Arms Control and Disarma-
ment Agency (ACDA). He would replace
Amrom Katz, resigned.
Van Doren was born April 7, 1924, in
Orange, N.J. He received an LL.B. from
Columbia Law School in 1949.
Van Doren practiced law in New York
for 13 years with the firm of Simpson,
Thacher and Bartlett. Since 1963 he has
been at ACDA, serving as Assistant Gen-
eral Counsel (1963), Deputy General
Counsel (1964-1973), Special Assistant
for Treaty Implementation (1974), Dep-
uty Assistant Director of the International
Relations Bureau (1975), Deputy Assist-
ant Director for Non-Proliferation
(1976), and Acting Assistant Director for
the Non-Proliferation Bureau (1977).
Committee on Selection of
Federal Judicial Officers
Announcement of the Membership of the
Committee. August 31, 1977
The President today announced the
membership of the Committee on Selec-
1528
