Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 27
natory practices that have been extant
there for a number of years.
We're not trying to cause a revolution
or to destroy their government. But this
is a sensitive issue. There again, we have
a limited role that we can play.
As you know, we've begun negotia-
tions again with the People's Republic
of China. Cy Vance will be returning
now. He's just left Japan. He will be
coming back home, and I'll be meeting
with him Sunday afternoon to get a more
detailed report from him.
This visit was exploratory in nature.
No one in our Government had met
Premier Hua before, certainly not since
he's been in an ascendant position. Teng
Hsiao-ping had been known by more of
our people. But Cy had extensive talks
with both those men, along with Huang
Hua, who is their Foreign Minister. I
think they understand our position better;
we understand theirs.
I won't go into any detail on the
Panama situation, except to point out that
this treaty is one that I consider to be vital
to our country. It's been negotiated now
for 13 years.
I had serious concerns about it a couple
of years ago, and I think that my con-
cerns to a very minor degree-but the
concerns expressed by many Members of
the Senate then have been taken into
account.
I think that the present set of principles
which are being drafted into treaty terms
or language this week are completely com-
patible with our own Nation's best inter-
ests and our security needs.
We retain complete control over the
operation of the Panama Canal for the
rest of this century, with the right to de-
fend it. There will be a nine-person board
of directors, five of whom will always be
from the United States. We will appoint
all nine. Until 1990, the executive direc-
tor, who does not set policy, but carries
out policy, will be an American citizen.
Following 1990 that person will be a
Panamanian citizen. Following the year
2000, the Panamanians will take operat-
ing control of the canal. We will retain
the right, unilaterally, to decide what is
necessary on our part to guarantee the
neutrality of the canal, that it's open to all
international shipping. In case of an
emergency, we and the Panamanians have
so-called rights of expeditious passage,
which means that we get priority use of
the canal for our warships and for stra-
tegic cargo to be passed through the canal.
I think in balance the treaty is fair to
both sides, and for that purpose alone, I
would favor it. But the additional major
advantage is that it would enhance tre-
mendously our own relationships with
other countries in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
I think Mexico all the way down to the
southern part of South America, our
neighbors would know that we were try-
ing to deal in good faith, that we were no
longer attemping to act as a colonial
power. And for that reason, again, there
will be, I think, a great benefit to our
business community, to our Nation's stat-
ure in the world, and I think in balance,
the Panama Canal is much more likely
now to be open, free, uninterrupted in its
service to all nations of the world than it
would be if we continued the constant
altercations with Panama about the
means by which it should be operated.
I could go on and on with other issues,
but I think at this point I would prefer to
let you ask questions, and I'll try to answer
them as completely as I can.
QUESTIONS
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Q. Mr. President, I was wondering-I
believe the postal bill or postal act ap-
1511
