Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of Syria. And we're continuing our dis-
cussions with all the interested parties.
I'll be meeting today with the Foreign
Minister of Lebanon. So, I think that a
public expression of concern is completely
legitimate, and I don't feel badly about it
at all.
Q. Won't you come back and campaign
for Mr. Koch in New York?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know about
that. I really don't think I need to. And I
doubt that I'll be able to come back before
the election.
Q. [Inaudible]-microphones, set up at
the heliport, prepared for you to make a
statement in behalf of the Koch candidacy
for mayor. You apparently at the last
minute
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't know about
that.
Q.- -changed your mind. You did not
know about that at all?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I didn't. I didn't
know it.
Q. Your advance people didn't discuss
this with you at all?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I never heard
about that.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. out-
side the U.N. Plaza Hotel.
Earlier in the day, the President and Mayor
Abraham Beame of New York City met at the
U.N. Plaza Hotel and then proceeded to the
South Bronx area of the city for the tour.
New York City
Statement by the President. October 5, 1977
When I addressed the United States
Conference of Mayors last year, I com-
mitted this administration to develop a
long-term, comprehensive urban policy.
I pledged an overall strategy to improve
the quality of life and strengthen the
economic base of this Nation's cities.
In the first 8 months of my administra-
tion, I believe that we have taken sig-
nificant steps to begin to fulfill that com-
mitment, while at the same time preserv-
ing sound budget policy. The brief list
below of the new fiscal and economic
assistance provided to New York this year
indicates the importance that I attach to
helping our distressed urban areas.
The steps this administration has taken
over the past 8 months represent a strong
beginning, but they will not substitute
for a comprehensive urban policy.
The Cabinet-level Urban and Regional
Policy Group is formulating a long-term
program that will address the critical
problems facing residents of urban
areas. The initiatives this group will rec-
ommend will provide particular benefits
for cities such as New York.
Summarized below are significant ad-
ministration actions which will provide
fiscal or economic relief for New York
City:
1. New Social Services Authorization
I am announcing today my approval
of a settlement of $543 million against
$2.4 billion in claims under the Title XX
Social Services program, subject to con-
gressional concurrence. New York State
is expected to receive at least $214 million
of this settlement. A substantial portion
of this amount is expected to be passed
through to New York City to provide
significant new fiscal relief. The admin-
istration will send the necessary legisla-
tion reflecting the agreement to Congress
in the next 2 weeks.
This agreement settles the largest out-
standing financial dispute between the
Federal Government and the States. I
believe that this settlement, which in-
volved close consultations with State
officials, reflects a new atmosphere of
cooperation between this administration
and State and local officials. (Attached
is a detailed description of the back-
ground and terms of this settlement.)
1730
