Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 27
tionship between ourselves and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China if recognition is
not initiated, the terms under which we
could normalize relationships with the
People's Republic of China on the main-
land and also honor our longstanding
commitment that the people on Taiwan
could live in freedom-these kinds of
questions were all explored at great
length.
I had myself met with the Ambassador
from the People's Republic of China-
he's actually a trade representative, since
we don't have an embassy here—and gone
into these questions to some degree.
We've got at least 850 million people
in China whose government we don't
recognize diplomatically. We're one of the
few governments who don't.
It's our hope that we can find some
basis on which to have diplomatic ex-
change, an enhancement of trade, con-
structive cooperation-not against the
Soviet Union or against anyone else, but
for our mutual advantage to stabilize
peaceful relationships in the far Pacific
and also in the rest of the world-with
Hua, Teng, and others—and at the same
time honor our longstanding commitment
to Taiwan-to continue trade with them,
to make sure that any resolution of the
China question is done peaceably.
I think that Secretary Vance spent an
extended period of time talking to Pre-
mier Hua. He spent several hours talking
to the Vice Premier and the Vice Chair-
man of the Party, Teng Hsiao-ping. And
he spent a couple of days talking to Huang
Hua, his equal as Foreign Minister or
Secretary of State.
The only thing that I know about the
discussion so far is what I received from
dispatches that come in over the teletype.
But I will meet with Cy Vance this week-
end for an extended briefing. I don't feel
under any constraint in this instance to
act precipitously just to get an agreement.
Nor do I feel any constraint to act hastily
to get a SALT agreement with the Soviets,
or a comprehensive test ban with the
Soviets, or to jump into something in
Cuba or southern Africa that might get
massive approval for me and my success
in foreign policy that might in the long-
run not be in the best interest of our
country.
I feel like I've got time. I feel at this
moment, at least, that I've got over-
whelming support and trust from the
American people, and I believe that we
ought to act from a position of strength
and soundness. But it is very important
for us to understand the attitude of the
Chinese leaders. It's very important for
them to understand us. And because of
the new leadership that has come there
since either Nixon or Kissinger were there,
I thought it was valuable to us to get
acquainted with them, not just on a social
basis but discussing the issues that are
vital to world peace.
So, the agenda was very extensive
and very long. But we try to be very
frank with the Chinese and with others
that we talk to or negotiate with. We
don't violate confidences. We never tell
one national leader one thing about a
subject and tell a different country's lead-
er a different thing about the same sub-
ject. Sometimes it takes longer to
negotiate a settlement using that tech-
nique. But I think in the long run the trust
in our negotiators, certainly Cy Vance, is
enhanced.
Although I can't give you an accurate
assessment of the progress made, Cy
Vance's reports to me were very encour-
aging.
Q. They are encouraging, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, the reports are
very encouraging. But we don't intend to
act hastily. When we do make a decision
1517
