Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 20
vate sector, will work with the firms which
indicate interest to develop custom anal-
yses of their particular problems and to
develop solutions. These solutions may
involve new management initiatives, pro-
duction, technology, or marketing im-
provements, worker-management innova-
tions or a combination of these factors,"
Harman said.
The specialist teams will also assess the
need for additional expertise and talent
in each firm and help each company fill
its needs. To aid in this effort, the Govern-
ment will sponsor management develop-
ment and technical training programs for
industry members. The Commerce De-
partment expects that teams will be in the
field in October of this year.
Approximately $40 million will be made
available to firms for investment in new
plant and equipment, new technology,
and, where they are integral parts of re-
covery programs, acquisitions, mergers, or
other cooperative arrangements among
industry members.
Harman explained that since the $40
million of Federal support for investment
by the industry will take the form of loans
or loan guarantees, a substantial portion
of the Federal cost of the program should
be recovered. Cost of the custom analyses
of companies and training programs are
expected to run to some $14 million over
the 3-year period.
Another major aspect of the program is
the voluntary cooperation of retailers in
increasing orders to trade-injured shoe
manufacturers as a spur to production.
"A number of major retailers have in-
dicated their willingness to participate ac-
tively in such a program, and to facilitate
increased orders," Harman said. "We will
be providing them with information on
the shoe firms' major product lines and
size of orders that can be accommodated
by those manufacturers who wish to par-
ticipate in the program.
"As the consequence of increased vol-
ume created by increased orders, the af-
fected companies should be able to cut
production costs. This will permit them to
reduce the selling price of shoes to be
more competitive with foreign imports,"
Harman said.
"We think this program has advantages
for manufacturers, labor, consumers, and
the taxpaying public," Harman com-
mented. "No new legislation is required
to implement the recovery program. It
should increase shoe industry employment.
It should have no appreciable effect on
the price consumers pay for shoes. The
plan is a temporary mechanism designed
to revitalize an industry and make it self-
sufficient. It is a one-time experiment by
the Federal Government operating in a
new role that of facilitator. The Govern-
ment will do its job over the next 3 years
and then get out. At that time a thorough
assessment of the results and conclusions
will be developed."
He said that the Economic Develop-
ment Administration of the Commerce
Department is "gearing up to contact all
firms in the shoe industry about the pro-
gram and to accelerate its certification
process for companies eligible for assist-
ance."
National Energy Plan
Letter to the Chairman of the House Ad Hoc
Select Committee on Energy. July 20, 1977
To Lud Ashley
It is most gratifying to me to see the Ad
1297
