Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 13
and friendship and even kinship in mar-
riage with the people of the Federal
Republic of Germany.
Those of us who love music are thrilled
many times a week by the great artists
who have made our own lives happy and
spirited and moved with deep emotion.
Some of my own favorite composers are
from Germany and have set standards of
excellence and achievement and inspira-
tion that have been a pattern for world
emulation.
We have seen the economic growth of
Germany, a constant, sometimes plod-
ding, but inexorable movement toward
self-reliance and fairness and good rela-
tionships between entrepreneurs and
members of unions who work with their
hands. And there's been a very adequate
and careful growth, with constant reti-
cence and caution on the part of Ger-
many not to be domineering but to be a
trusted neighbor and a helpful neighbor.
And in spite of their strength and their
growth and their influence, there is no
fear, because they work in such good har-
mony and friendship with their allies and
neighbors and friends in Western Europe
and in other parts of our own hemisphere.
When other nations have deep needs
for economic aid, Germany is there to
help them. And we've shared these com-
mon purposes with Germany through the
administrations of many Presidents. I've
learned to appreciate this sense of strength
and assurance that comes from having
such an ally and such a friend. And I'm
very proud of my own personal friend-
ship with Helmut Schmidt, who took me
in when I was not known.
He could have spent 10 minutes with
me and had a photograph and said, “I'm
glad you came by, Governor. I hope to see
you some other time." But he didn't do
that. He was busy, but he wanted me to
learn about the achievements and aspira-
tions of his people, and he wanted to learn
about me and about Georgia and about
the United States.
And I think this is typical of him. I
had never met him again until we had
the summit conference in London in May.
And again he exhibited those qualities of
leadership and personal commitment and
friendship which increased my own ad-
miration and friendship for him.
This is a time of challenge to the de-
mocracies of the world. And there are
some who are weak, and there are some
who are divided, some who are troubled,
some who have very little sense of achieve-
ment, some who are doubtful about the
future. But our country is not one of them,
and the Federal Republic of Germany is
not one of them. And that strength comes
from the people who have a dedication
and a willingness for self-sacrifice in times
of challenge that make it possible to pre-
vail.
We are eager to share our own prob-
lems and challenges and hopes and dreams
and aspirations with others, and I think
I am strengthened in my own resolve,
knowing that I can consult with Helmut
Schmidt when problems arise and ques-
tions come up about the growth of com-
munism in some of the Western Euro-
pean countries. He's a statesman and he's
wise and he's been there and he under-
stands and he studies the present challenge
and how to deal with it, and I listen to
him and this is very helpful to me.
We have seen in the Federal Republic
of Germany a great independence, and
there are times when we don't agree on
every item that comes before us for deci-
sion. But we are not reticent in our dis-
agreements either, and we exchange views
very firmly, without constraint, without
subterfuge. And there again the com-
munication between us, even in a dis-
agreement, I think, is very constructive.
1245
