Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
almost a steady reduction in the last 20
or 25 years, in employment within the
Federal Government. The increase has
been, in government, in the local and
State levels. But most of the increase, of
course, comes within the private indus-
trial and employment sector.
Housing starts now are at a very good
level, about 2.2 million. This is something
that gives us encouragement, but also re-
minds us that we have a long way to go.
We have had a fairly steady progress
for the last 22 years in our economy. I
meet every week with not only my Cabi-
net members in joint session but also pri-
vately with Charlie Schultze to give me
economic advice. And today, in prepara-
tion for my visit with you, we have ana-
lyzed some of the long-range trends.
There are no serious or major imbal-
ances or distortions in our economy that
quite often have prevailed in a period of
recovery from the depths of a recession or
depression. We've got a fairly well bal-
anced economy between business debt and
cash availability, between inventory and
sales. Most of our major lending institu-
tions don't have a complete dearth or
shortage of funds to lend for sound loans.
We have also experienced, I believe, some
increase in involvement of other nations
in redressing the international imbalances.
As you know, our country still imports
too much oil. This year $45 billion worth
of oil will be imported by the United
States, in spite of the fact that we are one
of the world's largest oil producers. We
have facing us this year an adverse bal-
ance of trade of about $30 billion. If it
weren't for the oil imports, we'd have a
very substantial positive trade balance.
In the last 12 months our agricultural
exports have been the highest on record,
about $24 billion. We are the world's
greatest food producer. But in spite of the
tremendous exportation of agricultural
products, our oil imports are twice as
much as total farm exports.
I've tried to address some of the more
longstanding and difficult financial ques-
tions that have been avoided in the past.
And I'm beginning to see much more
clearly now why they were avoided by
my predecessors. [Laughter]
We've made a lot of progress on evolv-
ing a comprehensive energy policy. I
doubt that the Congress of the United
States has ever addressed a more com-
plicated, more difficult, more politically
challenging, more divisive issue in the
history of our Nation.
Many friends that have come over here
to talk to me from Germany or Italy or
France can't understand why we can't
very rapidly pass an energy legislation.
Well, we're not just a consuming nation,
we're not just a producing nation. And
that dichotomy in our own constituencies
almost guarantees a sharp division.
I met late this afternoon with some of
the House and Senate energy conferees,
not to negotiate with them, but to encour-
age them to stick with these difficult prob-
lems, since they've made so much progress
already, before they adjourn.
The Senate conferees-there are 18 of
them-they've been divided 9 to 9 ever
since the conference committee started.
They've never gotten one Senator to
change a position, even when repeated
efforts to put forth a compromise have
been made.
I think you all know that the Congress
has put a great deal of time and effort on
this question. I presented to the Congress
and to the people, April 2d, an energy
package that I thought was adequate,
well-balanced, protected the consumers,
encouraged production, did not create a
heavy strain on our budget in the future.
And the House passed a bill very similar
to what I introduced the first part of Au-
2108
