Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I'd like to close by saying that we have
very strong ties with Nigeria at the people
level, even though there have been dif-
ferences of opinion in the last few years
which are now being rapidly alleviated.
There are more than 15,000 Nigerian stu-
dents in the United States, and this in
the future will help to tie our countries
together.
And I'm determined, as a fellow Bap-
tist—[laughter]—and as a fellow engi-
neer and as a fellow leader of my Nation,
to join in with General Obasanjo to as-
sure that these demonstrations of progress
are continued at an accelerating rate in
the future.
On behalf of the people of this country,
I would like to offer a toast to the great
leader and leaders of Nigeria and to the
people of that great country who have
served so well, our friends.
LIEUTENANT GENERAL OBASANJO.
President Carter, distinguished guests:
I wish to thank you most sincerely for
the excellent dinner we have just had and
for the warm and friendly reception which
you and your government have so gra-
ciously accorded me and members of my
delegation.
I also thank you for the kind and gen-
erous terms in which you spoke about my
country and myself. We have seen dem-
onstrated in this short period of our visit
only 17 years. For us in Nigeria, inde-
pendence is indivisible and total, and we
regard our independence as incomplete so
long as parts of the African Continent re-
main under the yoke of colonialism.
Our perception of the policies of suc-
cessive United States administrations was
that concern for Africa and its problems
played an insignificant role in the formu-
lation of these policies. It appeared to us
that Africa had become a mere pawn in a
global chess game which had no serious
relevance to our concerns and interests.
Even if such a policy served the interests
of the United States at that time, the
effect of its implementation was to alien-
ate the vast majority of the people of
Africa whose history and even aspirations
cut them out to be staunch friends and
allies of the American people.
At our independence all the indications
to us were that it was almost natural that
the United States and Nigeria would en-
joy a cordial and close relationship. Events
subsequently showed that the genuine de-
sire of Nigeria to walk in close collabora-
tion with the United States to promote
freedom and understanding could not be
reciprocated.
There are those who hold the view that
such setbacks are natural in the history
of relations between nation states. Some
maintain that both the United States and
a new awareness of the need to establish Nigeria did not utilize the opportunity
a bridge of communication between our
two countries and our two peoples. But I
believe that a close affinity already exists
between our two countries. History and
shared ancestry bind us to a large section
of your population. This affinity for that
derives from our common attachment to
freedom and independence and all their
ramifications.
You attained your independence 200
years ago. We have been independent for
which their common belief and historical
ties offered them. Even at that time, while
relations between our two Governments
were at their lowest ebb, there were in-
dividuals in both countries who, because
of their determination and foresight, re-
sisted the temptation to give up all at-
tempts at fostering friendly relationships
and kept open the lines of communication
and dialog between our two peoples until
the atmosphere improved.
1774
