June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
frank discussion about some of the rela-
tionships between our country and the
People's Republic of China.
The first meetings at the foreign minis-
ter level or the head of state level will be
in August in Peking. But the preparations
for that visit will obviously be continuing
through regular diplomatic channels. I
think that's the limit of the discussions to
this point.
PRESIDENT'S TAX RETURN
Q. Mr. President, you signed your in-
come tax return on June 6 knowing then
that you would owe no tax. Some days
later you said you thought it had been
filed. But it wasn't until about a week after
that that you wrote the letter returning the
$6,000. Was that an afterthought?
THE PRESIDENT. I had a substantial
amount of income in 1976 from the sale
of my book "Why Not The Best?" I
think it was about $70,000. I'm not sure
of the exact figure. That payment was
made to me by the publisher on the first
day of January, 1977. And the question
arose whether or not we could count
that as income in 1976 and therefore pay
taxes on it.
We went to the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice shortly before we published our state-
ment and asked them for permission to
include that income in 1976. They said
that it would not be appropriate, that it
would have to be included in 1977. So,
because of that decision, I did not owe any
income tax in 1976. Believing as I do
that people in my income bracket ought
to pay taxes, we took our adjusted tax
income and paid the minimum tax on
it, roughly 15 percent, and, of course,
now I will pay the full income tax owed
on the income from the book itself.
The difference in the total amount of
tax that I would have had to pay either
way was zero, so far as we could deter-
mine. But had we been able to include
the book income in '76, I would have
owed a substantial amount of tax and
would not have had the problem.
I considered it to be a problem not
because there was anything improper
about it but I think that I, as President,
ought to demonstrate that the present
tax laws are not adequate and that some-
one who earns as much as I did in '76
ought to pay taxes. That was the reason
for the delay.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Q. Mr. President, we've talked today
about sending a missile around the world.
Could you talk-
THE PRESIDENT. Sending what?
Q. A missile halfway across the world.
Could we talk about sending a letter
halfway across town? [Laughter]
Have you made a decision yet on the
future of the United States Postal Serv-
ice? Will you ask Congress to bring it
back into the executive branch?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not made a de-
cision about that yet. I think in the July
meeting of the board which governs the
Post Office, which as you know is com-
pletely independent of the President-I
have no responsibility for the Post Of-
fice [laughter]-they will have to make
a decision. I think, absent any decision
on their part to forgo Saturday deliv-
eries or to increase the price of postage,
we will face about a $200-million-a-
month deficit.
But after they make their decision—
and I've not studied the problem-and
make their recommendation to the Con-
gress, then I think it would be an ap-
propriate time for me to comment. I
don't yet know what my preference
would be, whether the Post Office should
continue as an independent agency or
whether it should be part of the Govern-
ment itself.
1204
