Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
somehow join in the process of electing
the American President-[laughter]—for
though we realize that the American peo-
ple do not elect an absolute monarch, the
world power structure is such that other
peoples in other nations have a vital in-
terest in the person whom the American
people choose as their executive head of
state.
We appreciate your own recognition,
Mr. President, of this fact in the message
to audiences abroad which you issued on
your inauguration.
Let me, therefore, once again offer you,
Mr. President, our congratulations on the
honor and the heavy responsibility which
the American people have given you.
I'm very happy to be in the White
House today as your guest, just as I was
the guest of your distinguished predeces-
sor and my friend, the late President Ken-
nedy, in 1963.
Mr. President, I am glad of this oppor-
tunity to discuss with you the matters of
common interest between our two coun-
tries, but in particular, the problems of
southern Africa, for we in Tanzania have
greatly welcomed your administration's
new approach to matters related to the
liberation of my continent from colonial-
ism and racialism. I am, therefore, look-
ing forward to my discussions with you
and your colleagues and with Members
of Congress.
I'm also very happy to have been in-
vited to spend a few extra days in this
country and to have been given the op-
portunity to visit different parts of the
country. I do not expect to become an
expert on America from my brief visits
to the different States of your great coun-
try, but I'm sure that I shall learn a great
deal of interest to me and to my country-
men.
Once again, Mr. President, I thank you
very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:37 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
White House Conference
on Balanced Growth and
Economic Development
Statement Announcing the Conference.
August 4, 1977
A White House Conference on Bal-
anced Growth and Economic Develop-
ment will be held in Washington in early
1978. I strongly endorse the action of
Congress requesting and authorizing this
Conference.
This country has been committed to
the goal of economic growth and full em-
ployment with stable prices since the
1940's. We need to provide jobs for a
growing work force-our labor force in-
creased by 3 million people within the
last year so that all of our people who
want to and are able can work to create
a better life for all Americans. The econ-
omy is improving, and unemployment is
down almost a full point since its peak
last November, but much remains to be
done if future recessions, high inflation,
and high unemployment are to be pre-
vented and if we are to make real prog-
ress in getting the remainder of our
people back to work.
Balanced growth does not mean ne-
glecting the environment or making our
energy problems worse. We must make
wise use of our Nation's land, water, and
energy resources. We must also remain
sensitive to the wide variations in local
and regional resources, needs, and eco-
1414
