Sept. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
hemisphere have contributed a great
deal of support and advice in times when
the negotiations seemed to be on the verge
of being broken off, when they gave quiet
demonstrations of their interest in the
treaty and what it might mean to all of
us.
So, I am grateful to all of you leaders
for coming here to give our people an
expression of your interest and your sup-
port. And I think I can assure you that
our Nation will rally itself to ratify the
treaty, and also, General Torrijos feels
sure that when the facts are presented to
the Panamanians that in the plebscite
that will be held late in October, that his
people will also give their approval to
this great step forward toward peace and
mutual respect.
We will have a chance during this 3
or 4 days I will, and my Cabinet mem-
bers—to meet with all of you leaders who
have come from your own great countries.
And I think that you are taking advan-
tage of this opportunity to meet with one
another to resolve longstanding disputes,
to work out means of alleviating the threat
of possible arms races that might lead to
war or to conflict of some kind, and to re-
store friendships that perhaps in the past
have been damaged and to join with one
another in planning for the future, eco-
nomically and politically, that will give
us all a better life.
So, I believe that we'll always look back
upon this event that has been made pos-
sible by General Torrijos and many of
you as the first step toward even greater
progress and greater friendship in what I
think is the greatest hemisphere on Earth,
the Western Hemisphere of our world.
Thank
you very much.
I should have paused for the transla-
tions, but I didn't, and we will ask the
translator to take his place now. And fol-
lowing that we will go and have a brief
cup of coffee, and then I think you will
hear some of the most delightful enter-
tainment that you've ever heard.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
United States-Canada
Agreement on a
Natural Gas Pipeline
Joint Statement by the President and
Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau.
September 8, 1977
Today, we have agreed in principle on
the elements of a joint proposal to con-
struct the Alcan-Foothills pipeline along
the Alaska Highway to transport Alaskan
natural gas through Canada to the lower
48 States and at a later time Canadian
gas to Canadian markets.
This joint undertaking will be the larg-
est single private energy project in his-
tory. The detailed agreement we hope to
sign next week is an example of how both
countries can work together to meet their
energy needs.
After the agreement is signed, each of
us intends to submit our decisions to our
respective legislative bodies for the ap-
propriate authorizations and assurances.
We are both hopeful the project will be
approved.
Major benefits from this project will
accrue to both countries. When the pipe-
line is built, Canada will have a much
greater ability to develop its own gas re-
serves, particularly in the frontier regions
of the Mackenzie Delta.
The U.S., in turn, will have the enor-
mous benefit of new natural gas supplies
1546
