Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 6
haps, some of your own leaders that
might be an obstacle to the realization of
peace which exists in the hearts of those
whom we represent. And it's incumbent
upon us always to search for those open-
ings and opportunities when they present
themselves.
I am also grateful, as the President of
our host country here, of your presence
in the United Nations. I'm determined,
during my own term in the White House,
to do everything I can to strengthen the
role that the United Nations plays in
helping the lives of our people. And I
will depend in a more deeply committed
way, each year that I am in office, in us-
ing the good services of the United Na-
tions and letting the people of our coun-
try realize what already occurs here.
I think very few Americans know the
broad scope of good services that is a
daily contribution of the special com-
mittees of the United Nations in civil
aeronautical safety and in the protection
of our people against nuclear prolifera-
tion and expanding the health care
around the world-better chance for
children, the alleviation of hunger.
These kinds of projects, which are a
constant responsibility of mine in the
United States, are carried on around the
world in a routine fashion by the special
agencies of the United Nations. But
quite often the nations that support the
U.N. with financial contributions don't
realize the tremendous return that we
get on our investment in the United Na-
tions itself.
So, in the establishment of peace, in
the alleviation of regional problems, in
the sharing of contributions, which we all
are eager to make, I know that you real-
ize along with me that the United Na-
tions plays an integral role.
Again, let me thank you for coming
to this luncheon. I hope that you'll give
Andy Young your constant friendship
and advice and counsel, criticism when
he deserves it. [Laughter]
I meet with Ambassador Young every
Monday morning. He's a part of our
Cabinet structure. We use his influence
among you, and you can use his influ-
ence with me to make sure that this tran-
sient luncheon is transformed into a
permanent intercommunication and
strong relationship.
Thank you again for being here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. at
the headquarters of the U.S. Mission to the
United Nations in New York City. The Presi-
dent hosted the luncheon for foreign ministers
and heads of delegations to the United Nations.
Public Broadcasting System
Message to the Congress. October 6, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting to the Congress to-
day proposals to strengthen our public
broadcasting system and to insulate it
from political manipulation.
The impact of television and radio on
our lives can scarcely be overestimated.
Television now bulks larger than all its
rivals for our leisure time. In the daily
routine of many individuals, it consumes
more hours than family, school, church,
or job. Radio is just as important; with
some 400 million receivers in American
homes, cars, and workplaces, radio lis-
tening is nearly as pervasive as the air
that carries it.
In these circumstances, a strong and
varied public broadcast system has a cru-
cial role to play. Because it is free of the
1737
