Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 3
eager to try it out and take all the risks
themselves. And you quite often would
say, "Now please, don't do this yet. It
hasn't been proven." "I don't care if it's
been proven or not. I'm willing to try it
on my own farm."
And the competitive nature in the ag-
ricultural community has been eager to
take basic research and, rather than wait
for a long period of delay in the applied
research field, they'd just skip over that
completely and implement basic research
techniques right on their farm, in the
production, which I think is a tremendous
contribution to the country, voluntarily
carried out by farmers. And so, that makes
in agriculture, especially, basic research
pay immediate dividends which it
wouldn't pay in many other areas of life
where basic research is followed by ap-
plied research and years later by proto-
type models and then years later by a
small production model and then later on
by the final consumer product. Agricul-
ture shortcircuits all that almost immedi-
ately and jumps directly from basic re-
search into full production application.
I'd like to stay with you longer, but I
have got to go. I want to say this in clos-
ing: I don't claim to know all the an-
swers about agriculture. It's my life, and I
always feel at home when I'm meeting
with or talking to farm groups like your-
selves.
I have learned, as Bob Bergland is
learning very well, that we have a highly
diverse agricultural economy in this coun-
try. It's our most important industry by
far. And when I assess in my own mind-
sometimes in the quietness of my office,
late at night, looking at a globe-the ad-
vantages that our country has over, per-
haps, competing nations, our agricultural
production is one of the greatest, constant,
unshakable advantages, and I'm very
thankful for what the American farm
family and ranch family have done to give
us this advantage. It's one also that con-
tributes not to competition leading to
bloodshed, but it contributes to compe-
tition leading to peace.
And I am very grateful that you would
come here and take a day of your time
getting to know some of my own fellow
workers in the White House, and hope
that the day is productive for you.
I hope you'll extend my personal best
wishes to all of your readers and all of
your friends when you go back home, be-
cause they've got a friend and a farmer
in the White House.
Thank you again very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 1.
Juvenile Justice Amendments
of 1977
Remarks on Signing H.R. 6111 Into Law.
October 3, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body. We've assembled here this morning
to discuss House of Representatives act
6111, the Juvenile Delinquency Act of
1977.
One of the most serious problems that
faces our country, of course, is that of
rampant crime. And we know from ex-
perience and from examining the statistics
that almost half of the crimes are com-
mitted by juveniles. We also realize that,
unfortunately, in our country there has
been an absence of adequate distinction
between those juveniles who commit
serious crimes, such as murder, rape, rob-
bery, on the one hand, and those who
commit crimes that are no threat to their
neighbors, like being a runaway child.
In many communities of our country,
these two kinds of crimes—one serious
1711
