Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 15
people are off in a 3-month-old steel
strike. The Governor of Minnesota has
been attempting and has met, I under-
stand, with some members of the White
House staff trying to end the strike. Is
there any indication, sir, that you may
get involved personally to try to end the
strike? And, if so, how has the strike up
to this point affected the current steel
situation?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't have any
inclination to get involved in the strike. I
believe that it's better for us not to do
this, because if both parties feel that the
White House or the Labor Department is
going to get precipitously involved in the
negotiations, they're not nearly so eager
to negotiate themselves.
Obviously, when I reach a point of
thinking that the national security might
be endangered, that either the ore stocks
or the steel stocks are being reduced too
much, then I would not hesitate to get
involved. But as is the case in the long-
shoremen's strike, as has been the case in
the past with coal and other very impor-
tant industries, my inclination is not to
get involved in those. And I might say
that Ray Marshall, the Secretary of
Labor, shares my belief very deeply.
We did have a meeting, as you know,
yesterday on the basic steel industry. It
was surprisingly productive and supris-
ingly successful and surprisingly harmoni-
ous. I dreaded going into the meeting
[laughter-but it turned out very well.
The steel leaders said that they did not
want to see import quotas established, they
did not want to see import tariffs raised,
they did not want to build a wall around
our country in order to prevent competi-
tion; they wanted open trade and fair
trade.
We will go into depth in an analysis of
the entire steel industry between now and,
I'd say, 4 weeks from now, at which time
the recommendations will come to me
from Mr. Tony Solomon,ยน who is a very
highly qualified person in this area. And
at that time, I will release it to the public
after very close consultation with steel
executives, consumers, and labor leaders
representing the steel workers, Members
of Congress that were there yesterday. I
think it's going to be a very constructive
thing.
As you know, our American steel in-
dustry is crucial to us. It's now operating
at about a 70-percent capacity. There are
large steel imports which are legitimate
and needed, in my opinion, to ensure com-
petition. But we certainly do not want to
have illegal sales of foreign steel in our
country below the cost of production and
transportation. That kind of sale is illegal.
It has been occurring for the last number
of years. We're determined to stamp it
out.
Q. If I may follow up on that for just
a second, was there any indication, Mr.
President, in yesterday's meeting, that the
strike has had any effect on the steel in-
dustry now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, to answer your
question specifically about the meeting
yesterday, no, that did not come up while
I was there. The threat of continued strike
is always present. That's the leverage that
a strike presents. Sometimes when inven-
tories are very low, the strike has an im-
mediate adverse impact. Sometimes when
inventories are fairly substantial, as is the
case in this instance, the threat of a con-
tinued strike is always serious. But that did
not come up in the meeting yesterday.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS
Q. Mr. President, we have some serious
troubles in El Paso right now with illegal
1 Anthony M. Solomon, Under Secretary of
the Treasury for Monetary Affairs.
1801
