Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
will be the first time I will meet with steel
producers, steel laborers or workers, and
the interested congressional Members.
I have a task force headed by Mr. Sol-
omon in the Treasury Department. And
he's working on a multidepartmental
basis to give me specific recommendations
for Government action. This will be com-
ing to me later on this month. So, we are
acting very rapidly on it to try to deal
with the longstanding, chronic problem
that exists not only in our own country
but also in other countries around the
world.
ENERGY SHORTAGE
Q. Mr. President, you touched on this
just a moment ago, but I wonder if you
would elaborate. You talk about energy
being a crucial issue yet it does not seem
to have caught on in the country-
THE PRESIDENT. I know.
Q.- -as an issue. Do you have any
views on why that is?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, it
caught on in the country in 1973 when
our oil imports were reduced substan-
tially and there were waiting lines at the
gaspumps and the price rose quite rap-
idly. That was just the first warning sign
of an inevitable shortage of oil and natu-
ral gas. It aroused the American con-
sciousness this past winter when natural
gas supplies were scarce, and we had
schools close down, factories shut; trans-
portation was interrupted. These are just
the first warning signs. It's going to get
worse instead of better. And I don't think
there's any responsible international econ-
omist or analyst who doesn't agree with
this fact.
Now, there are several ways that it can
be dealt with. One is to increase produc-
tion, which we are trying to do on a world-
wide basis. Another one is to cut down on
consumption. Another one is to develop
alternative or new kinds of energy sup-
plies. But there's no doubt that the Ameri-
can people at this point simply do not
recognize the seriousness of the present
problem and the future problems, because
it doesn't touch them individually yet.
But I don't want to see the American
consciousness raised because of a devastat-
ing crisis that they have to experience. We
are trying to prevent the crisis, not just
react to one.
DOMESTIC POLICY PROPOSALS
Q. Mr. President, you are now focus-
ing on energy, but some of your critics
have been saying that you are doing too
many things and all at the same time.
What is your response to that?
any-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think if
one analyzes already what the Congress
has done in response to my request and
on their own initiative, and the major
legislation that they have presently before
them, they would see that we have made
substantial progress.
I doubt that anyone would want to
eliminate a particular proposal that we
have put forward-the establishment of
the Department of Energy, reorganiza-
tion of the executive branch of Govern-
ment, or reform to our very complicated
and wasteful welfare system, and so forth.
I don't think we are dealing with too
many issues. The fact is that these issues
are difficult, they are controversial, they
are complicated. And I think we are mak-
ing fairly good progress. But in my mind,
on domestic affairs, there is no doubt that
the energy question is the most impor-
tant.
ROBERT H. MENDELSOHN
Q. Mr. President, if I could have a
clarification here. I wonder if you could
clarify the ethical standards of the ad-
1790
