July 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This means there's more of a pressure to
bring the oil down through the Panama
Canal and up the gulf coast or eastern
seaboard area.
So, I think we just have to keep an
open mind as circumstances change and
use the distribution systems that we have
now and accommodate changing times.
But I would be glad to have a followup
question from you.
Q. If you would. Let me perhaps sum-
marize. Does it make sense to build pipe-
lines and such to bring slurry coal from
West Virginia to Louisiana while at the
same time we're sending gas from Louisi-
ana to West Virginia? Wouldn't it make
more sense to use the energy closer to
where it is produced?
THE PRESIDENT. If there was a com-
plete exchangeability among energy
sources, I would agree with you instant-
ly. I don't know how to answer your ques-
tion definitively at this point. But there is
a need in this country to use coal for sta-
tionary major powerplants and to use
the much more valuable natural gas
where it alone can be used.
Obviously, a balance has to be reached
between transportation costs and the ne-
cessity to do as you originally suggest-
use fuels where they are near their source.
But we can't make, at this point, econom-
ically, nitrogen fertilizers out of coal.
And many chemical processes require ex-
tremely clean-burning fuels. Natural gas
fills the bill.
Coal can be used to produce electric
power, and it might be advisable-I think
it is necessary to shift away from the use
of natural gas for simple heat production
and substitute coal. In Georgia, we pro-
duce about 85 percent of our electricity
from coal-burning plants.
So, I would like to reserve the right
now and in the future, whenever I think
it advisable, as a President, to use any
in-
fluence to transport coal even into areas
which produce oil and natural gas in
order to save the natural gas for more
specific and a higher use.
PANAMA CANAL CONSTRUCTION
Q. Mr. President, last night you talked
about the possible construction of the new
Panama Canal primarily to transport oil.
But you didn't go very far in telling us
what your thinking, detailed thinking, of
that might be.
The President. I told you at least as
much as I know. [Laughter]
Q. Let me ask you: Do you have any
idea at this point how much it might cost,
when you would start it, where it would
be built, and just how far along your
thinking on this subject is at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I can't. I'll try to
answer your questions briefly.
When President Johnson was in office,
there was a very expensive analysis
made-I think it cost about $22 million
at that time to determine the feasibility
of a canal across the Isthmus of Central
America. The outcome of that report was
that the best location for a sea-level canal
would be a little further north in Pan-
ama. I think the estimated cost at that
time was about $7 billion.
We did not have the additional prob-
lem then of very serious disputes with
Panama on continued management of the
Canal under the 1907 treaty. We also did
not have the additional problem of how
to distribute Alaskan oil and natural gas
to the eastern part of our country. I think
at that time that price was considered to
be shocking and unreasonable.
We have just spent $8 billion on the
pipeline for oil in Alaska. We're now con-
sidering the construction of a natural
gas pipeline that would cost maybe $12
billion. So, a new sea-level canal would
not be unreasonable or exorbitant when
1338
