I
Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
or ethnic heritage. I think it's very impor-
tant for us Americans who are black or
Spanish-speaking or Hungarian or Polish
or Irish to have a continuing pride in our
background, in our history, in our char-
acteristics as human beings, and also in
the preservation of the quality of our
neighborhoods. I'm proud of where I
live, the little town of Plains, Georgia.
And I know that all of you, to the extent
that one is proud of a family or commu-
nity or a home, the quality of that family
or community or home will be maintained.
When pride leaves, then the neighbor-
hood deteriorates.
And I think one of the greatest con-
tributions to our country, in my lifetime at
least, has been the pride of black people
in their own heritage and a refusal to
accept the proposition that was put for-
ward by many that there was an inferior-
ity in being a minority. There's just as
much pride and strength in a minority
group of any kind as there can be in a
majority group.
We have a very deep concern about the
destruction of the neighborhood fiber and
strength. You mentioned banking. In this
bill that I signed last week, which is now
being put into effect by Housing and
Urban Development, there is a tight con-
straint that will prevent the red-lining
practices that have been implemented be-
fore. This was an amendment placed on
the bill by Senator Proxmire. And I be-
lieve that that, combined with a voluntary
effort to bring in the State and local gov-
ernments, the Federal Government, and
the private business leaders in a commu-
nity, is the best way to stop a neighbor-
hood deterioration.
Here in Detroit, for instance, there's a
superb example of that, where the down-
town area is being rebuilt with local,
State, and Federal funds, yes, but also
with the support of neighborhood groups
and also the support of the local banking
and other leaders.
One of the major contributing factors
to the dramatic reduction in crime that
does permit the children to walk to school
and does permit people to go out on the
front porch at night without being fear-
ful is the close relationship between peo-
ple who live in a neighborhood and the
police officers who serve there.
I rode in from the airport today with
the mayor of Detroit, Coleman Young,
and I asked him, "How in the world have
you and the police officers had such an
unprecedented reduction in the crime
rate?" And he said that one of the major
reasons is that the police officers now are
closely related to the community in which
they serve. And they become friends of
the people who live there, and eventually
that friendship is reciprocated.
Quite often in a community that is
very poor, that is going downhill, the peo-
ple distrust the police officers and look on
them almost as enemies instead of friends.
I think that that permanent, friendly, mu-
tually supportive relationship with the po-
lice officials among the neighbors who live
in that community is a very vital part that
can prevent a deterioration. Obviously,
our public works programs, the com-
munity development programs, the hous-
ing programs, the red-lining programs, the
crime control programs will be of help.
Another couple of things that I'd like
to mention briefly is that we're trying to
hold down the exorbitant costs of, for
instance, medical care for people that you
care about. We have a hospital cost con-
tainment bill that's already passed the
two major committees in the House and
the Senate. And this will stop the rapid
increase in the cost of families, like in your
neighborhood, where the income is fairly
fixed.
1835
