Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 24
liamsburg, where I'll be tonight. Does any-
body remember why I came there, to
Williamsburg? What was it? That's right,
to debate the President of the United
States. And I believe that if I had not
been willing to enter in those open, frank,
free debates with my opponent, that the
American people would not have known
me and my stand on issues that are im-
portant to every one of you. They would
not have had a chance to examine Mr.
Ford and his stand on issues that are im-
portant to you. And I possibly would not
have been elected President. Nobody
knows. But I do know one thing: I didn't
have anything to hide, and I was willing
to debate. My understanding is that
Henry Howell is not hiding, and he's
willing to debate.
Some people may think that it's just a
political tactic and kind of a trick when
a candidate wants to have open debates.
I think it's important. And if there are
factors in Henry Howell's philosophy or
in his background, in his private life, in
his finances, of which he's ashamed, I
think they ought to be brought out.
So, I believe that it's part of the Amer-
ican system, that began right here in Vir-
ginia, to have two candidates, seeking the
highest office in your State, meet each
other, debate, let you understand how
they stand on issues.
There's another question that I think
is much newer than debates. As you well
know, your first President, from Virginia,
and others after him believed in debate.
But that was a time when it was not ordi-
narily expected that a public servant or
Governor or President would reveal
financial holdings. These days, it's
different.
I believe for the last 11 years, I have
disclosed my income tax returns. And I've
made a habit every year since I've been a
candidate for Governor of Georgia to give
a net worth statement to the American
people now and to the Georgia people be-
fore. I think it's important that this be
done, because it lets the people know what
is the origin of a person's income, what
obligations do they have, what stocks do
they hold, what possible conflicts might
arise. And even for the most honest man
or the most honest woman seeking office,
it's a constraint on us to be sure we're not
tempted to vote a certain way because
we've got stock in a certain company.
So, I'm very proud that Henry Howell
has been willing to make his net worth a
matter of information for you. And he
told me on the way here from the airport
that Wednesday he's going to reveal his
income tax returns. This is good. I hope
everybody involved in the Governor's race
will do the same.
Now, I just want to make one other
statement, and then I would like to close.
I like to see someone who seeks a major
office have courage. I don't know of any
issue that's come along in the Southland
in my life or in the last 100 years that's
been more important nor more controver-
sial than the question of equality, freedom,
voting rights, good education for the black
people who live among us.
In 1959 I was not in politics. I was just
a farmer. But Georgia was looking at Vir-
ginia, because Virginia politicians—may-
be some of you in the audience-had de-
cided, "We will not integrate our schools.
We'd rather close them down and let our
children do without any public education
than to take that difficult step." It was a
common thing all over the South. But
there was at least one man that I know
about in Virginia that ran for the State
Legislature, and he said, "Let's take the
padlocks off the schoolhouse doors." Do
you know who that was? It was Henry
Howell.
1655
