Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the vast bulk of funds for local public sta-
tions. But, while Federal funds and indi-
vidual contributions have increased dur-
ing the past few years, state funds have
levelled off.
As a former governor, I know the pres-
sures on state budgets. But state support
of public broadcasting, which brings state
legislative proceedings and other vital
services to citizens, should be maintained.
I urge states that have contributed to do
more, and those that have not, to begin.
Reduce the Percentage Public Broadcast-
ing Must Raise to Match CPB Funds
The current law requires the system to
raise $2.50 for every $1.00 the Federal
Government gives CPB. CPB has indi-
cated that such levels of non-Federal sup-
port cannot be achieved to match the pro-
posed increased authorizations.
Even if states increase their share, there
are realistic limits to the amounts that
public broadcasting can hope to raise by
on-air appeals to its audience and by
corporate and foundation support. I am
therefore proposing a reduction in the
match to $2.25-to-$1.00. This figure as-
sures a continued incentive for fund-rais-
ing without asking the system to achieve
the impossible. The minimum dollar
amount of matching funds that could be
required to meet the upper limit of ap-
propriations under this bill would rise
gradually until the authorization is
levelled off.
CPB itself can also increase incentives
for non-Federal funds. It might revise its
formula for allocation of local community
service grants to encourage such support.
Individual citizens should recognize that
their funds help maintain the diversity
and independence of their local stations.
I intend to review the matching con-
cept and formula in 1979 after assessing
negie Commission's report as to future
funding sources and needs.
Transfer Public Communications Facili-
ties Program From HEW to CPB
A key part of my plan is the effort to
bring public broadcasting to as many
people as possible. Much of the Federal
funding for station facilities comes from
the Educational Broadcast Facilities Pro-
gram now run by HEW. That effort
should be fully coordinated with the sys-
tem's own long-range planning. I am
therefore recommending that this pro-
gram be transferred to CPB.
As part of the planning required by this
bill, CPB will estimate the cost of reach-
ing as close to the total American popula-
tion as would be feasible using the most
efficient technologies. For the next two
years, pending submission of such a plan,
I propose to continue the Facilities Pro-
gram's present $30 million annual
authorization.
I also propose changes in the Facilities
Program to:
-Make assistance to minority public
television and radio stations a funding
priority. No public television station in the
continental United States is operated by a
minority-controlled institution, although
Howard University and others have ap-
plied for licenses. There are only a hand-
ful of minority-controlled public radio
stations.
-Allow planning grants to be made to
groups wishing to start stations. These
grants would enable them to do the legal,
engineering, and other studies needed
to apply for actual communications.
facilities.
-Make regional networks and other
groups of stations eligible for facilities
funds.
-Make facilities grants open to any
its impact on fund raising and the Car- broadcast or nonbroadcast communica-
1742
