Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tant requirements: Dr. James Schlesing-
er. He's had many important positions
to play in his own life, privately and in
Government. I think this is the most im-
portant of all. And it's with a great deal
of appreciation to him and confidence in
him that I have chosen him to be the
Secretary of Energy.
And now I'd like to ask the Attorney
General to administer the oath of office.
And I'd like to congratulate ahead of
time the American people for having this
fine man to head up this important ef-
fort, which can rally our Nation in the
future in a spirit of unity and common
commitment and common trust.
Dr. James Schlesinger.
[At this point, Attorney General Griffin B.
Bell administered the oath of office.]
SECRETARY SCHLESINGER. Mr. Presi-
dent, I am grateful to you for the con-
fidence that you have reposed in me in
assigning to me the responsibility of be-
ing the first Secretary of Energy.
Public service is our highest calling,
and I am delighted to serve you and,
through you, the American people.
Mr. President, yesterday you referred
to a search committee. I am delighted
that that committee acted so expeditious-
ly. [Laughter] Senator Jackson was mov-
ing so fast that I was afraid that your
nomination might be approved before it
reached the Hill. [Laughter]
I see Admiral Rickover is here. I have
had the honor, Mr. President, of serving
Admiral Rickover now in three jobs.
[Laughter] If you look at the organization
charts, you might come to some other and
erroneous conclusion.
I see my secretary, Evelyn, is here.
Evelyn, is here.
Sometime ago when we were leaving the
Atomic Energy Commission, she said to
me, "Thank the Lord we will never hear
about the liquid metal fast breeder re-
actor again." [Laughter] That, Mr. Presi-
dent, was not one of her better predic-
tions.
I also see the entire staff of the Energy
Policy and Planning Group. Mr. Presi-
dent, these men and women managed to
produce, in 90 days time, a comprehen-
sive energy plan. They achieved this by
going without sleep. This has been mali-
ciously charged by the critics of the plan,
and some of our supporters fear that it
may be true. I think I can confirm, in-
deed, that it is true.
On a more serious note, Mr. President,
the Department of Energy provides you
with coordinated instrument for imple-
menting whatever policies you and the
Congress agree upon with regard to the
long-run energy problems of this country.
I should emphasize, Mr. President, that
our energy problems are serious, but they
do constitute a challenge, a challenge to
which you have just referred—an oppor-
tunity, once again, for all of us to pull to-
gether in a spirit of national cohesion and,
once again, to have that sense of common
purpose and common destiny by which
to guide our efforts.
It will call on all of us to face the facts
of our and the world's energy problem
with total objectivity. But if we face those
facts and we deal with them with deter-
mination, we shall be able to solve our
energy problems. It will require us to act
with speed and with prudence and, at
the same time, to act out of a spirit of
confidence and hope and, occasionally,
charity. And in that spirit of charity, let
me urge, Mr. President, that we will per-
mit the assembled guests to escape from
this excess of solar energy. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
1442
