July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
own departments, and that the coordinat-
ing effort rests in me.
We've initiated and maintained a week-
ly Cabinet meeting that further strength-
ens the Cabinet-level authority and re-
sponsibility. At the same time, these
changes we are proposing today, which
will be outlined by Bert Lance, the head of
OMB, provide an unimpeded access of in-
formation, advice, counsel, criticism to
me—a free flow of information from many
diverse sources that eventually arrive on
my desk, or with consultations with the
President himself if they can't be resolved
at a lower level of Government.
The historical authorized level of the
White House staff has been about 485. I
think the day of the election last Novem-
ber there were 489 people who were work-
ing in the White House, which is less than
there had been some time in the past. We
are proposing to cut that down to 351, a
very
drastic reduction amounting to about
28 percent.
In the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent we are reducing the overall staff size,
including OMB and other entities that
are very difficult to reduce, from 1,712
down to 1,459.
We have had, in the past, 19 separate
units of Government within the Execu-
tive Office of the President. I have al-
ready eliminated two of those, and this
proposal will eliminate seven others. This
remaining 10 elements that work directly
with me, we believe, are needed here, be-
cause there is no other logical place for
them in Government and because I need
their constant advice and counsel, almost
on a daily basis, to make decisions that
accrue to the President as a responsibility.
The 10 that are remaining will be
simplified, and I think that this overall
thrust will be a very successful effort to
make the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent a model that can be emulated as we
proceed aggressively now to reorganize
other parts of the Federal Government.
Bert Lance will be here with his staff
to answer your questions of a specific na-
ture, but I am very pleased at the work
they've done and believe that we have
made the right decision that will stand
us in good stead in the future.
I might point out that we've had addi-
tional responsibilities that have caused
some increase in staffing. Under Jack
Watson, we now have a superb interre-
lationship among Cabinet officers, since
they are elevated to a much greater de-
gree of importance than in the past. And
this same additional group, which did not
exist before, deals directly with Governors,
mayors, county officials, local officials.
And this is a very welcome addition to
the Executive Office of the President.
We also have a few additional personnel
here who work exclusively on the reor-
ganization of the Government itself. But
even including those additional people,
this is very severe and, I think, adequate
reduction.
I might say in closing that we think
that every change we've made will lead
to greater productivity of the right de-
cisions and management of the Govern-
ment and will also mean that each person
has a much clearer definition of respon-
sibility and authority than has been in the
past.
I want to thank you for your attention
and now turn the program over to Bert
Lance.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:38 p.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House. Following
his remarks, Bert Lance, Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, and A. D. Frazier,
Jr., Project Manager of the Executive Office of
the President Reorganization Study Group,
held a news briefing for reporters on the reor-
ganization plan.
1254
