Nov. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sible improved diagnosis and treatment
of numerous endocrine disorders.
Keith R. Porter, University of Colo-
rado, for his many contributions in the
use of the electron microscope, coupled
with other approaches, to give us a com-
prehensive and unified picture of the life
of cells.
Efraim Racker, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York, for major contribu-
tions to the understanding of the sub-
cellular mechanism whereby oxidative
and photosynthetic energy is transformed
into the specific form of chemical energy
used by cells.
Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Univer-
sity, Cambridge, Massachusetts, for his
pioneering work on the organization of
insect societies and the evolution of social
behavior among insects and other animals.
Morris Cohen, MIT, Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts, for original research in metal-
lurgy, leading principally to a better
understanding of the properties of steel.
This work is serving as the basis for the
development of high strength materials
that are harder, more fracture-resistant,
and more durable in hostile environments.
Peter C. Goldmark, formerly of CBS,
now with Goldmark Communication
Corporation, Connecticut, for contribu-
tions to the development of the communi-
cation sciences for education, entertain-
ment, culture, and human service. His
work in electronics and television has had
widespread applications in our space pro-
gram, in medicine, in our enjoyment of
music, entertainment, and education in
our homes.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Goldmark
evolved the long-playing record, and I'm
particularly grateful to you. [Laughter]
MR. PRESS. The next award, Mr. Presi-
dent, is awarded posthumously. Mrs.
Richard Schwab will receive the medal
for her father, Erwin W. Mueller, for his
invention of the field-emission micro-
scope, the field-ion microscope, and the
atom-probe microscope, which helped
to resolve the atomic structures of solids.
Through these inventions, man was first
able to see collections of individual atoms
and eventually to identify a single atom.
K. O. Friedricks, New York University,
for bringing the power of modern mathe-
matics to bear on problems of physical
sciences. Professor Friedricks' work has
contributed to the theory of flight. His
concepts have also been used within the
the context of the controlled fusion re-
actor program.
Hassler Whitney, Institute for Ad-
vanced Studies, Princeton, New Jersey,
for founding and bringing to maturity the
discipline of differential topology. This
new branch of geometry, as adopted by
other scientists, has taken on great poten-
tial significance for describing the devel-
opment of complicated structures, such as
occur in biology.
Samuel A. Goudsmit, emeritus from
Brookhaven National Laboratory, now at
the University of Nevada, for the major
discovery, together with George Uhlen-
beck, of the electron spin as the source of
a new quantum number.
Herbert S. Gutowsky, University of
Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, in recognition of
pioneering studies in the field of nuclear
magnetic resonance spectroscopy, one of
the most important tools developed for
chemical studies in the last 25 years. Dr.
Gutowsky's work has been applied to re-
search in solids, liquids, gases, solutions,
metals, and biological substances.
Frederick D. Rossini, Rice University,
Houston, Texas, for contributions to
basic reference knowledge in chemical
thermodynamics. Professor Rossini has
been one of the pioneers in the develop-
ment of techniques for precision thermo-
chemical measurement. His work has laid
2046
