Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
We feel that the Federal water policy
should be very comprehensive, including
water supply and water quality. They are
interrelated, and they should be inte-
grated. The water policy we feel there
should be overall coordination with other
Federal policies.
In Colorado, for instance, there is the
Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau
of Reclamation, Forest Service, five dis-
tricts of the Corps of Engineers, the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, the HUD
flood insurance program, and others—all
dealing with water resources.
THE PRESIDENT. Department of Energy
now.
MS. TAYLOR. Yes.
A Federal water policy should also have
a sunset provision, we feel, or continued
review and evaluation of all water pro-
grams according to objective criteria.
And lastly, the role of the Federal Gov-
ernment, we feel, should be to provide
strong incentives to the States to do a
comprehensive water quality, water re-
source planning. And we do feel that the
Federal Government has an important
role to play. We in the West know a great
deal about our water. We know what our
water problems are. We understand them.
But we really, up until now, have done
very little about them. And we feel that
there is a role for the Federal Government
to provide the incentives for us to get on
the right track.
THE PRESIDENT. As a farmer, I've gone
as far as I can without getting into agri-
culture. [Laughter] I would like to call on
Mr. John Fetcher, who is a rancher, who
is a member of the Colorado Water Con-
servation Board, a former county commis-
sioner, a member of the Farm Bureau and
the Cattlemens Association, and he's been
involved in a ski area development as well.
So, he has a broad range of background,
just to comment if he will. He didn't know
I was going to call on him on how the
discussions so far relate to agriculture.
COLORADO AGRICULTURE
JOHN FETCHER. I'm ready, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. I figured you might
be. [Laughter]
MR. FETCHER. But I didn't realize I
was a county commissioner. So, your in-
formation there isn't quite correct.
But I am a cattleman. And we have an
irrigated ranch in northwest Colorado
where we run about 300 cows and we have
to raise about 600 tons of hay to keep
those cows fed during the wintertime. So,
obviously we depend on water for our
hay crop.
By the
way, here is a picture. I'd like to
say a little bit about what has been
probably put to you that agriculture tends
to waste water and over-irrigate. Perhaps
you have read this report which was writ-
ten by the Comptroller of the United
States. And I am not exactly sure what
the Comptroller knows about irrigated
agriculture. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I see you were ready,
Mr. Fetcher. [Laughter]
MR. FETCHER. Well, there are state-
ments in this report that say that if you
don't use the water, you're going to lose it.
This statement made in this report is to
the effect that this tends to make us ir-
rigators waste it-you know, we're afraid
of losing it. Well, this isn't quite the way
the law says. The law says you are to use
the water beneficially and as efficiently as
possible. But it doesn't say you are going
to lose it. And I don't know of any cases
of my fellow ranchers who have lost any
water because they didn't use their full
quota of water.
Now, on the subject of waste, we know
that when we over-irrigate-and I am
talking primarily about flood irrigation,
1869
