Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tion, public housing operations, and
houses for Indians.
3. Increased Assisted Housing Starts-
doubled to 114,000 the total starts for
assisted housing programs between FY '76
and FY '77. This represents the highest
level in HUD's history.
4. Eviction Moratorium—imposed
moratorium on evictions from HUD-
owned properties pending the develop-
ment of a policy to assist tenants in fore-
closed FHA-insured properties.
5. Housing Counseling-inaugurated
counseling programs for people contem-
plating the purchase of their first home
and for homeowners in danger of default-
ing on their mortgages.
6. Office of Neighborhoods-created
special office at HUD to help communi-
ties and neighborhoods with programs of
local revitalization.
7. Urban and Regional Policy Group/
National Urban Policy-reactivated the
interagency Urban and Regional Policy
Group and made it responsible for draft-
ing a comprehensive national urban pol-
icy.
8. Anti-Redlining Regulations-pro-
mulgated regulations prohibiting discrim-
inatory mortgage credit practices.
9. South Bronx-created an inter-
agency task force to prepare plans for
completely rehabilitating the South
Bronx.
10. Urban Homesteading-extended
the Urban Homesteading program to 15
more cities, helping to restore neighbor-
hoods while increasing home ownership
opportunities for families of modest
means.
Integrity and Openness
1. Financial Disclosure-required all
Cabinet, sub-Cabinet, and White House
staff appointees to disclose publicly their
income and assets.
2. Revolving Door-required all Cab-
inet, sub-Cabinet, regulatory agency, and
White House staff appointees to pledge
not to conduct business with their agency
until at least 2 years after leaving it.
3. Ethics Legislation-proposed ethics
legislation requiring public financial dis-
closure by all Federal officials; increasing
the restrictions on their service after leav-
ing Federal employment; establishing an
Office of Ethics in the Civil Service Com-
mission; and authorizing appointment of
a temporary special prosecutor to handle
cases involving certain executive branch
officials; passed the Senate.
4. Lobbying Reform-supported strong
registration and disclosure legislation.
5. Security Classification System-ini-
tiated a comprehensive study of the Gov-
ernment's security classification system;
proposed reforming the system and re-
ducing unnecessary classification in a
draft Executive order which is now being
circulated for public comment.
Justice
1. Pardon-issued pardon for all selec-
tive service law violators from the Viet-
nam war period.
2. Merit Selection-established merit
selection panels for the U.S. Circuit
Courts of Appeals.
3. Prisoner Exchange-supported and
signed into law legislation to implement
treaties permitting the exchange of pris-
oners with Mexico and Canada; these
transfers are now taking place.
4. LEAA-initiated a thorough review
of the operations of the LEAA, which will
soon lead to an announcement of its com-
prehensive reform.
5. Juvenile Justice-supported and
signed into law a bill extending the Juve-
nile Justice and Delinquency Prevention
Act through 1980 and strengthening Fed-
eral efforts against juvenile delinquency.
2146
