Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Because the Iowa people believe in hard
work, you have the lowest unemployment
rate of any of the 50 States in the Na-
tion, and I want to congratulate you on
that as well.
You've always represented what makes
our country strong. I think of all the
States I know, there's a closer sense of
family and a closer sense of community
and a closer sense of brotherhood and
sisterhood in Iowa, because you know that
many of the problems of the future can-
not be resolved by individuals alone;
there must be cooperation.
And there's a deep sense here, too, of
what this Nation has meant to our fore-
fathers who came to our country, staked
out a small claim of land, and began to
carve out for ourselves a great future and
a great country.
I'm glad to come back as a Democrat,
and I know that you share with me a great
pride in your own congressional delega-
tion. We've just signed, a few days ago,
a new comprehensive farm bill which will
help to bring order out of chaos, to let us
have strengthening prices, to let food re-
serves be kept within the control of farm-
ers, that will expand greatly agricultural
export potential, that will give us greater
research and development programs for
agriculture.
They see and I see, together, that as
we face other problems like the energy
package, that this decision to be made will
affect every life here, whether you live in
the city or live on a farm. And of all the
delegations that I know in the Congress,
I've not had stronger friendship nor
stronger support than I have from your
own congressional delegation. And I'd like
for them to hold up their hands and for
you to express your appreciation to them,
as I do from the bottom of heart.
my
They not only take care of your own
personal needs but they are leaders. We
had a very
crucial vote last night to decide
whether to go on building the unneces-
sary B-1 bomber or not. They voted with
me, and I believe that that bomber will
not be built anymore, and I thank them
for it.
We're trying to bring peace to the
world by eliminating the threat of nuclear
weapons and the proliferation of nuclear
explosives, and this is a great group of
allies for me to bring about peace for
which we all search. And I believe we're
going to find it with the help of the Con-
gress, particularly your delegation from
Iowa.
I've had a chance to learn about—a lot
about your State. I don't claim to know
all the answers. But I believe that my
campaigning around Iowa, my knowl-
edge of you, your friendship for me will
stand me in good stead in the future.
We've got some problems in our coun-
try; no one could deny that. But we're
making progress. The unemployment rate
in the last 8 or 9 months has dropped 1
full percent. I just came here from De-
troit. Two years ago, the unemployment
rate in the downtown urban area was 24
percent; now, it's down to about 8 per-
cent.
We got figures this morning that
showed that the inflation rate is coming
under control, an annual rate of only 3.6
percent. We've still got a long way to go,
but we're going in the right direction.
If you'll stand with me, give me your
support, give me your confidence, give me
your friendship as you did before, I'll try
to do you a good job as President, to con-
tinue to learn from you, to derive my
strength from you, and to work with you
to make sure that we keep our Nation as it
always has been-the greatest country on
Earth.
Thank you very much for coming out
to meet me. God bless every one of you.
1854
