Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 12
The ownership of atomic weapons and
their potential use is such a horrifying
prospect their use-that it is a deterrent
to a major confrontation between nations
who possess atomic weapons.
I believe that the nation that uses
atomic weapons first would be under
heavy condemnation from the other peo-
ple of the world, unless the circumstances
were extremely gross, such as an unwar-
ranted invasion into another country.
But I'm eager to work with the Soviet
Union, with China, with France, with
England, on a continuing basis, so that
there will never be a need for the use of
those weapons.
To answer the other part of your ques-
tion, my guess is-and no one would cer-
tainly know that the first use of atomic
weapons might very well quickly lead to
a rapid and uncontrolled escalation in the
use of even more powerful weapons with
possibly a worldwide holocaust resulting.
This is a prospect that is sobering to us
all, and that's why the Soviets and we
and others have worked so hard to try to
reach an agreement in the prohibition
against atomic use.
Q. Sir, could I just follow it up with one
question? Doesn't that give you a terrible
paradox? Because if we are inferior on
the ground in Europe with the Soviet and
Warsaw Pact forces, if we don't use
atomic weapons, can we and our NATO
alliance stop a ground invasion?
THE PRESIDENT. My guess is and my
belief is that without the use of atomic
weapons, we have adequate force strength
in NATO to stop an invasion from the
Warsaw Pact forces.
There is some advantage in the com-
mitment and effectiveness of the forces of
a defending nation if they are fighting on
their own invaded territory. And I think
this would mean that in a rough balance
that the invading nations would have to
have an overwhelming superior force.
We are now putting, as a much greater
priority in our budget request for defense
expenditures, moneys for improving our
conventional forces in Europe. In years
gone by, 15 or 20 years ago, we had an
overwhelming superiority in nuclear
weapons. Now I would say we have a
roughly equivalent strength in atomic
weapons. And so, we must ensure that
within the bounds of measurement that
our conventional forces are equivalent
also. And I don't acknowledge at all the
fact that an invasion of the Warsaw Pact
nations would be successful without the
use of atomic weapons.
FOREIGN EAVESDROPPING ON TELEPHONE
CONVERSATIONS
Q. Mr. President, Senator Moynihan
of New York says that the Government,
both the Ford administration and yours,
has avoided telling American citizens that
they are the subject of massive eaves-
dropping on the part of the Soviet Union.
If the Senator is correct, why has the
Government not alerted American citi-
zens to the situation?
Second, do you plan to demand that
the Soviets withdraw their rooftop elec-
tronic equipment? And third, if they do
not, will there be diplomatic reprisals?
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Moynihan,
as you know, has been a member of the
Nixon administration in the past in a
very high official position, and he is well
able to judge the knowledge that was
possessed by that administration.
I think it's accurate to say that any
detailed discussion of the electronics
capabilities of different nations' intelli-
gence forces is not a proper subject for
complete discussion.
1233
