Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
agricultural subsidy program. And we
have maintained those, however, that
were there before.
Q. Mr. President, we've all been told
why you reconsidered the timing on your
tax proposal. Could you give this group
tonight any estimate of when you might
come forward with a tax proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We evolved the
tax proposal in a way that I think you
would have done had you been in office.
We began this year, after we put together
the energy package and the welfare re-
form proposal and the social security pro-
posals, to put down in a tabular form all
the tax reform proposals and changes
that were advocated from all sources.
We consulted with many of you,
through Bert Lance, through Mike Blu-
menthal, Juanita Kreps, and others, to
get your advice and your counsel, along
with those of labor leaders.
Those educators who are involved in
economics and my own staff-and we put
this program on the schedule to be re-
vealed to the public and presented to the
Congress in September or October. We
anticipated at that time that the Congress
would adjourn the 23d of October, after
the Congress had finished work on social
security and energy—that was my plan.
When it became obvious that the Congress
would not finish as scheduled, we put the
tax reform proposal in abeyance, until I
can see what impact on the economy will
be felt by the increases in social security
payments and also by the final results of
energy.
We've also been trying to estimate the
inherent increased income tax rates
brought about by the effects of inflation
as individual taxpayers are put in a higher
and a higher income tax bracket. With
no additional purchasing power, of
course, their rate of taxation goes up.
And so there will be combined, I think, a
moderate but an adequate program for
tax reform to make it more equitable.
We intend to have it a little more pro-
gressive in nature, and the overall effect
on it will be permanent, not temporary,
tax reductions, both for business and for
individuals.
My plan now is to complete the income
tax reform proposals, tax reduction pro-
posals and present them in January.
Maybe one more question and then I
probably need to go.
Q. Mr. President, for many years my
gravest concern has been inflation.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes; mine, too.
Q. I come from the natural resources
part of the Nation where we are engaged
in coal mining, copper mining, oil pro-
duction, and oil refining, and all of the
things that go with this and with pro-
tection of the natural land and the
environment.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Now I have to say this, that the
requirements that are imposed upon us
by the Government in connection with all
of those things are the maximum, most
expensive requirements that could pos-
sibly be imposed and that the inflationary
situation would be improved if instead of
that, more consideration was given to the
cost of doing many things which have to
be done but which could be done less
expensively if we were allowed to experi-
ment in smaller ways.
I wonder if you share at all this kind of
thinking.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do. One of the
initiatives that I've taken is to direct the
Council on Wage and Price Stability to
analyze the inflationary impact of the
major decisions made on regulation of
industry and business. This includes,
2112
