Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
supportive of my own positions, and so
has Senator Kennedy.
But I think that describes my complete
involvement in the process. It's up to Mis-
sissippi people to decide who they want
as their U.S. Senator. It's certainly up to
Senator Eastland to decide whether he
wants to come back or not.
BILLY CARTER
Q. David Mannwiler with the Indian-
apolis News. Please forgive a facetious
question. It was brought up at lunch.
THE PRESIDENT. It's all right.
Q. We were talking about the fact that
your brother, Billy, who has been in and
out of our State and region quite often,
is very able to comment on your perform-
ance. We didn't think we'd ever seen your
comments on his performance. And why
on Earth aren't you considering running
this man for treasurer of the Democratic
national party? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Billy has been,
as you know, making his own decisions.
I could probably have more influence on
Senator Eastland or Governor Wallace or
Sparkman than I do on Billy. [Laughter]
He has been concerned about the eco-
nomic problems of the country. He's
pretty well put the beer industry back on
its feet, for instance. [Laughter] I think
he's shown his ability as a bellybust diver
in Canada. He's promoted a lot of good
projects like automobile racing and so
forth.
Billy is a very intelligent, very compe-
tent, very likable person, and he's my only
brother, as you know. And I admire the
way he lives his own life. I've never had
any occasion to be embarrassed by Billy,
nor have I ever tried to interfere in Billy's
lifestyle. I think he's probably at least as
well known as I am, and probably his
popularity rating would exceed mine right
at this time.
I don't get to see him very often, because
he does stay busy, but Billy is a good man,
and I'm proud that he is my brother.
Maybe one more question. I promised
the gentleman on the end.
SENATOR RUSSELL B. LONG OF LOUISIANA
Q. Sam Hanna from Louisiana. We
keep hearing in Louisiana how powerful
Senator Long is here now, and he keeps
saying that he does not want that reputa-
tion. How closely will the White House
have to work with him and his commit-
tee to pass an energy bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Very closely. Senator
Long is a powerful man in the Congress,
and I don't deplore it. There is no more
brilliant person in Washington than he is,
and he works hard. He does his home-
work. He studies legislation. And I think
the members of his committee respect
him, and so do I. I enjoy being with him
when we have a few minutes alone on
occasion.
The Finance Committee in the Senate
has such a broad range of responsibili-
ties. Many of the things we've talked
about today come under his purview-the
controversial energy legislation, social
security, welfare reform, and so forth. I
do work very closely with Senator Long,
and I think he goes out of his way to help
me on controversial issues.
For instance, on the energy tax meas-
ures, with the exception of the user tax
that would impact on Louisiana very
heavily, which he opposed, he gave his
support to the other tax matters even
though a majority of his committee did
not. And he and I and Senator Byrd and
others consult quite closely as the Senate
evolves its own will on the energy matters.
He and Senator Jackson will be the two
lead Senators in the conference on this
energy program.
1942
