Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 13
Let me add that I have great admira-
tion for the way in which President Carter
is performing his tasks, and I would like
to add for you personally, Jimmy, the way
you have welcomed us today, to me, is
just another proof of the common ground
on which we stand, not only on general
terms but also as friends working closely
together.
We all know that the manifold prob-
lems facing the world today call more
than ever for common effort and that they
can be solved only if we proceed on the
basis of common responsibility.
The Federal Republic of Germany will
render its full contribution. And you, Mr.
President, and your fellow Americans can
rely on our firm will to pursue our com-
mon goals in close cooperation with you.
And I am quite sure that I can say this
for all the citizens in my country, for all
the German nation, as much as I can say
this for all the members of my delegation,
which as you already mentioned does not
only consist of political leaders and civil
servants but also eminent leaders from the
trade unions, from industry, and from our
cultural life and from our mass media.
We all know that the strength, quite a
bit of the strength, and the confidence
which you projected into our nation a
couple of minutes ago that they derive
from the knowledge that my people can
face up to great challenges of our times
side by side with the United States.
I am convinced that our visit will help
to even further increase, as you said, the
determination and energy with which we
on both sides of the Atlantic set about our
great tasks.
We share with you, Mr. President, and
with your country, and with your nation,
the belief in the superiority of the spirit of
freedom of the individual person. And like
you, we are convinced that freedom can
only prevail if the dignity of the individ-
ual and his or her civil rights, or as they
are being called in our constitution, basic
rights, are respected and exercised.
At the same time, we German people
know from a bitter epoch in our history
that freedom and basic rights can never be
taken for granted, that they only thrive
when they are protected and preserved
by sincerity, by courageous involvement,
and even by sacrifice.
You will always find the Federal Re-
public of Germany and its people at your
side when it comes to safeguarding free-
dom for the individual and securing re-
spect for his or her dignity and rights
around the world.
I
guess we need no special capacity of
perception to recognize that without the
Atlantic Alliance, which is the visible
expression of our harmony in these objec-
tives, freedom and basic rights in the west-
imperiled, perhaps even extinguished, in
ern part of Europe might have been
some parts over the past three decades.
We Germans never regarded the pres-
ence of the United States in Europe as
part of a power political calculation, but
we always regarded it as an involvement
stemming from a deep commitment, for
which we are grateful and which we recip-
rocate for the very same reason.
It becomes equally clear against this
background how much importance is
being attached to the patient continuance
of the policy of détente, starting from the
safe basis of our alliance and of its ability
to defend ourselves.
Let me stress in this context that it is
the most vital interest of my divided na-
tion to continue and to further this policy
of alleviating tensions, because there just
is no other way to try and alleviate the
human problems in millions of families in
my nation stemming from the political
and geographical division of my people.
1247
