Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
the degree that we can analyze it together,
it will remove the fear of the future that
does exist in some parts of our country.
I would like to call on Betty Salazar
now. She is the director of the United
Way Agency in Denver and head of the
Latin American Research Center.
UTILIZATION OF MINORITIES
Ms. SALAZAR. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I guess my primary concern would be
as these Federal permits are issued and so
forth, that there be a real consideration
and an assertive effort in terms of utiliz-
ing inner or core city persons to work in
those projects and also a concerted effort
in terms of utilization of minority con-
tractors.
And as a social service representative,
certainly these are the people we work
with. And we would hope that as the pol-
icies develop, there would be considera-
tion for utilizing those persons.
And I would like to ask him to make a
brief comment.
WATER STORAGE
MR. BOTEL. Thank you, Mr. President.
I think it needs to be pointed out that
labor is interested in storage, because stor-
age of our water is the only way we can
grow economically in the State.
And I think also that another point
that we should bring out—you have been
talking about water reuse in harmony. I
think the city of Northglen has a pro-
gram where water sharing is a feasible
thing, and it's something that the urban
dweller and the agricultural farmer have
agreed on. I think it's a program that will
work, and I think it adds to the soil vital
minerals and nutrients that the soil needs
from an organic basis.
THE PRESIDENT. This project is one
that's of great interest to me. Northglen
does use their supply of water, but they
have worked out an arrangement with
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, surrounding farmers to supply the waste
Betty.
In the local public works bill that the
Congress passed, which encompasses
about $4 billion of improvements for
communities like you represent, 10
per-
cent of the contracting must be to minor-
ity enterprises. This is the first time the
Congress has done this. I think it's a good
move. But you made a very excellent
point.
I believe that as we see the evolution in
the future of both agriculture and energy
production and other things, that we can
have a very heavy improvement in em-
ployment opportunities that don't exist
at this time.
Bob Botel has a very interesting experi-
ence in making sure that we do use water
efficiently. He's a member of the Inter-
national Brotherhood of Electrical Work-
ers and a foreman at the Honeywell plant.
waters to enrich the soil to produce more
crops. I think this might be a vista of what
we will see on a broad basis in the future.
The last panelist is Jonni Jones, and I
would like to call on her now. She is an
associate professor of urban planning at
the University of Colorado, and she is in
the Graduate School of Design.
URBAN PLANNING
MS. JONES. Thank you, Mr. President.
I don't know how you can talk about
growth in a short period of time; there
are so many issues involved. But I will try
to make two quick points.
I think people who live in the cities are
concerned about growth-where it hap-
pens, how it happens, and at whose
expense.
One of the things Denverites are con-
cerned about is that as development oc-
1877
