July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
other cities, decisions in other States, ten-
sions in other parts of the world.
And as Americans we cannot overlook
the way that our fate is bound to that of
other nations. This interdependence
stretches from the health of our economy,
through war and peace, to the security of
our own energy supplies. It's a new world
in which we cannot afford to be narrow in
our vision, limited in our foresight, or sel-
fish in our purpose.
When I took office almost exactly 6
months ago, our Nation was faced with a
series of problems around the world-in
southern Africa, the Middle East, in our
relationships with our NATO allies, and
on such tough questions as nuclear pro-
liferation, negotiations with our former
adversaries, a Panama Canal treaty,
human rights, world poverty.
We have openly and publicly addressed
these and other many difficult and contro-
versial issues-some of which had been
either skirted or postponed in the past.
As I pointed out in a recent press con-
ference, a period of debate, disagreement,
probing was inevitable. Our goal has not
been to reach easy or transient agree-
ments, but to find solutions that are mean-
ingful, balanced, and lasting.
Now, a President has a responsibility to
present to the people of this Nation reports
and summations of complex and impor-
tant matters. I feel more secure as Presi-
dent making decisions if I know that either
the most difficult, the most complex ques-
tions that face me have been understood
and debated by you and understood and
debated by the Congress.
In the past I think our Nation's leaders
have been guilty of making decisions in
secret. And even when the decision turns
out to be the right one, it makes the
President, the Secretary of State speak
with a weak voice when they speak alone.
Today, I want to discuss a vitally im-
portant aspect of our foreign relations,
the one that may most directly shape the
chances for peace for us and for our chil-
dren. I would like to spell out my view of
what we have done and where we are go-
ing in our relations with the Soviet Union
and to reaffirm the basic principles of our
national policy.
I don't have any apology for talking
about foreign affairs at a southern legis-
lative conference, because foreign affairs
and those difficult decisions ought never to
be made with a concept that we can aban-
don common sense and the sound judg-
ment and the constructive influence of
the American people.
For decades, the central problems of
our foreign policy revolved around an-
tagonism between two coalitions, one
headed by the United States and the other
headed by the Soviet Union.
Our national security was often defined
almost exclusively in terms of military
competition with the Soviet Union. This
competition is still critical, because it does
involve issues which could lead to war.
But however important this relationship
of military balance, it cannot be our sole
preoccupation to the exclusion of other
world issues which also concern us both.
Even if we succeed in relaxing tensions
with the U.S.S.R., we could still awake
one day to find that nuclear weapons have
been spread to dozens of other nations
who may not be as responsible as are we.
tional arsenals of our two nations, to re-
Or we could struggle to limit the conven-
duce the danger of war, only to undo our
efforts by continuing without constraint
to export armaments around the world.
As two industrial giants, we face
long-term, worldwide energy crises. What-
ever our political differences, both of us
are compelled to begin conserving world
energy and developing alternatives to oil
and gas.
1310
