Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
run experimental programs so that the
transition period will be very brief. In
addition, the Youth Community Conser-
vation and Improvement projects will
provide similar job opportunities in the
urban areas when, because of practical
considerations, we can't and do not want
to transfer young people away from their
own homes.
We'll conduct pilot projects with the
major part of the funds available, over a
billion dollars in all, to provide innovative
approaches to correcting this chronic un-
employment among young people. In the
process, we'll more than double the Job
Corps, which is one of the programs that's
already proven to be effective.
So the cumulative effect of this legisla-
tion will single out young people and give
them a chance in life and is the last in a
series of programs that have now been
approved and funded by the Congress,
whose beneficial impact is just beginning
to be felt in our country.
I think there has been a restoration of
trust among the people of our Nation.
This has been indicated by an improve-
ment in the economic circumstances
throughout our country. These new pro-
grams will provide additional incentives
for the people to believe that in our own
country, that there is a chance to lead a
productive life as part of a system; at
the same time, to correct the deficiencies
which we all deplore.
Saturday morning in Plains, I will re-
veal the proposal for changing in a bene-
ficial way the confused welfare system.
And we have worked on this at length.
But the cumulative total of all these
efforts, which have been passed by the
Congress and which will be addressed by
the Congress, are extremely beneficial to
our country. And I want to express my
deep thanks to the Members of the Con-
gress in the House and Senate, to the
mayors and Governors who are here, to
representatives of business and labor, to
young people who have already benefited
from these programs and who look for-
ward to doing it even more in the future,
for their support in the passage of this fine
legislation to cut down the blight of youth
unemployment in the United States.
REPRESENTATIVE CARL D. PERKINS.
Mr. President, to my way of thinking,
your affixing your signature to this most
important legislation is one of the great-
est days in the history of our Government
insofar as the employment of needy youth
is concerned, which in that particular
area in the forest is gradually becoming
a lost art.
I certainly feel that the whole coun-
try wishes to compliment you for taking
the lead in seeing that legislation of this
type became law. You certainly deserve
the compliments of all the youth in this
country and all the taxpayers in this coun-
try in getting these youth off the streets.
Thank you.
SENATOR HARRISON A. WILLIAMS, JR.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
In
your message, I think you addressed
yourself to all of the thoughts that were
on our minds as we fashioned this pro-
gram to reach out to youth and to give
them that start as productive citizens, be-
lieving in the system, believing in them-
selves.
I'm one here-and there aren't many
that remember the Civilian Conservation
Corps, CCC. We still hear, from people
who were part of that, that that President
Roosevelt measure, in that case, made
men of poor boys that had a productive
job. We have included that as part of this
program.
I think that it's a message of great hope
to the young people of our country, and
I was glad to be part of it and applaud
this administration and you, Mr. Presi-
dent, for passing it.
1428
