Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
So, the accessibility thing is a two-way
street. The people benefit from knowing
what I plan and what I am doing. I learn
on a daily basis in the White House what
the American people want done.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. THOMPSON. Mr. President, very
briefly, one final question. It's been almost
a year now for you as President. A lot of
those campaign promises have probably
been more difficult than perhaps you ima-
gined. How does the responsibility of hold-
ing the single most powerful position in
the world differ from what you expected
before taking the oath?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the dif-
ference between what I expected and
what was sometimes covered by the news
media has been different. When someone
running for a 4-year term of office makes
promises to do certain things in the
Middle East, in defense, in agriculture, in
education, social security, energy-that
doesn't mean that you think you can do it
the first year and that nothing will be left
to be done the other 3 years.
Another point to be made is that I can
evolve a comprehensive program in
energy, in welfare, social security, and
present it to the Congress much more rap-
idly than the Congress can actually pass
it into law. So there's always a delay, in-
herently in our system, for Congress to
take action on a proposal made by the
President.
I believe that we've made excellent
progress. And when an inventory is con-
ducted of what this Congress did achieve,
I believe the American people will be
pleased and very thankful.
very
We took major strides forward. The
only major disappointment that I have
experienced is not getting the comprehen-
sive energy package passed. But I think
this will be done early next year. The con-
ference committees are still at work. And
this is probably the most complicated,
complex, confusing, and politically divi-
sive issue that the Congress has ever at-
tacked in the last 200 years. It is so con-
fusing to simultaneously try to resolve, I
think, 113 different proposals that we've
presented to the Congress just on the
energy question alone. And since our Na-
tion is both a producing country-one of
the largest on Earth—and also the biggest
consumer nation on Earth, there's an in-
herent conflict.
But the Congress has performed su-
perbly, in my opinion. We've had a good
relationship between the White House
and Capitol Hill. And I believe that those
important issues to the American people
will be realized and handled very well.
MR. THOMPSON. Mr. President, again
thank you so very much for calling. We're
deeply grateful. Do come back to Fay-
etteville.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Jeff. I've
been pleased, so has my whole family, at
the friendship and hospitality that was ex-
tended to us yesterday on our arrival here.
It gave us a chance to get our family to-
gether, which is a rare occasion for us
now.
I'll always remember the confidence
that North Carolina people had in me
both in the primary and the general elec-
tion. I've tried to act in the White House
in such a way to make the North Caro-
lina people proud of me.
Thank you very much, Jeff.
MR. THOMPSON. Thank you again so
much.
NOTE: The interview began at 9:16 a.m. and
was recorded for later use by WFNC Radio.
The President placed the call from the home of
his sister, Ruth Carter Stapleton, where he
was staying during his visit to Fayetteville.
2135
