Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
November, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy seven and of
the Independence of the United States of
America, the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:01 a.m., November 14, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was re-
leased on November 12.
Full Employment and Balanced
Growth Bill
Statement by the President.
November 14, 1977
In recent months, members of my ad-
ministration have met on a number of
occasions with Senator Humphrey, Con-
gressman Hawkins, and their representa-
tives to discuss the full employment and
balanced growth act. I am very pleased
that these discussions have reached a fruit-
ful conclusion. The care and time devoted
to the discussions were justified by the
seriousness of the issues and the need to
develop legislation that will command
broad support across our Nation and help
us achieve our goal of full employment.
The amended full employment and bal-
anced growth act that the administration
is now endorsing would accomplish a
number of important objectives. It will:
• Establish the commitment of the
Federal Government to achieve full em-
ployment.
• Establish the commitment of the Fed-
eral Government, simultaneously, to
achieve reasonable price stability.
Establish a framework for economic
policy decisions. The administration
would transmit to the Congress its goals
for employment, unemployment, produc-
tion, and income over a 5-year period.
The Congress would have the responsi-
bility to consider these goals and to estab-
lish its own goals.
• Establish as the goal for 1983 an
overall unemployment rate of 4 percent,
with flexibility to modify that goal if ne-
cessity requires. This is an ambitious ob-
jective and one that may prove very dif-
ficult to achieve, but setting our sights
high challenges us to do our best.
Recognize that high unemployment
must be fought with a variety of weapons,
including special government efforts, but
that primary emphasis should be placed
on expanding job opportunities in the pri-
vate sector.
Recognize that the achievement of
full employment and price stability must
be sought through the use of monetary
and fiscal policies, together with structur-
al measures designed to improve the func-
tioning of the Nation's labor and capital
markets-not through government plan-
ning or control of private production,
wages,
and prices.
Title II of the bill sets out considera-
tions to guide the President and the Con-
gress in the event that new programs and
appropriations are needed to fight unem-
ployment. This feature of the bill does
not authorize such programs, but com-
mends them for use, if necessary, to im-
plement the goals of the legislation.
Title III of the bill sets forth proce-
dures for congressional consideration of
the President's goals and policy recom-
mendations. While the specific procedures
are for the Congress to determine, it is
important, in my judgment, that the Con-
gress in its deliberations on Title III of
the bill, establish procedures to integrate
2023
