Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 5, 1977
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With a Group
of Editors and News Directors.
July 29, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I hope I didn't interrupt
your meeting. [Laughter]
I think what we might do is just let
me give you a quick report on the status
of our administration as of the last cou-
ple of days and then spend the other 25
minutes answering your questions about
any items that you want to raise.
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS
This last few days has been one of great
activity around the White House, which
is not different from most weeks. I'm
putting the final touches on my own wel-
fare reform proposal, which I will com-
plete after meeting with Chairmen Rus-
sell Long and Al Ullman next week. I've
spent a good bit of time on that recently,
and we've been working on this with a
great deal of enthusiasm and, I think, a
good success ever since I've been in office.
We hope that the House and Senate,
very quickly now, will take final action on
the Department of Energy. They're mak-
ing good progress on the overall energy
policy. I think the House is very likely to
finish that work before the mandatory
summer recess.
I've been meeting frequently with for-
eign leaders. I think, so far, we've had
15 heads of state who have come here on
official visits with me, and I've learned a
lot from them. On my visit to Europe, I
had about the same number with whom
I met just a few minutes or extensively—
a couple of hours, and I have a good re-
lationship there.
This morning I had a meeting with
the Panama Canal negotiating team,
both our two Ambassadors and the two
representing General Torrijos. And early
this morning I met with Cy Vance, who
will be leaving very quickly now to go to
the Mideast. He'll go to Egypt and to
Saudi Arabia, to Jordan and Syria, back
through-Israel is the last stop this time,
to try to put together some sort of frame-
work on which we and the Soviet Union
jointly can call for a Geneva conference
this fall. We still have a lot of difficulties
to overcome. My own belief is that they
can be overcome.
Harold Brown is on the way back to-
night from California, having finished a
trip to Japan and to South Korea. Cy
Vance is also preparing to go to China,
and we'll spend all tomorrow morning,
with me and him and Dr. Brzezinski and
the Vice President and a few others, go-
ing over the component parts of his dis-
cussions with the Chinese Government.
We've embarked on a massive, 3-year
reorganization program for the Federal
Government, and I think this will be a
slow, tedious, thorough improvement in
1387
