June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
1
wouldn't want to make a prior commit-
ment about the degree of my support for
a candidate until I see who it is.
SALT NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, given the numerous
and obvious violations of the Helsinki ac-
cords by the Soviet Union, which they
were pledged to uphold, could I ask why
the United States should, on good faith,
accept the Soviet word on a matter far
more vital, say, for example, the SALT
treaty, which you are in the process of
negotiating?
THE PRESIDENT. We have never
been willing simply to take the word of the
Soviets on SALT agreements, and neither
have they been willing to take our word
alone. We have methods of confirming or
verifying the carrying out of the agree-
ment with various means, including aerial
surveillance from space.
And I think that as we get down to the
more technical agreements, that verifica-
tion is becoming more and more a prob-
lem. For instance, if we should conclude
a comprehensive test ban treaty with the
Soviets of preventing any sort of nuclear
tests, even including peaceful devices,
then we would have to have some way to
confirm that the Soviets indeed are carry-
ing out their agreement, and vice versa.
There are sensing devices that might,
for instance, be placed by us on Soviet
territory or perhaps around the periphery
of the Soviet Union. And we might con-
clude a similar agreement with them. Or
if a factor in the agreement should be that
certain kinds of uses of atomic weapons-
not weapons, but explosives to divert the
channel of a river, we might want to have
actual observers there, and vice versa. My
own hope is that we can conclude an
agreement that there would be no testing.
But verification is one of the aspects not
just based on the word of us or the Soviets
but on actual observations on site by
sensing devices or by visual observations or
others that I need not go into now.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
Q. What is the status, Mr. President, of
the Panama Canal treaty? Are you likely
to sign such a treaty soon?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know about
the time schedule because it obviously
takes two sides to agree to a treaty. We are
putting in a lot of time on the Panama
Canal treaty negotiations.
And I hope that we'll have a successful
conclusion this summer. We've been en-
couraged so far. The major questions that
were identified at the beginning have
fairly well been concluded.
One of the disagreements at this point
is on the payment of portions of the tolls
from the Panama Canal to Panama and
the exact financial arrangement.
But I hope still that we'll have one by
summer. I think that General Torrijos
feels the same way, and, of course, we
have been aided by the good offices of
President Perez from Venezuela and
others who want to have a peaceful reso-
lution here.
I can't give you an answer because I
don't know yet. We are also trying to keep
the Members of the Senate and others in-
formed about progress as well as I'm being
informed so that when we do reach a con-
clusion, it would be one that, with a major
effort, we could have confirmed by the
Congress.
OPEC OIL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, in view of the ap-
parent moderation by the OPEC coun-
tries on oil prices lately, does that appear
to be aimed at diffusing some of the
stronger measures you'd like Congress to
adopt, and what strategy can you have
against that?
1202
