Dec. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Old Age and Survivors Trust Fund
would run out by 1983.
-A majority of Americans did not be-
lieve that their social security bene-
fits would be there when they needed
them.
I am happy to be here today to sign
legislation which will reassure the 33 mil-
lion people who are receiving benefits
and the 104 million workers now making
contributions that the social security sys-
tem will be financially sound well into the
next century.
I congratulate the Members of Con-
gress for the courage and leadership they
have shown in enacting this bill this
year.
The public overwhelmingly supports the
purposes of the social security system, and
a clear majority feel that the Congress is
showing real courage in raising additional
taxes to save the system, according to a
recent poll.
Although the final bill differs in some
respects from the proposals I submitted
last May, it does fulfill all of the cam-
paign promises I made on social security:
-Eliminates the yearly deficits of the
social security system and restores the
trust funds reserves to healthy levels.
-The delayed retirement credit is in-
creased to reward those who choose
to work beyond age 65 before claim-
ing benefits.
-Corrects the flaw in the benefit for-
mula and protects the purchasing
power of present and future benefici-
aries.
-Raises additional money primarily
through increases in the taxable
wage base making the system more
progressive and minimizing the add-
ed burden for low- and moderate-
income workers.
-Eases the earnings test, permitting
recipients to earn as much as $6,000
without losing any benefits and those
over 70 to continue with full benefits
no matter how much they might
earn.
-Several provisions are of great im-
portance to women: It removes
from the Social Security Act refer-
ences to the sex of applicants, per-
mits older persons to remarry with-
out the fear of losing some of their
social security benefits, and it makes
homemakers who are divorced after
10 years of marriage eligible for
benefits.
-Most importantly, it ensures our
senior citizens today that their social
security benefits will be protected
during their retirement and further
assures today's workers that the
hard-earned taxes they are paying
into the system today will be avail-
able upon their retirement.
Taken together, these are tremendous
achievements and represent the most im-
portant social security legislation since the
program was established.
The social security program is a pact
between workers and their employers that
they will contribute to a common fund to
ensure that those who are no longer a part
of the work force will have a basic income
on which to live. It represents our com-
mitment as a society to the belief that
workers should not live in dread that a
disability, death, or old age could leave
them or their families destitute.
This bill was enacted this year in a
spirit of compromise. The taxes are higher
than those I proposed, but I believe that
much of the increase can be offset by my
income tax reduction proposals next
month and additional reform in the social
security system. I am happy that the Con-
gress accepted my advice and avoided
costly benefit increases at this time.
It should be clear to everyone that al-
though we may have differed on some of
2156
