Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
want peace or that Syria does not want
peace or that Lebanon does not want
peace in a settlement with Israel, then
an alternative might have to be pursued.
But we've certainly not reached that
point yet.
I think that the other Arab leaders do
want peace with Israel. And I am cer-
tainly not even considering, and neither
is Sadat nor Begin, any assumption that
the possibilities for peace have narrowed
down to just two nations.
Walt [Walter Rodgers, Associated Press
Radio].
Q. Mr. President, there has been crit-
icism of your earlier decision to bring
the Soviet Union into the Middle East,
the peace negotiating process, and the
Soviets have indeed refused to go to
Cairo. Would you please explain to the
American people why you think it's im-
portant that the Soviets be involved in
these Middle East peace negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. The Soviets have
been involved in the peace negotiations
ever since 1973. The entire Geneva con-
ference concept was established through
the United Nations with the United
States and with the Soviet Union as co-
chairmen. So, this has been established
now for at least 4 years. And this is a con-
cept that has been adopted and approved
by all the parties involved, including the
United Nations overwhelmingly, perhaps
even unanimously.
In the past, I think it's accurate to say
that the Soviets have not played a con-
structive role in many instances because
they had espoused almost completely the
more adamant Arab position. My own
feeling is that in recent months, the So-
viets have moved toward a much more
balanced position as a prelude to the
Geneva conference.
We have tried to spell out very clear-
ly-certainly since I've been in office and,
I think, my predecessors as well-the
United States position. We disagree in
some of those issues with the Soviet
Union. We've not concealed those differ-
ences. We disagree in some instances be-
cause of the procedural items that are
being discussed. But there is no division.
between us and the Soviet Union now
that didn't exist before, and I would say
that their positions have been much more
compatible recently.
I wish that the Soviets had decided to
go to Cairo. They've decided not to. But
we'll make as much progress as we can,
following the leadership of Sadat and
Begin, to make real progress in Cairo with
the Soviets not present. And my belief is
that the desire of the whole world is so
great for peace in the Middle East that
the Soviets will follow along and take
advantage of any constructive step to-
ward peace.
The fact that we do have differences of
opinion is well known and I don't think
is an obstacle to eventual peace in the
Middle East. But we did not bring the
Soviets in. They have been in since the
very initiation of a Geneva conference.
Do you have a followup?
Q. Yes, sir. Do you think you can have
peace in the Middle East without the
Soviets involved?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that we
or the Soviets ought to play a constructive
role. And I think both of us will. We have
been the nation then and, I think, now
that is uniquely trusted by all the parties
involved to act fairly and consistently con-
cerning the Middle East questions. I don't
believe that the Soviets occupy that posi-
tion. And I don't have any doubt that if
the nations surrounding Israel can work
out an individual peace settlement with
Israel leading to peace treaties, that the
Soviets will play a constructive role, cer-
tainly at that point. It would be contrary
to their own interest to be identified as an
obstacle to peace. I don't think they are
2056
