Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 29
also at peace with itself, an America
which is ready and able to cooperate
wherever possible and to compete when
necessary.
After a long period of doubt and tur-
moil here, we are finding our way back to
the values that made us a great nation.
And in this new spirit we are eager to
work with all countries and all peoples in
building the kind of world and the kind
of world community that serves the indi-
vidual and common needs of all.
We undertake this trip to express our
own views clearly and proudly, but also
to learn and to understand the opinions
and the desires of others. We will try to
represent our Nation and our people well,
and I'll take the good will of America
everywhere we go. Thank you very
much.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President,
we wish you and Mrs. Carter well as you
undertake this most important mission on
behalf of our Nation. I know that I speak
for everyone here and for the American
people when I say you take with you not
only our best wishes but our love as well.
We know it'll be a successful journey, and
we eagerly await your return.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 a.m. on the
South Lawn of the White House. Following
the remarks, the Presidential party proceeded
to Andrews Air Force Base, Md., where they
departed for Poland.
Warsaw, Poland
Remarks of the President and First Secretary
Edward Gierek at the Welcoming Ceremony.
December 29, 1977
THE FIRST SECRETARY. Mr. President,
Madam Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
On behalf of the highest authorities of
the Polish People's Republic, in the name
of our people, I greet you cordially, Mr.
President, on the Polish soil.
We are happy to be able to play host
to you and Mrs. Carter, as well as to per-
sons accompanying you. We are welcom-
ing and greeting you, Mr. President, as
the highest representative of the great
American people for which we entertain
our sentiments of friendship.
History has linked our two nations by
manifold ties. They were molded by the
great sons of the Polish people through
their participation in the struggle for
American independence. They were
shaped by the scores of Polish emigrants
who have contributed their significant and
valuable share to the development and
might of the United States. They have
been further strengthened in our joint
strife for the freedom of all peoples within
the great anti-Nazi coalition.
Our desire is to cultivate those tradi-
tions in the present-day peaceful and
friendly Polish-American cooperation.
We trust your visit will contribute to its
further expansion, beneficial to our peo-
ples and promoting the dearest cause to
all nations, the cause of peace.
You are arriving in Poland, Mr. Presi-
dent, at a time when the process of in-
ternational détente-so important as it
is to all mankind and the world at
large has been again rejuvenated by the
constructive dialog of states and the ex-
pectations of nations.
You no doubt understand, Mr. Presi-
dent, that to the people of Poland, which
has so dreadfully experienced the atroci-
ties of war, security is the supreme value,
while life and peace is the fundamental
right.
We view your present visit, Mr. Presi-
dent, as a reaffirmation of the friendly
feelings of the American people towards
Poland and an expression of the interest
in our active peaceful policies. We see in
it, too, a manifestation of your personal
involvement in the further expansion of
Polish-American cooperation in cultivat-
2203
