Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have enjoyed being with you. I wish I
had more time. And I thank you again
for being here.
Heine assisted in drafting Federal coal
surface mine regulation bills. He is the
author of several technical articles on
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the mining.
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 15.
Department of the Interior
Nomination of Walter N. Heine To Be Director
of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation
and Enforcement. October 17, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Walter N. Heine, of
Newville, Pa., to be Director of the Office
of Surface Mining Reclamation and
Enforcement.
Heine was born February 21, 1934, in
New York City. He received a B.S. in
civil engineering from Drexel Institute of
Technology in 1959 and an M.S. in sani-
tary engineering from the University of
Michigan in 1964.
From 1955 to 1970, Heine worked for
the Pennsylvania Department of Health,
serving as a staff engineer, operations
engineer, regional sanitary engineer, and
chief of the Division of Mine Drainage
Control. In 1970 and 1971, he was direc-
tor of environmental engineering for a
Harrisburg consulting firm.
Since 1971 Heine has been associate
deputy secretary for mines and land pro-
tection in the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Resources. He has been
responsible for developing the organiza-
tional structure of the Office of Mines
and Land Protection and for implementa-
tion of State-wide programs for surface
mine reclamation, mine safety, solid waste
management, occupational health, mine
subsidence control, and oil and gas well-
drilling regulation.
West German Rescue of
Hostages in Somalia
White House Statement. October 17, 1977
At 7:49 p.m., President Carter received
a telephone message on behalf of Chan-
cellor Helmut Schmidt informing him of
the successful operation conducted by a
special unit of West German border
guards who freed the Lufthansa hostages
at Mogadishu, Somalia. The President
asked that the Chancellor be congratu-
lated on the courage of his decision. The
President feels that the West Germans
have struck a blow for all of us who are
vulnerable to this kind of terrorism. He
wishes that the participants in the opera-
tion be commended and the Somalian
Government thanked for its cooperation.
The President sends his warmest greetings
and his deepest feelings of relief to the
hostages and their families.
by terrorists on October 13 during a flight from
Palma de Mallorca, Spain, to Frankfurt,
Germany.
NOTE: The Lufthansa Boeing 737 was hijacked
The statement was made available by the
White House Press Office. It was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
National Railroad Passenger
Corporation
Nomination of Six Members of the Board of
Directors. October 18, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate the following persons to be
members of the Board of Directors of the
1810
