Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
come for those who do work will have an
immediate impact, although it can't be
fully effective until October of 1980.
Q. Could I follow up?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. Do you know what year though
actual payout from the Treasury for wel-
fare will go down, the actual money leav-
ing the Treasury?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
that question can be answered. I might
say that immediately following this press
conference, Joe Califano and Ray Mar-
shall will be able to answer specific ques-
tions.
I doubt that even they, though, who
are experts in this subject, can tell you
exactly which year the welfare payments
will be reduced and how much. But the
primary impetus of this whole bill is to
make sure that it's always profitable for
a family to take a job.
We're trying to make sure that that job
is available for every family to have-at
least the head of that family-a job
available, preferably in the private sector
where the income would be highest; sec-
ondly, in the public sector without Fed-
eral supplement; and third, if necessary,
public service jobs to be provided for and
paid for by the Federal Government on a
temporary basis-about a year-with a
good strong training program involved.
Under the present system, quite often
it is a serious sacrifice, quite often, finan-
cially, for a family to get off welfare and
go to work.
Under this program, whenever a per-
son goes to work, it's financially advan-
tageous to them. And at the same time,
there's a strong impetus in this program
to hold a family together.
Miss Compton [Ann Compton, ABC
News].
WELFARE FRAUD
Q. How much money and how much
energy are you willing to expend to get
fraud out of the system, considering that
very often fraud is less expensive to go
ahead and pay rather than to try to get
rid of?
THE PRESIDENT. The benefits to be
derived from eliminating fraud will be
realized long before this entire program
is implemented. Every time you simplify
a system and remove the complexities you
eliminate one chance of fraud.
Secretary Califano told me this morn-
ing that the estimated degree of fraud in
the food stamp program, for instance-
those who are not eligible to draw food
stamps who do, those who get overpay-
ments-amounts to about 17 percent.
So, in addition to the benefits that will
be derived when this entire program goes
into effect, we have an excellent chance to
realize savings from the elimination of
fraud of about $1.3 billion within the next
2 or 3 years just by simplifying, making
more effective administration, a closer co-
operation between the local, State, and
Federal governments, and the computer-
ization of the existing program, in prep-
aration for the full implementation of this
one.
So, how much the fraud savings would
be after this full program goes into effect,
I can't say. Before the full program goes
into effect, though, the savings would be
about $1.3 billion per year.
Q. But after the program gets going,
how much money are you willing to invest
at that point to make sure that fraud is
done away with, after the program is un-
der way?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't answer
that question, but I can say that whatever
amount of money you put into the pro-
gram to eliminate fraud, either in rede-
signing computer systems, simplifying the
1446
