July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
first visit will inaugurate the close work-
ing relationship natural to the leaders of
two democracies with such longstanding
and deep ties of friendship. Their talks
were conducted in the spirit of mutual re-
spect common to that warm friendship
between our two peoples. The President
and Prime Minister agreed that their
meeting and the others to follow here
mark a good starting point for seeking
ways toward a just and durable peace in
the Midle East. They pledged their deter-
mination to achieve that peace, noting
that imaginative and responsible states-
manship is essential to overcoming the
challenges posed.
The meeting this morning was devoted
to a thorough and searching discussion
of how to move toward an overall set-
tlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. The
President and Prime Minister each de-
any differences that may occur from time
to time should not be allowed to obscure
America's and his personal dedication to
this historic American commitment. He
asked the Prime Minister to express to the
people of Israel the determination of the
people of the United States to help them
find true peace. Discussions on how to get
negotiations started between the parties
will continue this afternoon in the Prime
Minister's meeting with Secretary Vance.
No bilateral issues were discussed at this
first meeting. The President and Prime
Minister will meet again tonight at the
working dinner which the President is
giving at the White House, and in the
Cabinet Room again tomorrow morning
at 10.
Nomination of S. David Freeman
To Be a Member of the Board of
Directors. July 19, 1977
veloped their ideas on the issues in- Tennessee Valley Authority
volved. They agreed that all the issues
must be settled through negotiations be-
tween the parties based on United Nations
Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338
which all the governments directly con-
cerned have accepted. They also agreed
that this goal would best be served by
moving rapidly toward the reconvening
of the Geneva conference this year, keep-
ing in mind at the same time the impor-
tance of careful preparation. In this con-
nection, they focused on the practical re-
quirements for convening the conference,
looking toward Secretary of State Vance's
forthcoming trip to the area for more
talks with all the leaders involved. They
expressed a hope that the Prime Minister's
visit will help lay the groundwork for
rapid movement toward negotiations.
The President today announced his
intention to nominate S. David Freeman
of Bethesda, Md., to be a member of the
board of directors of the Tennessee
Valley Authority.
In the course of the talk this morning
on the diplomacy of peace, the President
reaffirmed the enduring American com-
mitment to the security and well-being of
Israel. He assured the Prime Minister that
Freeman was born in Chattanooga,
Tenn., on January 14, 1926, and earned
a civil engineering degree from Georgia
Institute of Technology and a law degree
from the University of Tennessee.
From 1949 to 1954, he worked for the
Tennessee Valley Authority as an en-
gineer designing steam electric power-
plants and hydroelectric stations. After
time out for law school, he rejoined TVA
in 1956 as an attorney, serving in that
capacity for 5 years.
From 1961 to 1965, he was assistant
to the Chairman of the Federal Power
Commission, and from 1967 to 1971 he
1284
