Oct. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
VA health care benefits for their service-
incurred injuries.
-The bill provides an opportunity for
veterans upgraded under the Special Dis-
charge Review Program to receive vet-
erans benefits.
My hope is that the Department of De-
fense and the Veterans Administration
will be forthcoming and compassionate
in upgrading veterans and extending
benefit eligibility to them. Each of these
is a clear step forward in the Nation's
treatment of many of those who served in
the Armed Forces.
This act establishes procedures for
granting relief from administrative dis-
charges in the future. Nothing we are do-
ing, however, should create an impression
of weakness in the resolve of the Govern-
ment to ensure that discipline is main-
tained in our Armed Forces.
While the Special Discharge Review
Program would have automatically pro-
vided benefit eligibility to those whose
discharges have been upgraded, without
the cumbersome procedures provided in
S. 1307, I am pleased that Congress has
deleted the amendment by Congressman
Beard to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development appropriations bill.
That amendment would have totally de-
nied veterans benefits to those whose
status was upgraded under the Special
Discharge Review Program.
Despite the benefits of the act, there
are some provisions of S. 1307 which are
troubling and which I will attempt to alle-
viate by submitting legislation next year.
While the primary purpose of the Spe-
cial Discharge Review Program was to
eliminate the stigma attached to persons
with less than honorable discharges, an-
other tangential result was to provide VA
benefit eligibility to those upgraded under
the program. Under S. 1307, however,
those upgraded under the program will
be required to have their benefit eligibility
reevaluated by the Discharge Review
Board, whether or not they have sought
or plan to seek VA benefits.
In addition, I am also concerned that
the bill completely bars benefit eligibility
to those upgraded under the program
whose records indicate they were absent
without official leave for more than 180
consecutive days. This adverse impact of
this provision is tempered by the fact that
the upgraded status of such veterans
would not be affected by this provision,
the VA Administrator would be permit-
ted to waive the bar if there were miti-
gating circumstances for the veteran's
absence from service, and Defense De-
partment records indicate that there are
very few upgraded veterans actually in
this category.
But the fact that this 180-day bar
applies only to those whose upgrade dis-
charges resulted from the Special Dis-
charge Review Program raises serious
equal protection problems. The Justice
Department believes this denial of equal
treatment to certain upgraded veterans is
probably unconstitutional. I am asking
the Attorney General's advice on the way
in which this provision should be admin-
istered in light of the Justice Department's
opinion.
On balance, I believe this bill will help
veterans, because it expands the number
of veterans who are eligible for benefits,
while preserving the opportunity for
those whose status has been upgraded
under the Special Discharge Review Pro-
gram to qualify for benefits.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1307 is Public Law 95-
126, approved October 8.
1758
