Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 18
and the manner in which the members
of that organization discharge their func-
tions and responsibilities.
Judge Johnson has served as a mem-
ber of the United States Judicial Confer-
ence Committee on the Federal Proba-
tion System and the Advisory Commit-
tee on Federal Criminal Rules. At pres-
ent, he is a member of the committee
which receives and reviews reports from
other Federal judges on their extra-ju-
dicial income and activities. He is a mem-
ber of the Joint Committee of Federal
Judges that, in 1973, presented to the
United States Judicial Conference a
Code of Conduct and Ethics for Federal
Judges. The Judicial Conference adopted
that code in April 1973. He also serves
as a member of the Emergency Court of
Appeals, which reviews decisions of the
various district courts in Economic Stabil-
ization Act cases.
Judge Johnson was born October 30,
1918, in the northern part of Alabama,
Winston County.
He attended grade schools in Winston
County. He was graduated from Missis-
sippi's Gulf Coast Military Academy,
worked as a surveyor, spent a year in busi-
ness college, and in 1938, married Ruth
Jenkins, who is also from Winston
County. Both worked their way through
the University of Alabama.
When World War II separated them,
Mrs. Johnson served as a WAVE lieu-
tenant in Washington. Johnson, while a
combat infantry officer in General Pat-
ton's Third Army, was awarded a com-
mendation medal for outstanding action
against the enemy during the Normandy
invasion, was wounded, and in 1945 was
sent back to England as a legal officer.
He was discharged as a captain.
NOTE: Attorney General Griffin B. Bell an-
nounced the President's intention to nominate
Judge Johnson at a news conference at the
White House on August 17.
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Statement on the Nomination of
Frank M. Johnson, Jr., To Be Director.
August 17, 1977
I appreciate Judge Johnson's willing-
ness to accept this important position. He
brings a reputation as a tough, fair-
minded protector of justice and the law.
My admiration for him is shared by those
who have disagreed as well as agreed with
his many difficult decisions from the
bench. He will be a credit to the FBI, this
administration, and the country.
I also commend the work of the selec-
tion commission and appreciate the large
number of outstanding Americans who
were willing to be considered for this po-
sition. My selection of Judge Johnson
should in no way be considered a reflec-
tion on the commission's work.
NOTE: The statement was made available by
the White House Press Office. It was not is-
sued in the form of a White House press release.
U.S. International Trade
Commission Appropriations Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 6370 Into Law.
August 18, 1977
H.R. 6370, which I am signing,
authorizes FY 1978 appropriations of
$11,522,000 for the International Trade
Commission. The bill also provides the
President with the power, starting in June
1978, to appoint a Chairman of the six-
member Commission, but requires the
appointment to be from among the four
most senior Commissioners. In addition,
the new Chairman must be of the opposite
political party from the outgoing Chair-
man and from the new Vice Chairman.
I believe these restrictions on the selec-
tion of a Chairman may unduly limit the
1479
