Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 4
UNITED NATIONS
Address Before the General Assembly. October 4, 1977
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, assembled delegates, and distin-
guished guests:
Mr. President, I wish to offer first my congratulations on your elec-
tion as President of the 32d General Assembly. It gives my own Govern-
ment particular satisfaction to work under the leadership of a representa-
tive from Yugoslavia, a nation with which the United States enjoys close
and valued relations. We pledge our cooperation and will depend heavily
on your experience and skill in guiding these discussions which we are
beginning.
Mr. President, I would also like to express again the high esteem in
which we hold Secretary General Waldheim. We continue to benefit
greatly from our close consultations with him, and we place great trust in
his leadership of this organization.
Thirty-two years ago, in the cold dawn of the Atomic Age, this orga-
nization came into being. Its first and its most urgent purpose has been to
secure peace for an exhausted and ravaged world.
Present conditions in some respects appear quite hopeful, yet the as-
surance of peace continues to elude us. Before the end of this century, a
score of nations could possess nuclear weapons. If this should happen, the
world that we leave our children will mock our own hopes for peace.
The level of nuclear armaments could grow by tens of thousands, and
the same situation could well occur with advanced conventional weapons.
The temptation to use these weapons, for fear that someone else might do
it first, would be almost irresistible.
The ever-growing trade in conventional arms subverts international
commerce from a force for peace to a caterer for war.
Violence, terrorism, assassination, undeclared wars all threaten to
destroy the restraint and the moderation that must become the dominant
characteristic of our age.
Unless we establish a code of international behavior in which the
resort to violence becomes increasingly irrelevant to the pursuit of national
interests, we will crush the world's dreams for human development and
the full flowering of human freedom.
We have already become a global community, but only in the sense
that we face common problems and we share for good or evil a common
future. In this community, power to solve the world's problems, partic-
1715
