Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 15
country is unique, each visit will be
unique, and I'll prepare each one to get
maximum benefit from it.
TAX REDUCTION
Q. Mr. President, how large a tax cut
are you going to ask to offset the social
security tax increases, especially the very
large increases for those now making
$20,000 a year and more?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. We
had hoped that I could have the final ver-
sion of the energy bill and the social se-
curity bill and understand the tax conse-
quences of each before we put together
the final version of an income tax reduc-
tion. The reductions will be substantial,
and we will have a clearer picture of the
social security tax impact before I put the
final version of the income tax reductions
together.
That's by far greater, by the way, than
will any possible combination of taxes re-
sulting from the energy bills. I just don't
know yet. We will have simplicity; we'll
have a major tax reduction for both busi-
ness and individuals. We'll have a greater
progressivity, giving the tax breaks where
they are most needed, and we will have
substantial tax reform. But the exact dol-
lar amount that will be recommended to
the Congress is something that I won't
decide until early in January.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Have a Merry Christmas, everybody.
[President Carter's twenty-first news confer-
ence began at 11 a.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building and was broadcast
live on radio and television. Following the
news conference, the President remained in
the room to answer questions from reporters
on an informal basis, as follows:]
Q. Are you still going to Fayetteville?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, tomorrow night.
Q. Mr. President, you said we stand
with the unjustly imprisoned. Where do
we stand on the Wilmington 10, who
have been in jail for over a year on the
testimony of witnesses who have recanted?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you un-
doubtedly know, Mary [Mary McGrory,
Washington Star], the Wilmington 10
are not tried in Federal court. It's a State
case. And until that case should some day
get to the Federal courts, I would have no
jurisdiction.
Q. But do you have any feelings about
it? Amnesty International, which defines
violations of human rights in the world,
says that the Wilmington 10 are un-
justly imprisoned. I wondered what your
own view was, since you're an advo-
cate-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm against un-
just imprisonment. And the Attorney
General is obviously monitoring the case.
I think a group of Congressmen have
been to North Carolina to look into it.
But I just don't feel like it's proper for
me to comment on a particular case that's
in the courts until its appeal procedures
have been concluded. I don't know the
testimony. I've never studied the tran-
scripts of the case. Obviously, I want jus-
tice to be carried out, but I don't have
any knowledge of that.
Q. I mean, it is kind of an international
situation now because Brezhnev called in,
as I understand, our Ambassador Mal-
colm Toon at the Soviet Embassy and
said, "What about this? How can you
talk about our cases when you have this
one?"
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, I've
seen many cases go through the judicial
system of our Nation, and in almost every
instance that I remember, the ultimate
decision was the right one.
Q. But you have no inclination to call
up Governor Hunt, your fellow southern
Governor?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
2123
