Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
if, perhaps, you could appoint a Presi-
dential commission on urban neighbor-
hoods to make sure you're not just dealing
with city hall, but to make sure that pro-
grams are relating to neighborhoods, that
would help all of us.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
When I was Governor, I was chairman
of the Appalachian Regional Commis-
sion. There are 13 States that belong to it,
as you know. And this is an area that has
been devastated in the past, was perhaps
the poorest region of our Nation, may still
be the poorest region of our Nation, geo-
graphically speaking. This poverty, as you
point out so well, has forced many, sev-
eral million people, from that mountain
region into the urban centers. Quite often,
they don't have the technical skills or the
educational background or experience to
survive and help themselves once they get
in an urban environment. I think that this
is likely to improve.
I would like to suggest that you make a
point of coming to Washington and meet-
ing with Father Baroni on the neighbor-
hood question. He's a very sensitive man.
This is a new office that has been estab-
lished just to deal with neighborhoods
themselves, because I'm afraid that he
might overlook the special problems of the
Appalachian migrants because he's not
acquainted with your and my region of
the country. So, if you would do that,
Mike, I'm sure he'd be glad to see you. It
might be possible, if you call him, that he
could come and meet with you in a group
who represent these 6 million migrant
persons.
MR. MALONEY. He's a man that I trust.
THE PRESIDENT. He's a good man, and
I think if he knew you better that the two
of you might help to alleviate some of
these problems that you describe. There is
no program specifically for migrant Ap-
palachians who now have settled in the
downtown areas of the cities. But I think
that the programs that we have outlined
already, which I won't repeat, would be
applicable, but we need to know the spe-
cial problems of the folks that you have
in mind.
Would you do that for me? And I'll
tell Father Baroni to expect you.
MR. MALONEY. I'll be glad to.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mike.
Mr. Doss.
URBAN PROGRAMS IN DETROIT
MR. Doss. I'm Larry Doss, Mr. Presi-
dent. I'm president of New Detroit, In-
corporated, the urban coalition in Detroit
which works on improving the quality of
life for people in the entire metropolitan
area, but with special emphasis on the
problems of the poor and minorities.
And you mentioned earlier that some
positive things were happening in Detroit,
and we're very conscious that Detroit is
moving upward. Much of this is because
of the kind of partnership and coalition
that's been forged here in Detroit between
government leaders, between labor and
business and people in the community-
the partnership that is turning many
things around. But one particular im-
portant component has been generally ab-
sent from that partnership in the degree
that we would like to have it present, and
that has been the Federal Government.
There are many, many programs and
many needs that we have in Detroit that
we would like to see the Federal Govern-
ment be very much more involved in
in terms of that partnership.
We brought to Washington a delega-
tion led by Mayor Young-I think a very
dramatic 5-year plan for moving Detroit
forward-back in June. And there has
been some limited response to that plan.
1841
