Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 15
Where intergovernmental officials find
that a problem raised by a grantee re-
quires a decision by more than one Federal
department, it is their responsibility to
contact the other agencies to reach a de-
cision. Matters that cannot be resolved at
this level will be referred to Under Sec-
retaries.
I invite comments and suggestions for
improving this process; these should be
sent to my Assistant for Intergovernmen-
tal Relations, Jack Watson, at the White
House, Washington, D.C. 20500; tele-
phone (202) 456-2335.
This document shall be published in
the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The list of intergovernmental officials
is printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Septem-
ber 20.
The memorandum was not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
Visit of Prime Minister Barre
of France
Remarks of the President and the Prime
Minister at a Working Dinner for the Prime
Minister. September 15, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Since I have been in of-
fice as President, we've had some very
distinguished visitors come to our coun-
try, representing many of the great na-
tions of the world. But as I said in my
welcoming remarks this morning, to have
Prime Minister Barre come here with
other distinguished members of the
French Government gives me an oppor-
tunity to say accurately that of all the
nations in the world, our greatest debt is
to France.
When we struggled 200 years ago for
our independence and freedom, France
was our staunch ally. We've never raised
arms against France. I think during one
transient period we actually declared war,
but the French ignored our little Nation.
[Laughter] The President and the Con-
gress eventually swallowed a couple of
times and said, "France is our great
friend, and we'll forget about our declara-
tion, since they didn't even notice it in
their newspapers." But with that one brief
incident late in the 1700's, we've had the
closest and most constant friendship with
France.
We learned from them before our Na-
tion was formed. Benjamin Franklin was
our agent in Paris, representing the Col-
onies, and our own State of Georgia paid
him an extra stipend every month-I
think it was about $15 a month-to rep-
resent us and our farmers, our tobacco
exporters in France. He never came to
Georgia, but he always cashed the check
that was sent to him-[laughter]—and I
presume he did a good job.
When I walked in the front foyer of
the Georgia's Governor's Mansion for 4
years, there was always a portrait hang-
ing there of George Washington that was
given to Count d'Estaing, who led naval
forces, for helping our country in its strug-
gle for freedom.
And, of course, we know that our Cap-
ital City itself was laid out by a French-
man, and the first and earliest and most
definitive assessment of the character of
American people was written by a French-
man. And although this was written more
than 150 years ago, there's still an insight
into our struggling Nation's character
that's of great interest to those who are
involved in politics in our country.
I reread some voluminous excerpts
from de Tocqueville's analysis last year
after the campaign was over, and I
thought I was finally going to be here.
I wanted to see what was thought about
us then. I can't say that my own analysis
1603
