July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
that your department or agency is doing
an effective job, and I have asked him to
give this matter a high priority. The De-
partment of Justice will shortly be con-
tacting each department and agency to
determine what action has been taken
to comply with the Attorney General's
Title VI regulations. You should insist
that your staff cooperate fully with the
Department of Justice staff as they carry
out this task and their other responsibili-
ties under the Executive Order.
Finally, as you know, Title VI was in-
tended to provide an administrative
mechanism for insuring equal treatment
in Federal programs. Consequently, ad-
ministrative proceedings leading to fund
terminations are the preferred method of
enforcing Title VI, and this sanction
must be utilized in appropriate cases.
There may be some instances, however,
where litigation is in order. You must
make sure such cases are referred to the
Department of Justice. The effective use
of the sanctions provided by Title VI is
an essential element of this Administra-
tion's effort to guarantee that Federal
funds do not flow to discriminatory
programs.
JIMMY CARTER
Post-Secondary Education
in Micronesia
Letter Transmitting a Report to Congressional
Committee Chairmen. July 20, 1977
Dear Mr. Chairman:
Pursuant to P.L. 94-255, I am trans-
mitting herewith a report concerning post-
secondary education in the Trust Terri-
tory of the Pacific Islands.
The Congress of Micronesia originally
requested the appropriation of $8 million
in order to replace the facilities of the
existing Community College of Microne-
sia located in Ponape. In authorizing the
funds, Congress directed that no appro-
priation shall be made until a study is
conducted to determine the educational
need and most suitable educational con-
cept for a Micronesian college and trans-
mitted by the President to the appropriate
committees of the Congress with his
recommendation.
The Department of the Interior has
conducted the study and has prepared the
enclosed report. The report analyzes the
educational system in Micronesia and
recommends that several important steps
be taken to revitalize and redirect
Micronesian education before funds are
appropriated to construct any new physi-
cal facilities for higher education in the
Trust Territory.
The report does not deny the need for
a quality institution of higher learning in
Micronesia. It does recommend quite
strongly, however, that a curriculum
tailored to Micronesia's unique needs be
developed before embarking on any new
construction activities. I believe that this
basic recommendation is sound, and I
concur generally with the other recom-
mendations contained in the report.
The Congress of Micronesia and the
Micronesia Board of Education have
written to me expressing their strong desire
for immediate construction of physical
facilities for the college. I appreciate their
expression of interest and the symbolic
value that a new college would have to
the Micronesians.
Based on the findings of the enclosed
report, however, I believe that construct-
ing a new college before the Micronesian
educational system is redesigned to be
more responsive and more relevant to
Micronesia's present and future needs
would be of little benefit.
In response to the concerns of the Con-
gress of Micronesia and the Micronesia
Board of Education, as well as to the con-
cerns expressed in the report, I have di-
1294
