Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 15
3. Council on International Economic
Policy
4. Federal Property Council
5. Energy Resources Council
6. Economic Opportunity Council
7. Domestic Council
The functions of the Office of Drug
Abuse Policy (ODAP) can be performed
by a smaller staff reporting to a Presi-
dential adviser in the EOP. The Office it-
self will be discontinued.
Much of the work done by the Office
of Telecommunications Policy (OTP)
can be more effectively performed out-
side the EOP. It is important that the
EOP have the capacity to resolve differ-
ences and that the President have im-
mediate advice on telecommunications
and information policy, especially on na-
tional security, emergency preparedness
and privacy issues. This only requires a
small staff within EOP. The Office of
Management and Budget would take re-
sponsibility for federal telecommunica-
tions procurement and management pol-
icy and arbitration of interagency disputes
about frequency allocation. All other
functions except developing Presidential
policy options would be transferred to a
new office within the Department of Com-
merce, headed by a new Assistant Secre-
tary for Communications and Informa-
tion, who will perform many of the func-
tions previously performed by the head
of the OTP.
I propose that the Economic Opportu-
nity Council be discontinued; it is dor-
mant and its only active function (prep-
aration of the Catalogue of Federal Do-
mestic Assistance) is being performed by
OMB. Three other units are also inactive
and should be discontinued: Council on
International Economic Policy, the Fed-
eral Property Council, and the Energy
Resources Council.
The Domestic Council should be abol-
ished. It has rarely functioned as a Coun-
cil, because it is too large and its mem-
bership too diverse to make decisions effi-
ciently. Its functions have been per-
formed entirely by its staff. This Domes-
tic Policy Staff should report to the As-
sistant to the President for Domestic Af-
fairs and Policy. Under the policy process
system described earlier, they should man-
age the process which coordinates the
making of domestic and most economic
policy. They should work closely with the
Cabinet departments and agencies to in-
sure that the views of the Cabinet and
agency heads are brought to the Presi-
dent before decisions are made.
The ten EOP units which will continue
with some modification are:
1. White House Office
2. Office of the Vice President
3. Office of Management and Budget
4. Council on Environmental Quality
5. Council of Economic Advisers
6. Office of Science and Technology
Policy
7. Office of the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations
8. National Security Council
9. Intelligence Oversight Board
10. Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility
The operations of the Office of the Vice
President reflect the combination of con-
stitutional, statutory, and Presidentially
assigned duties that make it unique
among EOP units. Because his interests
and assignments cover the same range as
the President's, the Vice President re-
quires a staff with expertise in diverse
areas. Its basic functions should not be
changed. However, I propose that certain
support functions-involving accounting,
personnel services, and supply-be trans-
ferred to a centralized EOP Administra-
tive Unit.
1257
