Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 5
President Nyerere outlined current po-
litical and development trends in Africa.
for the President, focusing in some detail
on the problems of southern Africa. They
discussed the prospects for negotiated set-
tlements in southern Africa.
The President expressed his great pleas-
ure at welcoming President Nyerere as
not only the first African leader to pay
a state visit to his administration, but
equally as an African statesman. The
President reaffirmed our deep and con-
tinuing interest in obtaining a peaceful
solution to the problems of southern
Africa, our interest in cooperating with
Tanzania in solving its development prob-
lems, and discussed United States posi-
tions on matters of global interest to Tan-
zania. The President also declared his
firm desire to make more intimate the
warm and cooperative relations which
exist between our two countries.
President Nyerere thanked the Presi-
dent for his cordial welcome to the
United States. He reaffirmed Tanzania's
commitment to just and, hopefully,
peaceful, negotiated settlements in south-
ern Africa. Further, President Nyerere
expressed his pleasure at meeting Presi-
dent Carter and his keen desire to con-
tinue the close, personal relationship the
two men achieved.
Government Steel Purchases
Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense
and the Administrator of General
Services. August 5, 1977
Memorandum for the Secretary of De-
fense, Administrator of General Services
In recent weeks several domestic steel
producers have announced price increases
for tin mill and structural steel products.
If these price increases hold, they would
bring the total price increases of steel mill
products to 122 percent over September
a year ago. In contrast, the average price
increases for all industrial commodities
have been about 7 percent over the past
year.
I am asking the Council on Wage and
Price Stability to begin immediately a
study of prices, costs, and the overall
economic position of steel manufacturing.
I have also asked the Council to monitor
developments in tin mill and structural
steel markets closely over the next few
months. In addition, I am asking for your
assistance.
Your agency is responsible for the pro-
curement of a major portion of those
goods and services purchased by the Fed-
eral Government. I would like your con-
tracting and purchasing officers to be par-
ticularly alert to the comparative prices
of steel supplies. Those regulations de-
signed to insure the procurement of low-
est cost goods should be carefully fol-
lowed. Where existing procurement regu-
lations provide an opportunity for judg-
ments, or the exercise of your discretion,
you should be aware of the importance to
my anti-inflation program of purchasing
steel at the lowest possible cost.
JIMMY CARTER
Study of Steel Industry
Prices and Costs
Memorandum for the Chairman of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability.
August 5, 1977
Memorandum for Chairman of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability
In the year since September, 1976, the
price of steel products made in the United
States will have risen 12.5 percent. This
contrasts sharply with an annual rate of
price increase for all industrial commodi-
ties of only 7 percent.
1435
