Nov. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
you compare the plight of these poor
women with people in better economic
circumstances who can pay this relatively
small cost for a safe, legal abortion?
THE PRESIDENT. My stand on Federal
financing of abortions has not changed.
But, obviously, I deplore any sickness or
loss of life. I deplore unwanted preg-
nancies, and we are trying to take other
means to make sure that abortions are not
necessary. But I'm not in favor, as I've
said before, of Federal financing for abor-
tions.
RICHARD HELMS
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to go back
to the Helms case for just a moment. In
light of the July 25 meeting at the White
House that involved you and the Attorney
General and others in which you fully dis-
cussed the Helms case, I wonder, sir, if
you could give us the reasons for your
statement on September 29 that you had
not consulted with the Attorney General
about the Helms case? And the second
part of my question is, was one considera-
tion to avoid a public trial at all costs to
keep the secret secret?
THE PRESIDENT. The September 25
(The President meant July 25)ยน meet-
ing was not, in the first place, a thorough
discussion of the Helms case. It was a brief
meeting at which the Helms case was out-
lined with no secret material discussed, no
documents examined, no mention made
of people or others who might be involved
if the trial did go to conclusion.
There was a general discussion there,
fairly brief. Our hope at that time, ex-
pressed by the Attorney General, by me,
the Vice President, I think by the Na-
tional Security Advisor, was that a nego-
tiated settlement might be reached. Then,
we did not think that was a likely prospect.
1 Printed in the White House Press Office
transcript.
if
The second question that arose was,
we have to go to trial because of an in-
dictment, should it be concluded aggres-
sively or would the question of national
security revelations have to be faced? And
we postponed that decision with the un-
derstanding that if that prospect did pre-
sent itself to me, that I would then be
briefed on the consequences of those pros-
pects. That never did occur.
The question that was raised in Sep-
tember was based on a statement by Ad-
miral Turner, who heads up the CIA, the
national intelligence community, that we
were faced with a prospect of two alter-
natives: One was a decision not to prose-
cute at all, and the other alternative that
Admiral Turner mentioned, which was in
the reporter's question, that the complete
trial would be held with the revelation of
national security secrets. I replied that the
Attorney General had never presented
that information to me, which was true.
The only other contact that I had after
September 25 (The President meant July
25)ยน with the Attorney General on this
subject at all was that one day in passing,
I think after a Cabinet meeting, he
pointed out that there was an inclination
on the part of Mr. Helms' attorney to act
in a proper way, or patriotic way. But I
have never been given any briefings about
secret documents that might be revealed,
nor people to be involved, because fortu-
nately we did not have to face that pros-
pect.
MONEY SUPPLY AND INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, Chairman of the Fed-
eral Reserve Board Arthur Burns said he
is going to have to continue to restrain
the growth in money supply in order to
control inflation, which, of course, is your
goal also. But this can drive up interest
rates. And I wonder what threat you see
from this to the business expansion, which
is needed to reduce unemployment.
1998
