Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 16
Visit of Prime Minister Barre
of France
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meetings Between the President and the
Prime Minister. September 16, 1977
French Prime Minister Raymond Barre
paid an official visit to Washington Sep-
tember 15-16 at the invitation of Presi-
dent Carter. The President gave a work-
ing dinner for Prime Minister Barre on
September 15 and held two meetings with
the Prime Minister and his party. Their
talks covered the range of political, eco-
nomic, and other issues of importance to
the two Governments.
These issues included the Middle East,
developments in southern Africa, East-
West relations, security and disarmament,
nuclear nonproliferation, human rights,
and economic policy. The two leaders
agreed that close U.S.-French consulta-
tions are important on these and other
issues.
Following discussions at the seven-na-
tion summit in London last May in which
they had taken part, the President and
the Prime Minister reviewed economic
conditions, both worldwide and in their
own countries. Prime Minister Barre
noted the significant improvement in
France's foreign trade account and de-
scribed the steps his government had
taken to curb inflation, stimulate em-
ployment, and bring about conditions
needed for sustained economic growth.
President Carter reviewed the United
States own economic prospects and ex-
pressed confidence that the U.S. economic
recovery would continue into 1978.
President Carter emphasized the need
to gain significant results in the multilat-
eral trade negotiations in the near future.
The Prime Minister stressed the impor-
tance of organized freedom of trade as a
for the orderly
necessary condition for the
growth of that trade for the benefit of
both developed and developing countries.
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed on the importance of continued
close consultation between the United
States and France on international finan-
cial issues. The President said that the
U.S. administration was seeking congres-
sional authority for the United States to
take part in the Supplementary Financ-
ing Facility (Witteveen facility), to assure
that International Monetary Fund re-
sources are sufficient to meet current
needs for official financing.
President Carter praised France's lead-
ership in proposing and helping to sus-
tain the North-South dialog between in-
dustrialized and developing nations. The
two leaders agreed that the Conference
on International Economic Cooperation,
concluded last June in Paris, had pro-
duced a number of positive benefits. They
committed their two Governments to con-
tinue working for a more open and just
international economic system.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed major defense and disarmament
issues. President Carter affirmed the un-
equivocal commitment of the United
States to the defense of Western Europe.
He reviewed U.S. steps, in line with the
program he announced at last May's
London meeting of the North Atlantic
Council, to strengthen American forces
committed to the defense of Europe.
Prime Minister Barre described France's
major program to modernize and up-
grade its armed forces. The two leaders
agreed that these efforts and similar ef-
forts by other allies are essential to main-
tain the Alliance's security into the next
decade.
1609
