Nov. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
vised in some instances. I don't know journ this year—[laughter]—that a tabu-
where the blame lies.
Senator Bumpers is one of those-I
have not talked to him about this, but he's
one of those who has deplored the reve-
lation to the public of secret information
given to the committee by the Secretary
of State, Secretary of Defense, and others.
I can't answer the question about
whether or not it will present an obstacle
to a successful SALT negotiation. I don't
think it will be that much of an obstacle.
The Soviets have complained to their
Ambassador about these revelations of
negotiating points. We have found, in re-
cent weeks, the Soviets to be very ame-
nable to changing their positions enough
to accommodate our concerns, and we are
making good progress.
So, without saying that these news reve-
lations have hurt, they do cause me some
concern. And I believe, though, that in
spite of that, we will not find our efforts
to be frustrated. My prediction is that we
will have a SALT agreement.
I think our time is up. Let me say one
thing in closing. I wish I could spend all
afternoon answering your questions, be-
cause the kind of questions that you all
ask me from different parts of the country
give me a fairly good indication of what
matters are of concern to your readers and
your listeners and your viewers.
Because I know that you have very lit-
tle chance directly to present a question to
the President, I'm sure you very carefully
decide what is the most important ques-
tion that you could present to me. But you
can see from the brief discussion we've
had, the broad range of subjects that are
presented to me.
I've enjoyed being President. I think
we've got a superb Cabinet. We've had a
very good relationship with the Congress.
And I believe that when the Congress
does adjourn, if the Congress does ad-
lation or an inventory of what has been
done will be pleasing to the American
people.
It's an honor for me to have you here.
Looking around the room, I know that
many of you have been very hospitable to
me and to my political opponents during
the campaign. And that's one of the best
ways that I had to learn about our Na-
tion, was meeting with you individually,
or with your editorial board, and being
cross-examined when I was a nonentity,
when you didn't know who I was. And it
gave me a chance to get to know you, and
for your folks to know me.
So, I'm very grateful that you would
come here and spend this much of your
time. And I think this is the kind of inter-
relationship with the people out in the
country that makes it very beneficial to me
in making the right decisions.
If I do face difficult problems that in
the past have been too secret, like SALT,
which I've discussed in my press confer-
ences and which I've discussed publicly,
and the controversial portions of the Mid-
dle East and the exact proposal that we
made, for instance, on Rhodesia—those
things do create, perhaps, a disturbance
in the country as people begin to debate
about them and argue about them and
disagree on them. And sometimes even
the news media are critical of causing that
confusion, that debate, that disturbance,
and those differences.
But I feel much more sure of myself
when I make a final decision, as Presi-
dent, if the American people have been
involved in the process. And so you play
a crucial role in that, as you well know.
And I just want to again express my
thanks for the constructive attitude that
you take. I think I've been well treated
by the news media, I think, adequately
examined,
examined, adequately criticized, but I
2018
