Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 15
the management of the CETA funds. But
that's all been public, and that's been
between the Labor Department and the
city administration.
But, no, between me and Bilandic or
the Chicago Democratic organization,
there is no difference.
REPRESENTATIVE EDWARD I. KOCH
Q. Mr. President, as a followup on
that, there are some people concerned
back in New York, especially at the lower
end of the economic and political spec-
trum-as you know, there are now no
city-wide black elected officials and Puerto
Rican elected officials in New York. Some
people were concerned, very seriously,
that when you came to New York and
Mr. Koch handed you the letter and there
seemed to be a snubbing—well, he claims
that he was not available to go with you
to the South Bronx that day. But actually
there seems to be some concern among
people that, in fact, since Mr. Koch is
going to be or presumed to be the next
mayor of New York, that in fact, that he'll
have a positive relationship with you that
people at the local level could count on
to get aid and assistance.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's no doubt
that if he is elected mayor that he will
have a close relationship with me. He has
a close relationship with me now, and
nothing has been done to shake that. I
was amazed at any news attention being
given at all to his handing me the letter.
This was not something that I anticipated
ahead of time. I didn't ever expect to
make a public statement with Mr. Koch.
When I got off the helicopter, there
were five or six people standing there, and
I met Mayor Beame first, who is the senior
person, talked to Ed, congratulated him
again on his primary victory. He said,
"Mr. President, I have a letter to give you
about the Middle East question." I said,
"I appreciate it." And I took it and
handed it to Jody Powell to keep for me.
I went on down and met with Carol
Bellamy and the rest of them, and then I
got in the car and went to the United
Nations.
A couple of hours later, my wife came,
after I had been through a couple of U.N.
meetings, and said, "What's the problem
between you and Ed Koch? I just heard
about it on the radio."
something about it
[Laughter] I said, “I don't have the slight-
est idea. I just got off the helicopter, shook
hands with Ed, patted him on the shoul-
der, he handed me a letter, and I got in
the car and drove off."
It was apparently a local media con-
centration or expectation-I don't know
what the origin was-that I was going to
endorse him there or make some public
statement and so forth. But as far as I
was concerned, it was a very harmonious
exchange.
Shortly after that, Ed came here to
meet with me in this room. We sat to-
gether and discussed, I think, the Mideast
question, and completely harmonious.
Yesterday, the Vice President went up
to New York to campaign with him. I
mean, the whole thing has just been blown
out of nothing.
Q. He made statements, though, to the
effect that he had given you the business
on the Middle East.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, I
can't speak for him. I was not aware of
that.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Mr. President, I'd just like to ask
you, after you've handled the man in Chi-
cago and the illegal aliens and Koch in
New York, I would like to ask a parochial
question. You may consider this an easy
one.
After what happened yesterday here in
Washington and with the oil companies
1805
