Nov. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
by large numbers of Americans. Rabbit is
essentially a specialty food purchased by
a relatively small number of consumers. I
believe that it would be inequitable to re-
quire all taxpayers to support extension of
federal inspection of specialty meats to in-
clude rabbits. While the initial federal
cost is small, once in the law, the subsidy
may grow increasingly over the years.
Moreover, signing this bill would provide
an incentive for federal payments for the
inspection of other exotic or specialty
foods.
-Requirements for on-site inspection
of foreign processing facilities by Depart-
ment of Agriculture employees would
strain relations with the People's Repub-
lic of China, a major exporter of domesti-
cated rabbit meat to the United States.
Extensive Food and Drug Administration
inspection of Chinese imports have un-
covered no health problems.
The primary beneficiaries of this spe-
cial interest legislation would be a few
large processors of rabbit meat which
would no longer be required to reimburse
the Federal Government for inspection
services required to market their product
as USDA inspected and graded. A signifi-
cant source of competition from the Peo-
ple's Republic of China also would be
severely restricted or eliminated with little
or no improvement in consumer health
protection.
Accordingly, I do not believe that ap-
proval of H.R. 2521 would be in the best
interest of the American people.
The White House,
November 9, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was released
on November 10.
The House of Representatives reconsidered
H.R. 2521 on November 29, and the bill was
referred to committee.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
NOVEMBER 10, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Pippert [Wes Pip-
pert, United Press International].
UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, you said a lot last
year about a lot of people out of work, yet
unemployment persists at around 7 per-
cent. It's twice as high among blacks, and
yesterday, the head of the Black Caucus
said that your programs, in his words,
"have not even begun to dent the unem-
ployment that wracks our communities."
Why has the administration been unable
to dent unemployment, and what are you
going to do about it?
THE PRESIDENT. There's no easy an-
swer, of course, to the unemployment
question. Last December the unemploy-
ment rate was, I think, 8.1 percent. It
came down in April or May to about 7
percent, and it has leveled off at that fig-
ure. We had an economic stimulus pack-
age with a heavy emphasis on jobs and tax
reductions, amounting to about $21 bil-
lion, which is now beginning to be felt,
I hope.
Last quarter, about $3 billion of that
program was in effect. By the end of this
quarter, $18 billion will be in effect and,
in the first quarter of next year, the full
amount. We believe that this will have a
beneficial impact on unemployment rates,
but it certainly won't solve the problem.
We will by next June, for instance, have
725,000 jobs under the comprehensive
education and training program. This
is the highest level for jobs of this cate-
gory supported directly by the Federal
Government since the New Deal days un-
der Roosevelt.
But it's a tedious, slow process. I think
the general, worldwide economic slow-
1994
