Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 26
tor, I ask for your support of the Presi-
dent's Executive Interchange Program. It
is designed to give executives from the
Federal government and the private sec-
tor the opportunity of working in respon-
sible positions in the opposite sector for a
one-year period. Only those with a record
of significant managerial accomplish-
ments and potential for advancement to
senior positions are chosen to participate.
This exchange of talent and expertise
curity and chairman of the Employment
Security Board.
Hackel practiced law in Rutland from
1973 to 1975. From 1975 to 1977, she was
treasurer of the State of Vermont. She
was the Democratic candidate for Gover-
nor of Vermont in 1976. Since earlier this
year she has been city attorney of Rutland.
can help us use our human resources in Work-Study Program Students
the most effective way. This Program has
my complete endorsement, and I urge all
Federal Departments and Agencies to sup-
port it in two ways: by seeking out nomi-
nees from the career employees of your
department for assignment in the pri-
vate sector, and by accepting on assign-
ment an appropriate executive from out-
side government.
The Executive Director of the Presi-
dent's Commission on Personnel Inter-
change, which administers the Program,
will contact your office to follow up on
this request.
JIMMY CARTER
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of Stella B. Hackel To Be
Director of the Mint. October 26, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Stella B. Hackel, of Rut-
land, Vt., to be Director of the Mint. She
would replace Mary T. Brooks, resigned.
Hackel was born December 27, 1926,
in Burlington, Vt. She received a J.D.
from Boston University School of Law in
1948.
She was elected city grand juror (city
prosecutor) of Rutland in 1956, and was
reelected annually until 1963. From 1963
to 1973, she was commissioner of the
Vermont Department of Employment Se-
Executive Order 12015. October 26, 1977
PERMITTING STUDENTS COMPLETING AP-
PROVED CAREER-RELATED WORK-STUDY
PROGRAMS TO BE APPOINTED TO
CAREER OR CAREER-CONDITIONAL PO-
SITIONS IN THE COMPETITIVE SERVICE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Sections 3301 and 3302 of Title 5 of
the United States Code, and as President
of the United States of America, it is
hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. As used in this order "ca-
reer-related work-study programs" are
those programs established by the United
States Civil Service Commission which
provide for a formally-arranged schedule
of periods of attendance at an accredited
school combined with periods of career-
related work in a Federal agency under a
Schedule B appointment.
SEC. 2. The appointment of a student
to a position in a career-related work-
study program may be converted non-
competitively to a career or career-
conditional appointment if the student:
(a) has completed within the preced-
ing 120 days an educational program that
meets the provisions established by the
Civil Service Commission;
(b) has satisfied all course require-
ments leading to completion of the re-
lated curriculum at an accredited school;
1907
