Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 12
effective, as authorized by Section 7 of
that Plan, on December 4, 1977.
SEC. 2. The Director of the Office of
Administration, hereinafter referred to as
the Director, shall report to the President.
As the chief administrative officer of the
Office of Administration, the Director
shall be responsible for ensuring that the
Office of Administration provides units
within the Executive Office of the Presi-
(6) any other administrative support
or service which will achieve financial
savings and increase efficiency through
centralization of the supporting service.
(c) Administrative support and services
shall be provided to all units within the
Executive Office of the President in a
manner consistent with available funds
and other resources, or in accord with Sec-
tion 7 of the Act of May 21, 1920 (41
dent common administrative support and Stat. 613), as amended (31 U.S.C. 686,
services.
SEC. 3. (a) The Office of Administra-
tion shall provide common administra-
tive support and services to all units with-
in the Executive Office of the President,
except for such services provided pri-
marily in direct support of the President.
The Office of Administration shall, upon
request, assist the White House Office in
performing its role of providing those ad-
ministrative services which are primarily
in direct support of the President.
(b) The common administrative sup-
port and services provided by the Office
of Administration shall encompass all
types of administrative support and serv-
ices that may be used by, or useful to,
units within the Executive Office of the
President. Such services and support shall
include, but not be limited to, providing
support services in the following admin-
istrative areas:
(1) personnel management services,
including equal employment opportunity
programs;
(2) financial management services;
(3) data processing, including support
and services;
(4) library, records, and information
services;
(5) office services and operations, in-
cluding: mail, messenger, printing and
duplication, graphics, word processing,
procurement, and supply services; and
referred to as the Economy Act).
SEC. 4. (a) Subject to such direction or
approval that the President may provide
or require, the Director shall:
(1) organize the Office of Administra-
tion;
(2) employ personnel;
(3) contract for supplies or services;
and
(4) do all other things that the Pres-
ident, as head of the Office of Adminis-
tration, might do.
(b) The Director shall not be account-
able for the program and management
responsibilities of units within the Execu-
tive Office of the President; the head of
each unit shall remain responsible for
those functions.
SEC. 5. The primary responsibility for
performing all administrative support and
service functions of units within the Exec-
utive Office of the President shall be trans-
ferred and reassigned to the Office of
Administration; except to the extent those
functions are vested by law in the head
of such a unit, other than the President;
and except to the extent those functions
are performed by the White House Office
primarily in direct support of the Presi-
dent.
SEC. 6. The records, property, person-
nel, and unexpended balances of appro-
priations, available or to be made avail-
able, which relate to the functions trans-
ferred or reassigned by this Order from
units within the Executive Office of the
2103
