Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
the complexities of the questions and the
obstacles to progress. When I first became
President, we spelled out the basic issues:
withdrawal from occupied territories, se-
cure borders, the establishment of real
peace, the recognition of Israel's right to
be there, and dealing with the Palestinian
question.
We are now in a role of supporter. We
encourage them to continue with their
fruitful negotiations. We try to resolve dif-
ficulties, to give advice and counsel when
we are requested to do it. This is a better
role for us. In the past, we've been in the
unenviable position and sometimes un-
pleasant position, sometimes nonproduc-
tive position as mediator among parties
who wouldn't even speak to each other.
So, I think that the progress that has been
made in the last month and a half has
been remarkable and has been much
greater than I had anticipated.
And I know Sadat and Begin well and
personally and favorably. If any two lead-
ers on Earth have the strength and the de-
termination and the courage to make
progress toward peace in the most difficult
region that I've ever known, it is Prime
Minister Begin and President Sadat.
There is no reason for us to be discour-
aged about it. We will help in every way
we can to let their progress be fruitful. I
think that President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin could have reached a fairly
quick solution of just the Egyptian-Israeli
problem in the Sinai region. But this is
not what they want.
They both want to try to resolve the
other questions: What is real peace? Will
Israel be recognized as a permanent
neighbor to the countries that surround
them? Can the Palestinian question, the
West Bank, the Gaza Strip be addressed
successfully? And knowing how difficult
these questions are, I have nothing but
admiration for them, nothing but con-
gratulations for them on what they have
achieved so far.
MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, you are
going to see King Hussein of Jordan in
Tehran. President Sadat said in an inter-
view that was broadcast on public tele-
vision last night that King Hussein had
told him that he was fully behind his ef-
forts. In public until now, King Hussein's
opinion has been relatively mysterious. Do
you have any information that would
make you agree with Mr. Sadat, and are
you going to discuss that with King Hus-
sein and urge him to support the Sadat
initiative when you see him?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't intend to put
any pressure on King Hussein-I couldn't
if I wanted to-to immediately begin to
negotiate with Israel and Egypt as a part-
ner. If he wants to do it, we would cer-
tainly welcome that. What I will try to
learn, however, is what role Jordan is
willing to play in the resolution of the
Palestinian-West Bank problem, at what
point he thinks it would be advisable for
him to enter the negotiations personally
as a government leader, and what we can
do to get him to give his open support
and encouragement to both Begin and
Sadat as they struggle to resolve the dif-
ferences between them.
I think King Hussein has indeed, in his
private discussions with Secretary Vance
and his personal communications to me,
shown a very positive attitude. And in his
travels around the Middle East to visit
with other leaders, some who don't en-
courage the talks, like President Asad,
those who are very hopeful for progress,
like those in Saudi Arabia, I think he's
shown a constructive attitude already. But
it helps me to understand on a current
basis the remaining problems and in what
way they can be brought in to achieve a
comprehensive peace.
I think they all trust our country. Our
motives are good. We've never misled
2189
