July 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
1943 to 1946, he served in the U.S. Army tion 3(8) of the Act, which directs that
Counter-Intelligence Corps.
Since 1950 Walters has practiced law
with Walters and Costanzo in Miami,
with an emphasis on international law. He
is chairman of the National Leukemia
Society and serves on the board of trustees
of Variety Children's Hospital in Miami.
He is a former member of the Governor's
Advisory Council on Health.
Walters holds the title of Master Knight
of the Order of Malta and is a member
of Serra International, an organization to
encourage young people to follow religious
vocations.
Export Administration
Act of 1969
Executive Order 12002. July 7, 1977
ADMINISTRATION OF THE EXPORT ADMIN-
ISTRATION ACT OF 1969, AS AMENDED
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, including the
Export Administration Act of 1969, as
amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401, et seq.),
and as President of the United States of
America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Except as provided in Sec-
tion 2, the power, authority, and discre-
tion conferred upon the President by the
provisions of the Export Administration
Act of 1969, as amended (50 U.S.C. App.
2401, et seq.), hereinafter referred to as
the Act, are delegated to the Secretary of
Commerce, with the power of successive
redelegation.
SEC. 2. (a) The power, authority and
discretion conferred upon the President
in Sections 4(h) and 4(1) of the Act are
retained by the President.
(b) The power, authority and discre-
tion conferred upon the President in Sec-
every reasonable effort be made to secure
the removal or reduction of assistance by
foreign countries to international terrorists
through cooperation and agreement, are
delegated to the Secretary of State, with
the power of successive redelegation.
SEC. 3. The Export Administration Re-
view Board, hereinafter referred to as the
Board, which was established by Execu-
tive Order No. 11533 of June 4, 1970, as
amended, is hereby continued. The Board
shall continue to have as members the
Secretary of Commerce, who shall be
Chairman of the Board, the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Defense, and the
Chairman of the East-West Foreign
Trade Board (Section 7 of Executive
Order No. 11846, as amended). No alter-
nate Board members shall be designated,
but the acting head of any department
may serve in lieu of the head of the con-
cerned department. In the case of the
East-West Foreign Trade Board, the
Deputy Chairman or the Executive Secre-
tary may serve in lieu of the Chairman.
The Board may invite the heads of other
United States Government departments
or agencies, other than the agencies rep-
resented by Board members, to participate
in the activities of the Board when matters
of interest to such departments or agencies
are under consideration.
SEC. 4. The Secretary of Commerce
may from time to time refer to the Board
such particular export license matters, in-
volving questions of national security or
other major policy issues, as the Secretary
shall select. The Secretary of Commerce
shall also refer to the Board any other
such export license matter, upon the re-
quest of any other member of the Board
or of the head of any other United States
Government department or agency hav-
ing any interest in such matter. The Board
shall consider the matters so referred to
1216
