July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, with Mr. Begin com-
ing to visit, I'd like to ask a question about
the Middle East, a two-part question.
When you talk about the necessity for
a Palestinian homeland, are you thinking
of locating that homeland in territory that
at one time was Palestine, or in your
mind, could it be located anywhere?
The second part of the question is: Do
you still believe, as you said a few weeks
ago, that Israel eventually must with-
draw with only minor changes to the pre-
1967 borders?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not changed
my opinion since the earlier statements
that I made concerning the general out-
line of terms to be sought at a possible
Geneva conference.
We have never tried to define geo-
graphical boundaries for a so-called Pal-
estinian entity. My own preference, which
I have expressed since I've been Presi-
dent and also as a candidate, was that the
Palestinian entity, whatever form it might
take and whatever area it might occupy,
should be tied in with Jordan and not be
independent. But I don't have the au-
thority nor the inclination to try to im-
pose that preference on the parties that
will negotiate.
I think that in his coming over here to
our country next week, on the 19th, that
Prime Minister Begin is trying to bring
with him an open mind and an ability to
go to a possible peace conference with
all items being negotiable. He said this
publicly, and he's also sent me private
messages to that effect.
I've seen an inclination in the Middle
East in recent days toward an alleviation
of tension. I got a private message from
President Sadat, for instance, that he is
going to make every effort again to com-
ply with the Sinai agreement.
He had a few extra troops in the ter-
ritory that had been identified. He's with-
drawing those. He authorized me to an-
nounce that he's returning with full mili-
tary honors 19 Israeli bodies that had
been left in Egypt. He's expressed his
willingness to go to Geneva without prior
commitments. He's had negotiations or
talks lately with the King of Jordan, and
they have agreed that the Palestinian en-
tity ought to be tied in with Jordan.
So, there's a general inclination on all
parties for success, but I don't think it's
advisable now for me to get any more
specific than I have in the past.
And although I haven't changed my
position, I want to reemphasize that we
are not going to go to the different na-
tions involved and say, "This is an Ameri-
can plan. You've got to accept it as a
pre-condition to going to Geneva. It's
what we think would be fair." It's been
deliberately general in nature, and the
ultimate results would have to be agreed
to by the Arab and Israeli nations.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
ABORTION
Q. Mr. President, how comfortable are
you with the recent Supreme Court de-
cision that says the Federal Government
is not obligated to provide money for
abortions for women who cannot afford
to pay for them themselves?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think that
the Federal Government should finance
abortions except when the woman's life is
threatened or when the pregnancy was a
result of rape or incest. I think it ought to
be interpreted very strictly.
In my opinion, the Federal Govern-
ment being willing to finance abortions,
as it has been in recent months, is an en-
couragement to abortion and its accept-
ance as a routine contraceptive means.
And I think within that strict definition
1236
