Dec. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tion. I would appreciate your providing
me with your recommendations at an
early date, by submitting the names to the
Attorney General.
I believe it is essential that our antitrust
enforcement efforts not be allowed to be-
come outdated or inefficient. This Com-
mission will have the important responsi-
bility of helping to ensure that this does
not occur.
I wish to thank you in advance for
kind cooperation.
Sincerely,
your
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
The letter was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
For the text of Executive Order 12022, es-
tablishing the Commission, see page 2064 of
this volume.
Imports of Petroleum and
Petroleum Products
Proclamation 4543. December 27, 1977
MODIFYING PROCLAMATION No. 3279, AS
AMENDED, RELATING TO IMPORTS OF
PETROLEUM AND PETROLEUM PROD-
UCTS, AND PROVIDING FOR THE LONG-
TERM CONTROL OF IMPORTS
PETROLEUM AND PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
THROUGH A SYSTEM OF LICENSE FEES
Reserve would not
Reserve would not carry out the purposes
of Proclamation No. 3279, as amended,
and could create administrative and other
problems with respect to the expeditious
completion of the Reserve.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by virtue of the authority vested in me by
the Constitution and the laws of the
United States of America, including Sec-
tion 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of
1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862), do
hereby proclaim that, effective as of
October 1, 1977, Proclamation No. 3279,
as amended, is further amended
follows:
Clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph
(1) of paragraph (a) of Section 3 are
revised to read as follows:
"(i) with respect to imports of crude oil
(other than that imported by the Depart-
ment of Energy, or by another person or
agency of the Federal Government acting
on behalf of the Department, for the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve Program)
and natural gas products over and above
the levels of imports established in Section
2 of this Proclamation, such fees shall be
$0.21 per barrel;
(ii) with respect to imports of motor
gasoline, unfinished oils, and all other
finished products (except ethane, pro-
pane, butanes, asphalt and finished prod-
ucts imported by the Department of
Energy, or another person or agency of
the Federal Government acting on behalf
of the Department of Energy, for the
By the President of the United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve Program),
of America
A Proclamation
OF
It is necessary that the United States
complete the establishment of a Strategic
Petroleum Reserve as quickly as possible.
The imposition of license fees on im-
ports of crude oil and products for such
over and above the levels of imports es-
tablished in Section 2 of this Proclama-
tion, such fees shall be $0.63 per barrel;".
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of December, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred seventy-seven, and of
2178
