Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 21, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News
Directors. October 14, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I apologize for interrupt-
ing your meeting. This has been kind of a
busy day for us. We had an extra hour
and a half or 2 hours this morning with
General Torrijos from Panama. And we
had not put it on our long-range schedule.
But it was very productive, and it's put me
a little bit behind.
I think it might be good for me to make
just an opening statement to you about
some of the things on which we are work-
ing during these last few weeks of the con-
gressional session.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
The number one issue for us on the
domestic scene, by far, is energy. We've
got a very acceptable energy package from
the House. So far we've gotten practically
nothing from the Senate. But they'll be
considering what to do within the next
few days. We hope to have a productive
conference committee, as is well under-
stood by many of the Senators, and then
the joint package will go back to the
House and Senate for an up or down vote.
I think the Members of Congress recog-
nize the seriousness of our problem. We've
got a terrible adverse trade balance be-
cause of oil imports. We'll probably im-
port about $45 billion worth of oil this
year, which puts us about $30 billion in
the hole on trade balance.
As you can well see, we'd have a $15
billion or so surplus if it wasn't for oil im-
ports, which are very excessive. This is
one of the problems. It makes us much
more susceptible to severe damage in the
future if those oil imports should be inter-
rupted for any reason. And, of course, the
inevitability of increased shortages means
that we've got to start conserving oil and
natural gas.
We are working on several foreign mat-
ters. I just mentioned the Torrijos visit
this morning. I think that his and my
statement, which has already been pre-
pared-it's not been released yet, I don't
believe will successfully resolve the
major difference of interpretation that has
been raised about our right to defend the
canal and also about the right of our
ships to have expeditious passage through
the canal.
And, of course, we are also very inter-
ested to point out that we have no inten-
tion to intervene in the internal affairs of
Panama in order to challenge their sov-
ereignty. But the questions have arisen
both in Panama and in our country, and
we want to get those differences explained.
There are no differences between me and
Torrijos or among our negotiators, and
there never have been since the text was
approved.
1799
