Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 27
and good morale within our military
forces.
I also know how important it is to have
the limited funds available spent in the
most effective way to provide for our
Nation's defense.
We now spend almost 60 percent of our
total military budget on personnel. I'm
not saying that this is too much, but I do
say that when we spend this large a por-
tion that it should be spent in the most
effective way with the basic pay and the
other compensations for those men and
women who offer their very lives for the
security of the United States.
I've asked this very fine Commission,
headed by Chairman Charles Zwick, to
do a complete analysis of the military
compensation system in our country, to
see if and how it should be improved, and
I've asked them to make a report back to
me within 9 months. Next March 1
[March 15], I believe, is the exact date.
This will not only be an assessment
involving pay and retirement and other
benefits of those who serve our country so
well but in the process of the study there
will be a renewed analysis of the effec-
tiveness of our voluntary recruitment
program.
This was put into effect to eliminate the
gross discrimination that did occur during
the Vietnam war and prior because poor
people who couldn't go to college were the
ones who were drafted and went to war.
And in the implementation of the
voluntary recruitment program there was
an accepted knowledge that compensation
would be improved. So, we are not mak-
ing any prior judgments. We want to be
sure that when the study is completed,
that our military personnel will be en-
couraged to enlist and to serve a long
career, and that there's a proper balance
among those who enjoy the benefits of
offering their lives to our country in the
military services.
I want to thank all the members of the
group for being willing to serve. This is
going to be a very time-consuming effort,
very complicated and, as you can well
imagine, very controversial.
The Chairman is Charles Zwick from
Miami, who is an economist and who is
now a banker. He is a former Director of
the Office of Management and Budget.
Herbert York from La Jolla, California.
He is a physicist. He is with the Univer-
sity of California in San Diego, and he is
the former Director of Defense Research
and Engineering and also a former Di-
rector of the Advanced Research Projects
Agency.
Philip Odeen from Lake Forest, Illinois.
He is a political scientist. He is vice presi-
dent of the Wilson Sporting Goods
Company. He is a former Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense. He is a systems
analyst, and he was a Director of Program
Analysis for the National Security
Council.
John Filer from Hartford, Connecticut.
He is a lawyer, he is chairman and execu-
tive officer of the Aetna Life and Casualty
Company. He is also a former State sen-
ator from Connecticut.
General William E. Depuy from Fort
is now at South Dakota University. He is
Monroe, Virginia. He is an economist. He
Commander of the U.S. Army Training
and Doctrine Command.
Jane Pfeiffer from Armonk, New York.
She is vice president of communications
of IBM. She was a participant in the
White House Fellows Program in 1966,
and she worked in the Council on Foreign
Relations in 1967.
Lieutenant General Benjamin Davis,
U.S. Air Force, retired. His credentials
are superb. He is a U.S. Military Academy
graduate. He was in the U.S. Armed
Forces in Korea, Chief of Staff of the UN
Command. He retired in January 1970,
1179
