July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment to shoot up here among us. We
need some relief. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I think Jerry is here
tonight. When I got off the plane in Jack-
son, Jerry Clower was there. When I was
making my little, short talk, he held my
raincoat for me. I have always been an
admirer of his. He's one of the great
products of Yazoo City. I want to con-
gratulate you for giving him to the rest
of the country.
A lot of the country philosophers and
country comedians, even the country
popular song composers, express concerns
like yours very clearly to the rest of the
world, and I'm thankful for it. So far, as
I said a little earlier, we've had some tax
reform. We have raised the standard de-
duction, which saves about $4 billion,
most of which goes to the low-income and
middle-income American families.
For a family, for instance, to repeat my-
self, that makes about $10,000 a year, their
income taxes will be reduced because of
this legislation already passed and signed
into law, about 30 percent per year.
We are now working on a comprehen-
sive tax reform package which has three
basic goals, one of which is to be much
simpler. The second one is to remove as
many of the tax loopholes as possible and
to be fairer. And the third is to be more
progressive in nature, which means that
those that have the higher income will
pay a higher percentage of the taxes.
So, those three principles are the ones
on which we are basing our tax reform
study. I will be recommending to the Con-
gress this comprehensive tax reform no
later than the adjournment of Congress in
October. They won't have time to vote on
it this year, but when the Congress comes
back into session next January, this tax
reform package will be waiting for them,
and you will have a chance and other
Americans to know what is in it.
I'm very determined to remove the
present tax law from the books which, as
I said many times in the campaign, is a
disgrace to the human race, and have a
fair tax structure in this country, for a
change.
FEDERAL REGULATORY AGENCIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Sam
Ray. The Occupational Safety and
Health Administration has recently an-
nounced that they're screening their reg-
ulations to take out unrealistic ones.
Since 1970 small businessmen have
been complaining to their Congressmen
and others in Washington about OSHA's
tactics. What will be done in your ad-
ministration to safeguard against further
abuses of power by Federal regulatory
agencies?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm a small business-
man, too, as you know. And in several of
the magazine and newspaper articles re-
cently there's been an analysis of the
OSHA program by my brother, Billy,
concerning his filling station and concern-
ing Carter's peanut shelling plant. So, I
know at first hand the problems with the
program.
I think I want to make clear that the
Occupational Safety and Health Act is a
good piece of legislation. It's important
that in the working places we protect the
health and safety of employees, but the
OSHA program is going to extremes.
The Director of OSHA this past week
announced that 50 percent of all the re-
port forms that had been used in this
country are being eliminated altogether
before the end of September, and that the
other 50 percent of the reporting forms
are being substantially simplified.
I believe, also, that we have had too
much of an emphasis on detailed regula-
tions on safety. For instance, if you had to
go home and write for me every possible
description of a safe chair or a safe stool
1330
