Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 9, 1977
Meeting With Prime Minister
Ahmed Osman of Morocco
White House Statement Issued Following
the Meeting. December 3, 1977
The President met at 9:30 this morn-
ing with Prime Minister Osman of Mo-
rocco, who came to Washington as the
emissary of King Hassan to deliver a
personal message from the King to Presi-
dent Carter. The Prime Minister was
accompanied by Ambassador Benjelloun.
The meeting of approximately 1 hour
was attended on the U.S. side by Sec-
retary of State Vance, Dr. Brzezinski,
U.S. Ambassador to Morocco Robert
Anderson, and William Quandt of the
NSC staff.
Because of recent developments in the
Middle East in which Morocco is deeply
interested, the visit of His Majesty King
Hassan II to President Carter has been
postponed by mutual agreement. In an
exchange of personal messages, His
Majesty and the President reaffirmed the
traditional bonds of friendship between
the two countries.
The visit of the Prime Minister, who
is the highest ranking official in the Mo-
roccan Government after the King,
underlined the importance which King
Hassan attaches to his relations with the
United States. The President took ad-
vantage of the Prime Minister's presence
for a friendly exchange of views on a
number of issues of mutual interest to the
United States and Morocco.
NOTE: The statement was made available by
the White House Press Office. It was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
Railroad Retirement Board
Nomination of William P. Adams To Be a
Member. December 5, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate William P. Adams, of
Springfield, Va., to be a member of the
Railroad Retirement Board. He would
replace James Cowen, whose term has ex-
pired, and would be the at-large member.
Adams was born August 2, 1926, in
Danville, Ill. He received a B.S. from
Michigan State University in 1949 and a
J.D. from Georgetown University Law
Center in 1953.
From 1955 to 1974, Adams was coun-
sel and a professional staff member on
the House Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce. From 1955 to 1974,
he was also assistant counsel in the Of-
fice of the Legislative Counsel of the
House of Representatives.
Since earlier this year, Adams has been
vice president of the Motion Picture As-
2079
