Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 6
-Plan the best use of the public broad-
casting satellite system and other
new communications technologies.
These advances make possible new
television and radio networks de-
voted entirely to adult instruction,
children's programming, or the
special needs of Hispanics, Blacks,
women, the elderly, or other distinct
audiences.
-Extend the reach of public television
and radio signals. All taxpayers con-
tribute to public broadcasting, but
only about half receive a good public
television signal, and fewer than
two-thirds can receive public radio.
-Increase public broadcasting's con-
tribution to in-school and adult in-
struction. Public television's most
popular prime-time series have been
widely used for college extension
courses. Lifelong learning should re-
main one of its principal goals.
-Increase employment, training, and
ownership opportunities for minori-
ties and women.
-Support local, state, and regional
programming. Programming of lo-
cal interest is an important resource.
not
Except for the key area of national pro-
gramming, this legislation does
mandate specific allocations of Federal
funds for each of these purposes. It is
desirable to allow CPB the flexibility to
choose among competing priorities. But
the bill does set a direction that allows
all these efforts to be pursued.
My specific proposals are as follows:
Assure Long-range Funding
Enactment of this legislation will allow
continuation of the present system of five-
year authorization and two-year advance
appropriations, which was designed to
assist planning and enhance insulation.
Congress is currently considering an
appropriation of $152 million for fiscal
1980, the last
1980, the last year of the current author-
ization. New legislation is needed early
next year for public broadcasting to be
included in next year's appropriations
process.
The funds authorized in the enclosed
bill total $1.041 billion. This includes a
five-year authorization for CPB at $180
million for fiscal year 1981 and $200
million in each of the four succeeding
years. It also includes a separate grant
program of $30 million annually for tech-
nical facilities in fiscal 1979 and 1980,
and $1 million for telecommunications
demonstrations by HEW in fiscal 1979.
These figures represent recommended
authorization levels. Appropriations re-
quests must come from the annual budget
review process.
This bill maintains an authorized level
of Federal funding at $200 million after
the second year. Such leveled funding will
ensure that both we and the public broad-
casting system will reexamine appropriate
funding levels based on its needs and
potential in 1979, after the new Carnegie
Commission on the Future of Public
Broadcasting delivers its report. This
Commission has taken on the difficult job
of looking at the public system's creative
process in light of new technology. It is
also examining both the existing sources
of Federal and non-Federal funding and
potential new ones. The Task Force that
established the Commission has urged us
and Congress to move forward with a
long-term authorization and related struc-
tural issues so that it can concentrate on
funding methods, technology, and pro-
gramming.
Leveling the authorization also insures
that in two years we and Congress will
1739
