Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 27
more fully on the entire energy package,
including the tax proposals.
I will have more time working with my
staff and with the Congress and with labor
and business leaders to evolve the difficult
answers to complicated tax proposals. We
have an early need to simplify the tax sys-
tem, to provide more equity to modify
the tax rates and to improve capital for-
mation.
The tax reform proposals will be a
major element in a comprehensive eco-
nomic program designed to promote a
strong economy and to deal further with
reducing inflation, which has recently
been on the way down, to reduce unem-
ployment, which is also going down quite
slowly, and to do this both immediately
and in the years ahead.
The principal component parts of this
program have to be carefully integrated
also in our budgetary proposals for fiscal
year 1979. I prefer to make these final
decisions on the tax reform program after
the Congress has completed action on the
energy program, particularly its tax com-
ponents, and social security, which has
heavy tax connotations.
Both of these proposals can be assessed,
obviously, after the Congress adjourns. By
the end of the year we will have more in-
formation also on the state of the econ-
omy, to know how much of our tax re-
form proposal should be devoted to stim-
ulating the economy.
We have a full agenda this year, and I
have discussed this delay in the tax reform
proposal until after the Congress adjourns
with the leaders of Congress. And I might
say they unanimously agree with this
delay.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Asso-
ciated Press].
QUESTIONS
TAX REFORM
Q. On taxes, Mr. President, depending
on economic conditions, might you in the
end give higher priority to a stimulative
tax cut and seek action on that first before
the broad overall reform program?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think the tax re-
form package has got to fulfill three basic
elements. One is improved equity, which
means more progressivity and an end to
many of the unnecessary tax incentives
and loopholes; secondly, to create invest-
ment capital; and third, greatly to sim-
plify the entire tax structure. The degree
to which we will have tax cuts to stimulate
the economy can only be assessed after we
see how much of a drag on the economy
the increased social security taxes might
be and the rate of growth in the economy.
for instance, from overseas balance of
We've just gotten returns this morning,
trade. We had the highest rate of exports
last month in the Nation's history. And
imports were reduced somewhat. Obvi-
ously, the trade imbalance comes from
energy imports.
We also have had a substantial decrease
in the last couple of months in the infla-
tion rate, but a very slow decrease in un-
employment.
So, I would say that the rate of tax re-
duction and stimulation from the tax re-
form measures could only be assessed at
the end of this year.
ARTHUR BURNS
Q. Mr. President, what is your reac-
tion to Arthur Burns' criticism of your
economic policy, and do you plan to re-
appoint him as the Fed Chairman?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't decided
about reappointment, but as you well
know, Mr. Burns is a very able and out-
spoken and independent man. And the
Federal Reserve System is legally an in-
dependent agency.
I, as President, the Congress, and the
Federal Reserve System all have inde-
pendent roles to play in the evolution of
tax law, budget proposals, and of course,
1909
