Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
As you know, we've made some serious
errors in the last few years. And I don't
want to see us come up with another
Vietnam or another Watergate or an-
other CIA episode that brings embarrass-
ment on our country. And I don't think
those things would have materialized had
there been an absolute truth and a com-
plete revelation of those questions when
they were in the initial stages of decision.
I want to thank you for the constructive
role you play in the very process that I've
described. I've enjoyed being with
Thank you.
you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:02 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 29.
United States Metric Board
Nomination of Chairman and Members of the
Board. October 29, 1977
The President today announced that
he has nominated Louis Polk, of Dayton,
Ohio, to be Chairman of the U.S. Metric
Board for a term of 6 years. He also an-
nounced 14 other persons who have been
nominated as members of the Metric
Board.
Polk, 73, is an authority on interna-
tional metrology and has represented the
United States at numerous conferences
on the subject. He was Chairman of the
Advisory Panel of the National Metric
Study conducted by the Commerce De-
partment. He has officially visited the na-
tional bureau of standards of most lead-
ing industrial nations. Polk was a director
of the Bendix Corp. from 1956 to 1975.
He was chairman of the board of State
Fidelity Federal Savings and its predeces-
sors from 1948 to 1977, and is now emeri-
tus, and served from 1947 to 1975 as a
director and executive committee member
of Winters National Bank and Trust Co.
in Dayton, Ohio.
Those nominated as members of the
Metric Board are:
For 6-year terms:
SYDNEY D. ANDREWS, of Florida, director of
the division of standards, Florida Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Consumer Services.
JOYCE D. MILLER, of New York, vice president
and director of social services for the Amal-
gamated Clothing and Textile Workers
Union.
GLENN NISHIMURA, of Arkansas, executive
director of Arkansas Consumer Research
and of ACR: Public Interest Citizen Action.
SATENIG S. ST. MARIE, of Connecticut, divi-
sional vice president and director of con-
sumer affairs for the J. C. Penney Co.
ADRIAN G. WEAVER, of Connecticut, director of
standards practices for IBM Corp.
For 4-year terms:
PAUL BLOCK, JR., of Ohio, publisher of the
Toledo Blade and a research professor of
chemistry at the University of Toledo.
THOMAS A. HANNIGAN, of Maryland, assistant
to the international secretary of the Inter-
national Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
FRANK H. HARTMAN, of Michigan, Federal
liaison for the Michigan Department of
Education.
SANDRA R. KENNEY, of Maryland, continuity
director at the Maryland Center for Public
Broadcasting.
ROGER E. TRAVIS, of Massachusetts, president
of Medi, Inc., and an expert on metals
joining.
For 2-year terms:
CARL A. BECK, of Pennsylvania, president of
the Charles Beck Machine Corp. and
chairman of the Government Liaison Com-
mittee of the American National Metric
Council.
FRANCIS R. DUGAN, of Ohio, president of the
Dugan and Meyers Construction Co. in
Cincinnati.
EDWARD L. GINZTON, of California, chairman
of the board of Varian Associates in Palo
Alto.
HENRY KROEZE, of Wisconsin, chairman of the
department of engineering and computer
science at the University of Wisconsin Center
in Waukesha, Wis.
1944
