Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Northern Ireland
Statement on U.S. Policy. August 30, 1977
Throughout our history, Americans
have rightly recalled the contributions
men and women from many countries
have made to the development of the
United States. Among the greatest con-
tributions have been those of the British
and Irish people, Protestant and Catholic
alike. We have close ties of friendship
with both parts of Ireland and with
Great Britain.
It is natural that Americans are deeply
concerned about the continuing conflict
and violence in Northern Ireland. We
know the overwhelming majority of the
people there reject the bomb and the bul-
let. The United States wholeheartedly
supports peaceful means for finding a just
solution that involves both parts of the
community of Northern Ireland and
tects human rights and guarantees free-
dom from discrimination-a solution that
the people in Northern Ireland, as well as
the Governments of Great Britain and
Ireland can support. Violence cannot re-
solve Northern Ireland's problems; it only
increases them and solves nothing.
pro-
We hope that all those engaged in vio-
lence will renounce this course and com-
mit themselves to peaceful pursuit of legit-
imate goals. The path of reconciliation,
cooperation, and peace is the only course
that can end the human suffering and
lead to a better future for all the people
of Northern Ireland. I ask all Americans
to refrain from supporting with financial
or other aid organizations whose involve-
ment, direct or indirect, in this violence.
delays the day when the people of North-
ern Ireland can live and work together
in harmony, free from fear. Federal law
enforcement agencies will continue to ap-
prehend and prosecute any who violate
U.S. laws in this regard.
U.S. Government policy on the North-
ern Ireland issue has long been one of
impartiality, and that is how it will re-
main. We support the establishment of a
form of government in Northern Ireland
which will command widespread accept-
ance throughout both parts of the com-
munity. However, we have no intention
achieved. The only permanent solution
of telling the parties how this might be
will come from the people who live there.
There are no solutions that outsiders can
impose.
At the same time, the people of North-
ern Ireland should know that they have
our complete support in their quest for a
peaceful and just society. It is a tribute
to Northern Ireland's hard-working peo-
ple that the area has continued to attract
investment, despite the violence commit-
ted by a small minority. This is to be wel-
comed, since investment and other pro-
grams to create jobs will assist in ensuring
a healthy economy and combating unem-
ployment.
It is still true that a peaceful settlement
would contribute immeasurably to stabil-
ity in Northern Ireland and so enhance
the prospects for increased investment. In
the event of such a settlement, the U.S.
Government would be prepared to join
with others to see how additional job-
creating investment could be encouraged,
to the benefit of all the people of North-
ern Ireland.
I admire the many true friends of
Northern Ireland in this country who
speak out for peace. Emotions run high
on this subject, and the easiest course is
not to stand up for conciliation. I place
myself firmly on the side of those who
seek peace and reject violence in Northern
Ireland.
1524
