Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 13
Representatives has passed an energy bill
which is not completely adequate as we
proposed it, but is a major step forward.
The Senate has not yet decided.
There are five major component parts
of the energy legislation. The Senate has
acted on four of them. The other one in-
volves pricing and tax. Those questions
have not yet been resolved.
The present proposal by the Senate
leaders and I have no alternative except
to go along with it, of course is that
there will hopefully be a bill passed by the
Senate. I don't think it's accurate to say
that it will be in final form. And then
that bill will be transmitted to the con-
ference committee, the members of which
have already been appointed. Then the
negotiations between the House and the
Senate will take place and the agreed-
upon compromise, hopefully compatible
with what we recommended, would go
back to both Houses for rejection or ac-
ceptance.
The filibuster was not initiated by me.
It was not terminated by me. And I be-
lieve that that was a step in getting the
House and Senate to a conference. But I
still believe that if the American people
can recognize the importance of this issue,
as the House Members have already done,
that we will have acceptable legislation
this year.
TAX REFORM
Q. Mr. President, are you or your peo-
ple giving even tentative thought now to
the possibility of an economy-stimulating
tax cut next year, quite apart from tax
revision?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, but the tax revi-
sion, tax reform, tax cut will all be one
package. Tax reform is long overdue. It
is, as I have discovered recently, an ex-
tremely complicated matter. Scars are left
over from previous tax reform efforts,
some of which have been successful.
But I would say that the tax reductions,
which may come next year or perhaps
later I think next year-will be tied in-
tegrally with an overall tax reform pack-
age.
Q. Would they be motivated by the
state of the economy, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, the rapidity with
which tax cuts would be instituted would
certainly be motivated by the state of the
economy, whether or not it does need
stimulation early or whether that stimula-
tion would come late. The major unre-
solved question is how much impact this
year's stimulus package is going to have
in a beneficial way to keep our economy
moving. I have good hopes about it. But
we won't really know until about January
or February.
REDUCTION OF OIL CONSUMPTION
Q. Mr. President, I take it from the
strength of your opening statement that
if Congress doesn't come up with an en-
ergy bill that you like, you would move
administratively to do what you could to
cut down on oil consumption.
Secretary Schlesinger has already talked
about an import tax on foreign oil. And I
would like to ask you if that is your view
and also if you would then move to gaso-
line rationing administratively or some
other measure?
THE PRESIDENT. We are considering
all those options. And without knowing
the form of the congressional action, it's
hard for us to say now. If the bill in my
opinion is not a substantial step forward,
then I would not accept it after it's passed.
And I say that very reluctantly, because
it would mean that a substantial part of
an entire year's work by the executive and
the legislative branches of Government
would have been wasted in the energy
field.
1785
