Oct. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ings he has had over the past few weeks
with foreign ministers of the governments
involved. The President reaffirmed his
determination to help these parties to the
conflict work out procedures for recon-
vening the Geneva conference by the end
of the year. The President expressed his
conviction that differences over procedure
should not be permitted to prevent nego-
tiations on the substance of the conflict
which all the parties have said they desire.
As he has in his other meetings, the Pres-
ident repeated his own conviction that a
just and lasting peace in this vital area
of the world requires compromise and
courageous leadership from all concerned.
He thanked Prince Saud for the under-
standing and support Saudi Arabia has
shown for the efforts to advance the pros-
pects for an early resumption of peace
negotiations. Secretary Vance will pursue
the discussion with the Minister, listening
to his ideas and explaining in detail sug-
gestions for reconciling differences be-
tween the parties.
The President and Prince Saud also
discussed a number of matters of mutual
interest pertaining both to our bilateral
relations and to the challenges facing the
international community. In particular,
the President emphasized to the Foreign
Minister his determination to obtain the
comprehensive energy conservation pro-
gram which is currently before Congress.
He expressed again his appreciation of
the policy which Saudi Arabia, the
world's largest oil exporter, has pursued
in petroleum production and pricing.
The President emphasized the impor-
tance to the international community of
maintaining world oil price stability over
the coming year. The President and
Prince Saud noted with satisfaction that
the economic ties between the United
States and Saudi Arabia continue to ex-
pand, and that the close cooperation and
consultation between the two Govern-
ments in international finance and devel-
opment lending remain a major contribu-
tion to world economic growth.
The President assured the Foreign
Minister that the United States intends
to continue its role in helping Saudi
Arabia meet legitimate defense needs.
Constitution of the Northern
Mariana Islands
Proclamation 4534. October 24, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
On February 15, 1975, the Marianas
Political Status Commission, the duly ap-
pointed representative of the people of
the Northern Mariana Islands, and the
Personal Representative of the President
of the United States signed a Covenant,
the purpose of which is to provide for the
eventual establishment of a Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
in political union with the United States
of America. This Covenant was subse-
quently approved by the Mariana Islands
District Legislature and by the people of
the Northern Mariana Islands voting in a
plebiscite. The Covenant was approved by
the Congress of the United States by joint
resolution approved March 24, 1976
(Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 263).
In accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the Covenant, the people of
the Northern Mariana Islands have for-
mulated and approved a Constitution
which was submitted to me on behalf of
the Government of the United States on
April 21, 1977, for approval on the basis
of its consistency with the Covenant and
1904
