Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 15
They recognize that an agreement in the
Sinai without involving the West Bank,
the Gaza Strip, the Golan Heights, could
not be a permanent resolution of terri-
torial differences, and if they ignore the
Palestinian question, this would still not
result in permanent peace, and if the
Palestinian question is not addressed,
again, it would not be an adequate step
toward permanent peace.
So, I think, obviously, this is a good
first step. I would hope that in Cairo it-
self, even if the other nations don't choose
to attend, that Egypt and Israel can make
a major stride toward a comprehensive
peace that would at least address in de-
finitive terms the questions that also in-
volve Palestinians, Jordanians, Syrians,
and Lebanese.
LEGISLATIVE ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Q. Mr. President, this year you've been
working with a very heavily Democratic
Congress, yet your legislative record, I
think, can fairly be described as mixed.
You've had some successes, some failures,
other things in limbo. Do you think you
can improve on your legislative record
next year, particularly in view of the fact
that a lot of those people are going to be
running for an election and may not be
devoting as much attention to legislation
as they were this year?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, almost all of the
major proposals that we put forward to
the Congress have either been adopted or
are still under active consideration. The
two remaining doubts among our major
proposals are social security, which has a
good possibility to be decided this week,
and, of course, the most important of all
is energy.
There are three of the five major con-
siderations on energy that have been re-
solved successfully by the conference com-
mittees. The remaining ones are the crude
oil equalization tax and how to deal with
natural gas. The natural gas question is
the one that has been in dispute more
than 20 years, and it is the one that's the
most difficult. It's also the one that's the
most expensive, potentially, to the con-
sumers and most rewarding to the oil and
natural gas companies.
I think it's unlikely that the Congress
will conclude action on the energy ques-
tion this year, as I had hoped. But I
believe that they have made and will con-
tinue to make enough progress so that
very early next year they'll complete this
year's agenda by taking action on the
energy question.
We will have a much more carefully
considered agenda for 1978, broadly en-
compassing the commitments that I've
made to the American people and the
issues that I've identified since I have
been in office as being important.
I'd say it's a more effective presenta-
tion, because we now know better when
the Congress can move rapidly and when
they can't. I think the Congress has made
substantial progress even on energy, which
has been the only major failure this year,
and I believe the basis that they've laid
will lead to a rapid conclusion next year.
I'm not discouraged about it. I'm very
pleased at what has been accomplished
so far, although we didn't conclude 100
percent of what we proposed.
Q. Mr. President, the Vice President is
saying that you've had a great year in
getting important legislation through Con-
gress. Yet the public perception seems to
be to the contrary. How do you account
for this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my own percep-
tion is in harmony with that of the Vice
President.
We have created a new Department of
Energy. We have instigated a $21 billion
2117
