Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 28
ment and politics. And it's a heritage of
which I know all of you are very deeply
proud.
That heritage has not been wasted.
There are great moments of pride with
highly publicized, international achieve-
ments the ones I've just mentioned-
but there's another characteristic that to
me is important, and that is the emphasis
on family values, the tightness of the
home, and the fact that the development
of human beings begins with a close-knit
environment of love. This has made you
and other Italian Americans instrumental
in the strength of neighborhoods and the
preservation of values which are un-
changing.
Father Geno Baroni is now a special
person in my own administration, an
Assistant Secretary in the Housing and
Urban Development Department, but
especially responsible for neighborhoods
and the development of a better quality
of life, again, in our urban centers.
And, of course, we all know the tre-
mendous contributions made by many of
these men and women assembled around
me. I find it hard not to mention spe-
cifically Judge John Sirica and Congress-
man Peter Rodino who, in a moment of
greatest challenge to our very system of
government, extracted from their back-
ground and heritage and their love for
this country, wisdom and courage that
preserved our system of life.
And for all these reasons, I'm proud to
be a part of this ceremony as President
of our country, and I'd like to read and
to sign a brief proclamation that was first
signed by a President in 1934.
[At this point, the President read the text of the
proclamation.]
In witness whereof, I have hereunto
set my hand this day, and I urge all of
you to be careful not to forget the cele-
bration of this notable occasion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:17 a.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at the
White House.
Columbus Day, 1977
Proclamation 4527. September 28, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
On October 10 we once again pay
tribute to the great Italian mariner and
explorer whose historic voyage of discov-
ery led to the permanent settlement of
the New World by the Old.
With the support of the Spanish
Crown, Columbus journeyed across un-
charted waters to open the way for future
generations of immigrants who would
found the new nations of the Americas.
As his heirs, we take pride in com-
memorating the spirit of Christopher Co-
lumbus as part of our nationa! heritage.
In tribute to the achievement of Co-
lumbus, the Congress of the United States,
by joint resolution approved April 30,
1934 (48 Stat. 657), as modified by the
Act of June 28, 1968 (82 Stat. 250), re-
quested the President to proclaim the sec-
ond Monday in October of each year as
Columbus Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate Monday, Octo-
ber 10, 1977, as Columbus Day and invite
the people of this Nation to observe that
day in schools, churches, and other suit-
able places with appropriate ceremonies
in honor of the great explorer.
I also direct that the flag of the United
States be displayed on all public buildings
1675
