Sept. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation System
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate. September 1, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
Section 7 of the Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation Act of 1976 provides that
my decision regarding an Alaska natural
gas transportation system be transmitted
to the House of Representatives and the
Senate by September 1, 1977. The Act
also provides that the decision may be de-
layed by as much as 90 days upon a deter-
mination that additional time is necessary
to reach a sound decision. Although I in-
tend to submit my decision to the Con-
gress in the near future, it appears pru-
dent to take some additional time prior to
transmittal of that decision.
A decision on an Alaska natural gas
transportation system is dependent upon
a full and complete assessment of all op-
tions. Information and data concerning
the proposal for building a pipeline across
Alaska and then shipping Alaska gas to
the lower-48 states via LNG tankers is
complete and well understood.
Discussions with officials of the Cana-
dian government to determine the route
and conditions associated with any joint
overland pipeline have been underway
for some time. The general outline of the
Canadian option is becoming increasingly
clear, although several final details must
still be resolved. While I expect these
matters to be resolved in the course of the
next several days, I have determined they
will not be settled in time for a Septem-
ber 1, 1977, decision.
As soon as these discussions are com-
pleted, a final comparative assessment of
all project options will be made and a
decision regarding an Alaska natural gas
transportation system reached.
I intend to transmit that decision to
the Congress in the very near future so
that action on this critical matter can be
taken during this session of the Congress.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
The White House Press Office announced the
letter on September 1. It was not issued in the
form of a White House press release.
U.S. Special Representative to
the States of Antigua, Dominica,
St. Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia, and St. Vincent
Appointment of Frank V. Ortiz, Jr.
September 1, 1977
The President today announced that
he has appointed Frank V. Ortiz, Jr., as
U.S. Special Representative to the States
of Antigua, Dominica, St. Christopher-
Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vin-
cent. Ortiz is Ambassador to Barbados
and to the State of Grenada.
NOTE: The announcement of the President's
intention to nominate Mr. Ortiz to be Ambas-
sador to Barbados and the State of Grenada,
which contains biographical information on Mr.
Ortiz, is printed on page 1189 of this volume.
Labor Day, 1977
Message of the President. September 2, 1977
On Labor Day, our nation salutes the
decency, grit and determination of the
1530
