Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 15
from the great country of Iran. And I
learned a great deal from him as he
talked about the history and the present
and future possibilities of the people in
Pakistan and Afghanistan, of Burma,
India, Iraq, other nations in the Middle
East, in the Horn of Africa, things that
I had not seen from that particular point
of view. And it helped me greatly to
understand the special challenges that
face us as a great nation and the im-
portance of the partnership that we have
with the people of Iran.
We are bound together with unbreak-
able ties of friendship, of past history, a
mutual commitment to the present and to
the future. Our military alliance is unshak-
able, and it's an alliance that is beneficent
in its impact on the rest of the world. Iran
seeks no dominion over other people.
They seek no territorial gains. They just
want peace, and they have spread their
influence, because of the great leadership
of the Shah, very rapidly.
We look upon Iran's strength as an
extension of our own strength, and Iran
looks upon our strength as an extension
of theirs. We derive mutual benefit from
this close relationship. The Shah has been
to our country more than a dozen times.
His first meeting with an American Presi-
dent was in 1943, when President Roose-
velt was in Tehran at a conference there;
and subsequently he's met with every
President we've had-with Truman and
with Eisenhower, with Kennedy and with
Nixon, with Ford and myself, with Presi-
dent Johnson. And this is a continua-
tion of a growing understanding of one
another.
The Shah is very gracious in his atti-
tude toward Americans. In addition to
the 175,000 students in his own colleges,
there are about 30,000 Iranian students
in the colleges of the United States. And
this guarantees an investment in the fu-
ture of understanding of one another. We
have about 40,000 Americans in Iran,
and in a very gracious demonstration of
friendship which was not well publicized
at all, the Shah has provided extra allot-
ments of funds and educational oppor-
tunities for American young students
there-boys and girls who are at the
grammar school and high school level.
This is something that he didn't have to
do, but it was just an extra demonstration
of how valuable they consider our friend-
ship with them.
I would like to say, in closing, that we
look upon Iran as a very stabilizing force
in the world at large. We don't fear the
future when we have friends like this
great country.
There are some emerging nations who
are assuming regional leadership roles
which, in the past, has not been recog-
nized. But I think that Iran is undoubted-
ly one of those great countries. And with
the spreading of their own influence, the
world is guaranteed a greater degree of
assurance for peace.
We're proud that Empress Farah, per-
haps one of the most beautiful leaders in
the world, has come to see us again. She's
admired by all. Her next-door seatmate
here, Mr. Wasserman,ยน has been trying to
get her to join him in making a film as a
movie star. [Laughter] I promised that if
he made a film, I'd be the first one to buy
a ticket to see her. [Laughter] But she's
a gracious woman who has taken a lot of
interest in the personal lives of the people
of her country.
And the Shah has a young son, who's
now 17 years old, who will come here for
his flight training when he reaches the
age of 18. And I think this shows a mu-
tual investment in the future by them
in our country and by us in their coun-
try.
ยน Lew R. Wasserman, president of Music Cor-
poration of America, Inc.
2031
