Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 7
ance of the private and public agencies
that have contributed so generously to
this program, I am confident that the ad-
justment to life in the United States will
be made by the refugees from Indochina.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable James O. Eastland,
chairman, Senate Committee on the Judiciary;
the Honorable Peter W. Rodino, chairman,
House Committee on the Judiciary; the Hon-
orable John J. Sparkman, chairman, Senate
Committee on Foreign Relations; the Honor-
able Clement J. Zablocki, chairman, House
Committee on International Relations; the
Honorable John L. McClellan, chairman, Sen-
ate Committee on Appropriations; and the
Honorable George H. Mahon, chairman,
House Committee on Appropriations.
The report is entitled "Task Force for Indo-
china Refugees, Report to the Congress, Sep-
tember 21, 1977."
The letter was announced by the White
House Press Office on October 6. It was not
issued in the form of a White House press
release.
Andres Figueroa Cordero
Announcement of the Commutation of Mr.
Figueroa Cordero's Prison Sentence.
October 6, 1977
The President today granted clemency
to Andres Figueroa Cordero, convicted in
1954 along with three other Puerto Ricans
in connection with the shooting and
wounding of several Congressmen.
The President commuted his sentence
to the time served.
Mr. Cordero has terminal cancer. The
President commuted Mr. Cordero's sen-
tence on humanitarian grounds because of
his physical condition.
Mr. Cordero was convicted of assault
and conspiracy to overthrow the Govern-
ment and was serving a 25- to 75-year
sentence. He would not have been eligi-
ble for parole until 1981.
The commutation order, which is not
a pardon, was an act of clemency on the
part of the President.
Mr. Cordero was expected to be re-
leased from the Federal Medical Center
for Prisoners at Springfield, Mo., within
24 hours.
Democratic National Committee
Remarks at the Committee's Quarterly
Meeting. October 7, 1977
After spending 2 days in New York this
week, meeting with representatives of al-
most every nation in the world, and stay-
ing up to well after midnight talking
about controversial issues, after spending
the last 2 days dealing with the Con-
gress-particularly the Senate-it's a
great pleasure to come over where abso-
lute harmony and peace prevail—[laugh-
ter]-where there are no differences, and
complete support for everything that is
suggested by leadership is accepted with-
out question.
This is a time that I have welcomed,
meeting with my friends and my fellow
workers, my partners, who represent the
greatest political organization in the en-
tire world, the Democratic Party.
I know you've been considering the
1978 conference, among other things.
This is important to us all. I know that
all of you want to meet there, to have
tough debates without delay, to move ex-
peditiously, to make quick decisions. And
in order to ensure this, I've asked Vice
President Mondale to preside over the
sessions. [Laughter] I'm sure he'll show
his strong leadership characteristics as he
has recently in other trying times.
1745
