Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
President to the Office of Administration,
shall be transferred to the Office of Ad-
ministration.
SEC. 7. (a) The Director of the Office
of Management and Budget shall make
such determinations, issue such orders, and
take all actions necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the transfers or reassignments
provided by this Order, including the
transfer of funds, records, property, and
personnel.
(b) Such transfers shall become effec-
tive on April 1, 1978, or at such earlier
time or times as the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget determines,
after consultation with the Director of the
Office of Administration and other appro-
priate units within the Executive Office
of the President.
The White House,
December 12, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:37 p.m., December 12, 1977]
Career Education Incentive Act
Statement on Signing H.R. 7 Into Law.
December 13, 1977
I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 7,
which authorizes $325 million in Federal
grants over the next 5 years to State and
local education agencies. The purpose of
these grants is to help the agencies im-
prove career education programs in ele-
mentary and secondary schools.
Until now, the Federal Government
has had a very limited role in sponsoring
career education. While expanding that
role, H.R. 7 is designed to ensure that the
State and local education agencies take
the lead in developing and coordinating
better career education programs. Dur-
ing the first 2 years, the programs will be
fully funded by the Federal Government.
After FY '80, there will be a system of
matching grants; in FY '81, the Federal
Government will pay 75 percent of the
cost by this bill; in FY '82, 50 percent;
and in FY '83, 25 percent. After FY '83,
the entire cost will be borne by the State
and local education agencies. By that
time, the programs authorized under this
bill should be well enough established,
and clearly enough under the direction of
the State and local education agencies, to
enable them to continue without Federal
financial support.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 7 is Public Law
95-207, approved December 13.
Rural Health Clinic Services Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 8422 Into Law.
December 13, 1977
At its best, the American health care
system is unsurpassed, but its uneven dis-
tribution leaves millions of our people
without access to adequate care. This
problem affects both urban and rural
areas but is more widespread in the latter;
two-thirds of the people in areas without
adequate health care live in rural
America.
One of the most sensible and efficient
ways to cope with this problem is to en-
able physician assistants and nurse prac-
titioners to provide regular, high-quality
care in small, convenient outpatient
clinics. Through such programs as the
National Health Service Corps and the
Appalachian Regional Commission, the
Federal Government has helped start and
support these clinics and train the highly
skilled professionals who operate them.
2104
