Sept. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
themselves engaged in a never-ending,
losing battle merely to comprehend them,
much less comply with them. Not surpris-
ingly, many of these regulations have been
developed without adequate consultation
with State and local governments.
I have therefore taken the following ac-
tions:
• Consultation with State and local
officials. Early in my administration, I
directed the heads of all executive depart-
ments and agencies to consult with State
and local officials when Federal regula-
tions, budgets, and policy and reorga-
nization proposals were first being for-
mulated. This procedure, a sensible and
long-overdue reform, is now becoming
routine. I further directed each agency
head to make a specific senior official re-
sponsible, fulltime, for consulting with
State and local leaders and for insuring
that their views are reflected in the devel-
opment of departmental policy. These
senior officials are now on the job.
In mid-October, I plan to issue an Ex-
ecutive order which will require agencies
to take positive steps to improve the proc-
ess by which regulations are developed
and issued. This will include soliciting
public advice, including that of affected
State and local governments, early in the
process of developing regulations. It will
also call for the publication of a semi-an-
nual schedule of significant regulations
on which they plan to begin work.
• Limitations on regulation changes
during the program year. From time to
time, there is a legitimate need to change
Federal regulations in the midst of a con-
tinuing program, but there is rarely any
good reason to insist that grantees im-
mediately follow the new rule instead of
the old one. By memorandum to the heads
of all executive departments and agen-
cies, I am today directing that all new reg-
ulations be written to let grantees (at
their own option) complete their program
year by abiding by the regulations which
existed at the beginning, except under ex-
traordinary circumstances.
•
Simplification of existing regula-
tions. It is not enough to improve the
process for drafting new regulations if
existing ones remain complex and contra-
dictory. There are several ways to improve
existing regulations and thereby simplify
Federal aid procedures. Among them are
these:
-Achieve uniformity of administrative
requirements for all the grant pro-
grams administered by a single de-
partment. For example, the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and
Welfare is developing a single set of
application, reporting, auditing, and
payment procedures to replace the
300 separate regulations which now
apply to grants administered there.
-Make the concept of an integrated
grant-in-aid work. The Office of
Management and Budget is now re-
viewing the Joint Funding Simplifi-
cation Act, which act provides a way
for grant recipients to combine
several Federal grant programs in
order to achieve a single objective.
While jointly-funded projects ordi-
narily involve more than one Federal
agency, the Department of Trans-
portation is considering its own ex-
periment in consolidated planning
grants for State and regional or-
ganizations. The program will allow
grantees to receive highway, mass
transit, rail, and airport planning
funds under one grant after meeting
statutory requirements.
-Consolidate grant programs. In con-
nection with both the government re-
organization project and the budget,
we are considering possible major
grant consolidations.
1562
