Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Senate. It's a difficult job, I know, and at
times an unpleasant one, but the price of
failing to enact a comprehensive energy
program is just too high for our Nation.
I think the American people are expect-
ing their Government-the Congress and
the President-to establish an energy
program. And I sincerely hope that the
Senate will not let the American people
be disappointed.
Thank you very much.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
QUESTIONS
SENATE ACTION ON ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, the Senate hasn't
obviously completed action, but on the
basis of their votes in committee and else-
where so far, the difference between them
and the House is so marked, how do you
account for it? Are they less representa-
tive? Are they more susceptible to lobby
pressures? How do you figure it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, I'd
like to point out that no final action has
been taken by the Senate. And there were
times several weeks ago when we were
quite disappointed at the progress that
had been made in the House. As the Mem-
bers of the House of Representatives be-
gan to realize the enormity of the conse-
quences of their timid action and as the
Speaker and other leaders moved forward
to assert their influence, the House acted
responsibly after giving us a disappointing
time for a few weeks.
I think the Senate is now in that pos-
ture. I think the Senate realizes that this
is the major domestic legislative product
that we expect this year. And for us to
devote a full year of work and come out
with an inconsequential or inadequate
energy program is something that I don't
believe the Senate will face. They have
their own reputations to protect.
I think they want to act responsibly.
And I think that it is obvious, in my own
experience in the legislative branch in
Georgia, that the focusing of the powerful
lobby pressure is always on the second
legislative body that has to act, the final
body that has to act. So, there is a tre-
mendous pressure on the Members of the
Senate now from the lobbyists, many of
whom are well-meaning people—I am
not criticizing them necessarily but I
think as they hear the voice of the Ameri-
can people, as they realize the conse-
quences of an absence of courageous ac-
tion, then I think they will move to adopt
the major parts of the program.
The last thing I'd like to say is that
when the Senate acts, we still have what is
in effect a third branch of government to
consider and to exert its will, and that's
the conference committees. And I think
the House is going to be very adamant in
maintaining their position. And the like-
lihood now is that I would be much more
inclined to support the House position,
which is compatible with my own.
So, we still have a long way to go. I'm
not discouraged, but I think my own voice
is helpful in encouraging the American
people to let the Senators know what their
duties are and to encourage them to act
objectively. And I'm sure they will.
GENEVA CONFERENCE
Q. Mr. President, there have been a
lot of confusing statements from the
White House and from leaders who have
seen you recently on where exactly the
United States stands in terms of Pales-
tinian-PLO participation in a Geneva
peace conference, if one comes about.
Can you really clarify this point?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt it-
[laughter]-but I would be glad to try.
What we are trying to do now is-as a
1686
