Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
That's kind of ancient history, I know,
but the reason I brought it up was because
in the next 4 years there are going to be
other decisions that will confront the Gov-
ernor of Virginia that will provide a seri-
ous test of that person's courage. And I
hope that in the Statehouse, represent-
ing you, is a man who cares about you
personally, who is eager to openly debate
the issues that are important to you, that
has a long record of service, that believes
in home rule, that understands business,
balanced budgets, no tax increases, that
can work closely with local and Federal
officials, who casts his lot not with power-
ful and influential people, but directly
with the voters of his State, and a man of
courage, and coincidentally, a man who is
my personal friend and whom I know well.
And that's the man I hope that you'll
help elect Governor this year-Henry
Howell.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:40 p.m. at the
Roanoke Civic Center.
Norfolk, Virginia
Remarks at a Campaign Rally for Democratic
Candidates for State Office.
September 24, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Henry How-
ell. Thank you very much, everybody.
BYSTANDER. That's northern Virginia
over there.
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, northern Virginia.
[Laughter] Thank you, everybody. Let me
get started.
After I got the nomination for the
highest office in the world, my first day I
came to this spot from Warm Springs, and
a brief stop in between and then right
here. And the friendship that you showed
to me here in Henry Howell country, is
something that I'll never forget.
And of course, I watched with a great
deal of interest your recent primary cam-
paign, and I'm very proud of the choices
that you did make for attorney general,
Lieutenant Governor, and for Governor.
You formed a rainbow team that can't be
beat, a rainbow team that will not let you
down, and I'm here to speak for them.
One of my staff members asked me if I
knew what a rainbow team meant. I told
him that when I ran for Governor of
Georgia and was elected, my Lieutenant
Governor was Lester Maddox. [Laughter]
And I had to say that at the end of the
campaign, it was not any way that the
Georgia people could tell which end of
the rainbow I was on. I ran as an individ-
ual and, as has always been the case with
Democrats, provided they are close to the
people, any sort of definition about con-
servative, liberal, moderate, liberal-mod-
erate, moderate-liberal, moderate-con-
servative has very little meaning.
When I ran for President, one of the
first questions I would always get from
the newcomers to the news ranks was,
"Are you a liberal or a conservative?"
My answer has always been, "I vote on
each issue as it arises. I make my judg-
ments on the basis of merit. I remember
who put me in office. And I try to repre-
sent you."
You've got a team on my right that
can represent you well. Ed Lane, as a very
young man, went to the House of Dele-
gates. He's a man who has the backing
and the trust of Virginians of all kinds.
His record is a good one-sound conserva-
tive management, active in the appropria-
tions committee, understands zero-based
budgeting, committed to fairness and
equality for all people—a man who is
eager to see the office of the attorney
general be made more open to serve you.
You couldn't find a better platform. And
my judgment is that he's strong enough,
1656
