July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
quality of your questions has been no sur-
prise to me and, as you can see, they've
covered a wide range of subjects-from
the history of the South to the future of
Vietnam. And this is typical of the in-
tense interest in public affairs that exists
among the American people.
As I said to begin with, I don't claim to
know all the answers. I'm learning every
day. I have a lot of people who believe
in me. I have a lot of people who have
doubts about me. I have a lot of people
who voted for me; a lot who didn't. But
I think it's accurate to say that almost
every American wants to see me succeed
in being a good President. Because to the
extent that I do succeed, your own lives
and those of your families will be better,
freer, and fuller lives.
We are partners in shaping what our
country will be. You are partners with me.
And I hope that I can serve in such a
way that would increase your own con-
fidence in our government, increase your
own confidence in the Federal Govern-
ment, which in the South sometimes has
not been a pleasant phrase, and that I can
convince the American people that the
Government in Washington is your gov-
ernment.
These hopes that I have are dependent
on you for realization. If you withdraw
and lash out and condemn and criticize
your own Government as a general prop-
osition because you don't like one or two
things that happen, our whole country is
weakened.
make mistakes, and your prayers every
day.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:02 p.m. in the
gymnasium of the Yazoo City High School. The
public meeting was broadcast live on the
Public Broadcasting Service.
Prior to his remarks, the President took part
in the dedication of the gymnasium.
Following the meeting, the President spent
the night at the home of Mr. and Mrs. L.
Owen Cooper, Sr., residents of Yazoo City.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters. July 22, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This morning we're go-
ing to confine the press conference to the
visit to the offshore drilling rig, or to the
energy package that's before the Con-
gress.
I have long wanted to visit one of these
remarkable installations and I have been
very pleased not only at the quality of the
machinery, the technology, the electronics
controls, but also with the training of the
crew and the obvious dedication of those
who are searching for oil or gas off our
shores to prevent any recurrence of the
environmental damage that occurred off
the Santa Barbara coast, and recently in
the North Sea.
There has been an enormous amount
of time and effort and engineering skills
in safety devices and controls for poten-
tial spills. And I think that we have made
But to the extent that you participate good progress in that area. I've also been
in the debates and try to correct mistakes
and let us know what you want done in
Washington, and participate with us, to
that extent we'll be a success.
I'll do the best I can not to disappoint
you, and I ask for your support, your ad-
vice, your counsel, your criticisms when I
convinced that American technology in
the drilling exploration for oil is a very
valuable national possession. Throughout
the world, even in other countries there
is a great need for this capability, and I
think that we need to understand as best
we can how the worldwide energy re-
sources can be both husbanded, discov-
1334
