Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 30
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, what is your reaction
to Secretary General Waldheim's sugges-
tion for a post-Cairo, pre-Geneva Middle
East conference at the United Nations or
on some neutral ground?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, Secre-
tary General Waldheim has also agreed
to send a high-level representative to the
conference to be held in Cairo. I don't
know yet what position our country will
take toward a potential meeting at the
United Nations. We've not received any
invitation to it. I noticed in the news this
morning that Israel has said that they
would not participate. But it's too early
for us to decide whether or not we will go
to any conference, if one is actually held
at the United Nations.
Q. Mr. President, Egypt and Israel can
legitimately deal with themselves, but
can Egypt really represent all the other
parties, when they're not even at the con-
ference, and the Palestinians, who have
never had a say in their own political
destiny?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that
President Sadat, in his private communi-
cations with me and even in his public
statements, has said that he is trying as
best he can to represent the Arab position
concerning Israeli withdrawal from occu-
pied territories and also the resolution of
the Palestinian question.
Obviously, the leaders in Syria, even
Jordan, certainly the PLO, have not rec-
ognized that Egypt is speaking for them
adequately. I think, though, that in his
speech to the Knesset, in his followup
speech to the People's Assembly in Egypt,
President Sadat has evoked very clearly
the basic Arab position that I have un-
derstood in my private conversations with
President Asad from Syria and with the
King of Jordan, Hussein.
So, I believe that this is an exploratory
effort that does accurately represent the
basic differences between Israel and all
their neighbors. And the fact that Jor-
dan and Syria have not been willing to
participate, I don't think has dampened
President Sadat's commitment or enthu-
siasm at all. It is constructive, and I think
what he discovers in his already com-
pleted discussions with Prime Minister
Begin and those that might be taking
place in Egypt in the middle of next
month will certainly be conducive to pur-
suing the Arab cause.
I think it's constructive, because for the
first time, the Arab position on those con-
troversial issues has been spelled out very
clearly for worldwide understanding. And
I think the differences that have been
faced by us and others for long years
are now much more clearly understood
by the public. The differences are still
sharp; the resolution of those differences
is going to be very difficult. I think that
to the best of his ability, President Sadat
is speaking for the Arab world.
Q. Mr. President, if the other Arabs
refuse-continue to refuse not to sit down
with Israel, would the United States op-
pose it if Egypt and Israel somehow
worked out some sort of separate agree-
ment? Would that be a good thing, and
what would our position be on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we and Egypt
and Israel have all taken the position,
publicly, and the same position privately
among ourselves, that a separate peace
agreement between Egypt and Israel to
the exclusion of the other parties is not
desirable. This is predicated upon the
very viable hope that a comprehensive
settlement can be reached among all the
parties involved. If at some later date it
becomes obvious that Jordan does not
2055
