Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 15
Federal Judge Frank Johnson be con-
firmed as the new FBI Director, would
you, or have you given any consideration
to nominating Governor George Wallace
to that Federal judgeship?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I haven't given
any consideration to who might fill that
post. We are trying to select Federal
judges on the basis of recommendations
by merit screening committees.
My understanding is that Governor
Wallace has other plans for his own fu-
ture. And to repeat my answer, I have
not given that appointment any consider-
ation.
BERT LANCE
MR. VRIESMAN. Mr. President, this
next question comes from Lewis Brooks
of WSOC-Television in Charlotte, North
Carolina. Are you satisfied with the testi-
mony of Bert Lance thus far this
morning?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not have a
chance to watch Bert Lance as he testi-
fied this morning. I was in meetings
throughout the morning with the Prime
Minister of France. I'll have to depend
upon the news media reports for my
assessment. I have not even seen a copy
of Bert Lance's testimony, which I do
intend to read. So, I'm not prepared at
this point to assess the effectiveness of
his testimony.
PANAMA CANAL
MR. VRIESMAN. Mr. President, this
question is from Michael Collins, WNOV
in South Bend, Indiana. If the Panama
Canal Treaty is not ratified in the Sen-
ate, what effect will this have on our rela-
tions with OAS countries?
THE PRESIDENT. Even before I was in-
augurated, I had messages from eight dif-
ferent heads of state in Latin America
urging me to put as our number one for-
eign policy matter the completion of a
new Panama Canal treaty. For years,
when the Organization of American States
have met together, one of the prime items
on the agenda has been to encourage our
country and Panama to ratify a new
treaty.
This past week we had a demonstra-
tion of support for the treaty terms from
27 different countries in this hemisphere.
And as you probably have noticed in the
news, last week we had 19 heads of state
who took the time to leave their own jobs
and to come to Washington to express
publicly their support for the treaty
terms. I met with all those heads of state
and they considered this to be a crucial
demonstration of our willingness to be
fair.
I think there's a new sense of mutual
purpose. There's also a new sense that
we look upon our Latin American neigh-
bors as equals. I think there's a new sense
that there is a vista of improved friend-
ship and common purpose between us
and our Latin American friends in the
years to come, not based on grants or
loans or financial aid from us to them
but based on the fact that this treaty
corrects a longstanding defect in our
relationship with countries to the south.
If the treaty should not be ratified, I
think there would be very serious inter-
national consequences, not just with Pan-
ama but with all the nations in this hem-
isphere.
We have enjoyed the benefits of the
presently existing treaty for a long time.
No person from Panama ever saw that
treaty before it was signed. No Panama-
nian, of course, was involved in the sign-
ing of that treaty.
1597
