Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 2
tor during the recent checkout phase, our
company anticipates reliable performance
from the reactor. Also, Mr. President, the
Shippingport reactor will be very impor-
tant to us, as we provide electricity to a
half million homes, buildings, and indus-
trial plants in the Pittsburgh area.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Arthur, I
know that the Duquesne Light and Power
Company is very glad to get this supply
of additional electricity from the breeder
reactor. Not only is it a very fine step for-
ward in engineering and technology but
also it has a practical advantage as well.
And Admiral Rickover stated a few
moments ago that this core, which is
unique in its design, is the same configura-
tion and size as the presently existing light
water reactors in the nonbreeder field
and, therefore, can possibly be substituted
in the future. So, I think this again shows
farsighted design.
And I'm very proud to see, also, the
close cooperation between the Govern-
ment on the one hand, the scientific com-
munity on the other, and industry, work-
ing so closely together in such a major
effort.
Congratulations to you and to the
people at Duquesne for cooperating and
also benefiting from this notable achieve-
ment.
MR. ARTHUR. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Mr. President, I
would like to take this occasion now to
present to you a memento of this occasion.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Admiral, you
know-go ahead.
Admiral Rickover. This is a small part
of a grid, a small part of two of the fuel
rods.
The President. Well, I'm very proud
of you, and thank you very much for let-
ting me participate.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. I'm proud of you,
too. [Laughter]
The President. Thank you, sir.
Jim, thanks a lot. I appreciate it.
SECRETARY SCHLESINGER. Thank you,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's a good
day for us all. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:46 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
Shippingport were Adm. Hyman G. Rickover,
Deputy Commander for Nuclear Propulsion,
Naval Sea Systems Command, Department of
the Navy; David Trent Leighton, Associate
Director for Surface Ships and the Light Water
Breeder Reactor, Division of Naval Reactors,
Department of Energy; and Thomas D. Jones
II, superintendent of the Shippingport Atomic
Power Station for the Duquesne Light and
Power Company. William Wegner is Deputy
Director, Division of Naval Reactors, Depart-
ment of Energy.
Attending the ceremony in Washington and
Dam Safety
Statement on the Initiation of a Federal
Inspection Program for Nonfederal Dams.
December 2, 1977
In my press conference this week, I
announced that a safety inspection pro-
gram for nonfederal dams would begin
immediately to help prevent further
tragedies like that at Toccoa Falls.
I have directed the Secretary of the
Army to commence at once the inspection
of more than 9,000 nonfederal dams that
present a high potential for loss of life
and property if they fail. The inspection
program, to be administered by the Corps
of Engineers, will take approximately 4
years. We will make $15 million available
for the program during this fiscal year and
hope to be able to inspect 1,800 non-
federal dams during that year. It is im-
possible to predict the total cost of the
program precisely, but we tentatively esti-
mate it to be $70 million.
2071
