Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 24
I come from the South, as you know.
We are one of the parts of the Nation
who have suffered severely, along with
those who fought in the War Between the
States. And I think Robert E. Lee gave
a good analysis of this duality of feeling
when he said to his wife in a personal
letter, "What a cruel thing is war, to sepa-
rate and destroy families and friends and
mar the purest joys and happiness that
God has granted us in this world, to fill
our hearts with hatred, instead of love,
and to devastate the fair face of this beau-
tiful world."
We are here to commemorate the dead.
The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier was
dedicated in 1921, and the body of an
unknown soldier from the First World
War was buried here. Later, we had the
bodies of unknown soldiers from the
Korean war and the Second World War.
We don't have the body of a Vietnam
veteran, because every body so far dis-
covered has been identified. But they
share in the commemoration of their
heroism perhaps in a special way.
Since the Revolutionary War in 1776,
45 million Americans have been part of
the Armed Forces during conflict. About
140 years after my own family came to
this country, the first James Carter in our
family who lived in Georgia fought in
the Revolutionary War. My great-grand-
parents participated in the War Between
the States. My own father was a first
lieutenant in the First World War. I wore
the uniform of our country during the
second war and the Korean war.
I represent the kind of family that's
close to all your hearts. And the prospect
in the service in war has touched almost
every life in our country. Francis Bacon
said that peace is much better than war,
because in peace, sons bury fathers and
fathers bury sons.
in war,
My son Jack served in Vietnam. And
although I came back from the wars as
something of a hero-although I was not
a hero-my son came back unappreci-
ated, sometimes scorned by his peer group
who did not join in the conflict. And I
think there's a special debt of gratitude
on the part of American people to those
young men and women who served in
Vietnam, because they've not been appre-
ciated enough.
It's difficult enough to fight in a war
that's popular with our people because
of a sense of patriotism and dedication
and gratitude that is a sustaining force
when one's life is threatened to the dan-
ger of combat. But to fight in a self-sacri-
ficial way in Vietnam, when there was
not this depth of gratitude and commit-
ment on the part of the people back
home, is an extremely difficult thing, even
above and beyond the difficulty of previ-
ous wars.
I have a deep sense of this responsi-
bility on me as President. And we've tried,
since Max Cleland has been in office and
since I've been in office, to recommend-
and the Congress has responded well-to
increase Veterans Administration com-
pensation, to increase Veterans Adminis-
tration pensions, to increase GI bill cov-
erage, and to reverse the effort that had
been made to reduce the time during
which Vietnam veterans would qualify
for the GI bill.
When we initiated our jobs program
this year, we put veterans at the top place
in the responsibility to give them gain-
ful employment.
We have with us today a special person,
Chairman George Mahon, who will be
retiring after this term after long service
in Congress. In a speech the other night,
he pointed out that he had fought in the
Congress to allocate more than $2 trillion
for the defense of our country. And I
1901
