Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 27
The negotiators will organize and con-
duct the negotiations in the manner and
in the places which they judge will best
facilitate a settlement.
Negotiations concerning West Coast
salmon will be resumed separately on a
priority basis. The special negotiators
will determine the relationship, if any,
between the courses and outcomes of the
two sets of negotiations.
Cutler was born November 10, 1917,
in New York City. He received an A.B.
(1936) and an LL.B. (1939) from Yale
University. He served in the U.S. Army
from 1942 to 1945.
From 1946 to 1962, Cutler was a part-
ner in the law firm of Cox, Langford,
Stoddard & Cutler. He has been a part-
ner with Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering
since 1962.
Cutler was secretary of the Lawyers
Committee on Civil Rights Under Law
from 1963 to 1965, and cochairman from
1971 to 1973. He was vice chairman of
the Business Leadership Advisory Coun-
cil, Office of Economic Opportunity, in
1963. In 1968 and 1969, he was Execu-
tive Director of the National Commis-
sion on the Causes and Prevention of
Violence.
Visit of Prime Minister
Andreotti of Italy
White House Statement Issued Following the
Conclusion of the Meetings Between the
President and the Prime Minister.
July 27, 1977
Italian Prime Minister Giulio Andre-
otti paid an official visit to Washington
July 26-27 at the invitation of President
Carter. He was accompanied by Foreign
Minister Arnaldo Forlani. The President
gave a White House dinner for the Prime
Minister on July 26 and held two lengthy
conversations with the Italian visitors.
The talks between the President and the
Prime Minister covered a wide range of
political, economic, security, and cultural
issues in which the two nations share an
interest. These discussions were a follow-
on to the meeting between the President
and the Prime Minister in May at the
London summit. The President and the
Prime Minister expressed their intention
to continue the process of close consulta-
tions between the two Governments and
emphasized their basic agreement on ma-
jor issues.
During their meetings, the President
and the Prime Minister discussed East-
West relations, focusing on SALT and
other arms control negotiations; develop-
ments in Europe, with special reference
to the European Community; the situa-
tion in the Mediterranean and the Mid-
dle East; and the upcoming fall meeting
in Belgrade of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. The Presi-
dent and the Prime Minister also dis-
cussed human rights and their role in in-
ternational affairs, agreeing on the desir-
ability of continuing to stress implemen-
tation of these universally accepted values
as an important element in the process of
détente.
The Prime Minister described the Ital-
ian situation in its various aspects. The
President expressed appreciation for
Italy's continued contribution to West-
ern cooperation and Allied solidarity, and
its commitment to democratic institutions.
The President and the Prime Minister
discussed the economic difficulties that
beset many of the industrialized democ-
racies and pledged to work for common
solutions. The two leaders agreed that the
Andreotti government's economic pro-
gram has moved the Italian economy to-
ward greater stability, less inflation, and
a more favorable balance of payments.
They agreed on the need to persevere
1363
