Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
everybody. In our county we have not
been able to get our people interested in
forming a metropolitan housing com-
mission, and so we cannot bring projects
for the low-income. So, they are forced to
live in very poor housing.
And another area that we're lacking is
in minority employment. Minorities,
blacks, Mexican Americans-when they
come to the employment agencies, they're
not given the opportunities for the good
jobs. If you're black, you're offered jobs
to clean. If you're Mexican American,
you're offered the farm work. And I be-
lieve we have the potential also to hold
good jobs if we're given the opportunity.
And also the elderly people, poor peo-
ple, and minority people, they're left
out of the good programs that are offered
to them. I have contact with different
senior centers, and participants come
from backgrounds-like they're profes-
sionals, maybe teachers or people of this
kind. But low-income people are not really
taking advantage of the programs that
are designed to help them.
And also the migrants in my area, they
have many problems. When I was a mi-
grant 20 years ago, Mr. President, the
conditions were bad. And I have worked
with migrants as a volunteer and as a
staff person, and I see the same prob-
lems. There is no change in wages, in
housing. Housing codes are not being en-
forced, and the wages-20 years ago I
used to pick tomatoes-14 cents a basket.
And today, migrants are still being paid
17 cents, which means there's only 4 cents
difference. And all these things I have
brought to you because you are the hope
of the poor people, and you know in
your own capacity what you could do for
poor people in this country.
So, I'm speaking for the poor people
all over the country, and we appeal to
you for your help.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think any-
body could make a better speech, if they
prepared it for a long time, than you
and Mr. Hall have made. And what
makes you so able to express yourself
is because you've been there as a migrant
worker and you see at first hand what
a job means-first of all, what a low-
paid job means, secondly, what an ab-
sence of housing means. And even not
having a home community aggravates all
those other problems.
For someone who is poor, who is a
minority member of our society, but who
has a stable home, there are services
available to them, like public health and
so forth, that are not there if you are a
migrant. One of the things that we are
doing, for instance, is to make sure and
to require that Medicaid and Medicare
provisions be made available to all mi-
grants, which has not been the case in
the past.
I've picked tomatoes by the hamper
myself, and I've picked cotton, and I've
shaken peanuts. And my first home when
I got out of the Navy was in a public
housing project. And I understand, at
least to some degree, the environment
that you have described.
We've made some good progress al-
ready in this first 9 months or so that
I've been in office. The Congress has
cooperated, and I think the Nation will
begin to feel the benefits of what we've
done in the next few months in an in-
creasing degree.
For instance, I just signed this month
a housing and community development
act, which in 3 years will provide about
$122 billion to improve the quality of
housing, both low-rent housing for poor
people and better loans, community de-
velopment projects, and funds that will be
1832
