Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
CIA revelations, the American people had
lost confidence that there was something
here in Washington that they could trust
and admire.
I think the most pleasant surprise to me
has been the worldwide impact of our re-
emphasis on human rights. I really felt
when I came into office that something
needed to be done just to raise a banner
for the American people to admire and of
which they could be proud again. I think
that the emphasis on human personal free-
dom and democratic principles is very im-
portant for us to espouse.
And although a year ago, I think, very
few national leaders anywhere in the
world paid much attention to human
rights, I don't believe there's a single one
out of the roughly 150 that now doesn't
consider, "Before we take action, what is
the world going to think about me,
the way
I'm dealing with political prisoners or out-
migration or the reunification of families
or the persecution of human beings?" I
think the human rights issue has been a
great escalation.
We've also made a major move toward
nonproliferation of nuclear explosives.
And again, I think a year ago there was
great despair in the world about whether
anybody could ever put the nuclear genie
back in the bottle. I think there's a recon-
firmation now of effort on the part of even
countries that have sold reprocessing
plants, like Germany and France, all the
rest of us, to try to stop the spread of nu-
clear explosives and not let it go into na-
tions that haven't had them in the past.
Those are a few things that come to
mind.
AGRICULTURE
Q. Mr. President, I'm a publisher from
South Dakota, and agriculture is my
topic. I'm wondering, what is being con-
sidered in the way of alternate markets
for agricultural products? I notice the
farm strike is focusing on Plains, Georgia,
I presume, to get your attention-
THE PRESIDENT. and also because
we didn't make any crops down there.
[Laughter]
Q. Biomass fuels could offer some par-
tial solution to energy problems as well as
the farm problem.
THE PRESIDENT. That's true.
Q. Could you address that a minute?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place,
as I mentioned briefly in passing, I think
we've got a very good farm bill that was
passed this year, that will be in effect for
the next 5 years. We've had some increase
in farm prices since I came into office.
Corn prices are up about 38 cents-the
last time I checked the market. Wheat
prices are up about 60 cents a bushel com-
pared to when I came into office. I cer-
tainly don't attribute that to the fact that
I'm here. But we have got a Secretary of
Agriculture who's a dirt farmer who un-
derstands the special problems of farmers.
And with the exception of the time I've
served in the Federal (and State) 2 Gov-
ernment, all of my income all my life has
come from the farm. And I have a sense,
too, of what agriculture does need. I think
we've had a very good step forward in
having grow, in the Department of Agri-
culture, a special concern about consum-
ers. We don't have enough farm-sup-
ported Members of Congress to prevail in
a showdown vote. But the more we can let
the average
American consumer who
comes from, perhaps, the urban areas
know how valuable a resource we have in
our land and in our food and fiber pro-
duction, the better off we'll be in prevail-
ing and treating the farmers fairly.
We've got a very good price support,
target prices, that approach the cost of
production, at least in the areas where the
efficiency is high. I think we've got this
2 Printed in the White House press release.
2096
