July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
land stood alone resisting that barbarous
tyranny. And there was a time when the
Soviet armies fought heroically against
the onslaught by the Nazi hordes.
However, whoever studied history does
know and should admit that were it not
for America-for America's might and
America's spirit and faith in justice and
liberty-England would have succumbed,
Russia would have fallen, and then a dark
age would have started, perhaps for many,
many years, perhaps for centuries, man-
kind never knew since the days of Nero
and Caligula.
Ultimately, the United States won the
day for all mankind, and so we were saved
from the dark age under Nazi tyranny.
After the Second World War, Mr.
President, there is no doubt whatsoever
were it not for America, the Soviet armies
long ago would have reached the shores
of the Atlantic Ocean. There wasn't
enough strength in Europe left to with-
stand such a possible onslaught. It was
only because of America that part of man-
kind was saved from Soviet slavery, from
Communist subjugation. This struggle still
goes on, as we can see a tendency to take
over country after country by proxy.
This is the moral greatness of America.
It saved three times, in two generations, in
60 years, all the nations, all mankind. We
free men bow to that greatness of
America.
America knew crisis as well, economic
and moral crisis. But as we follow those
200 years of American history, as we read
Jefferson and the story of Lee and Hamil-
ton and Citizen Tom Paine and the
marvelous life story of Abraham Lin-
coln--who actually renewed all the great
precepts taken from the Bible-when we
follow this wonderful story, we see that
after each crisis America becomes more
democratic, more just, more free, and
more devoted to our human tasks.
Now, with your permission, Mr. Presi-
dent, a few words about little Israel—and
I do not say so for the sake of artificial
modesty we are a very little country. We
shall always be. And in comparison with
America's might, we are a very small, very
small country and people in the Middle
East. However, we rose in suffering and
in heroism.
Sometimes, as I heard today as well,
journalists have an undertone when they
ask me about the Bible. I am not ashamed
to say that I do believe with all my heart
in divine providence. Were it not for
divine providence, where would we be
today or tonight? We were sentenced to
death, all of us, and the life of every one
of us is a present. We could have been
there in the trains and in the camps, as
the wife of my friend and secretary, a
young lady, was, having spent 3 years in
Auschwitz, having looked every day upon
that smoke coming from the chimneys and
knowing what happened.
So we suffered. And when people ask
me about the Bible, then I can say our
generation, my generation, is almost a
Biblical generation.
Of course, we don't dare compare our-
selves with our ancestors. But what was
the Biblical generation? They achieved
everything by suffering and with hero-
ism. They suffered very much until they
reached the Promised Land. And Moses,
the great liberator, wasn't even allowed
to come into the Promised Land.
In great heroism, Joshua was told, "Be
strong spiritually, have courage and faith
against overwhelming odds and forces."
That is our generation. Everything we
achieved was through great suffering, al-
most inhuman suffering, having lost a
mother, a father, a brother, a little
nephew, everything dear and near to you
being bereaved and orphaned; asking the
question, "Wherefore will come my salva-
1290
