Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 18
There are related problems that should
also be reviewed by the Congress in this
effort to ensure that our labor laws fulfill
the promise made to employees and em-
ployers when the Wagner Act was passed
42 years ago that working men and
women who wish to bargain collectively
with their employers, in a way fair to
both, shall have a reasonable and prompt
chance to do so. In that way, the collec-
tive bargaining system, which has served
this country well, can be strengthened for
the benefit both of American workers
and employers.
I have asked the Secretary of Labor to
work closely with the Congress in the
months ahead to explore these and other
possible ways of improving our labor laws.
I ask the Congress to move promptly
to pass legislation implementing the re-
forms I have recommended.
The White House,
July 18, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Soviet Union
Convention on Migratory
Birds
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. July 18, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Conven-
tion between the United States of Ameri-
ca and the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-
publics Concerning the Conservation of
Migratory Birds and Their Environment,
signed at Moscow on November 19, 1976.
In the same manner as other Migra-
tory Bird Conventions which the United
States has with Canada, Japan and Mex-
ico, this Convention provides for inter-
national cooperation in the protection
and preservation of migratory birds. A
fundamental function of this Convention
is the identification of species of birds
which migrate between the United States
and the Soviet Union and species of birds
which, while not actually migratory be-
tween the United States and the Soviet
Union, have populations in both States
and share common flyways or common
breeding, wintering or feeding areas.
With respect to these species of birds the
Parties undertake certain strict manage-
ment procedures as well as an ongoing
interchange of information regarding the
protection of these species.
In addition, as I mentioned in my May
23 Message to Congress on the Environ-
ment, this Convention and the legislation
which will be submitted to implement it
will establish new authority to conserve
the habitats necessary to the survival of
migratory birds. The Convention con-
tains an undertaking by the Parties to list
in an Appendix to the Convention, those
Migratory Bird Habitats of special im-
portance within the areas under their
jurisdiction and, by mutual agreement,
those which are outside the areas under
their jurisdiction.
There are many species of birds which
will benefit from the provisions of this
Convention, which fills a major gap in the
protection of the species of migratory
birds which exists in the United States. I
urge the Senate to act favorably on this
Convention at an early date by giving
its advice and consent to ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 18, 1977.
1279
