Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of the specifics that need to go in the pack-
age to make it effective.
And I think the Congress has shown
a great deal of both hard work, dedica-
tion, and courage in bringing us as far as
they are.
I hope that we'll have the complete
work by the committees and a chance to
vote on the energy package before Christ-
mas. It all depends on unpredictable kinds
of agreements between the House and
Senate conferees.
The other thing is social security. We
faced when I came into office, as was the
case in energy, a longstanding problem
that nobody had been willing to address.
It's not an attractive thing to do to pro-
vide adequate taxes to bring the social
security reserve funds back into a sound
position.
The integrity of the social security sys-
tem is of intense importance to most
Americans. One of the reserve funds
would have gone bankrupt in 2 years, an-
other one probably 2 years, another one
5 years. And the Congress has moved on
that. We now are down to the point of
negotiating on particular subjects, the
most controversial of which have abso-
lutely nothing to do with social security.
But they've been added on to the social
security package, just as a legislative
maneuver, so that they could be con-
sidered not on their own merits but as part
of a package that, because it is attractive,
might not be vetoed by me.
We are trying to cut down on the very
liberal add-on provisions in social security
because somebody has got to pay for it.
And the ones that have to pay for it, of
course, are the families that still have
workers. We are very concerned about this
aspect of social security.
In international affairs, Cy Vance
arrived this morning in Cairo. He's just
attended a NATO conference with all the
European foreign ministers. He'll be going
from Cairo to Jerusalem, and then he'll
be going from there to visit the other
Middle Eastern leaders.
We're trying to hold together as best
we can a commitment that presently ex-
ists in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Egypt, and
Israel to have a comprehensive peace
settlement. I personally believe that the
Sadat visit to Jerusalem has broken
through what seemed to be insurmount-
able obstacles and has greatly clarified the
issues that have to be still addressed.
I believe that Sadat showed a great deal
of courage. And
And my hope and my expec-
tation is that the Israelis will respond
accordingly.
We are trying to keep the door open so
that the Syrians can come into the nego-
tiations later on, the Jordanians the same,
and also the Lebanese. And we hope that
the Saudis, who are not part of the nego-
tiations, will continue their constructive
support of Egypt and give their tacit sup-
port, at least, to the initiatives that Pres-
ident Sadat has taken.
We have good and substantive talks
going on with the Soviet Union on a com-
prehensive approach to prohibiting the
testing of nuclear explosives, a compre-
hensive test ban, for the first time. We had
fairly good progress on that recently. The
SALT negotiations-we are proceeding
on three levels. One is a 3-year protocol
which would temporarily take action. At
the end of 3 years, we'd assess that action
to see if we want to renew it or to modify
it in some degree. A longer agreement, it
would go for about 8 years, and then we
would initiate an outline of what SALT
III would comprise.
My own ultimate goal is to eliminate
the use or threat of nuclear weapons al-
together. And I personally have been
pleased in the last few months, at least
since the summer, at the constructive atti-
2092
