Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
am the director-you know what I am—
and I have all ethnic groups-Hungar-
ians, Latinos, Poles, Appalachian whites,
Mexicans and all of those people are 65
percent, and the black is about 40 percent
in my area, and I also head those organi-
zations.
And there's about 14,000 people in my
little neighborhood, and we need housing,
Mr. President. I will be coming to Wash-
ington next week to see about that again.
We need housing, and we need housing in
that neighborhood, not because people
said, “Oh, you live out there." Everybody
can't live on the boulevard. Everybody
can't live on Woodward. You have got to
live in your respective neighborhoods. And
we urge you to talk to HUD. And HUD
is the people that will make some old
broke-down houses; they don't care where
you live. So, we want you to use your
power to try to help us to get some houses
for low-income families.
THE PRESIDENT. In order to get around
the panel, I am going to make my answers
very brief.
First of all, on the energy special funds
for those that have their power cut off or
their heat cut off, as you know, last year,
quite late in the freezing winter, we came
forward with $200 million under Graciela
Olivarez, who runs the Community Serv-
ices Agency [Administration]. This money
was distributed to the local and State
ernments very efficiently, very effectively,
in a hurry, too late. I've already had
Senator Muskie and Senator Kennedy
come to see me this week saying, "What
about this coming winter?" And I can
promise you that we're not going to be
too late this coming winter.
gov-
On the bilingual approach to many
problems, not just in education—of
course, this is something we are pursuing.
I promised this during the campaign and
will continue with it.
And you mentioned that HUD hasn't
cared where people lived or what kind of
houses they lived in. This may have been
the case in the past, that there have been
housing funds frozen and impounded in
the past. That won't ever happen as long
as I'm in the White House because I know
you'll be watching me too closely. I don't
think we could have a better Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development than
Pat Harris, that we've got now. She's there
with you, she cares about you, and you can
depend on her and me not to let this
happen again.
Thank you very much, Gladys.
Now, Courtney Matthews.
YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT
MR. MATTHEWS. Good afternoon, Mr.
President. My name is Courtney Mat-
thews, and I'm 20 years old. I came to
Detroit in 1966 from Chicago, Illinois.
After I graduated from high school, I
found it necessary that I work in order to
attend college. I worked as a cook and a
custodian and an unskilled laborer at
Chrysler. And then, together with funds
and savings I saved up and my mother's
financial help and a basic opportunity
grant, I was able to attend Tuskeegee In-
stitute for 1 year, before financial forces
forced me to return back to Detroit to
seek employment. Now I live with my
brother and his family. And my sister-in-
law and I were the only ones supporting
the family this summer because my
brother was on disability. Now our pro-
gram is over with, and there's no income
coming into the house at all.
So now, my question is to you: What is
a 20-year-old man to do when he wants
to work and he wants to help his family
and he wants to get a job in a city where
there's no jobs for minority youth at all?
Youth programs like that are our only
jobs we have to look for, where private
1837
