Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
What would happen after that, I have no
idea.
PUBLIC OPINION OF WELFARE
Q. Mr. President, in your statement you
obviously avoided using the word "wel-
fare" except to say the system was a fail-
ure. Does this mean that you believe the
word has become so stigmatized that
under this approach you are advancing
that you hope the word itself would be-
come obsolete rather than rehabilitated?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think there's a
great deal of stigma attached to the word
"welfare." And I can't shape the vocabu-
lary of the Nation, obviously, but we've de-
cided to call this program, during its work
phase, a Program for Better Jobs and In-
come. And this is what we are trying to
do.
I think the people of the country, ac-
cording to my own interaction with them
during the campaign and as President-
and also my information derived from
public opinion polls is that they don't
like the word "welfare," but they do favor
the programs that are provided for poor
people, both those who work and those
who cannot work.
But the abuses are being eliminated in
this program, the abuses that people can
make more money not working on wel-
fare than they do if they get a job; the
abuses that create confusion and complex-
ity and fraud and cheating; the abuses
that divide one member of the family
from the rest of the family. Those are all
being eliminated.
And I think that the elimination of
those adverse parts of the present pro-
gram will do a great deal to restore the
beneficial image of the word "welfare" if
it is used.
PUBLIC SERVICE JOBS
Q. In the interest of those who may
have to go to work, can you spell out what
the kind of jobs you are talking about,
public service jobs, whether minimum
wage-something like that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The basic public
service job will be at the minimum wage.
If a local government or a State govern-
ment supplements the basic payment for
those who cannot work, then they are re-
quired to supplement the minimum wage
salary.
The reason for that is that we don't
want the welfare payment or the income
payment for those who don't work to be
above what a person could get if they
worked. But now this can only amount to
10 percent, approximately 10 percent. So,
these jobs will be at the minimum wage
or slightly above the minimum wage.
Q. Is this like the WPA-or what kind
of public service jobs? Like what occu-
pation? Cleaning up roadsides?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there would
be a wide range of jobs, working in cen-
ters for the elderly, teachers aides, per-
haps, when desired, jobs providing for
the beauty and cleanliness of municipali-
ties or the countryside, almost any kind
of jobs. I think the delineation of what
particular job would be envisioned would
depend upon the person's capabilities and
the needs within the local community. But
there will always be a heavy stimulus to
move that person out of the public service
job into a permanent job, either in the
local or State government or preferably in
the private sector.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I might add that both Secretaries Cali-
fano and Marshall will be here now to
answer additional questions and to cor-
rect any errors I may have made.
[Laughter]
NOTE: President Carter's thirteenth news con-
ference began at 10 a.m. at the Southwest Geor-
gia Branch Experiment Station, in Plains, Ga.
It was broadcast live on radio and television.
1450
