Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 5
Service Commission, it is hereby ordered officials including the Federal Labor
as follows:
Relations Council.
SECTION 1. The following functions
which heretofore have been performed by
the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, either alone or in con-
junction with the United States Civil
Service Commission, are hereby reas-
signed and delegated to the United States
Civil Service Commission:
(a) Providing overall Executive Branch
leadership, regulation, and guidance in
executive personnel selection, develop-
ment, and management including:
(1) Devising and establishing programs
and encouraging agencies to devise and
establish programs to forecast the need
for career executive talent and to select,
train, develop, motivate, deploy and eval-
uate the men and women who make up
the top ranks of Federal civil service;
(2) Initiating and leading efforts to
ensure that potential executive talent is
identified, developed and well utilized
throughout the Executive Branch and;
(3) Ensuring that executive training
and motivation meet current and future
needs.
(b) Studying and reporting on issues
relating to position classification and the
compensation of Federal civilian em-
ployees, including linkages among pay
systems, and providing reports on average
grade levels, work-years and personnel
costs of Federal civilian employees.
(c) Providing primary Executive
Branch leadership in (1) developing and
reviewing a program of policy guidance
to departments and agencies for the orga-
nization of management's responsibility
under the Federal Labor Relations pro-
gram; and (2) monitoring issues and
trends in labor management relations for
referral to appropriate Executive Branch
SEC. 2. Section 1 of Executive Order
No. 11541, as amended, is further
amended by adding thereto the following
new subsection:
"(d) The delegation to the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget of
the following executive development and
personnel functions (which have been
transferred to the Civil Service Commis-
sion) is terminated on December 4, 1977:
(1) Providing overall Executive
Branch leadership, regulation, and
guidance in executive personnel selec-
tion, development and management.
(2) Studying and reporting on issues
relating to position classification and
the compensation of Federal civilian
employees, including linkages among
pay systems, and providing reports on
average grade levels, work-years and
personnel costs of Federal civilian
employees.
(3) Providing primary Executive
Branch leadership in (i) developing
and reviewing a program of policy
guidance to departments and agencies
for the organization of management re-
sponsibility under the Federal Labor
Relations program; and (ii) monitor-
ing issues and trends in labor manage-
ment relations for referral to appro-
priate Executive Branch officials in-
cluding the Federal Labor Relations
Council.".
SEC. 3. Executive Order No. 11491, as
amended, is further amended by amend-
ing Section 25 (a) to read as follows:
"The Civil Service Commission, in con-
junction with the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, shall estab-
lish and maintain a program for the pol-
icy guidance of agencies on labor-man-
agement relations in the Federal service
and shall periodically review the imple-
2081
