July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN
Q. Mr. President, isn't there a basic
conflict between all the talk of progress
we heard around here during the Begin
visit and at the time he left, and the first
action that he took upon returning to Is-
rael and the rejection of the idea that
we could have any influence over what
moves he might make to the West Bank
settlements?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's not
fair to overly criticize Prime Minister Be-
gin. The fact is that under the previous
Mapai Coalition, the labor government,
that settlements have been built there, a
fairly large number. The number of peo-
ple involved is quite small. And this is not
a new thing. I think it would be a mistake
to overemphasize it or to exaggerate the
significance of it. We feel that
any restraint
that Prime Minister Begin might want to
exert on this subject would certainly be
contributory toward peace.
I think he's in a position now of great
strength in Israel. I think that his voice
would be honored by the Israeli people.
But he, like myself, has run on campaign
commitments, and I think he's trying to
accommodate the interest of peace as best
he can. That doesn't mean that the settle-
ments are right, but I think it would not
be proper to castigate him unnecessarily
about it because he's continuing policies
that have been extant in Israel for a long
time. And the Israeli Government has
never claimed that these settlements are
permanent. What they have done is to say
that they are legal at the present time.
I think that that's all I know about the
subject, and that's certainly all that I'm
going to say now.
Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling, Jr.,
Christian Science Monitor].
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Mr. President, on your assessment
of your first 6 months in office, I under-
stand that you have said that you feel that,
overall, your performance was good. But
did you-
THE PRESIDENT. That's a biased ex-
pression. But go ahead. [Laughter]
Q. Anyway, did you do anything
wrong, did you do anything that you
would like to do differently, if you could
do it over again?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, every
day I make hundreds of decisions that in
the light of subsequent events, in dealing
with the Congress, in dealing with local
and State governments, proposals that
were rejected, slight amendments that
could have been more acceptable, an in-
advertent oversight in not calling a con-
gressional committee chairman ahead of
time before I made a public statement-
those kinds of things always you would
want to undo.
I think, though, that the final judgment
would have to be the results of this year's
work, at the time the Congress adjourns,
hopefully, in October. In general, I think
the Congress has responded well to my
proposals. I think the results of their work
have already been very good.
So, in minor things, obviously, I've made
mistakes. But to be perfectly frank, I don't
personally care to point them out.
[Laughter]
first 6 months that in your opinion will
Q. Have you learned anything in the
make you a better President in the next
6 months?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so. I've
learned-
Q. What?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the major is-
sue that I'll point out that I've done be-
fore is I've learned how to work much
more harmoniously with the Congress. I
have been amazed at how hard the Con-
gress works. Their results so far, I believe,
are unprecedented: in having passed all
of the major elements of the appropria-
1370
