Nov. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
legal staff and own accounting firms and
so forth, that work just within them.
We are trying to cut back on that. I set
a goal for this first fiscal year, up to Oc-
tober 1, to cut back 7 million man-hours
on the time required to process reports
coming into the Government.
We tried to abbreviate the reports, to
eliminate those that we could, to cut out
duplication from one department to an-
other where the same information is re-
quired by the Federal Government, to
two or three different departments from a
single businessperson and, also, to les-
sen the frequency of the reports. Some-
times when they are required quarterly,
we are changing it to semiannually or an-
nually; when they're required monthly,
we're changing them to quarterly and
sometimes semiannually.
So, 7 million was our goal. In one de-
partment alone, the Department of
HEW, they have already cut back 14
million man-hours. So that's a 33-percent
cutback. So, we are trying to do some
things for small business there, because I
know from experience how onerous and
burdensome it is.
I might say that I know that a lot of
your readers are concerned about the
minimum wage being increased. But his-
torically, we have had the minimum wage
stay at a level of about 50 percent or 52
percent of the prevailing manufacturer's
wage, and we've always let it get be-
hind 5, 6, 7 years, and then Congress will
pass a law to let it catch up to the rough-
ly 50-percent, 52-percent level. That's
what we've done this year.
And on social security, we had no al-
ternative. I inherited a lot of problems,
and of course, all my predecessors have
inherited problems, too. I'm not com-
plaining about it. But we were faced with
the fact that the medical fund part of the
social security is going to go bankrupt in
1979; the old age portion of the Social
Security Fund is going to go bankrupt in
1983, unless we do something. So, we put
forward a minimum increase in tax pay-
ments to support the Social Security
Funds that we could evolve. And as I
mentioned when the national news media
were in here, what the Congress has done
is added a great and very liberal group
of benefits to the social security payments.
Well, you can justify all of them, but
somebody has got to pay for them. And
as the conferees work on this question in
the next few weeks, we are trying to hold
down those benefits that we didn't recom-
mend in the first place and, also, at the
same time, obviously hold down our con-
tributions to them.
I mentioned minimum wage and so-
cial security because that was the two ex-
amples that you described.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Mr. President, I was impressed with
the moderation of the tone of your energy
message Tuesday night. Have you been
able to measure its effect on the con-
ferees?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, the fire-
side chat format is not a proper one for
going into specific details on the techni-
calities of the law. It's designed-that
particular speech was designed to let the
American people know about the serious-
ness of our energy problem and some of
the prospects for even worse problems in
the future, unless we took action.
Also, when I made the speech in April,
I didn't cover the impact of the very high
imports on our Nation's economy and as
it affects the average American family. I
wanted to pursue that as well. What the
Congress leaders wanted me to do is exact-
ly what I did. I had met with Senator
Byrd, with Tip O'Neill, Senator Long,
Dingell, Staggers, and others. What they
2016
