Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 15
with a comprehensive energy package.
We're proceeding now with the reorgani-
zation of the executive branch of Govern-
ment, and I'll present tax reform proposals
to the Congress before they go home this
October.
So, I could go on and on listing impor-
tant measures that come before me here in
the Oval Office, where I'm sitting. But
perhaps now it would be best to take your
questions on these or any other items. I'll
try to keep my answers brief so that we
can get in as many questions as possible.
QUESTIONS
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, I'm John Salisbury,
news director for radio station KXL in
Portland, Oregon. Last week, Senator
Mark Hatfield-last weekend-defended
Bert Lance as the best Director of the
Office of Management and Budget in
some time. And at the same time Hatfield
blasted the media, particularly the Wash-
ington press, for overkill in the Lance
case. Do you believe the press has been
unfair and overzealous in this reporting
of the Lance situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I had breakfast this
morning with Senator Hatfield and a
group of Republican Members of the Sen-
ate. I think, in general, the press has been
fair. There have been some instances
when, within the realm of my own specific
knowledge, distortions have been put to
the American people through the press,
through the news media. Also, there have
been overemphases placed on minor
items.
And it's very difficult in the past to
ensure that Mr. Lance has a chance to
answer allegations, some of which had no
foundation in fact. Today and tomorrow,
as you know, Bert Lance is being given
a chance to respond to the charges and
allegations against him. And I think, as
has been the case in the past, the press
will go into as much detail as they can to
give him an opportunity to present his
views.
So, in general, I think the press has
been fair. They've been very committed
to digging up every possible fact about
Bert Lance's past, also to publicize allega-
tions. And now he's being given a chance
to answer those allegations. So, I think
Bert, at the end of this week, will have
had a chance to pretty well balance the
picture as far as his case is concerned.
WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY
Q. Mr. President, I am Curtis Beckman
of WCCO-Radio in Minneapolis-St.
Paul. Something very important to this
crew happened in the last couple of days
in the White House, and it involves Jody
Powell, your Press Secretary, and his com-
ment and tip to the Chicago Sun-Times.
The question is, were you aware of that
comment before it was made? What is
your response to what has happened
since?
THE PRESIDENT. When Jody Powell
found out about the revelation of his dis-
closure to the press, he came and told me
it was inappropriate, inexcusable, and
dumb. And I told him that I agreed with
all three characterizations of his state-
ment. He has not denied that he made
that statement to the press.
I was certainly not informed about the
fact that he was going to call the Sun-
Times, the New York Times, or anyone
else. I think it was a regrettable incident,
and I believe that Jody has recognized
the inadvisability of his action and has
not only apologized publicly but has
called Senator Percy and apologized to
Senator Percy, as well.
This is one of those embarrassing things
that, of course, has been difficult to ex-
plain once it was revealed. But I think
that this has been an additional element
1595
