Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 28
I think at this time we'll limit our
United Nations sanctions to an arms em-
bargo and we hope that will make prog-
ress with the South Africans' attitude to-
ward the rest of the world and toward
their own people.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS AND INDOCHINA
REFUGEES
Q. Mr. President, I'm Jim Gill with
the Hemet, California, News. My ques-
tion is, on the West Coast and the four
border States in the Southwest, we are
very perturbed over the Government's
position in allowing many people from the
Asiatic countries, particularly the bring-
ing of thousands of entire families from
Vietnam to the United States, plus the
thousands of illegal aliens in the United
States from Mexico every month.
This migration, we think, has reached a
breaking point when the unemployment
of our own citizens and their care con-
tinues to soar. What are your plans to halt
this situation so we can take care of our
own citizens first?
THE PRESIDENT. You've covered two
very important issues. On the subject of
illegal aliens from Mexico, from China,
and from many other nations around the
world, for the first time, so far as I know,
of any administration, we have submitted
to the Congress for consideration a very
strong, I think, very adequate legislation.
I hope the Congress will pass it next
year. It's supported by a wide range of
Members of the Congress-Peter Rodino
in the House and his committee, working
with Congressman Eilberg, and in the
Senate, Senator Eastland from Mississippi
and Senator Kennedy from Massachusetts
are joint sponsors of the legislation.
This would provide an inventory,
through registration of those illegal aliens
who are already in our country, and
tighten up considerably on border control.
And I believe for the first time, we'll have
a handle on a rapidly increasing problem
for our country.
It's controversial legislation. We're try-
ing at the same time to protect the basic
civil rights of those who are of Chinese or
Mexican descent and who have legal
rights to be in this country. We don't
want them to feel any sign of discrimina-
tion on employment and so forth.
On the Southeastern Asian refugees, as
you know, this is a fairly tiny group. And
in the past, immediately after the Viet-
nam war and the war in Laos and Cam-
bodia, our country accepted about 150,-
000 of these refugees. We encouraged
other nations to do the same. The only ex-
pansion of this will be for about 15,000 of
those kinds of refugees who have been liv-
ing on boats for many years. And the Con-
gress has just recently signed or passed a
law, which I've signed, authorizing these
to come in.
That's a tiny portion of the people who
have suffered so severely in that area. We
are providing for them language instruc-
tion, vocation-technical training, and also
job counseling, to make sure that the im-
pact on the labor markets are not ex-
cessive.
I think this is a proper thing to do. I do
support it. But as far as our national popu-
lation is concerned, it's a tiny portion of
the problem that we have-150,000. The
illegal alien problem, though, is one that
consists of 7 or 8 million, perhaps, and is a
profound problem. But I hope that the
Congress next year will take our own ad-
vice, and I believe that this legislation we
have proposed and which is widely sup-
ported will be passed.
FEDERAL TERMS OF OFFICE
Q. Mr. President, I'm Milton Chilcott
with the Sheridan, Wyoming, Press. My
question is, many Americans suggest that
limitation of the Presidential term, as well
1923
