Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 22
I might point out initial to that we have
already advocated to the Congress or rec-
ommended to the Congress some addi-
tional improvements that I haven't
mentioned yet. One, of course, is to re-
move from the food stamp program the
requirement that cash money be put up
to get food stamps.
We have removed that requirement,
and I believe the Congress is going to go
along with it. So, the overall approach
for the welfare recipient is to make their
income surer, higher, with better housing,
better health care, and, at the same time,
a constant opportunity for people within
that family to get off dependence on wel-
fare if they are able and willing and to
have a productive job where there is no
limit on that family's income.
ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL RIGHTS LAWS
MR. AGURS. If I might shift the focus,
the U.S. Civil Rights Commission in a
recent report found a serious lack of ad-
ministrative force behind the enforcement
of civil rights laws and recommended that
you appoint an individual whose sole re-
sponsibility would be a carrying out of
legal mandates regarding individual
rights. My question is: What is your re-
action to their finding, and what do you
plan to do with their recommendation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think their findings
were very helpful to the whole Nation and
certainly to me. As you probably know,
the person that I have placed in charge of
the equal opportunity commission, El-
eanor Holmes Norton, is a very well ex-
perienced black woman, whose reputa-
tion is one of complete commitment to
rooting out discrimination and making
sure that corrective action is taken. The
Solicitor General, who works within the
Justice Department, Wade McCree, hap-
pens to be a black judge from Detroit.
His reputation as someone who will root
out discrimination is superb. And at the
same time in many other major depart-
ments of Government, in HEW, for in-
stance, we have tried to do the same thing.
So, I don't think it would be better to
have one person, for instance, working
in the White House here, who would be
responsible for civil rights, but the best
thing to do is to have the prosecutor in
the Justice Department, top officials in
the equal opportunity commission, civil
rights commission of HEW, working at
this problem from a wide range of power
bases.
One place, as I mentioned earlier, that
has in the past been a root of discrimina-
tion is in the Armed Forces where many
young men now volunteer to serve our
country in danger to their lives. I thought
the best approach to that would be to ap-
point, for instance, a black man to be the
Secretary of the Army. This has been an
unheard of thing in the past.
So, I believe that in general the Civil
Rights Commission did point out areas
of discrimination. They did recommend
that the sensitive people be put in at the
top of these agencies responsible for cor-
rection of discrimination, and I think the
ones I have appointed will do a good job.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAMS
MR. SANDERS. Mr. President, the Uni-
versity of California v. Bakke-the Allen
Bakke case is a formidable threat to most
of the affirmative action programs that
we have seen in the past. How far are you
willing to go with your influence here at
the White House to see that that case
does not reverse some of the gains that
have been made?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had a discus-
sion with both the Secretary of HEW,
Mr. Califano, and the Attorney General
1345
