Aug. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
fessor at Brooklyn Law School since 1973.
She has been a member of the American
Bar Association Committee on Securities
Regulation since 1973. She has also
served on the New York City Bar Asso-
ciation's Committee on Securities Regu-
lation and Committee on Administrative
Law, and is presently on its Committee
on Professional Responsibility.
budget of the proposed agency is only $15
million. In his letter, Lance said, "Prompt
congressional action on the consumer
agency legislation will result not only in
more efficient conduct of consumer rep-
resentation functions, but also in a savings
to American taxpayers."
Esther Peterson, Special Assistant to the
President for Consumer Affairs, said "to-
She is the author of numerous articles day's release of the consumer reorganiza-
in legal journals.
Consumer Agency Legislation
Announcement of a Proposal for Establishing
the Agency. August 1, 1977
Today, a proposal for establishing the
Agency for Consumer Protection entirely
from existing resources was sent to Con-
gress by Bert Lance, Director of the Office
of Management and Budget. It will go
into effect when the pending consumer
bill becomes law.
tion proposal will answer charges of some
opponents of the bill that the new agency
will create more bureaucracy at increased
cost."
The legislation currently provides that
the President submit a consumer reor-
ganization plan to the Congress within
180 days after passage of the bill. Release
of the elements of the proposed plan now
will "give a concerned Congress advance
knowledge of the President's proposal and
the information needed to make a positive
decision on this bill," Peterson said.
NOTE: The White House press release also in-
cluded the text of the letter which was sent to
the Speaker of the House and the President
of the Senate by Mr. Lance.
The proposal would eliminate or merge
26 Government units that the President's
Reorganization Project at OMB has
identified as overlapping, duplicating, or
conflicting with the functions of the National Energy Plan
new agency. These units currently spend
$11.6 million annually and employ more
than 200 people.
In anticipation of passage of the con-
sumer agency legislation, President Car-
ter also will direct all executive depart-
ments and agencies to rescind their so-
called consumer representation plans.
These plans, which cost $8.5 million to
implement and maintain, were drawn up
by the previous administration in an at-
tempt to forestall creation of the consumer
agency. The President has directed OMB
to eliminate these funds in the next budget
period.
In all, these actions will make more
than $20 million available. The first year
Statement on Pending Legislation.
August 1, 1977
I deeply appreciate the efforts of the
House leadership in moving the National
Energy Plan forward for consideration by
the full House in record time. I particu-
larly want to commend Speaker O'Neill,
Chairman Ashley of the Ad Hoc Energy
Committee, Chairman Ullman of the
Ways and Means Committee, Chairman
Staggers of the Interstate and Foreign
Commerce Committee, and Chairman
Dingell of the Energy and Power Sub-
committee, as well as many other commit-
tee chairmen and members. Each of
these members themselves have shown, by
1396
