Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 14
Presidential Domestic Policy
Review System
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
September 14, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Establishment of the Presidential
Domestic Policy Review System
The Presidential Domestic Policy Re-
view System is hereby established to coor-
dinate the work of the Departments and
Agencies in developing the Administra-
tion's position on selected key domestic
policy issues.
Objectives
This System was recommended in the
Reorganization Project's report on the
Executive Office of the President as a
means to ensure greater Department and
Agency participation in the domestic pol-
icy decision process. The System's prin-
cipal objectives are to:
-Ensure that the full resources of gov-
ernment are brought to bear on par-
ticular domestic issues in a timely
manner;
-Provide a full range of realistic and
properly staffed options on an issue;
-Encourage advance planning and
priority setting to promote coordina-
tion among issues;
-Establish procedures to ensure that
Departments and Agencies have the
opportunity to comment on issues
relevant to their expertise and policy
responsibilities; and,
-Provide for systematic follow-up on
Presidential decisions.
Memoranda and Procedures
The System will make use of the fol-
lowing memoranda and procedures:
-Issue Definition Memorandum
Issues for inclusion in the Domestic Pol-
icy Review System will be selected
through an Issue Definition Memoran-
dum submitted for Presidential approval
by the Assistant to the President for Do-
mestic Affairs and Policy (at his initiative
or the request of a Department or
Agency) after full consultation with the
Vice President, all affected Departments,
Agencies, and senior Presidential advisers.
The Issue Definition Memorandum will
briefly state the questions to be covered
and the Agencies to be involved, and shall
designate a lead Agency and the mem-
bership of a coordinating committee at
the Cabinet or sub-Cabinet level-includ-
ing representatives of all participating
Agencies. The memorandum shall include
a date for submission of a Response to the
memorandum. Upon Presidential ap-
proval, the Issue Definition Memoran-
dum will serve as a directive for analysis
to begin on the questions defined.
-Response Memorandum
The lead Agency will take responsibility,
in coordination with the Domestic Policy
Staff and with the full assistance and co-
operation of participating Agencies, for
development of a Response Memoran-
dum providing background, analysis of
decision options, and Agency recommen-
dations on questions identified in the Issue
Definition Memorandum. The Response
Memorandum should analyze the issues
set forth in the Issue Definition Memo-
randum and, in doing so, reflect the views
of all Agencies represented on the review
committee, as well as any other Agencies
affected by the Memorandum.
1589
