Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 26
to use an interpreter. [Laughter] We've
made out much better since then.
There have been a lot of things that
have made the Italian-Americans famous
in our country. One of them was my ac-
ceptance speech at the Democratic Con-
vention. [Laughter]
Afterwards, I went to an Italian-Amer-
ican appreciation banquet. And as a nor-
mal outgrowth of the fact that Rome was
a republic 2,000 years ago and the fact
that within the consciousness of Italians
and their descendants there has been a
strong commitment to orderly govern-
ment, a deep sense of justice, truth, integ-
rity, and a commitment to public service,
I was there when the two most famous
men in our Nation were recognized, along
with some others, Judge John Sirica and
Peter Rodino.
And I think it's accurate to say that it
was not a coincidence that these Amer-
icans of Italian descent were the ones
who-in a time of great challenge to our
very system of government based on
human freedom and the democratic proc-
ess-that they stood tall and strong and
reinspired our people to believe in our
own system of government. And I par-
ticularly want to thank Peter Rodino,
who's here, and my good friend, John
Sirica, for that wonderful accomplish-
ment.
That particular evening was during the
general election contest. I had a chance
to say a few words. I was very happy to
introduce to several thousand Italian-
Americans my runningmate, Fritz “Mon-
dalli." [Laughter]
I think because of that and other
reasons, we made out very well with
Italian-Americans. But when we began to
prepare the guest list for this evening,
Rosalynn and I and all those who helped
to make arrangements for this banquet
were impressed at the overwhelming num-
ber of Italian-Americans who have been
an inspiration to us all, both those who
are famous and those who are not very
famous, and a re-awareness of the strong
ties of heritage and kinship and friend-
ship that has bound our countries
together.
I'm very new at this job, as you know.
But I've had a chance to learn from the
experienced leaders who have, through
long years of public service, learned them-
selves about the proper interrelationships
between nations and the unchanging
trends of history and the challenge that
befalls democratic governments and how
successfully to meet those challenges.
I was listening a few minutes ago to a
very famous economist who is sitting at
our table, Dr. Modigliani. And he has
recently published an article in one of the
famous Italian newspapers, pointing out
that the government of Prime Minister
Andreotti is, in his opinion, the first one
in 20 years who's really moving that coun-
try and inspiring the people and correct-
ing defects and carving out for the future
a bright outlook on the prospects of
the Italian people for maintaining their
strength, economically and politically,
and preserving their tremendous influ-
ence that's beneficial to the rest of the
free world.
I've learned a lot from Prime Minister
Andreotti, who's become a very close per-
sonal friend of mine. He's served, as I said
in my welcoming remarks today, in many
parts of government. I can't recall them
all, but a little more than 30 years ago
he began his service as Under Secretary
of State. He served as Secretary of Fi-
nance and Treasury and Defense and
Commerce and has managed the budget
of Italy. And has been a solid and a very
inspired leader for the people of Italy.
Several years ago, there was a great con-
cern throughout the free world that the
economic circumstances in Italy might de-
teriorate rapidly and be a stumbling block
1359
