Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
But I have seen good progress made.
I think it was either October or Novem-
ber we added 900,000 new jobs, but there
were just about that many new people
who came into the labor market that
month. Nobody anticipated that.
One reason for that is that as people
see their neighbors getting jobs, who had
been unemployed for a long time, then
housewives or students who are still in
high school and others apply for jobs and
they become part of the labor market,
which makes the unemployment rate stay
high even though employment goes up to
the highest level in the history of our
Nation.
MR. MACNEIL. Go ahead, Barbara.
CRITICISM OF THE PRESIDENT
Ms. WALTERS. Mr. President, it's al-
most the end of your first year in office,
and it's almost New Year's Eve, and
that's the time for people to take stock.
And maybe when they take stock, they
are a little more critical than they should
be. However, I would like to give you a
list of people who currently say that they
are unhappy about you.
that
Labor is unhappy, because they say
you are dragging your feet on the medi-
cal insurance bill and on full employment.
Business has said it's unhappy; they just
don't have confidence in you. The blacks
are unhappy, again because of full em-
ployment and the lack of it and what
Robin just brought out. And I talked with
Vernon Jordan, who had expressed his
unhappiness with you last July and still
feels the same way, he says. Many women
are unhappy because of your stand on
Federal aid to abortion, and there aren't
enough women appointed to administra-
tion posts. Striking farmers are rolling
up their tractors in Plains. [Laughter]
Who is your constituency, or to put it an-
other way, who's happy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Barbara, I
think this is inherent and almost inevi-
table in a free nation like ours. The news
media legitimately reports the disharmony
and the arguments and the debates be-
cause they are more exciting than the
achievements.
It's good for us to remember at the
end of this year that we live in the strong-
est nation on Earth-militarily the
strongest, economically the strongest, po-
litically the strongest—a nation that is a
leader worldwide, that's trusted, that's
making progress, dealing with the devel-
oping nations, the Western European
nations, Latin America, making progress
toward controlling atomic weapons.
Domestically, God has blessed us with
tremendous natural resources, a free en-
terprise system that lets people benefit
from their own contributions, their own
initiative.
We have so much in common. We are
a nation of highly diverse people, differ-
ent people, but we are one people, and
we've come from almost nothing 200
years ago to this position of sustained
leadership and prosperity. The standard
of living in our country for even the poor-
est person far exceeds the average living
standard in many nations of the world.
We are unselfish. And I think the threat
to our country is that we might, in grasp-
ing for advantage or in emphasizing dif-
ferences, lose that sense of common com-
mitment and common purpose and a com-
mon future that binds us together and
makes us great.
I don't have any fear about the future.
I think that when I make mistakes or
when the Congress makes mistakes or
when we delay in solving apparently in-
soluble questions, our country is so strong
and so vital and the people are bound
together so closely that we can prevail in
any case.
2199
