Dec. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
social security system has been in doubt.
This was an unanticipated drain on the
resources of the reserve funds.
When I campaigned throughout the
country for 2 years, one of the most fre-
quent questions asked me by working fam-
ily members and also by those who had al-
ready retired was what can be done to as-
sure us that the integrity of the social se-
curity system will be maintained. It's a
very difficult issue.
It is never easy for a politically elected
person to raise taxes. But the Congress has
shown sound judgment and political cour-
age in restoring the social security system
to a sound basis.
This legislation is wise. It's been
evolved after very careful and long prepa-
ration. It focuses the increased tax bur-
dens, which were absolutely mandatory,
in a way that is of least burden to the fam-
ilies of this Nation who are most in need
of a sound income.
The level of payments were raised for
those who are wealthier in our country
where they can most easily afford in-
creased payments. In the past they've
avoided the rate being applied to their
much higher income than the average
working family.
At the same time, the Congress has re-
moved the unnecessarily stringent limits
on how much a retired person can earn
and still draw [from] the social security
system for which that person has paid
during his or her working years. The limit
will now be increased to $6,000-per-year
income over 2 or 3 years without losing
social security benefits.
This legislation also moves to eliminate
discrimination because of sex. It removes
references to the sex of the recipient.
The most important thing, of course,
is that without this legislation, the social
security reserve funds would have begun
to be bankrupt in just a year or two, by
1979. Now this legislation will guarantee
that from 1980 to the year 2030, the so-
cial security funds will be sound.
I want to congratulate the congres-
sional leaders assembled behind me here—
the chairmen of the appropriate commit-
tees, Senator Long, Ullman, Tip O'Neill,
our Speaker, Bob Byrd, Senator Nelson,
and many other Members who have
worked so long and hard to guarantee that
this legislation might be passed. It was not
an easy task, but I believe that everyone
in this Nation who values the concept of
social security has been well served. And
I want to thank these courageous and far-
sighted congressional leaders for their bold
and appropriate action.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 9346
into law.]
Well, Mr. Chairmen, you all did a good
job.
REPRESENTATIVE TUCKER. Mr. Presi-
dent, I am flattered. I guess as one of the
younger members of this crowd and of
the Congress-
THE PRESIDENT. You'll pay more into
the system. [Laughter]
RepresentativE TUCKER. That's right.
Frankly, I hope the time is not too far
distant when I can pay more on my own
salary, as younger people all over the
country have to pay on their salary.
My father was manager of the social
security system in Arkansas all of my life
before his death. I grew up with a respect
and understanding of social security and
its importance for the working people of
this country.
And I am very proud that it was a
Democratic President, Democratic com-
mittee chairmen, Democratic congres-
sional leaders, and a Democratic adminis-
tration that could give us this painful but
absolutely necessary help to the social
security system of this country. It's why I
supported you and voted for you. I knew
2154
