Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE MIDDLE EAST
The other comment I'd like to make is
concerning the Middle East. In the last
few days we have seen, I believe, an his-
toric breakthrough in the search for a
permanent, lasting peace in the Middle
East because of the true leadership qual-
ities that have been exhibited by the
courage of President Sadat and the gra-
cious reception of him in Israel by Prime
Minister Begin.
This has been, already, a tremendous
accomplishment. I think the importance
of it is that there has been an initiation
of direct, person-to-person negotiations
between Israel and the major power in
the Mideast among the Arab nations who
are Israel's neighbors. Lebanon, Syria,
Jordan have a total population of about
12 million; Egypt has a population of 36
million and has by far the greatest mili-
tary force. And the fact that this strong-
est Arab country and the nation of Israel
are now conducting direct negotiations
is a major accomplishment in itself.
Two of Israel's most cherished desires
have already been met. One is this face-
to-face negotiation possibility, and the
other one is a recognition by a major
Arab leader that Israel has a right to
exist. In fact, President Sadat said, "We
welcome you in our midst.”
The United States has been very
pleased to see this reduction in distrust
and a reduction in fear and a reduction
in suspicion between the Arabs and the
Israelis. We have played a close consul-
tative role with both of these leaders. We
have, on several instances recently, acted
as intermediaries at their request. Both
Prime Minister Begin and President
Sadat have publicly expressed their re-
confirmation that these exploratory talks
are designed to lead toward a compre-
hensive settlement including Israel and
all her neighbors.
1
Sunday, President Sadat called for a
conference in Cairo. This is likely to be
held around the 13th of December, about
the middle of December. We will par-
ticipate in that conference at a high
level-Assistant Secretary Atherton ¹ will
represent our Nation. We look on this
as a very constructive step. The road to-
ward peace has already led through Jeru-
salem, will now go to Cairo and ulti-
mately, we believe, to a comprehensive
consultation at Geneva.
It's not an easy thing to bring about a
comprehensive peace settlement. Im-
mediate expectations have sometimes
been exaggerated. The definition of real
peace-I think we've made good progress
on that already. The resolution of the
Palestinian question still has not been
decided. And the solution to the problem
concerning borders and national security
has also not been decided.
We have played, I think, a proper
role. I have tried to convince, in the past,
Prime Minister Begin of the good inten-
tions of President Sadat and vice versa.
When there has been no progress being
made, the United States has taken the
initiative. Now that progress is being
made, a proper role for the United States
is to support that progress and to give
the credit to the strong leadership that's
already been exhibited by Prime Minister
Begin and President Sadat and to let our
Nation be used, as called upon, to ex-
pedite the peace process.
I believe that this is a move that the
whole world looks upon with great ap-
preciation. And again, I want to express
my congratulations and my appreciation
to these two strong leaders for the tre-
mendous progress already made and for
their commitment to future progress.
1 Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., Assistant Secretary
of State for Near Eastern and South Asian
Affairs.
2054
