Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
subsection (12) and inserting in lieu
thereof "Adviser to the Secretary and
Deputy Secretary of Defense for NATO
Affairs, Department of Defense."
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 1, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:57 a.m., December 2, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was re-
leased on December 2.
Shippingport Light Water
Breeder Reactor
Remarks at a Ceremony Marking the
Pennsylvania Facility's Increase to Full
Power Production. December 2, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. You might tell us what
to expect.
I
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Mr. President, if
may be so bold as to suggest that you
stay on my right-hand side. That is what
the script says. [Laughter]
The Shippingport reactor is now put-
ting out about 90 percent of its power.
And the actual megawatts is about 65 to
6 or 7. We're ready to go up to full power
at any time that you
you direct.
As you know, there's a blackboard
here. And when you give the directions,
they will carry out your orders.
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. As we all hope to
do. [Laughter]
[At this point, the President wrote the follow-
ing words on a blackboard: "Increase light
water breeder reactor to 100%, Jimmy Carter."
The blackboard was connected electronically
to a screen at the Shippingport Atomic Power
Station's control center.]
THOMAS D. JONES II [in Shipping-
port]. Mr. President, we have received
your instructions and are proceeding to
increase power to 100 percent rated
reactor power.
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Mr. President,
while they're getting up the power, which
takes a few minutes, as typical of all cen-
tral station powerplants, I would like to
explain to you how this reactor's scope
and what its ultimate purpose is. This re-
actor contains about 1,100 pounds of
U-233, which is made out of thorium.
The thorium, when it's bombarded,
changes first to U-235 [Th-233]ยน and
goes through-234, rather, then by its
own nuclear reaction goes to U-233.
In addition to that, it contains 40 tons
of natural thorium. There's more thori-
um in the Earth than there is uranium;
therefore, if this system can be made to
work, it will tremendously magnify the
energy we can get not only out of our
uranium sources but also by this addi-
tional material, thorium.
The reactor itself is about 8 feet high,
8 feet in diameter, and weighs about 90
tons.
Now, the building blocks of the reac-
tor I will now explain. This card shows
the different kind of pellets which gen-
erate power. The top one is natural ura-
nium [natural thorium].ยน The others are
also natural thorium-the others are
natural thorium [with U-233],ยน which
have been irradiated to some extent and
supply the neutrons which bombard this
natural uranium and turn some of it into
similar material.
There are 3 million of these pellets in
the reactor. Now, these pellets are put
into zirconium rods. This rod happens to
have the natural thorium in it. This is
a cutaway section, of course; it's not in
there this way. The other three rods show
different concentrations of the U-233,
and of course, the reason there are dif-
ferences is to take care of the physics
which required it because neutrons are
very valuable. We cannot waste a single
neutron.
1 White House Press Office correction.
2068
