Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
which you face in the United States. I ex-
pect he might even be able to understand
better my one-party system than your
multi-party system. [Laughter]
For coming from Tanzania in 1977, I
am very conscious of a few facts: Your
country is now 201 years old; it is a firmly
established political system, strong enough
to withstand political crisis of great in-
tensity and which cannot be upset by the
intrigues or maneuvers of any other coun-
try. The United Republic of Tanzania be-
came independent less than 16 years ago.
Our union is just 13 years old, and we
replaced our interim constitution only a
few months ago. And not less relevant, in
area, Tanzania is one-tenth the size of the
United States; its population is less than
one-thirteenth of your population. And
the national income of Tanzania is a
minute fraction of the national income of
your country.
These facts, Mr. President, must affect
the relationship between our two coun-
tries, and at least Tanzania's attitude to-
wards your country. If you don't mind
me saying it, where the law of the jungle
still reigns, the pigmies are very wary of
the giants. [Laughter]
For questions of world peace and jus-
tice do affect both of our countries, re-
gardless of our differences in size. But
your country is not only concerned about
the problems of maintaining peace and
building justice everywhere, as my coun-
try is; the great size and strength of
your
country and its economic power mean
that the United States is also directly or
indirectly involved in these matters every-
where in the world.
It is therefore not strange that in the
United States and in our discussions, I
should be concerned to learn more about
your ideas and policies towards Africa.
Nor is it surprising that I welcome the
opportunity to explain to you and to your
colleagues our commitment to the libera-
tion of southern Africa from colonialism
and racialism and our ideas about how
this can be brought about.
Yet although the situation in southern
Africa is simple in principle, it is not a
simple one in practice. To achieve the
liberation of Africa, we have to bring to
an end the political, economic, and mili-
tary structures in Rhodesia, in Namibia
and South Africa, which are of long-
standing and great, although varying,
strength.
These structures will, sooner or later,
be changed. The forces of nationalism
cannot be defeated in the long run, and
men will never willingly accept deliberate
and organized humiliation as the price
of existence. But how and how quickly
these changes can be brought about is
of vital concern to all the peoples of these
areas, both black and white, to the rest
of Africa, and also to the rest of the
world.
It is unlikely that Tanzania and your
country, Mr. President, will agree on all
aspects of "how" and "how quickly" some
of these changes will be able to be brought
about in southern Africa. The problem of
southern Africa has an urgency and a
priority to Tanzania which this country
may not share. But I believe that our two
Governments will not, on this issue, again
find themselves working for different ob-
jectives; I think we shall also find some
points of agreement on how to assist the
necessary changes.
For we in Tanzania have noticed with
great pleasure the emphasis which you,
Mr. President, and your colleagues give
to support for human rights in the world.
We welcome this emphasis. I am well
aware that, as you yourself have said
about America, no country warrants a
clean report on this matter of human
rights-certainly, Tanzania does not. No
one in this country could be more aware
of our faults than I am myself. But I do
1425
