Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
or reason for caution on the part of Jody
in the future. This was unfortunate. Jody
has apologized, and I agree that there
was grounds for his apology.
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, Ernie Schultz,
KTVY, Oklahoma City. Because Bert
Lance was a personal friend, do you think
the checks on his background before his
appointment were as thorough as they
should have been?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, they were. I have
not read the complete FBI file on Bert
Lance. But members of my staff have re-
viewed it in the last few weeks, and I can
state to you categorically that the assess-
ment from 85 to 100 different people who
were interviewed privately by the FBI,
including three representatives from the
Department of Justice and three addi-
tional people from the Comptroller's Of-
fice, all gave Bert Lance an overwhelm-
ing endorsement as the future Director of
the Office of Management and Budget.
Of course, there were some elements of
Bert Lance's past that we didn't have to
investigate because I've known Bert for
many years. He has built up a reputation
in Georgia that is superb as a businessman
and as a governmental leader. I worked
with him intimately for 4 years when he
was the Director of our Transportation
Department in Georgia and knew at first-
hand his competence and his general atti-
tude toward public service.
So, I don't think that there is any indi-
cation that a more thorough scrutiny of
Bert Lance's past record or his reputa-
tion among those who knew him would
have changed my opinion that he was
well qualified to be the OMB Director.
Q. Mr. President, Bill Wippel, news di-
rector of KIRO News Radio, Seattle.
Chris Clark, at WTVF in Nashville, kind
of put a question that is the same as mine.
You have set the moral standards for
your administration. Even though Bert
Lance may have done nothing illegal, does
his ethical conduct measure up to the
standards that you've set for your admin-
istration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, there's
no way
for me to excuse my own or any-
one else's overdrafts. This is something
that was obviously a mistake. I believe
that rather than my trying to judge at this
point the accuracy of the charges that
have been made against Bert Lance, it
would be better to wait for his comple-
tion of testimony under cross-examination
before the Senate committee, which is be-
ing carried out right now.
If I believed all of the charges or alle-
gations against Bert Lance that I have
read or heard through the news media,
I would have discharged him immedi-
ately. Some of those allegations I know
to be incorrect, and the ones that prove
to be correct, of course, I'll have to make
a judgment on them.
But I have no reason to feel that Bert
Lance is dishonest or incompetent nor
that he has acted unethically. The pro-
priety of Bert's loans, overdrafts, and so
forth, obviously, will be assessed by me.
And I think I can assess the entire series
of charges made against Mr. Lance much
more accurately and effectively at the
conclusion of this week's hearings.
So, I'm keeping an open mind about
the subject, eager to hear all the re-
sponses that are being made. I'm not
familiar with them yet. I haven't had time
nor the inclination to go into them in
detail. But I'm sure that the decision that
I make along with Bert Lance at the con-
clusion of the hearings will be satisfac-
tory to the American people.
GEORGE WALLACE
Q. Mr. President, this is Bob Grip of
WKRG-TV in Mobile, Alabama. Should
1596
