Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 24
effect until October 1, and it will have a
beneficial impact next year. Of course, we
have got the emergency farm loans, too,
to tide the ones over that had failure this
year. But that's primarily restricted to
areas of the country where the weather
caused a crop loss. But they've got a really
serious problem, and we are working hard
on it.
Q. Do you think you can do anything
more for them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Bob Bergland
is going to meet with the State leaders
from all 50 States, I think, the 4th and
5th of January. So, I'll be talking to Bob
between now and then.
Q. Do you feel that they were satisfied
with the meeting today?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so.
Q. What's wrong with their demand
for 100 percent parity?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it would be
difficult for us to compete with interna-
tional prices on many of our export items
if the price were substantially higher than
it is now. But I believe that compared to
other products that farm prices almost in-
evitably will have to go up in the years
ahead.
As land becomes actually less available,
with the encroachment on acreage that's
presently devoted to agriculture, and as
the population of the world expands, ob-
viously agricultural products from the
farmer will be more valuable compared to
other products. But in the last few years
it's [inaudible]-very rapidly.
Q. Did you ask them to keep on plant-
ing?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think most of
these will keep on planting. Also, I told
them that any sort of violence or interfer-
ence in other people's lives by the strikers
would have an adverse effect on them.
I think that the reactions so far to the
farm demonstrations have been basically
favorable from consumers, and they un-
derstand that there is always a threat of
a few more radical farmers or nonfarmers
who joined the parade that might do
something that would bring discredit on
them. They are very concerned about
that, and they want the demonstrations
to be peaceful and not interfere illegiti-
mately with other people's lives.
Q. Have you heard from Mr. Sadat or
Mr. Begin?
THE PRESIDENT. No, but I probably
will before they meet.
Q. Are
you going to do anything today?
THE PRESIDENT. Not much.
Q. Quail hunt?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt it.
REPORTER. Merry Christmas.
THE PRESIDENT. Merry Christmas. I
will probably see you later on today.
NOTE: The exchange began at 8:30 a.m. at the
President's home in Plains, Ga.
Christmas 1977
Message of the President. December 24, 1977
At this joyous season, Rosalynn and I
extend our warmest wishes to all of our
fellow citizens who celebrate Christmas.
This is a very special Christmas for us and
our family. We are deeply grateful for all
the help and affection the American peo-
ple have given us during this challenging
and rewarding year.
Our country has been especially blessed
throughout our history. In this season of
hope we seek, as individuals and as a
nation, to serve as instruments to bring
the ancient promises of peace and good
will closer to fulfillment for all the peoples
of the earth.
2171
