Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 15
and expressed appreciation for the sup-
port which Iran has extended in achiev-
ing our shared objectives. The President
reiterated the importance that he at-
taches to a strong, stable, and progressive
Iran under the leadership of His Imperial
Majesty. To that end, he emphasized that
it remains the policy of the United States
to cooperate with Iran in its economic
and social development programs and in
continuing to help meet Iran's security
needs.
The President and His Majesty discus-
sed in some detail the current situation
in the Middle East. The President re-
viewed the diplomatic efforts the United
States is making to bring about a recon-
vening of the Middle East Peace Confer-
ence in Geneva. The President noted that
Iran has a unique position in the area in
that it has good ties with all the countries
involved and that Iran's economic assist-
ance to several of these countries and its
trade with them were valuable contribu-
tions to the stability of the area. The Pres-
ident welcomed the support Iran has ex-
tended for our diplomatic efforts to
achieve peace in the area. They also dis-
cussed developments in the Middle East
region as a whole, and such matters of
mutual interest as developments in Africa
and South Asia and our discussions with
the Soviet Union on SALT II and the
Indian Ocean.
The President expressed his disappoint-
ment that it has been necessary to post-
pone his visit to Iran but reiterated his
desire to make the trip as soon as possible.
The President emphasized his determina-
tion to obtain the comprehensive national
energy program, which is currently before
Congress. His Majesty expressed his sup-
port for the President's effort. They gave
special attention to the needs to develop
alternative energy sources, including so-
lar, and agreed that both countries would
work closely together in this area. They
agreed that effective energy conservation
programs are essential to help meet fu-
ture world energy needs as oil supplies
dwindle. In this discussion, they ex-
changed views on how to maintain a
healthy world economy. The President
emphasized the very great importance to
the international community of main-
taining world oil price stability, and ex-
pressed his strong hope that there would
be no oil price increase over the coming
year. He expressed his pleasure at His
Imperial Majesty's understanding of this
issue.
The President also expressed his appre-
ciation for the strong support we have re-
ceived from Iran on nuclear nonprolifer-
ation matters.
His Majesty stated that he looks for-
ward to receiving the President in the
near future in Tehran.
The President and Mrs. Carter are giv-
ing a State dinner for His Majesty and
the Shahbanou this evening, and the Pres-
ident will meet again tomorrow morning
with His Majesty to continue their
discussions.
Visit of the Shah of Iran
Toasts of the President and the Shah at a
Dinner Honoring the Shah.
November 15, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
welcome all of you here this evening to
join with me in expressing our own ap-
preciation that the Shah and Empress
would come here to represent their won-
derful people of Iran.
There's one thing I can say about the
Shah-he knows how to draw a crowd.
[Laughter]
2029
