Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Geneva Peace Conference on the
Middle East
reticent way, but in a constructive, force-
ful, and courageous fashion, because
there's no doubt in my mind that among
our people there is an intense desire for
harmony and friendship. The leaders Following a Meeting Between the President
sometimes are the obstacle to the realiza-
tion of those hopes that exist among those
who have put us in powerful offices.
I would like to say in closing that we
are very grateful to have you here with us
tonight. It's an honor for us to welcome
you. Those of you who are not heads of
state, I've had a chance either to meet
with your own chosen leaders or will soon
be taking advantage of that opportunity.
And this again is a way for the American
people to learn about the common prob-
lems that we face and the need for closer
attention to those at all levels of govern-
ment.
And this is a time, also, to break down
barriers that exist to trade, to tourism, to
share the battle against hunger and
disease and poverty, and to share the bat-
tle against disease.
These are challenges I hope we can
face, once we eliminate the threat of war
and remove our deep and debilitating
commitment to the purchase of weapons
and threat of nuclear destruction. The
challenge is there for us. I think we have
a great and exciting prospect in the years
to come.
You know these things better than I.
And I'm very proud of a chance to make
friends here tonight and to let you know
that the commitment of our Nation is to
join with you in these high and exciting
and challenging and difficult common
purposes for a brighter future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 p.m. at
the headquarters of the U.S. Mission to the
United Nations in New York City. The Presi-
dent hosted the dinner for foreign ministers
and heads of delegations to the United
Nations.
United States-Israel Joint Statement Issued
and Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan.
October 5, 1977
The U.S. and Israel agree that Security
Council Resolutions 242 and 338 remain
the agreed basis for the resumption of the
Geneva Peace Conference and that all
the understandings and agreements be-
tween them on this subject remain in
force.
Proposals for removing remaining ob-
stacles to reconvening the Geneva Con-
ference were developed. Foreign Minister
Dayan will consult his Government on
the results of these discussions. Secretary
Vance will discuss these proposals with
the other parties to the Geneva Confer-
ence.
Acceptance of the Joint U.S.-U.S.S.R.
Statement of October 1, 1977, by the
parties is not a prerequisite for the re-
convening and conduct of the Geneva
Conference.
NOTE: The text of the joint statement was
released at New York, N.Y.
The text of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. statement is
printed in the Department of State Bulletin of
November 7, 1977, page 639.
New York City
Exchange With Reporters Following a Tour
of the South Bronx. October 5, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. [Inaudible]—but I was
encouraged in some way, because there
is obviously [inaudible]-to rebuild
this. And the Public Housing Authority
in New York, which is well known as
probably the best in the Nation, has
done a superb job.
I have asked the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, Secretary
Pat Harris, who was with me this morn-
ing, to work closely with the Interior De-
partment in putting down some plans
1728
