Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 28
liberty were vividly demonstrated re-
cently at the Organization of American
States conference at Grenada, when he
and his people became leaders in pursu-
ing these hopes for this hemisphere.
He has also espoused and has pursued
his commitment to a reduction in ex-
penditures for weapons and in trying to
lay the groundwork for more peaceful
relationships among the nations of the
world.
He has also taken a strong stand against
the proliferation of atomic explosives
throughout the world and has joined with
us and others in espousing the principles
of the Tlatelolco Treaty, which pro-
hibits the deployment of any nuclear ex-
plosives in the southern part of this
hemisphere.
Venezuela has been a leader and was
recently cochairman of the conference
which tries to establish better relation-
ships between the developed nations of the
North and the developing nations of the
South. He leads a country which has been
blessed with great natural resources-oil
among them and they have been leading
suppliers of that precious fuel to our
country for many years.
During the 1973 embargo of our coun-
try by some members of OPEC, Venezuela
maintained their staunch friendship to
our country, and the interruption of oil to
our shores was not part of their policy.
And this past winter, when we faced a
particular shortage because of the severity
of our weather, Venezuela voluntarily in-
creased their total export of oil and fuel
from their country to meet our needs. At
the same time, he's been strongly com-
mitted to the quality of the environment
and to the careful conservation of his na-
tion's precious oil and other fuel products.
We all know and admire the early and
innovative commitment to freedom by the
great liberator Simón Bolívar, and in
more recent times, the great leadership of
Don Rómulo Betancourt of Venezuela.
And I think I can say without any doubt
that President Perez continues in this ad-
mirable mold of leadership which has
come from the great nation and our close
friend, the country of Venezuela.
Recently my wife, Rosalynn, was wel-
comed to your country, Mr. President, in
the most hospitable way by you and your
wife, Blanca. We deeply appreciate the
personal friendships that have already
been formed between your family and my
own.
Señor Presidente, esta es su casa [Mr.
President, this is your house.]
PRESIDENT PEREZ. Mr. President Carter,
I must begin my words expressing to you
my deep thanks and that of my wife for
this cordial invitation that allows us to
visit the great North American nation. I
am a Latin American voice that, from
Venezuela, comes to express an unre-
served solidarity with your policy of great
ethical substance addressed to affirm the
essential values of the human being.
Many years have passed since nations,
small and weak nations, have heard a
voice rise from a great nation to tell the
world that over the human values is the
human being, the defense of his dignity,
of the human rights. Those words have
reconciliated us with other attitudes that
we have not shared with this great nation,
and they remind us of the voice of two
other great Presidents, Franklin Delano
Roosevelt and John Fitzgerald Kennedy,
who are dear to the affection of all Latin
Americans.
In my country-I mean all of Latin
America, no matter what kind of govern-
ments our countries have, the people are
feeling the warmth and the sincerity of
these good words that constitute them-
selves in a commitment to make of Amer-
ica, of the New World, the true continent
of freedom.
I have come, Mr. President, to ex-
change ideas with you and your officials
with mutual respect, and as countries that
1181
