Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 26
national trade negotiations by the end of
this year.
Restoring health to the world economy
will help us toward what we all recognize
is a vital, human obligation-assisting
poor countries in the task of human de-
velopment. If the roughly 1 billion people
who now live in extreme poverty are to
have their chance, every nation must take
more effective action. And the United
States is ready to join such an interna-
tional campaign.
The study of world development issues
now being undertaken by the Bank and
the Fund should provide a framework in
which all nations can expand our efforts
toward common development efforts.
own
Of course, the developing countries are
ultimately responsible for their
growth. Only they can mobilize the skills
and the resources necessary for develop-
ment. Only they can be sure that the
benefits of growth, when and if it does
come, extends throughout the country in-
volved, to those who need it most. But the
industrialized countries like our own must
provide more outside capital.
I'm glad to report that the United
States Congress has authorized more than
twice as much money for the World Bank
and the regional development banks this
year as we did last
year.
I hope that the negotiations for a ma-
jor, general capital increase will permit
the World Bank to increase the level of
its lending in real terms.
All this will take time. Our goals will
not be achieved overnight. Perseverance
will be the key to success. There will be
many difficulties to overcome, many com-
plicated questions to answer, many na-
tional interests that might separate coun-
tries, to be overwhelmed by a common
commitment to mutual responsibility.
The United States wants to cooperate
with all of you. We are prepared to stay
the course, and you can depend upon us.
Thank you very
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:02 p.m. in
the Ballroom at the Sheraton-Park Hotel to
representatives of the International Mone-
tary Fund, the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development (World Bank),
the International Development Association,
and the International Finance Corporation.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to George Colley, Chairman of the
Boards of Governors of the IBRD and IMF, H.
Johannes Witteveen, Managing Director of
the IMF, and Robert S. McNamara, President
of the IBRD.
Natural Gas Prices
Remarks on Senate Consideration of Price
Deregulation. September 26, 1977
Good afternoon, everybody.
Sam asked did I have a statement to
make this afternoon, and I thought I'd
accommodate him.
This week the Senate is voting on nat-
ural gas pricing, an issue which directly
affects almost 50 million American fam-
ilies who depend on natural gas to heat
their homes.
The Congress has been lobbied con-
tinuously by the oil and gas industry to
deregulate the price of new natural gas.
The House has faced this lobbying pres-
sure and has acted both wisely and cou-
rageously to protect the integrity of the
basic energy policy that I presented to
the Congress at the beginning of this year.
The Senate is now facing the same chal-
lenge. By 1985, the industry proposal will
cost the average American family that
heats with natural gas an additional $150
per year. It will cost consumers almost $10
billion every year and will produce little,
if any, new supplies. Natural gas already
discovered in Alaska will cost about $20
1671
