Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and I wanted to write some notes for my
speech. I thought back to a little more
than 3 years ago when I first came to Iowa.
I traveled across your State. I think I
stopped in seven towns and cities. And
I began to talk about issues that were
important to you and important to me
and important to our country. Quite often
very
few people came. Harry Baxter and
his wife arranged for two or three hun-
dred to come to a reception here in Des
Moines. I think three people came, in-
cluding Harry Baxter's wife and Jody
Powell and one other. And I was invited
over to the courthouse and went through
and shook hands.
But way back in those days we were
already talking about human rights. We
were talking about stopping the construc-
tion of the B-1 bomber. We were talking
about bringing lasting peace to the Middle
East. We were talking about holding down
weapons sales, not only from our country,
which is the worst violator of all, but
among arms producers throughout the
world. We were talking about a better
relationship with the Soviet Union, a com-
prehensive SALT agreement that would
put a limit on atomic weapons of all kinds.
And we are making great progress on this
effort. And I can tell you that in a few
weeks, my prediction is that we will have a
SALT agreement that will be a pride of
our country, and following that, we will
proceed toward my ultimate goal of re-
ducing nuclear weapons in this world to
zero.
Back in those early days, even a year
ago, there was a general feeling that noth-
ing could be done to stop the proliferation
of nuclear explosives among countries that
presently don't have them. But in the last
9 months we have formed a commitment
among the nations of the world to permit
some use of atomic power to produce elec-
tricity, but to prevent the production of
weapons. And I believe that we'll never
see another nation again added to that
horrible club that we started of countries
that have nuclear destructive weapons in
our repertoire.
This week 36 nations came together in
Washington to talk about the inter-
national nuclear fuel cycle and how we
might bring into being this dream of all
people in the world.
We talked about the reorganization of
the Federal branch of Government, the
executive branch, to bring some order out
of bureaucratic chaos. And the Congress
has given me authority now, for years,
to carry out this effort. And I am as de-
termined now as I was 3, 2, or 1 year ago,
to do it successfully.
We talked about inflation. A year ago
the inflation rate was very high—last De-
cember, 10 percent. We've brought it
down slowly and steadily. The informa-
tion that was given out this morning on a
1-month-only basis was that the inflation
rate is below 4 percent for the first time
in quite a while. I think the prevailing
inflation rate is about 6 or 62 percent.
It's going to be almost impossible to hold
it down. But we are making some prog-
ress.
We're doing the same thing on the un-
employment rate. Last December it was
8 percent. Now it's down to 7 percent, a
little bit lower. It's still a great challenge
to us all, but we are making some progress.
I was in Detroit earlier today. Two
years ago, the unemployment rate in that
urban city was 24.4 percent; now, it's 8.8
percent. But we still have an unemploy-
ment rate among minority groups, par-
ticularly young people, 35 or 40 percent.
It's not going to be an easy thing to
do, but I'm just as determined as I was
before to carry out my commitment to
you to bring some order out of chaos in
our economy. We're working orderly and
1856
