Dec. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have come to him for consultation and
for advice.
The other great issue is bringing peace
to the troubled areas of the world and
turning back the rising tide of armaments
and dissension. The Shah and I share a
hope that peace will come soon to the
Middle East and that as our military
alliance remains unshakable, we may help
to reduce the level of tension and arma-
ments throughout the world.
The interests of our nations are built on
the interests of individuals. And in all of
our discussions, both public and private,
we emphasize guaranteeing our citizens
the fullest economic and political human
rights.
I come with warm, personal feelings
for the leaders of Iran, and I bring best
New Year greetings from the United
States for the people of this great country.
Thank you very much, Your Majesties,
for this warm and hospitable welcome.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:45 p.m. at
the Imperial Pavilion at Mehrabad Inter-
national Airport.
Following the arrival ceremony, the Presi-
dent met with the Shah at Saadabad Palace.
Tehran, Iran
Toasts of the President and the Shah at a
State Dinner. December 31, 1977
THE SHAH. Mr. President, Mrs. Carter,
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
It gives the Shabanou and myself great
pleasure to welcome you to our country.
This reception is particularly auspicious
since it takes place on the eve of 1978, and
your presence here represents a New
Year's gift for your Iranian friends.
In our country, according to ancient
tradition, the visit of the first guest in the
new year is an omen for that year. And
although the annual new year is cele-
brated with the advent of spring, never-
theless, since the distinguished guest
tonight is such a person of good will and
achievement, naturally we consider it as
a most excellent omen.
Mr. President, you now have come to a
country which has always had unshak-
able links with your country and your
great nation. We are united together by a
special relationship made all the closer
by a wide community of mutual inter-
ests, which we share in our firm determi-
nation to contribute to the maintenance
of world peace and security in assuring
human progress and betterment.
History has been witness to the
growth and development of an outstand-
ing relationship between two nations
motivated by common trust, good will,
and respect which has repeatedly with-
stood the test of time.
Humanitarianism, liberty, good will,
constructiveness, and creativeness, which
are the distinctive qualities of the great
American nation, have always been high-
ly regarded by us. Fortunately, our
American friends have also perceived this
friendship and regard of our people from
the very beginning.
The Reverend Mr. Smith, the first
American that set foot on the land of Iran
in the year 1832, wrote in his assignment
report that living among good people like
Iranians and serving them was more
pleasant for him than anything else, and
that he considered the best days of his
life those spent in this country.
It gives me pleasure to state that the
fruitful cooperation, the social and cultu-
ral fields between our two nations have
commenced even prior to the establish-
ment of diplomatic relations.
The first modern school was established
in Iran in the year 1836 by American
missionaries. The American College in
Tehran, which was established 100 years
ago, was an outstanding center for the
education and training of Iranian youth
2218
