Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 4, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Regional Columnists.
October 28, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. I feel a little emotional. I just had a
visit from a couple whose son had been in a
Mexican prison for 22 years. He was
arrested just as a child. They were sup-
posed to be here this morning for the sign-
ing ceremony for the legislation for pris-
oner exchange. They had to circle over
Washington 2 hours before they could
land, and then, when they got on the
ground, they were in a taxicab and they
got caught in a traffic jam. They had to
change clothes in the taxi, and they got
here too late. So, I just welcomed them.
They hope their son will be home before
Christmas.
I'm glad to welcome you here. I know
that you represent a very special group of
people in our country, columnists and edi-
torial writers, who help to shape opinion
and help to provide people with a deeper
analysis of the significance of what we do
than, perhaps, sometimes a spot news
might do.
I know some of you-Hank Drane
[Florida Times Union] over here is a
friend of mine and I'm glad to have you
come to the White House.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I'd just like to make a brief comment
and then answer your questions. We have
undertaken, I think, a very full agenda
for this administration, and I think we're
making very good progress.
The keystone to our first year's work is
obviously the energy legislation which the
Senate is now considering and which will
then go to conference in its entirety.
We've already passed four bills through
the House and Senate out of five, and the
other one, of course, is the tax measure
which is now being debated and voted on
by the Senate itself.
But we've had other matters that the
Congress has already addressed. Many of
them are quite controversial and, I think,
long overdue in being considered by me
and by the people of our Nation and, also,
by the Congress. Some of them, like the
foreign matters-we hope to have an
agreement with the Soviets on the SALT
measures. We're working hard on a com-
prehensive test ban to eliminate the test-
ing of all nuclear weapons. We have, I
think, drawn the line on the proliferation
issue, whereas a year ago there was kind
of a hopeless feeling that it was too late
to do so. We're making good progress on
that.
We will make proposals to the Soviets
before long on the constraint of conven-
1933
