Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 10
on any of the reforms that are most un-
settling to business, specifically the capital
gains, special treatment, and the three-
martini expense account lunch? [Laugh-
ter]
THE PRESIDENT. We will continue to
assess all aspects of tax reform, including
the three-martini business lunch, which
might be of special interest to this
group.
[Laughter]
I'm not sure about that, but I think
that this is a time for us now to assimilate
the action that Congress has taken and is
taking on social security, which has major
tax impact, and on the energy package,
which also has a major impact on our tax
structure.
Following that decision or those de-
cisions by Congress, we will combine what
we know then with what we know about
our national economy prospects, give us
another month or so to assess the changes,
and then I'll make decisions on specific
component parts of the tax reform pack-
age. But I've not added in, nor excluded
yet, any component individual portions.
UNSPENT APPROPRIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, it is now clear, sir,
that the executive branch has failed to
spend billions of dollars appropriated by
Congress over the last few months. Do
you know the size of that shortfall and
what effect it has had on the economy,
specifically jobs?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that we're
up to date in expending money for jobs.
Both Secretary Kreps with Commerce and
Secretary Marshall, the head of the
eral billions of dollars, approximately 10
billions of dollars that had been appro-
priated by Congress, were not spent. Some
of that, I think a substantial portion of it,
was in the Defense Department, and this
has been the case in many years in the
past.
We are trying now to put a much more
accurate means in effect of assessing how
much money we spend each month, com-
pared to what the Congress has author-
ized and what we want to spend, so that
we won't have this major shortfall in the
past.
It does have two component effects.
One is it saves money for the taxpayers,
but the other one is it quite often tends
to put a dampening effect on the econ-
omy by extracting money that would have
been added to stimulate. And also, of
course, in cases where programs that are
needed are delayed, that creates a prob-
lem for those who might receive the ben-
efits. But I don't believe there's any evi-
dence that this has been done in the case
of jobs. We've been very insistent that the
programs designed to stimulate our econ-
omy this year and to give our people jobs
stay on schedule.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: President Carter's nineteenth news con-
ference began at 10:30 a.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Labor Department, have reported to me National Bureau of Standards
no later than last Friday that in the local
public works program and the jobs pro-
gram under Labor, that they are at least
current or ahead of schedule.
There has been, however, this past fis-
cal year, a so-called shortfall, in that sev-
Nomination of Ernest Ambler To Be
Director. November 10, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Ernest Ambler, of Be-
thesda, Md., to be Director of the National
2001
