Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This is a fairly new development in our
Government. But, I think, quite often
women who have been activists in fighting
for poor people, deprived people, minor-
ity groups, the elderly, and women are
now helping to make policy for our own
administration.
Before we take the first question from
the audience, I'd like to say that although
I've tried to provide some answer or ex-
planation to you when you've had a
criticism or a question, we've got a long
way to go. We've made some progress,
and I don't want you to think that I
believe that all the questions have been
answered. When we leave here today,
Courtney Matthews will still be unem-
ployed. And when we leave here today,
there will still be problems for Mrs. Prieto
and the women, and particularly minor-
ity group women, in having equal rights
in our country. There will still be urban
areas that are left blighted. There will
still be a lack of communication between
you and Federal, State, and local officials
who are trying to work with
you.
We are not solving all the problems
here today, but as the head of our Gov-
ernment, I have learned a lot. And I hope
that all of you will keep your direct con-
nections with me, with Ms. Olivarez, and
others. This is a first step.
Is Father Baroni here? Where? Come
up here a minute. Stand up again. I want
all of you to see Father Baroni.
Almost every question that has been
raised this afternoon relates directly to the
family and the life structure of a neigh-
borhood. And, of course, my neighbor-
hood responsibility is to 215 million
Americans. But the only way that I can
do that job well is to make sure that each
family, each home, each street, each small
community is addressed as a unit and
that people there join in with me in mak-
ing their own lives better.
When the members of a neighborhood
rebel against government or look on the
policemen as an enemy or provide hatred
or misunderstanding against a neighbor
who might be different from you, to that
extent it makes it impossible for me or
the Federal Government or your local or
State governments to do anything. And
Father Baroni's only responsibility is to
work with people like you, who represent
neighborhoods, to make sure that all of
our programs strengthen that basic foun-
dation on which our country rests.
Father Baroni, I'm very glad you came
here today. This is a new job in the Fed-
eral Government, and I think as time goes
by, you'll see the advantages of having a
man like him who has that responsibility
to you.
Now, I don't know what the exact ar-
rangement is, but I understand we have
microphones on each side. We'll start with
this gentleman on my right.
QUESTIONS
PROGRAMS FOR SPANISH-SPEAKING
Q. Buenos tardes [good afternoon],
President Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Buenos tardes, Señor.
Q. My name is Rafael Acalá. Some of
my qualifications: I was an ex-migrant,
President Carter, I'm a student. Some of
the problems that I represent here—I
think I've been kind of contemplating on
what the question I could ask you, kind
of put everything in a nutshell, and it
possibly could fit in with Ms. Olivarez
to help you—that as the second largest
minority in the United States, represent-
ing not only the city of Detroit but the
whole United States.
The question I want to ask you, Presi-
dent, is that, what is the reason why, when
programs are funded for Latinos, Chi-
canos, or Hispanic communities-and
they are just getting off the ground—they
seem to be taken away from us, including
1848
