Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
Country Music Month,
October 1977
Message of the President.
September 28, 1977
As a native of rural America, I grew up
with country music and join with great
enthusiasm with all those who celebrate
Country Music Month.
Anyone who has spent time living and
working on a farm or touring the rural
areas and small towns of our nation has
learned to appreciate the musical legacy
of this part of our country. It embraces
the joys, sorrows, experiences and hopes
of daily life. It echoes the greatness, good-
ness and diligence of hard working men
and women.
Along with millions of fans, I salute
the creative genius of those to whom
country music owes its ever-growing pop-
ularity.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: For the President's proclamation on
Country Music Month, see page 1697 of this
volume.
Food and Agriculture Act of 1977
Remarks on Signing S. 275 Into Law.
September 29, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I think all of you can
see before me the results of a tremendous
amount of work and cooperation among
all those in our Government who are in-
terested in the present and future strength
of our Nation's number one economic
resource, and that's agriculture.
I think it's also accurate to point out
that more than has ever been the case in
the past, that professional nutritionists
and their representatives, private citizens,
consumer groups, have been involved in
the preparation of this legislation.
Another fact that I think would be un-
disputed is that in the last 40 years, there
has never been such a far-reaching and
important piece of legislation passed re-
lating to American agriculture. There's
been a heavy emphasis in this bill on the
strength of the American farm family.
This is an important concept for us all.
We are very eager to continue our pre-
eminent position in international agricul-
tural trade circles. Public Law 480, which
permits us to dispose of American food
products in a beneficial way, is enhanced.
Foreign trade with the sale of our own
agricultural commodities is enhanced.
We have in this bill, too, a new ap-
proach to the food stamp question. This
has sometimes been considered as an
anomaly or an anachronism in a modern
day Department of Agriculture. But I
think this legislation that has been in-
cluded in the Food and Agriculture Act
of 1977 is a great step forward in pro-
viding a simple food stamp system and
one that would be easy to administer,
one that is more equitable, which elim-
inates the pervasive threat of fraud.
I'd also like to point out that this bill
includes many other features—a renewed
emphasis and an enhancement of our re-
search program in agriculture that's so
important to every family.
It, for the first time, makes a major
step toward tying target prices to actual
production costs. This has been one of
the most controversial issues that the Con-
gress has had to face. Obviously, because
production costs vary so widely from one
community to another, and a bill of this
kind has to deal with average prices or
cost of production throughout the coun-
try, there still remain and will inevitably
remain some inequities.
But this bill makes a giant step to-
ward tying target prices with production
costs, and it also narrows its focus on in-
dividual commodities so that there can be
more equity insured.
This bill also sets up a means for main-
taining adequate food reserves. Although
1679
