Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 8
the mediation of the border disputes with
Honduras, which has resulted in an in-
terruption of free trade and transporta-
tion and exchange of people with Hon-
duras to the north and the interruption of
Pan-American Highway traffic.
But the President informed me that the
Congress has today voted to accept the
agreement that was signed here in Wash-
ington last year and that he anticipates a
good chance now that the dispute with
Honduras can be resolved without further
delay.
So, these two problems that have ex-
isted between our countries have, I think,
been substantially resolved, and we are
very grateful that the new administration
has been able to achieve these accomplish-
ments in only 2 months in office.
I believe that we will have in the future
a much closer relationship between our
country and El Salvador, and I think the
concern that has been expressed here in
the Congress, among our people, and from
the White House will be eliminated to a
great degree in the future.
We believe that the President will carry
out these statements with enthusiasm and
with determination and with success. And
this is very good news for all the nations
and all the people of our hemisphere.
Q. Is there any indication, Mr. Presi-
dent, when the commission might be going
to El Salvador?
THE PRESIDENT. No, but the President
said that was one of his major purposes in
coming to Washington. Since he has only
been in office 2 months, this is really the
first time for him to assess the needs in his
country and to come to the OAS to spe-
cifically request that the commission go
to El Salvador to witness, themselves, the
progress that has been made.
But the time schedule for the sending
of the commission, I guess, is now in the
hands of the leaders of the international
body.
Q. Did he see any progress for possible
renewal of relations with Honduras, or did
you just talk about mediation?
THE PRESIDENT. He just pointed out
the fact that the Congress had today voted
unanimously to take this action, which all
of us have been hoping to see. But I think
the President himself would have to
answer the question about prospects for
the renewal of relations. I don't know
about that. We are very grateful for this
good news.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
California Debris Commission
Nomination of Col. Donald M. O'Shei To Be a
Member. September 8, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Col. Donald M. O'Shei,
Corps of Engineers, to be a member of
the California Debris Commission. He
would replace Col. Fred Rockwell,
retired.
O'Shei was born July 31, 1933, in
Buffalo, N.Y. He graduated from the
U.S. Military Academy in 1956 with a
B.S. in engineering and has served in the
Army since then. He also holds an M.S.
in civil engineering from Princeton Uni-
versity (1961) and a J.D. from George-
town University (1970). Since 1976
O'Shei has been district engineer for the
U.S. Army Engineer District, Sacramento,
Calif.
1553
