Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 1
concept of increased food reserves, the
control of which is primarily in the hands
of farmers, which was an important con-
sideration to me as a farmer. It has ade-
quate safeguards on that concept to
prevent Government dumping of farm
products on the market to artificially
lower prices. It changes the food stamp
program to one that's much simpler, much
more free of fraud, and much more equi-
table in its concept. And I think, in gen-
eral, the agriculture bill, for all those rea-
sons, is good.
We did have a difference of opinion of
about 10 cents here and 10 cents there on
some of the farm prices. I think, for in-
stance, the price of rice is too high. But
that's not a serious objection. But that was
a result of negotiations.
We still have a problem with sugar.
The de la Garza amendment on sugar did
cause me some concern. I would like for
the Congress to have placed a greater
emphasis on encouraging the international
sugar amendment. We do have in the bill
a provision that we were successful in im-
plementing, that at the time an interna-
tional sugar agreement is confirmed by
the Senate, that the present support price
structure would be replaced.
But I'm afraid that if the international
sugar agreement price is even slightly be-
low the 132 cents, roughly, that's in this
bill, that the Senate might lose its in-
centive to ratify the agreement.
There were just a few technical nego-
tiating points like that, but in a 150-page
bill, those are relatively minor.
ROBERT H. MEYER
Q. Mr. President, there have been
some questions raised lately about Mr.
Robert Meyer, Assistant Secretary of
Agriculture. Have you looked into this
matter, and do you have any thoughts on
it at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not talked to
either Robert Meyer nor Bob Bergland
about this. I read about it in the news and
understand from my staff reports that
there has been nothing illegal done. But I
have written Bob Bergland a note and
told him that I wanted the practice
stopped, whether or not there was an
illegality.
I really don't feel that anyone in Gov-
ernment, including myself, should use the
official position to pursue a goal that
would result in financial advantage or
other advantage for the public official.
I'm not alleging that Bob Meyer has done
anything improper or illegal; I don't know
that much about it. But I just don't want
to have the accusation of impropriety
there.
Q. You plan no action against Mr.
Meyer?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly have no
information about Bob Meyer's actions
at this point that would indicate any ac-
tion needing to be taken, except that I
have asked Bob Bergland to stop the ef-
fort of Bob Meyer to determine land pol-
icy in the Imperial Valley.
As all of you know, this is an ancient
problem. The law that the Congress
passed, I think back in 1902, limited the
ownership of land in some irrigated areas
of the West to 160 acres. And in some in-
stances, a husband and a wife can own
320 acres. In the Imperial Valley and in
other places, the acreage owned by single
families is much greater. The law was just
not enforced.
The altercation has been not between
Washington and farmers, honest farm-
ers in the West; it's been between farmers
in the West and their neighbors—their
neighbors wanting to have an easier abil-
1705
