Dec. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And I also saw hundreds, perhaps even
thousands of American citizens who stand
there welcoming their President in a na-
tion which has taken them to heart and
made them feel at home. There are about
30,000 Americans here who work in close
harmony with the people of Iran to carve
out a better future for you, which also
helps to ensure, Your Majesty, a better
future for ourselves.
We share industrial growth, we share
scientific achievements, we share research
and development knowledge, and this
gives us the stability for the present which
is indeed valuable to both our countries.
We are also blessed with the largest
number of foreign students in our coun-
try from your own nation. And I think
this ensures, too, that we share the knowl-
edge that is engendered by our great
universities, but also that when these
young leaders come back to your country
for many years in the future, for many
generations in the future, our friendship
is ensured. We are very grateful for this
and value it very much.
I have tried to become better ac-
quainted with the culture of Iran in the
preparation for my visit here. I was par-
ticularly impressed with a brief passage
from one of Iran's great poets, Saadi.
And I would like to read a few words
from him. Empress Farah tells me that
he lived about 600 years ago.
"Human beings are like parts of a
body, created from the same essence.
When one part is hurt and in pain, others
cannot remain in peace and quiet. If the
misery of others leaves you indifferent
and with no feeling of sorrow, then you
cannot be called a human being."
I asked Empress Farah why this poet
was so famous here in Iran, because he
had impressed me so greatly, too. And
she said that because he had the greatest
facility for professing profound thoughts
in the simplest possible words that the
average citizen could understand.
Well, this brief passage shows that
there is within the consciousness of hu-
man beings a close tie with one's neigh-
bors, one's family, and one's friends, but
it also ties us with human beings
throughout the world. When one is hurt
or suffers, all of us, if we are human
beings, are hurt and we suffer.
The cause of human rights is one that
also is shared deeply by our people and
by the leaders of our two nations.
Our talks have been priceless, our
friendship is irreplaceable, and my own
gratitude is to the Shah, who in his wis-
dom and with his experience has been so
helpful to me, a new leader.
We have no other nation on Earth who
is closer to us in planning for our mutual
military security. We have no other na-
tion with whom we have closer consul-
tation on regional problems that concern
us both. And there is no leader with
whom I have a deeper sense of personal
gratitude and personal friendship.
On behalf of the people of the United
States, I would like to offer a toast at
this time to the great leaders of Iran, the
Shah and the Shahbanou and to the
people of Iran and to the world peace
that we hope together we can help to
bring.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10:18 p.m. in
the Niavaran Palace.
Later in the evening, the President met with
the Shah and King Hussein of Jordan at the
Niavaran Palace.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
2222
