Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 11
rate sets of supervisors and headquarters
at home.
This plan abolishes the functions of the
Advisory Committee on the Arts author-
ized by section 106(c) of the Mutual Ed-
ucational and Cultural Exchange Act of
1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2456(c)).
Also abolished, as a result of the consoli-
dation of certain functions of the United
States Advisory Commission on Informa-
tion and the United States Advisory Com-
mission on International Educational and
Cultural Affairs in the United States Ad-
visory Commission on International Com-
munication, Cultural and Educational
Affairs, are the functions authorized by
section 603 of the United States Informa-
tion and Educational Exchange Act of
1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1468) (re-
quiring submission by the United States
Advisory Commission on Information of
bodies of participants in exchange pro-
grams who die away from home, since
State no longer will conduct such pro-
grams (22 U.S.C. 2670(e)). All functions
abolished by the reorganization are done
so in compliance with section 903(b) of
title 5 of the United States Code.
After investigation, I have found that
this reorganization is necessary to carry
out the policy set forth in section 901(a)
of title 5 of the United States Code. The
provisions in this Plan for the appoint-
ment and pay of the Director, Deputy
Director, and Associate Directors of the
Agency have been found by me to be
necessary by reason of the reorganization
made by the plan and are at a rate
applicable to comparable officers in the
executive branch.
In presenting this plan, I ask the sup-
plify the machinery by which we carry
port of Congress to strengthen and sim-
out these important functions of the
United States Government.
Such action will make us better able to
project the great variety and vitality of
American life to those abroad, and to
enrich our own lives with a fuller knowl-
a quarterly report to the Director of
USIA and a semiannual report to the
Congress). The new commission will re-
port annually and at such other times as
it deems appropriate (as does the exist-
ing Advisory Commission on Interna-
tional Educational and Cultural Affairs).
Since appointments of all members of the
new commission will be on a nonpartisan edge of the vitality and variety of other
basis, as has been the case with the
Advisory Commission on International
Educational and Cultural Affairs, the re-
quirement of section 602 (a) of the U.S.
Information and Educational Exchange
Act (22 U.S.C. 1467 (a)) that not more
than three members of the Advisory Com-
mission on Information shall be of the
same political party is abolished.
Various obsolete or superseded func-
tions under Reorganization Plan No. 8 of
1953 (22 U.S.C. 1461 note), which cre-
ated the USIA, are superseded by this
plan. Finally, the Plan abolishes a pro-
vision authorizing the Secretary of State
to pay the expenses of transporting the
societies.
The new Agency for International
Communication will help us demonstrate
"a decent respect for the opinions of
mankind," and to deal intelligently with
a world awakening to a new spirit of
freedom.
The White House,
October 11, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 2 of 1977
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representatives
in Congress assembled, October 11, 1977,
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 9 of
title 5 of the United States Code.
1767
