Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 2
about 2 o'clock. And he was very well
briefed, because when I walked in the
room, he said, "Young man, I under-
stand that your mother is in the Peace
Corps in India."
And I said, "Yes, sir, that's right." He
said, "Well, I've been very interested in
the Peace Corps. The idea originally
came from me, and I've been proud to
see it put into effect." He said, "Where's
your mother?" And I said, "She's near
Bombay." He said, "How's she getting
along?" I said, "Well, she's quite lonely,
sir. She's been there about 6 months, and
she's not seen anybody, even the Peace
Corps officials. She's in a little town called
Vikhroli."
About a month later, I got a letter from
my mother. She was in her room one
evening, and the head of the Peace Corps
in India had driven up to the little town
of Vikhroli. He came in and asked my
mother if she needed anything. She said,
no, she was getting along quite well, but
she would like to go over to Bombay. He
said, "Well, can I take you in shopping,
Mrs. Carter?" She said, "Yes, I'd like
that." So, they went in, and he bought her
a very fine supper and brought her back
to Vikhrolì. When he got out, he handed
her a fifth of very good bourbon.
[Laughter] And he turned around to get
in the car to leave, and he finally turned
back to her and said, "By the way, Miss
Lillian, who in the hell are you, anyway?"
[Laughter] And that's a true story. It was
not until later that my mother knew who
she was. [Laughter] She was a friend of
Hubert Humphrey.
And, of course, the next time he
crossed my path was in 1968 when he
was our nominee for President. And all
of us in this room went through that
year
of tragedy together when he was not
elected to be the leader of our country.
And I think he felt then an urging to be
loyal to his President, and unfortunately,
many people were not that loyal to him.
And his loss was our Nation's even greater
loss in 1968.
The next time I saw him was when I
was Governor. He came to our home in
1972. All the candidates just happened
to stop by to see me that year, and my
daughter, Amy, was about 4 years old.
And most of the ones who would come
into the mansion-she stayed away from
them, having an early aversion to politi-
cians. But when Senator Humphrey came
in, she loved him instantly.
And I'll never forget sitting in the front
Presidential suite of the Georgia Gover-
nor's mansion, a very beautiful room, try-
ing to talk to Senator Humphrey. Amy
came in eating a soft brownie, and she
climbed up on his lap without any timid-
ity at all. In a very natural way, he put
his arm around her as though she was his
own grandchild. And I'll always remem-
ber Senator Humphrey sitting there talk-
ing to me about politics and about the
campaign, smiling often, with brownie all
over his face. [Laughter] And each time
he frowned, brownie crumbs fell to the
floor. And Amy loved him then and has
loved him ever since. But I think she rec-
ognized in him the qualities that have
aroused the love of so many people.
And then, of course, last year all I
could hear everywhere I went when I
said, "Would you help me become Presi-
dent?" almost invariably they would say,
"Well, my first preference is Hubert
Humphrey. If he doesn't run, I'll support
you." And there again, I learned on a
nationwide basis the relationship between
Senator Humphrey and the people of this
country.
But I think the most deep impression I
have of my good friend Hubert Hum-
phrey is since I've been President. I've
seen him in the Oval Office early in the
morning. I've seen him in meetings with
other congressional leaders. I've called
2075
