July 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I learn from him, and perhaps he learns
from me the attitudes and the concerns of
the American people. This is a situation
which is very helpful to us all. And I'm
very proud of that.
We are honored tonight to have many
of his key associates, particularly Foreign
Minister Genscher, who works closely with
Helmut Schmidt and who advises with
him and who has helped to form the
strength of their government, and the
wives and others who have come here
from industry, from labor, from the hu-
manities, artists and musicians, news re-
porters who are leaders in that great coun-
try. We are honored by their visit. And
I just want all of you to know and all
those who listen and would read my words
to know how much we appreciate this
good relationship, which is staunch, un-
shakeable, sure, and also increasing in the
future.
And I would like to propose a toast to
the great people of the Federal Republic
of Germany and to their great leader,
Helmut Schmidt.
THE CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me say first that I as a person am
deeply moved by the generous words you
just said. And I would like to express my
personal gratitude, but express my thanks
also on behalf of Minister Genscher and
all our delegation. I would ask your per-
mission to use a few notes which I have
drafted this afternoon, being on a little
handicap with your language.
And I would like to say that we today
have carried on from where we left it off
in London in May. Our meetings were
preceded by Vice President Mondale's
visit to my country. It's sad that he had to
go back to the Senate tonight and didn't
get a supper.
THE PRESIDENT. He's come back.
THE CHANCELLOR. Has he come back?
You are wandering between the two
places. [Laughter] But coming from a
parliamentary democracy, and having
been a Member of Parliament myself for
24 years, I know how it is. [Laughter]
This picture of close and sincere and
trustful consultations between ourselves
has been rounded off by various personal
contacts between our foreign ministers
and also by telephone and written com-
munications between ourselves. The in-
tensity of our dialog, to me, is a reflection
of the unprecedented state of relations
between the United States and the Federal
Republic of Germany. It's a reflection also
of the depth of our common, basic beliefs
and basic convictions, a reflection also of
our common interests and of the fact that
the friendly nature of our meetings is very
much a matter of course.
It's on this solid foundation of human
and political links that this present meet-
ing is based, like others in the past and
more to come in the future.
I would like to emphasize already now
that the talks and discussions of this first
day of our stay in Washington, D.C., have
been very fruitful and constructive.
I once again was deeply impressed by
the profound sense of responsibility and
understanding which you showed, Mr.
President, when we were dealing with im-
portant aspects of international politics.
And I once more have become aware of
the tremendous burden which the Presi-
dent of the United States has to carry.
His decisions very often have repercus-
sions, consequences far beyond the
borders of the United States. He needs
great strength. His office requires confi-
dence, and it does ask for an open mind
with regards to the numerous problems
which challenge the leading Western
power.
1246
