Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 22
Secretary of Energy, I do favor that legis-
lation.
GASOLINE TAX INCREASE
Q. Mr. President, I have a question on
your energy package. What is your posi-
tion on the recent proposal to increase the
gasoline tax by 5 cents a gallon and use
the revenue primarily for mass transit?
THE PRESIDENT. We have taken a posi-
tion not to oppose the legislation. It is not
part of the energy package that we put
forward.
My understanding was that the pro-
posal was 4 cents a gallon, 12 cents of
which would be used for a metropolitan
rapid transit. One-half cent would go to
the States. One-half cent would be used
for research and development on energy,
and the other 12 cents could be used
either for transportation or energy pro-
duction.
I don't necessarily agree with the
formula. I would rather see at least 1 cent
returned to the States for maintenance on
existing transportation systems. And I
personally would prefer more flexibility
in how the money should be paid.
This receipt of funds from gasoline
taxes alone, if mandated to go into rapid
transit, may not be fair. It also means
that 12 cents out of 4 cents would go to
urban areas where rapid transit systems
are needed, and the rural people who are
paying part of the taxes would not bene-
fit at all.
So, I have no objections to the alloca-
tion of additional tax on gasoline to be
used on the highways, but I would like
more flexibility in how the funds might
be used.
TRANSPORTATION OF OIL AND
NATURAL GAS
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to know if
you saw the tanker that's on fire in the
river this morning and if you considered
that this is the latest in a series of acci-
dents, involving long-distance transporta-
tion of oil, we've had tankers, the Alaskan
pipeline, and if perhaps someone hasn't
suggested that maybe it's better, rather
than transporting fuels long distances, to
use them closer to the area in which they
are produced-to use the coal and such
on the east coast, and use gas and oil
down on the gulf coast?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I did not see the
tanker on fire. We left the airport nearby
here and followed the route of the river to
the sea. I did not see the tanker on fire.
Q. Were you aware of it, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I was not. But I think
it's obvious that whenever one can, it's
better to use the fuel in the area where
it's produced. That's obviously not possible
in all respects. For instance, the north-
eastern part of our country, in its electrical
requirements, might very well derive them
from coal mine areas from West Virginia,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and other States,
and then their electricity transmitted by
powerlines.
But I don't think it is possible for us
to use, for instance, Alaskan oil and nat-
ural in Alaska. It would be unreason-
gas
able to expect to burn those fuels in
Alaska and transmit their electricity down
to this country by power line.
But we have a great problem in how
to distribute oil and gas. We had antici-
pated, as you know, the Alaskan oil and
gas coming in, perhaps, in major quan-
tities to California, as one place, and be-
ing distributed throughout the country
in either existing pipelines or those where
the flow might be reversed to new ones.
There is a great opposition among the
public officials in California environmen-
tal groups and others against the offload-
ing of large quantities of either liquefied
natural gas or oil on the California coast.
1337
