Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 30
B-1 BOMBER
Q. Mr. President, what were the ma-
jor factors that led to your decision
against the B-1 bomber?
THE PRESIDENT. There are a number
of factors. One is obviously the recent
evolution of the cruise missile as an effec-
tive weapon itself. The tests of this sys-
tem have been very successful so far.
Another one, of course, is the continued
ability to use the B-52 bombers, particu-
larly the G's and H's, up well into the
1980's, and the belief on my part that our
defense capability using the submarine-
launched missiles and intercontinental
ballistic missiles combined with the B-52
cruise missile combination is adequate.
We will also explore the possibility of
cruise missile carriers, perhaps using ex-
isting airplanes or others as a standoff
launching base.
But I think in toto the B-1, a very ex-
pensive weapons system basically con-
ceived in the absence of the cruise missile
factor, is not necessary. Those are the ma-
jor reasons.
Marilyn [Marilyn Berger, NBC News].
CRUISE MISSILE
Q. Mr. President, the Soviet Union has
shown great concern about the cruise mis-
sile capability of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. What limits are you ready to accept,
if any, on air-launched cruise missiles so
far as their range, and secondly, are you
willing to accept the proposition that an
airplane carrying cruise would be counted
as a MIRV under the limits that you
would set in a SALT agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. Those questions are
being negotiated now. We have a fairly
compatible position with the Soviets on
maximum range of air-launched cruise
missiles carried over from the Vladivostok
discussions. I don't think there's any par-
ticular difference in that. It's an adequate
range in my opinion for the cruise mis-
siles to be launched as a standoff weapon
without the carrying airplane having to
encroach into Soviet territory. This,
though, is a matter that has not yet been
finally resolved.
Also, the definition of what is a
MIRVed weapon is one that is still in
dispute. We don't believe that a bomber
equipped with cruise missiles as a weapon
ought to be classified as a MIRVed
weapon. But depending upon the Soviets'
attitude in reaching an overall compre-
hensive settlement, those matters are still
open for discussion.
B-I BOMBER
Q. Mr. President, in listening to factors
involved in your decision, sir, you didn't
mention or I didn't hear the fact that
you had made a commitment or what
many people took to be a commitment
during the campaign against the bomber,
I think particularly in the submission to
the Democratic Platform Committee. Was
that a factor, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when I went
into office, as I think I said earlier, I
tried to take the position of complete
openmindedness, because obviously I've
had available to me as President much
of the classified analyses and information
about weapons systems which I did not
have before. And I tried to approach this
question with an open mind.
I've spent many hours reading those
detailed technical reports, the advice of
specialists on both sides, an analysis of
ultimate cost of weapons. And although,
obviously, opinions are always hard to
change, I deliberately tried not to let my
campaign statements be the factor in this
decision. I've made it, I think, recently
with an original, very open mind, after
carefully considering all aspects of the
question and consulting very closely with
the Secretary of Defense.
1199
