Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 29, 1977
Charleston, South Carolina
Remarks at the 31st Annual Meeting of the
Southern Legislative Conference.
July 21, 1977
Senator Hollings and Senator Eastland,
Senator Stennis, Governor Edwards,
Chairman Bragg, distinguished Members
of Congress, those representatives from
State government, who share the leader-
ship of America, and my friends in a per-
sonal way who come out to welcome me
back to the South:
It's not often that a President comes as
a substitute speaker. I realize that my
brother, Billy, was the first choice.
[Laughter] I understand that the South-
ern Legislative Conference [laughter]—
couldn't afford Billy here.
I was going to go by Plains on this trip,
but I couldn't get a room there. [Laugh-
ter] I'm going to go to Yazoo City tonight
and then to New Orleans later on.
I'm very grateful to be here as Presi-
dent of our country. I've learned a lot in
this first 6 months. When I got to Wash-
ington and sought advice, someone said,
"Just act like you're a President and treat
Congress like the Georgia Legislature." It
didn't work at first. [Laughter]
Very quickly I realized that the Con-
gress was treating me like I was still Gov-
ernor of Georgia, but now, with the help
of a great number of friends in the Con-
gress, we've formed a kind of relationship
that ought to exist between the White
House and our Nation's Capitol. I think
there's a genuine sense of sharing of re-
sponsibility and the burden of govern-
ment, and you are a part of that circle of
leaders in the State legislature and the
Governors' offices, who join in with the
President, the Congress, and others in
making sure that our government works.
I've become even more proud of being
an American. And I have become even
more proud of being a southerner, too.
I'm also proud to be with you today
where two great rivers come together, as
they say in Charleston, to form the Atlan-
tic Ocean. This is one of our Nation's
most gracious cities.
And I want to talk to you today about
the hopes and problems that we as south-
erners and as Americans share together. I
feel a special kinship with your State leg-
islators. For 4 years I was a member of
the Georgia Senate, and I still prize State
government not only for the talents of
those who work in it but, as Fritz Hollings
says, for the closeness to the people it rep-
resents.
Our Southern States have a proud tra-
dition of local, independent government,
and now you're the heirs of that tradition.
But we in the South have also felt, per-
haps more directly than many others,
some of the rapid changes that have taken
place in this modern age. More and more
our own lives are shaped by events in
1309
