Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
cials, strengthening restrictions on post-
Government service activities of Federal
officials, and establishing an Office of Eth-
ics in the Civil Service Commission. It has
passed the Senate and is making good
progress in the House.
4. Revolving-Door. The President re-
quired, for the first time, that all Cabinet,
sub-Cabinet, regulatory agency, and
White House staff members pledge, when
they leave Government service, not to
conduct business before their former em-
ployer for 2 years.
5. Security Classification-initiated a
comprehensive review of the security clas-
sification system; provided for public
comment a draft Executive order that
would, if issued, greatly reduce unneces-
sary classifications.
V. The President has reversed years of
neglect and treated the problems of poor
and middle-class citizens with compassion
and understanding. Among the major
steps taken in that effort are the follow-
ing:
1. Food Stamp Reform. The President
proposed and signed into law reforms of
the food stamp program which make food
stamps available to 2.2 million additional
Americans. Among the reforms was the
elimination of the purchase requirement.
2. Minimum Wage. The President
proposed and signed into law an increase
in the minimum wage to enable the lowest
paid workers to recover from and keep
pace with inflation. The minimum wage
would increase to $2.65-an-hour by Jan-
uary 1, 1978, increasing the earnings of
4.5 million workers by $2.2 billion. Succes-
sive increases would raise the hourly rate
to $2.90 in 1979, $3.10 in 1980, and $3.35
in 1981.
3. Farm Bill. The President proposed
and signed into law a comprehensive agri-
culture and food bill, giving security to
farmers over the next 4 years in the form
of price supports, loans, and other pro-
grams designed to assure them an ade-
quate income from their products.
4. Welfare Reform. The President pro-
posed a comprehensive reform of the wel-
fare system, a Program for Better Jobs and
Income. It includes creation of 1.4 mil-
lion public service jobs by 1981 and the
establishment of the uniform cash assist-
ance program to low-income citizens.
5. Hospital Cost Containment. The
President attempted to control the spiral-
ing costs of hospitalization which often
make needed health care too expensive
by imposing limits on the annual increase
in hospital revenues.
6. Energy Fuel Assistance. $200 million
was provided to grant emergency fuel as-
sistance to poor people adversely affected
by last winter's high energy costs.
7. Handicapped. HEW issued regula-
tions prohibiting discrimination against
the handicapped in any program receiv-
ing Federal financial assistance from
HEW, effectively extending civil rights
protection to the handicapped.
OUTLINE BY TOPIC OF FIRST-YEAR
DOMESTIC ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Agriculture
1. Food and Agriculture Act-pro-
posed and signed into law a comprehen-
sive food and agriculture bill which re-
moves inequities in community programs;
establishes the principle that price sup-
port loans should be kept at levels en-
abling American food and fiber to remain
competitive in world markets; uses a cost-
of-production concept to set income sup-
port levels; improves administration of
the P.L. 480 (Food for Peace) program;
improves the food stamp program by
eliminating the purchase requirement,
standardizing deductions, lowering net
income eligibility limits, and (because of
the elimination of the purchase require-
2139
