Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of the seas and elimination of racism and
many other of the most complicated and
challenging confrontations with human
beings are now being channeled more and
more into the United Nations.
I know that you're searching, along
with others who administer the U.N. for
a better way to spend the limited amount
of money that's available to you, and the
organization of the structure of the United
Nations is being reexamined. And this is
compatible with governments through-
out the world.
I'd like to say in closing that I, person-
ally, am deeply indebted to you. We have
a fine delegation at the United Nations.
Without any derrogation at all to past
ambassadors here, I want to say that I'm
extremely proud of what Andrew Young
is, what he means, what he says, what he
does, what he stands for. In my opinion,
he epitomizes in many ways the greatness
of our own country. And the new har-
monious relationship that now exists be-
tween our own country and some of the
developing nations of the world can be
credited directly to the influence of
Andrew Young and the trust that those
deprived people have in him.
He's one of those Americans whose
ancestors came here, perhaps involuntar-
ily [laughter and applause-but you
can see how well he's done. [Laughter]
And I'm very glad politically to have him
on my side. But I think this does illus-
trate very clearly what our country is and
what it's made of itself, and what the
United Nations is and what it is making
of itself, because some of the finest ex-
pressions of hope and commitment in the
international community have not yet
been realized.
Many of our realizations were slow in
coming. As you well know, when our
country was founded there was a premise
that slavery was accepted, although we
were founded on a basis of equality and
freedom. And it's been in recent years
that women had a right to vote and
young people had a right to vote and we
could elect our United States Senators
directly, and so forth. Our country has
grown with the last two centuries' experi-
ence. And we still have a long way to go
before we can assure that the future of
the international community will be
based on peace and that people with di-
verse interests can indeed live with mu-
tual respect and in harmony.
I came here as a candidate to speak
about the proliferation of nuclear weap-
ons. And I came back last spring as a
new President to speak about human
rights. And I came here again this morn-
ing to speak about the elimination of a
threat of war. So, I think I've already
demonstrated my deep commitment to
the institution which you serve so well.
So, I'm proud of you, and I hope that
my own administration, our United Na-
tions delegation, our State Department,
and other aspects of it will make you
proud.
I think as we deal with the North-
South question, which is one of the most
difficult of all, it's accurate to say that
we've had similar struggle within the
United States, too. And perhaps I've
proven that if you struggle long enough,
the Southerners don't have to worry about
eventually coming out on top. So, we've
got a long way to go. We'll go there to-
gether.
I hope that we can learn as a nation
from the harmony in the United Nations,
and I hope that your organization, the
United Nations, can also learn from the
great experience of what I still consider
to be the greatest country on Earth, the
United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:49 p.m. at
the United Nations Building in New York City.
1726
