Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 25
can be proud and they can be self-
sufficient.
And I'd like to point out that an em-
phasis on jobs and work for those who are
able is not discriminatory, it's not moving
backwards, and it's not a deprivation of
basic rights. What we want is for people
who are able not to be permanently de-
pendent on government, but able to stand
on their own feet, support their own
family, and have a constructive attitude
toward our society.
In this welfare proposal, there will be
an additional 1 million job opportunities.
Our goal is to make sure that every single
family has a member of it with a guar-
anteed job, by government if necessary,
and this is a goal that we intend to reach.
But let me mention—[applause]—may I
mention a few other items of major
concern.
We're concerned about young people's
health. We propose an $18.9 million pro-
gram to immunize 52 million poor chil-
dren from preventable diseases over the
next 30 months, and we'll raise the num-
ber of poor children screened for medical
purposes from less than 2 million last year
to 9.8 million before I go out of office.
I said during the campaign that the
tax system was a disgrace, that it was most
unfair to people with low and average in-
comes. We've been working now for 6
months on a tax proposal that will be
simpler and fairer and will reduce the
burden on the average American. But in
the meantime, we have already gotten
Congress to agree the bill has been
signed, it's been passed into law-to re-
duce taxes $4 billion with the primary
emphasis on the low- and middle-income
families, which means that a family that
makes about $10,000 a year on a perma-
nent basis would have a 30-percent reduc-
tion in their income tax payments. That's
already been done.
Walter Mondale, my Vice President,
worked for years unsuccessfully, 8 years,
to try to get a $100-million increase in the
Title I programs for a better education
for
poor people, poor children. We have
already proposed, and the Congress has
already agreed, to increase the Title I pro-
gram more than $350 million.
We've made a major expansion in what
is called countercyclical revenue sharing
to focus into the most deprived urban
ghetto, unemployed areas, to be admin-
istered by Patricia Harris. And I've al-
ready signed into law a $4 billion public
works bill. Under a new urban program
that we are proposing, the Secretary of
HUD, Patricia Harris, will have the au-
thority to target large amounts of this
money, in her judgment, on areas that are
the most needy.
For a long time in the past whenever
a Federal program was approved by the
Congress and the Republican Presidents,
a large portion of that money went to
areas where the need was least, in the sub-
urban areas for housing and jobs went to
areas with already low unemployment.
We have reversed that now, and we're go-
ing to send the Federal money where it's
needed most.
Another of my first tasks has been to re-
organize the Federal Government and to
handle discrimination complaints faster
and more effectively than we have in the
past. The Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Commission now has a backlog of
130,000 cases. Many of these cases aren't
considered for 3 years. There are seven
different Federal agencies that are sup-
posed to be taking care of these needs,
these discriminatory practices. That's not
been done yet.
Because these cases have dragged on so
long, quite often the witnesses have dis-
appeared and the victims have given up.
1349
