Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 14
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:02 a.m., October 14, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on October 14.
Federal Communications
Commission
Nomination of Tyrone Brown To Be a
Member. October 14, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Tyrone Brown, of Wash-
ington, D.C., to be a member of the Fed-
eral Communications Commission for the
unexpired term of 7 years from July 1,
1972. He would succeed Benjamin L.
Hooks, resigned.
Brown was born November 5, 1942, in
Norfolk, Va. He received an A.B. from
Hamilton College in 1964 and an LL.B.
from Cornell Law School in 1967.
Brown was law clerk to Chief Justice
Earl Warren in 1967, and an associate
with a Washington law firm from 1968 to
1970. He was a special investigator for
the President's Commission on Campus
Unrest in 1970. From 1970 to 1971, he
served as assistant to Senator Edmund S.
Muskie, then staff director of the Inter-
governmental Relations Subcommittee of
the Senate Government Operations Com-
mittee.
From 1971 to 1974, Brown was director
and vice president for legal affairs of Post-
Newsweek Stations, Inc., and its subsi-
diary companies. Since 1974 he has been
with the Washington law firm of Caplin
& Drysdale.
Treaty Concerning the Permanent
Neutrality and Operation of the
Panama Canal
Joint Statement of Understanding Issued Fol-
lowing a Meeting Between the President and
Brigadier General Omar Torrijos Herrera of
Panama. October 14, 1977
Under the Treaty Concerning the
Permanent Neutrality and Operation of
the Panama Canal (the Neutrality
Treaty), Panama and the United States
have the responsibility to assure that the
Panama Canal will remain open and
secure to ships of all nations. The correct
interpretation of this principle is that each
of the two countries shall, in accordance
with their respective constitutional proc-
esses, defend the Canal against any
threat to the regime of neutrality, and
consequently shall have the right to act
against any aggression or threat directed
against the Canal or against the peaceful
transit of vessels through the Canal.
This does not mean, nor shall it be in-
terpreted as a right of intervention of the
United States in the internal affairs of
Panama. Any United States action will
be directed at insuring that the Canal
will remain open, secure and accessible,
and it shall never be directed against the
territorial integrity or political independ-
ence of Panama.
The Neutrality Treaty provides that
the vessels of war and auxiliary vessels of
the United States and Panama will be
entitled to transit the Canal expeditiously.
This is intended, and it shall so be in-
terpreted, to assure the transit of such
vessels through the Canal as quickly as
possible, without any impediment, with
expedited treatment, and in case of need
or emergency, to go to the head of the
line of vessels in order to transit the Canal
rapidly.
1793
