Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 30
trying to be an obstacle to peace. Their
perspective is just different from ours.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Mr. President, I would like to go to
that other set of negotiations, on Cap-
itol Hill over energy. Does it now appear
to you, sir, that in order to get an energy
bill, you may have to grant Senator Long's
desire and agree to some sort of plowback
to the oil industry for incentives in order
to get the wellhead tax? And would
now think that, perhaps, you're going to
have to go above $1.75, even up to $2
for natural gas?
you
THE PRESIDENT. I've never had any
conversation with Senator Long that
would either encourage me or require me
to change my position from what it was
last April. We still maintain that the prop-
osition we put to the House and Senate in
the energy proposal is the best. The
House-passed version of the comprehen-
sive energy plan is very close to what we've
proposed, and we support the House posi-
tion in almost every instance when there
is a disagreement.
I don't have any inclination to modify
that position anytime soon. We will be
consulting very closely with the particular
conferees who most nearly espouse the
administration's position, and I would
guess that the negotiations leading to some
ultimate resolution of differences would
be between the Senate conferees, headed
by Senator Long and also, of course, Sen-
ator Jackson, on the one hand and the
House conferee leaders on the other side.
We will add our assistance when we
can, but we will not betray the confidence
of people who look to us for leadership.
And I will not work out any private agree-
ment with Senator Long that would be-
tray the commitments that we've made
previously, publicly, I might say, in all
instances. So, I don't see any possibility of
doing what you propose, or what you
ask about.
Obviously, both sides are very likely to
compromise. They've already had com-
promises on literally dozens of issues. The
three major issues remaining, as you know,
are the electric rate reform-we have a
good chance of having that resolved this
week-the pricing structure on natural
gas-and that conference committee will
go back to work tomorrow; Senator Jack-
son is returning to Washington, D.C.,
then-and of course, the tax on crude oil.
And these are to some degree interrelated.
But I think that we've got a good chance,
still, for making progress now, and I'm
going to maintain the position that we
described last April as long as possible,
support in every instance the conferees
that support our position.
Q. Mr. President, if I understood you
correctly, then you think the conferees
may have to compromise, but that you,
yourself, would maintain the administra-
tion position.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. The question then becomes-if they
compromise and send you a bill with
those items I mentioned-what are you
going to do?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I spelled out
in my last fireside chat to the American
people, there are three basic elements
that I would require: One is fairness in
dealing with consumers; the second one
is meeting the goals of both conservation
and production in the energy area; and,
third, an energy proposal that won't
bankrupt this Nation nor seriously dis-
turb the future budgets of our country.
That's a fairly broad base, and I think
it's an adequate parameter within which
the conferees can work. But if any of
those principles are violated, I would not
sign the bill.
PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN PROMISES
Q. Mr. President, based on the reflec-
tion of 10 months in office, more than 10
months, do you think that perhaps you
2057
