Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to help reconcile the differences between
the parties. The President and the Foreign
Minister also addressed the problem of
Palestinian representation at Geneva, with
a view to finding a solution during the
course of these current talks the President
and Secretary Vance are holding with
Middle East foreign ministers.
The President reaffirmed the impor-
tance he attaches to U.S. relations with
Egypt and continued American support
for Egyptian economic development
efforts. Finally, the President asked the
Foreign Minister to convey to President
Sadat assurances that the United States
remains committed to the search for a
comprehensive peace settlement in the
Middle East.
International Labor Organization
Letter to the President from Prime Minister
Leo Tindemans of Belgium, President of the
Council of the European Communities.
September 21, 1977
The President received yesterday the
following letter from Prime Minister Leo
Tindemans of Belgium, acting in his ca-
pacity as President of the Council of the
European Community-Nine. President
Carter announced that he will study with
care all the points raised in the letter.
Brussels, September 9, 1977
Mr. President,
I am writing to you on behalf of the
Nine member Governments of the Euro-
pean Communities to convey to you our
views on the present situation in the In-
ternational Labour Organisation.
The member Governments of the Euro-
pean Communities have been following
recent events in the ILO with keen con-
cern. We share the preoccupations of the
United States Government. Like the US
Government, we consider that certain
developments at the annual Conference
of the ILO, held in June 1977, were dam-
aging to the Organisation. One of the re-
sults of that Conference, the failure to
adopt the report of the Committee on the
Application of Conventions, seems to us
particularly regrettable. It is our firm view
that the successful operation of the ILO
requires that the annual reports of this
Committee should be adopted and should
be acted upon. It is our intention, which
we believe is shared by many member
Governments, to ensure that the main
points in this years report, and in par-
ticular its endorsement of the need for a
single standard in judging performance,
are actively pursued within the orga-
nisation.
The 1977 Conference was the more dis-
appointing in that we consider the ILO to
be an element of major and indeed grow-
ing importance in the UN system. As the
World Employment Conference showed,
the ILO has a significant role to play in
the attempts of the United Nations to
tackle the crucial problems of north/south
relations and of global economic develop-
ment. It has a substantial contribution to
make to the success of the basic needs
strategy. Similarly it has a major con-
tribution to make in the field of human
rights where the ILO machinery is the
longest established and, so far, the most
effective of that deployed by any interna-
tional organisation. Finally the regular
work of the ILO, the only world-wide
tripartite organisation, in standard setting
and in improving conditions of work
throughout the world seems to us of un-
diminished importance.
For these reasons we consider the ILO
remains an organisation fully worthy of
our support. It would be a major blow
both to the Organisation itself and to the
1634
