Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
Trust Territory of the
Pacific Islands
Designation of Peter R. Rosenblatt as the
President's Personal Representative to Nego-
tiations on the Territory's Political Status.
July 21, 1977
The President today announced that
he is designating Peter R. Rosenblatt, of
New York, as his Personal Representa-
tive to conduct negotiations on the future
political status of the Trust Territory of
the Pacific Islands. Rosenblatt will also
be nominated for the rank of Ambassa-
dor. He would succeed Franklin Haydn
Williams.
Rosenblatt was born September 4,
1933, in New York City. He received a
B.A. from Yale College in 1954 and an
LL.B. (J.D.) from Yale University Law
School in 1957.
Rosenblatt was assistant district attor-
ney of New York County from 1959 to
1962. From 1962 to 1966, he was an
associate with the New York law firm of
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan. He served
as Deputy Assistant General Counsel for
Near East and South Asia at AID in
1966, and from 1966 to 1968 was assist-
Future Farmers of America
Remarks to Representatives of the
Organization. July 21, 1977
Almost every time when I come out to
replace Midge Costanza, the audience is
always disappointed. This is one group
where I might have an advantage, though,
because I'm part of you, not only now as
President but also throughout my life. The
first office I ever held was as secretary of
the Plains High School FFA chapter.
I was an isolated and timid country
boy, and I began to learn about organiza-
tional structure, and I began to learn
about competition. I began to learn how
to make a speech, and I began to learn
how to work with other people. I also
learned the value of agriculture, farm
families, stability, commitment, idealism,
hope, truth, hard work, patriotism, from
the FFA.
Ours was a family that didn't have
electricity on our farm then, and we lived
and worked, as I said in a book I wrote,
much more as farmers did 2,000 years ago
than as farmers live today.
The Future Farmers of America have
presented to farm adults, agricultural
ant to Special Assistant to the President leaders, political leaders from cities and
Robert W. Komer.
In 1968 and 1969, Rosenblatt was
Judicial Officer and Chairman of the
Board of Contract Appeals at the U.S.
Post Office Department. From 1969 to
1971, he was corporate vice president
and director of Electronic Data Process-
ing Technology, Inc., and chairman of
International Development Services, Inc.
Rosenblatt was special consultant on
political and foreign policy to Senator
Edmund S. Muskie from 1970 to 1972,
during his Presidential campaign. Since
1972 he has been in private law practice.
farms, new ideas and new concepts of
innovation, experimentation, and growth.
The FFA has always worked very closely
in community problems, always worked
very closely with experiment stations. And
although my later training was in nuclear
physics as a scientist and engineer, I rec-
ognize very clearly there is no single entity
in our economic structure that's more
innovative, much more eager to try new
ideas and concepts than the farmers of
this country. And it's paid rich dividends.
I learned about politics in the FFA in
a good sense. I found even then that many
1303
