Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 1
study and make recommendations on the
following subjects:
(1) Revision of procedural and sub-
stantive rules of law needed to expedite
the resolution of complex antitrust cases
and development of proposals for making
the remedies available in such cases more
effective, including:
(i) creation of a roster of district court
judges knowledgeable regarding antitrust
law and large-case problems to whom such
cases may be assigned;
(ii) revision of pleading requirements
in order to narrow as quickly and pre-
cisely as possible the scope of contested
issues of fact and law;
(iii) revision of discovery practices in
order to limit expensive and time-consum-
ing inquiry into areas not germane to
contested issues;
(iv) the desirability of a grant of judi-
cial authority to restrict and penalize dila-
tory practices through control of issue
formulation and imposition of sanctions
for unnecessary delays or failures to co-
operate;
(v) amendment of evidentiary prac-
tices to expedite introduction of testimony
and exhibits at trial;
(vi) simplification of the standards re-
quired to establish attempted monopo-
lization in suits brought by the United
States under Section 2 of the Sherman
Act;
(vii) consideration of structural relief
for antitrust violations, and of nonjudicial
alternatives for resolution of complex
antitrust issues; and
(2) the desirability of retaining the
various exemptions and immunities from
the antitrust laws, including exemptions
for regulated industries and exemptions
created by State laws that inhibit compe-
tition.
(b) The Commission shall conclude its
work not later than six months from the
date the last member is appointed and
shall submit a final report to the Presi-
dent and the Attorney General within
thirty days thereafter. The Commission
shall terminate thirty days after submit-
ting its final report.
SEC. 3. Administrative Matters. (a)
The Commission may request any Fed-
eral agency to furnish it with such infor-
mation, advice, and services as may be
useful for carrying out its functions under
this Order.
(b) The Department of Justice shall
furnish to the Commission a staff direc-
tor and any necessary staff, supplies, fa-
cilities and other administrative services.
Such funds as are necessary for ordinary
operations of the Commission, to the ex-
tent permitted by law, shall be provided
from the appropriations available to the
Department of Justice.
(c) The Commission may procure,
subject to the availability of funds, the
temporary professional services of indi-
viduals to assist in its work, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3109 of
Title 5 of the United States Code.
(d) Members of the Commission shall
receive no compensation from the United
States by virtue of their service on the
Commission but shall be entitled to re-
ceive travel expenses, including per diem
in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by
law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703).
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of
any other Executive order, the functions
of the President under the Federal Ad-
visory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. 1),
except that of reporting annually to the
Congress, which are applicable to the
Commission shall be performed by the
Attorney General in accordance with
guidelines and procedures established by
the Office of Management and Budget.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 1, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:13 p.m., December 1, 1977]
2065
