Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
made available to mayors and others to
provide housing.
We also have put money into programs,
which are just now being felt, to put our
poor people back to work. In the Com-
prehensive Education and Training Act,
for instance, and in the public works proj-
ects, many of these programs are designed
specifically for minority groups.
Detroit, just to take an example, has
received approval already for, I think, $67
million under the public works projects
money-and for the first time in the his-
tory of our Nation, 10 percent of that
money has to be spent with minority con-
tractors or builders. This means that the
Spanish-speaking, the black, and other
minority groups can participate not only
in the benefits of projects once they get
finished but also can provide the workers
to build those projects, which is a step in
the right direction.
One of the things that's concerned me
very much is that among poor people we
have a very inadequate health care sys-
tem. Quite often a medical doctor will
not be available to serve transient workers
or others. And I was talking to Senator
Herman Talmadge yesterday about a bill
that will, for the first time, permit the
service of what's called physician extend-
ers, who are men and women who have
training a little bit above and beyond a
registered nurse, who can act as a medical
doctor when doctors themselves are not
available. I would predict to you that the
Congress will finish their action on this
legislation this month, and I'll sign it into
effect, obviously, as soon as it's completed.
We have put into effect, to close out
my answer, under Ray Marshall, who is
the Labor Secretary, I think a much bet-
ter way to place both local workers who
are unemployed and also migrant work-
ers in contact with the jobs that are avail-
able. I think he's the kind of person who
will get out with his workclothes and get
to know people who really are suffering
because of the lack of services and jobs.
Pat Harris, the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, is the same way.
She's been here and been many other
places to try to see how we could improve
the housing area.
So, we have made some first major
steps toward meeting the needs of the
people that you represent, Mrs. Molina.
And I believe that in the future, after
assessing what you've said, we can make
even greater steps for those people.
I might say, before the next panelist
starts, that I try to take notes, as you've
mentioned the housing and minority em-
ployment and migrant workers problems.
And if any of you ask me a question that
I fail to answer, then don't hesitate to
follow up, because I'll try to keep notes
and answer all the questions.
Father Hernady came here from Hun-
gary in 1950, and I'm very glad to be
with you today, Father. And it's time for
you to comment.
NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION
FATHER MARTIN HERNADY. Thank you,
Mr. President. I'm Father Hernady from
Toledo, Ohio. We had the privilege of
having President Carter in our place, in
Americas' nicest ethnic neighborhood-
[inaudible].
you
THE PRESIDENT. I will never forget.
FATHER HERNADY. We'd like to have
back again. I come from a typical
ethnic workingclass neighborhood in the
Midwest. I speak for the people of the
neighborhoods who decided to stay in the
cities instead of fleeing to the suburbs.
They decided to stay in the city because
they loved the city and the place of their
heritage, the place of their roots. And
they joined the precious heritage of their
forefathers, which is still strong in our
1833
