Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 6
Welfare Reform
Message to the Congress. August 6, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
As I pledged during my campaign for
the Presidency I am asking the Congress
to abolish our existing welfare system,
and replace it with a job-oriented pro-
gram for those able to work and a simpli-
fied, uniform, equitable cash assistance
program for those in need who are unable
to work by virtue of disability, age or
family circumstance. The Program for
Better Jobs and Income I am proposing
will transform the manner in which the
Federal government deals with the in-
come needs of the poor, and begin to
break the welfare cycle.
The program I propose will provide:
-Job opportunities for those who need
work.
-A Work Benefit for those who work
but whose incomes are inadequate to
support their families.
-Income Support for those able to
work part-time or who are unable to
work due to age, physical disability
or the need to care for children six
years of age or younger.
jobs may be taken by current AFDC re-
cipients. Those who can work will work,
and every family with a full-time worker
will have an income substantially above
the poverty line.
-Provide increased benefits and more
sensitive treatment to those most in need.
-Reduce complexity by consolidating
the current AFDC, Supplemental Secur-
ity Income (SSI), and Food Stamp pro-
grams, all of which have differing eligi-
bility requirements, into a single cash as-
sistance program, providing for the first
time a uniform minimum Federal pay-
ment for the poor.
-Provide strong incentives to keep
families together rather than tear them
apart, by offering the dignity of useful
work to family heads and by ending rules
which prohibit assistance when the father
of a family remains within the household.
-Reduce fraud and error and acceler-
ate efforts to assure that deserting fathers
meet their obligations to their families.
-Give significant financial relief to
hard-pressed State and local governments.
THE NEED FOR REFORM
In May, after almost four months of
This new program will accomplish the study, I said that the welfare system was
following:
-Dramatically reduce reliance on wel-
fare payments by doubling the number of
single-parent family heads who support
their families primarily through earnings
from work.
-Ensure that work will always be
more profitable than welfare, and that a
private or non-subsidized public job will
always be more profitable than a special
federally-funded public service job.
-Combine effective work require-
ments and strong work incentives with
improved private sector placement serv-
ices, and create up to 1.4 million public
service jobs. Forty-two percent of those
worse than I expected. I stand by that
conclusion. Each program has a high pur-
pose and serves many needy people; but
taken as a whole the system is neither ra-
tional nor fair. The welfare system is anti-
work, anti-family, inequitable in its treat-
ment of the poor and wasteful of tax-
payers' dollars. The defects of the current
system are clear:
-It treats people with similar needs in
different fashion with separate eligibility
requirements for each program.
-It creates exaggerated differences in
benefits based on state of residence. Cur-
rent combined state and Federal AFDC
benefits for a family of four with no in-
1451
