Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 15
Most of the farm strike impetus has
been from those areas of our Nation who
have been affected by adverse weather
conditions, something over which the
Government has no control. Georgia had
a devastating drought. We had less than a
5-percent corn yield compared to the aver-
age year, and the corn that was harvested
was heavily affected, damaged by afla-
toxin mold, and the farmers in Georgia
have suffered because of it.
I think we've made a strong move to
increase agricultural exports. This past
12 months, we exported $24 billion worth
of farm goods, more than we've ever ex-
ported in the past. We are creating a re-
serve supply of key feed and food grain
stocks not held by the Government but
primarily held on farms by farmers, and
we're trying to form international ar-
rangements to eliminate as much as pos-
sible the wild fluctuations up and down
in farm prices.
So, we've already made great strides
toward alleviating the problems of the
farmers. The ones who are primarily suf-
fering, as I said earlier, are not suffering
from farm legislation or the absence of it,
but from weather conditions over which
no one has any control.
Q. So you don't think the strike is quite
really representative, then, of the rest of
the farmers in the country?
THE PRESIDENT. No-although I have
to say that I think all farmers would like
to get more money for their crops. We
have passed a bill this year that will pro-
vide about $62 billion in Government
payments to farmers. I've never been in
favor of guaranteeing a farmer a profit.
We have tried, though, to create an
orderly marketing system, where wild
fluctuations will not devastate individual
farm families, some stable price system
and some adequate reserve system and an
adequate way to sell our farm products
overseas that we don't need on the domes-
tic scene.
We've made good progress in that re-
spect. In addition to having a farmer in
the White House, we've got a working
dirt farmer who's thoroughly familiar
with the life and problems of farm fami-
lies in the Secretary of Agriculture.
I think when Bob Bergland goes to
meet with these farm groups and talks to
them, they understand that. But they are
hurt very seriously financially. And a
stable, healthy farm economy is very
im-
portant to me.
Q. Mr. President, if you were still in
Plains, would you join the strike, if you
were on your farm in Georgia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my cousin Hugh,
who's not a farmer, participates in the
strike. My sister, who is a farmer, drove a
tractor to Atlanta as part of the farm
strike. My brother, Billy, supports the
farm strike. And I think if I were in
Sumter County, I would also participate,
at least in the demonstration of need and
the demonstration of the plight of the
farmers actively. Now, where the strike
will
go from here, I don't know. I doubt
that many of the farmers involved will
actually stop producing crops. It would
be a very hard blow on themselves, it
would be a self-sacrificial effort and per-
haps would hurt their families more than
they can bear.
But the actual prohibition against pro-
ducing food and fiber is something in
which I would not participate. The dem-
onstration of the tangible and demon-
strable need of farmers is something in
which I would participate.
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN TRAVEL
Q. Mr. President, your foreign trip is
taking you to a disparate range of coun-
tries, and the schedule offers fairly lim-
ited time for exchanges with other heads
2121
