July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the Soviets have deliberately shown com-
plete constraint and restraint in our com-
ments or actions in that area.
We want to confine those conflicts,
when they unfortunately do occur, to as
narrowly geographical an area as possible
and prevent them being identified as a
struggle between ourselves and the Soviet
Union.
OIL IMPORTS
Q. Mr. President, in view of the pro-
jected $25 billion budget deficit this year,
brought about largely by foreign oil in-
creases, isn't this a far greater-imports
rather isn't this a far greater threat to
the American economy than any energy
crunch 8 years from now? Would you
consider making the Government the
sole importer of foreign oil, and at the
very least, aren't you going to have to
take far more serious energy conservation
measures and proposals than what you've
already got?
THE PRESIDENT. The early estimates
this year on our trade deficit were about
$25 billion. That's still our best estimate.
There has not been a deterioration in that
prospect. The fact is that by leaps and
bounds the American people are import-
ing and using too much oil. This has been
the primary cause for our concern. We
have a positive trade balance, excluding
oil, of about $20 billion. But we are im-
porting $45 billion worth of oil this year.
It's a vivid demonstration of the need
for very tight conservation measures on
the use of oil and natural gas. This is a
reason for the long delayed proposal to
establish a strict national energy policy.
Our hope is to cut down oil imports
drastically by 1985-10 million barrels
per day less than the present projected
use by that time. But if the American
people-business, industry, private per-
sons, as well-will join in an effort to
cut down on the waste of oil, then that
would be the major contributing factor
toward balancing our trade with other
countries.
I don't know what other actions we will
take at this point. I think that we will
continue to assess additional means by
which we can constrain oil imports. But
whether or not the Government would
become the sole importer is a question
that has not yet been considered.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. I'd like to go back to the Mideast,
if I may. Some people believe that in your
meetings with Mr. Begin, Mr. Begin
came away with sort of the best of it. They
think that you rather embraced him to the
extent that our leverage with Israel has
now been reduced. Would you comment
on that, and would you also tell us what
you think now the prospects for peace
versus another war are in the Mideast?
THE PRESIDENT. After I met with Pres-
ident Sadat and King Hussein and Presi-
dent Asad, there were major outcries in
Israel and among the American Jewish
community that I had overly embraced
the Arab cause. And I think now that
Mr. Begin has visited me, there's a con-
cern we have overly embraced the Israeli
cause. Obviously, when these leaders
come to see me or when I go to see them,
there is an effort to understand one an-
other, to have a base of comprehension
and consultation that can provide hope
for the future.
Our position on the Middle East has
been very carefully spelled out to the de-
gree of specificity that I choose. We've
always made it clear that, ultimately, the
agreement had to be approved and mu-
tually beneficial to the Israelis and also
their Arab neighbors as well.
I think that we have a good chance to
go to Geneva. There are obstacles still to
be resolved. I hope that every leader in-
volved directly in the discussions, the
1368
