Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
has said, and that is what elements do you
panelists see as being important to be in-
cluded in a national water policy to make
sure that these kinds of problems can be
addressed in a fair way with a minimum
of intrusion by the Federal Government,
but a recognition of the rights of different
people.
I think Mr. Fischer had his hand up
first, and then I'll get Mr. Wright.
NATIONAL WATER POLICY
MR. FISCHER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. First of all, thank you for coming.
We appreciate it.
I'd like to, by way of preliminary com-
ment, state that we very much appreciate
the opportunity for improved communica-
tion with the White House. The commu-
nication, we hope, will not stop today.
With your concurrence, I would like to
continue dialog, especially on the Colo-
rado River, with Jack Watson's office on
your staff. We would like to comment-
and appreciate very much your comment
on not preempting by the Federal Gov-
ernment's actions the Colorado water pri-
ority system, the appropriations system
or that of all the West. And by way of
competition and certainly by way of im-
proved relationships with each other, we
would like to assume that your policy will
permeate the departments both directly
and indirectly. We would like to comment
that in the problem area, one of our prob-
lems is that the Federal Government, and
especially the agencies of Interior—with
respect, Mr. Secretary-have been very
reluctant to quantify and adjudicate their
claims in the Western States courts and
particularly in Colorado where we believe
we have three precedent-setting United
States Supreme Court decisions, Mr.
President, that require that. We hope that
we will not continue to find the aggressive
reluctance on the part of Federal agencies
for quantification and adjudication.
As you know, the Colorado River is the
most controversial, one of the most con-
trolled, and certainly the most litigated
river in the world. It is the subject of two
compacts, one international treaty. It's
presently very tenuously balanced.
The people of the State of Colorado
look forward to the opportunity to use that
water. We are in the process of addressing
the water quality and salinity issues. We
believe that salinity is from several
sources: loading, by man-made activities,
natural, and the out-basin diversion of in-
creasing amounts of very high quality
water to the detriment of the basin itself.
We would hope that these things could be
addressed.
In the areas of competition certainly we
are going to have competition between
energy and agriculture. But there is no
requirement, we don't believe, to assume
that agriculture, Mr. President, has to
take the shortage. It does not.
There is under Colorado's compact ap-
portion share of the river, the Colorado
River where I am from, enough water for
present and future agriculture projects,
irrigation, reasonable energy use, but Mr.
President, it will take storage. That stor-
age can be economically and environmen-
tally sound. We believe it can be. I would
like to talk to the staff about that. But we
believe, Mr. President, that the energy
industry should supply and pay for its own
storage. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I might point out that
Rolly Fischer is the secretary of engineer-
ing of the Colorado Water Conservation
District and an acknowledged expert on
Western Slope water.
The Federal Government has some very
clear responsibilities that we hope to out-
line. One is, of course, as I've already
mentioned, the congressional responsibil-
ity to set priorities on which major con-
struction projects are financed first. Sec-
1867
