Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 22
ered and used, and distributed in the best formulas that have already been estab-
way.
I hope that the progress of our energy
policy legislation through the Congress
will continue. I'm convinced that it's a
well-balanced program, and I believe
that an understanding of both the prob-
lems and potentials of offshore oil drill-
ing can be understood by the rest of the
Nation who haven't had a chance to ob-
serve it in person.
As Governor of Georgia, for instance, I
joined with the Governors of North and
South Carolina in laying plans for ag-
gressive oil exploration and drilling and
extraction off the coast of our Atlantic
seaboard.
And we still have hopes that oil might
be discovered there. And if so, working
with environmental groups, university
systems, State and local officials, we have
already identified the places where we
might bring the oil ashore or natural gas
ashore, where the refineries might be lo-
cated with a minimum adverse impact on
the environmental quality, or recreation
area or beauty of our shorelands.
I hope that the States north of us will
take the same approach and make care-
ful plans accordingly and that we can con-
tinue with an aggressive exploration policy
on the Atlantic seaboard, as has been the
case in the Gulf area.
The last point I'd like to make before I
answer your questions is we need to have
a good balanced Federal support program
to the areas that are highly impacted by
the consequences of oil production.
Senator Johnston and Senator Long
have been leaders in this particular area
and a bill has already been passed before
the Senate and is now before the House.
We have made some progress in this
already in the coal leases. We need to
make the same type of progress in oil as
well. And I believe that the distribution
lished for coastal development and plan-
ning funds is the one the Governors prefer
and one that's certainly suitable with me.
I don't have any way to know yet what
the final action of the House will be on
this legislation, but the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget has worked, I think, a
satisfactory understanding with the Senate
leaders on this particular subject.
So, to summarize, I've been well edu-
cated this morning, have been pleased at
what I have learned, and believe that the
future of oil exploration in our country
is assured to be both successful and com-
patible with the preservation of the qual-
ity of our life style.
I would be glad to answer any questions
or refer the questions to these distin-
guished men and women behind me.
OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, did you see anything
this morning that would cause you to con-
sider greater production incentives for
the oil and natural gas industries than
those you have already proposed, the $15
billion figure?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I didn't. I know
that some of the leaders in the oil industry
and certainly some political leaders from
the oil-producing States think that higher
production incentives are necessary. I do
not. I believe that the incentives that we
have put into the package devised by me,
Dr. Schlesinger, and others, that those
incentives are adequate.
Q. Mr. President, are you any more
impressed with Governor Edwards' views
on the energy situation than you were
before?
THE PRESIDENT. I have always been
strongly impressed by Governor Edwards'
views. I think that the leaders from Texas,
Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Ala-
bama, who represent States that are pro-
1335
