Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
be willing to make the necessary sacri-
fices and be willing to serve their govern-
ment and country. This I can still say,
and say proudly.
"Third, I believe in the absolute need
for government to be able to attract good
people from the private sector. We must
find ways to encourage these people.
"As to my position as Director of the
Office of Management and Budget: I
hope the American people feel that dur-
ing my eight months in office I have met
well my responsibilities and performed
well my tasks. This has been an important
aspect of the entire matter.
"However, I have to ask the question
at what price do I remain? My only in-
tention in coming to Washington in the
first place was to make a contribution to
this country and to you.
"I am convinced that I can continue
to be an effective Director of the Office
of Management and Budget. However,
because of the amount of controversy and
the continuing nature of it, I have de-
cided to submit my resignation as Direc-
tor of OMB. I desire to return to my
native State of Georgia.
"It has been a high privilege and honor
to be a part of your administration. Hope-
fully, I have made a contribution which
will be of lasting value. Respectfully
yours."
Signed, Bert Lance.
Bert Lance is my friend. I know him
personally, as well as if he was my own
brother. I know him without any doubt
in my mind or heart to be a good and an
honorable man.
He was given, this past weekend, a
chance to answer thousands of questions
that have been raised about him, un-
proven allegations that have been raised
against him, and he did it well. He told
the truth. And I think he proved that
our system of government works, because
when he was given a chance to testify on
his own behalf, he was able to clear his
name.
My responsibility, along with Bert's,
has been and is to make sure that the
American people can have justified con-
fidence in our own Government. And we
also have an additional responsibility
which is just as difficult, and that is to
protect the reputation of decent men
and women. Nothing that I have heard
or read has shaken my belief in Bert's
ability or his integrity.
There have been numerous allega-
tions which, I admit, are true, that a
lot of the problem has been brought on
Bert Lance by me, because of the extraor-
dinary standards that we have tried to
set in Government and the expectations
of the American people that were engen-
dered during my own campaign and my
Inauguration statement and as has been
so strongly supported by Bert in his vol-
untary sacrifice, financially and other-
wise, to come to Washington.
It was I who insisted that Bert agree
to sell his substantial holdings in bank
stock. Had he stayed there, in a selfish
fashion, and enriched himself and his own
family financially, I'm sure he would have
been spared any allegations of impro-
priety. But he wanted to come to Wash-
ington and serve his Government because
I asked him to, and he did.
I accept Bert's resignation with the
greatest sense of regret and sorrow. He's a
good man. Even those who have made
other statements about Bert have never
alleged, on any occasion, that he did not
do a good job as the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget. He's
close to me and always will be, and I
think he's made the right decision, because
it would be difficult for him to devote full
time to his responsibilities in the future.
1636
