Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 21
share financial responsibility for the RFK
Stadium and pension plan funding; and to
extend the city's authority to borrow from
the Federal Treasury.
Creation of the D.C. task force last
spring by the President reflects the high
priority that he attaches to the key issues
affecting our Nation's Capital and the
people who live here. I'm proud of the
decisions that have been made as the
result of this process. I believe they repre-
sent the most progressive steps taken to-
ward resolving problems of our Capital
City by any administration in recent
years.
President; Robert Lipshutz, Counsel to
the President; David Aaron, Deputy As-
sistant to the President for National Se-
curity Affairs; Alfred L. Atherton, Jr.,
Assistant Secretary of State for Near East-
ern and South Asian Affairs; Herman
Eilts, U.S. Ambassador to Egypt; and Wil-
liam Quandt, National Security Council
staff member, on the American side; and
Ashraf Ghorbal, Egyptian Ambassador to
the United States; Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Under Secretary Osama al-Baz;
First Secretary Dr. Mohammed Baradai,
Executive Secretary of Foreign Minister's
Cabinet; and Minister Counselor Mo-
As I indicated, fact sheets indicating hammed Shaker, Egyptian Embassy, on
more detail on these decisions are at-
tached. And I'm asking Bunny Mitchell,
who served as the convener of these meet-
ings and of the task force and who serves
as a special assistant to the President on
these matters, and Jim Dyke, of my staff,
to answer any questions that you might
have.
NOTE: The Vice President spoke at 10:05
a.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing
Room at the White House. On the same day,
the Vice President's Press Office released a fact
sheet on the President's decisions.
Meeting With Foreign Minister
Ismail Fahmy of Egypt
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting Between the President and the
Foreign Minister. September 21, 1977
President Carter and Egyptian Foreign
Minister Ismail Fahmy met in the Cabinet
Room for 1 hour, 5 minutes. The meeting
was also attended by Vice President
Walter Mondale; Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance; Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to
the President for National Security Af-
fairs; Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the
the Egyptian side.
The President began by expressing his
pleasure at welcoming Foreign Minister
Fahmy to the White House in this latest
round of his meetings with Middle Eastern
foreign ministers. The President was
gratified to receive a personal letter from
President Sadat conveyed by the Foreign
Minister. He repeated to the Foreign Min-
ister his support for the key role Egypt
continues to play in efforts to reach a
negotiated peace settlement of the Middle
East conflict. The President underlined
his own conviction that a just and lasting
peace in this vital area of the world re-
quires compromise and courageous lead-
ership from all the parties to the
negotiations.
The President and Foreign Minister
agreed on the importance of reconvening
the Geneva conference by the end of this
year, thus beginning the process of nego-
tiations between the parties. To that end,
they discussed the substantive issues of a
settlement. Secretary Vance will pursue
the discussion of these issues with the
Foreign Minister, both to hear Egypt's
concrete ideas on these issues and to ex-
plain some specific American suggestions
on the elements of a peace treaty designed
1633
