Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 24
so strong and our system of government
is so well-planned and our leaders are so
directly subject to the constant scrutiny
and mandatory approval of the people
that we can withstand challenge, that we
can overcome mistakes that might very
well destroy a lesser government or a lesser
people.
I've learned a lot about politics in the
last 2 years, a lot about my country and
your country. And I've learned a lot
about economics and a lot about the in-
terrelationship that ought to exist be-
tween the different levels of government.
Our economic system is strong. And al-
though the monthly figures go up and
down slightly, there's a basic stability
there that I want to maintain working
with strong State leaders like these here
with me.
So, I'd like to summarize my own com-
ments by saying that Virginia epitomizes
an attitude and a character that is typical
of our country. Your heritage is a basis
for a finer future for you and our Nation.
You have nominated candidates who
represent you well and who are worthy
of your support and of my support. And
I believe that if they are elected, Virginia
will be well-blessed and there will be an
ernor's office if I want to see him.
[Laughter]
I'd like to close by saying this: I have
to go to another banquet tonight; I'll be
meeting with about 3,000 of the black
leaders of our country, the annual Black
Caucus banquet. And I'll be talking to
them about the future of our minority
citizens who are represented so well.
But I want to point out to you that
this is just a brief visit for me into Vir-
ginia. I'm not trying to tell the Virginia
people how to vote. I trust your good
judgment, and I respect your independ-
ence and your eagerness not to be in-
fluenced or dominated in an unwarranted
way from the White House or from any-
where else.
But in trusting that judgment, I know
that you will make the right decision and
that the rainbow team will be successful
on election night, and then you and I can
celebrate together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. in
the Virginia Room at the Colonial Williams-
burg Convention Center.
enhanced relationship between the State- Congressional Black Caucus
house in Virginia and the White House
in Washington that will be of benefit to
us all.
As I mentioned this afternoon in Nor-
folk, a close communication and friend-
ship between a Governor and a President
can be a very healthy thing for the people
who look to us for leadership. And I'm
very grateful that when Henry is in the
Governor's office and I'm in the White
House, that he has promised that when
a problem comes up that affects Virginia,
especially in which he and I have a di-
rect personal interest, that he will not
keep me waiting long outside the Gov-
Remarks at the Caucus' Annual Dinner.
September 24, 1977
I appreciate the chance to come. You've
probably noticed that I was a little late
in arriving. I met Alex Haley outside, and
I made the mistake of saying, "Alex, how's
your family?" [Laughter] Unfortunately,
he told me. And it took a while to get in.
[Laughter]
Alex and I have a lot in common. I just
came up a few minutes ago from an after-
noon of campaigning in Virginia, and was
in Williamsburg right across from where
my own folks came to this country, I
1661
