Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 30
THE PRESIDENT. When Prince Fahd
was over here, we discussed the prospects
for OPEC prices, and he told me in con-
fidence what he thought were the pros-
pects. And I think that is going to come
true, that the Saudi Arabians would raise
their price to equal that of other OPEC
nations and that the OPEC nations who
had already raised their prices 10 percent
would forgo their planned additional in-
creases at least through this year.
I hope, and I believe the Saudis also
hope, that that extension of a price freeze
would go through 1978 at least. I think
that our own strong country can accom-
modate additional increases in the price
of oil.
I think the prices are too high. But
there are obviously major adverse impacts
on world inflation, and the poor countries
that have to buy large quantities of oil and
can't equal it by exports are very badly
damaged.
But we can accommodate the change,
but we are using our good offices when
possible to hold down additional increases
in the price of oil.
U.S.-CHINESE RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, is it your intention
to terminate either our defense commit-
ment or diplomatic relations with Taiwan
as a step towards normalizing relations
with the People's Republic of China?
THE PRESIDENT. Our attitude on the
Chinese question has been spelled out by
my predecessors and confirmed by me as
based on the Shanghai Communique
which acknowledges the concept of one
China. We also hope that Taiwan and
the Mainland can work out the differences
between them. We obviously hope that
these differences can be resolved early,
or perhaps in the future through peaceful
means.
Other nations who have now full rela-
tionships with the People's Republic of
China, on the Mainland have continued
trade, cultural, social exchanges, sales of
major equipment to Taiwan.
I can't give you a better answer than
I've already described. The Secretary of
State is planning to go to China, to Pe-
king, in August. This was part of the
Shanghai Communique agreement, that
we would have consultations at the high-
est level, obviously at the Secretary of
State level or the national leader level.
But I can answer your question better
after he returns in August.
Did you have one followup?
Q. Could I just follow that in a broader
sense? Is it possible to have relations with
the People's Republic of China and at the
same time maintain a defense commit-
ment to Taiwan?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a difficult ques-
tion to answer now. My hope is that we
can work out an agreement with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China having full diplo-
matic relations with them and still make
sure that the peaceful lives of the Tai-
wanese, the Republic of China, is main-
tained. That's our hope, and that's our
goal.
Q. Mr. President, in New York last
night Secretary of State Vance spoke of
a constructive dialog now on the way
with Communist China. And I believe
you have referred to this at least once
publicly yourself. However, so far as I
know, there have been only low-level talks
with representatives of the Liaison Office
here about property claims and also, there
have been some other-an occasional
meeting or two. What is involved in this
dialog? Where and when are these ex-
changes taking place?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, we
don't have ambassadors exchanged. We
have special representatives with the rank
of ambassador. Ambassador Huang here
in Washington meets with the Secretary
of State. He's also been to the Oval Of-
fice to meet with me. We've had a very
1203
