June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I've been encouraged by the progress
that the administration and the Con-
gress have already made together in the
last 5 months, especially the legislation
that I signed in April, which will now
permit me to submit to the Congress
reorganization plans during the next 3
years.
All of us know that the task will be a
long one; it's taken these problems a long
time to develop. And we must be patient
in taking both small steps and large steps
leading to a more effective and more
efficient Government.
We've already begun many reorga-
nization efforts, some of which have al-
ready been announced. But today I'm
pleased to announce the beginning of
four new reorganization studies which
will bring order and simplicity and effi-
ciency to major parts of our Government.
The four areas that we will study are,
first of all, law enforcement; secondly,
local and community economic develop-
ment; third, human services; and fourth,
administrative services, primarily under
GSA. Together these areas account for
$60 billion of Federal spending each year.
Our preliminary review indicates that
there are at least 41 separate agencies
involved in police and investigative ac-
tivities. Twelve separate agencies are
conducting personnel background inves-
tigations; 36 separate agencies have
guard duties or security forces, for a total
cost per year of about $22 billion-I
think about 164,000 employees in the
District of Columbia area alone. There
are 23 different Federal police forces.
A different study shows that a welfare
mother with two children may now have
to deal with 11 different agencies to get
the services that she needs. And if there's
an elderly person in the home, there are
several additional agencies who are sup-
posed to serve that same family.
In economic development, we now
have more than a hundred different pro-
grams in 10 different agencies, all work-
ing to promote business in local areas,
by doing so in a wasteful and uncoordi-
nated way.
There are 46 different Federal sewer
programs, for instance. And no one, either
in or out of Government, benefits from
this kind of confusion. All of us will
profit from a more sensible and efficient
organization.
These studies that I've announced will
take from 5 to 9 months. These are very
complicated agencies and programs, and
we want to do a thorough and good job.
The studies will depend upon how closely
we can involve the Members of Con-
gress, the officials of State and local gov-
ernments, and private citizens from all
parts of the country for their success.
I believe it's especially important for
us to get continuing advice and counsel
from the Members of the House and the
Senate about the way our Federal pro-
grams are being administered, because
they spend a good part of every day help-
ing people cut through Government red-
tape, and they know first hand how the
Government looks from the receiving end
of the services.
On the day in 1974 when I announced
my campaign for this office, I pledged
to undertake this major task. At that time
I said, and I quote: "This is no job for the
faint-hearted. It will be met with vio-
lent opposition from those who enjoy a
special privilege, those who prefer to
work in the dark, or those whose private
fiefdoms are threatened."
Well, it's still no job for the faint-
hearted, but I intend to honor that pledge.
I look forward to the cooperation of every-
one involved the Congress, the Federal
employees, and the American people—to
move toward that goal, which we all share,
1192
