Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
Cabinet. I've had good cooperation and
support from the Congress, who recog-
nized my newness in Washington. And
overall, although I see great problems
ahead of us, I feel confident.
I got my staff--the National Security
Council today to give me an analysis of
the world situation as it was a year ago,
and the comparison doesn't look bad. I
think we are trusted now where we
weren't before, say in Africa, primarily
because of the influence of Andrew
Young. I believe that our intentions are
recognized as being good. So, in all I
think it's been a good year for us.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, do you
ever come back from the Oval Office,
which is not that many feet away, and
come back to the Residence and sit down
and reflect on the day's events and what's
going on in the world and think, "My
God, this is a bigger job than I expected
it to be. I'm not sure that I'm up to this"?
Do you ever have those moments of self-
doubt?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have sober
moments when I'm not sure that I can
deal with problems satisfactorily. But I
have a lot of confidence in myself. Some-
times I go in a back room and pray a
while. And a few times I've walked
through this Mansion where every Presi-
dent has lived except George Washing-
ton, since 1801, and I've thought about
the difficulties and the tragedy that ex-
isted in the lives of many of them and
feel myself to be fortunate. But I don't
feel inadequate because I feel that even
political opponents want me to succeed.
And I couldn't have asked for better co-
operation and support than I've gotten
from those who help me in this job.
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, can you
tell us what you think has been your
greatest single achievement this past year
and also, even though we hear that you
don't have sleepless nights-everyone
makes mistakes—what you think your big-
gest mistake has been?
THE PRESIDENT. I think my biggest
mistake has been in inadvertently build-
ing up expectations too high. I under-
estimated the difficulty and the time re-
quired for Congress to take action on con-
troversial measures. It's much easier for
me to study and evolve and present legis-
lation to the Congress than it is for them
to pass it in its final form. And I've
dashed some hopes and disappointed peo-
ple that thought we might act quicker.
I think that the achievements are not
measured in how many bills were passed
and how many bills I've signed or even
my harmony with the Congress. If I have
achieved anything, it's been to restore a
tone to our Nation's life and attitude that
most accurately exemplifies what we
stand for. I use the human rights issue as
one example. It gratifies me to know that
the nations in Africa now look to us with
friendship and with trust, whereas, just
a short time ago, they wouldn't permit
our Secretary of State to come in their
country.
It gratifies me to see a burgeoning
friendship with Latin American nations
and to see our NATO allies now recom-
mitting themselves to strong military
commitments. And it gratifies me to see
some progress being made in relieving
tensions between ourselves and the Soviet
Union. We are making slow, steady prog-
ress. We are attempting many things
simultaneously. Sometimes they get con-
fusing because they are so voluminous
and there are so many of them.
But I think having our Nation and its
Government represent more accurately
the hopes and dreams of the American
people is a general accomplishment of
which I am most proud.
MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, when you
were still running for office, you told me
2201
