Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
opportunity to express my strong personal
commitment to expanding equality of op-
portunity for our citizens, to ending all
remaining discrimination in every sphere
of American life and to maintaining rigid
enforcement of all Federal laws in this
area.
Mindful of the oath of office I took, I
am determined that my Administration
will remain committed, in both spirit and
action, to the enforcement of the civil
rights acts that defend the individual free-
doms of all our citizens.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was made
available by the White House Press Office.
It was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
One recommendation was made by the
President's "Pay Agent," which consists
of the Secretary of Labor, the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget,
and the Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission, acting jointly. The Pay
Agent recommended a 7.05 percent
across-the-board increase.
A second recommendation was made
by the Federal Employees Pay Council,
a five-member group of Federal employee
union leaders. The Council argued that
an 8.8 percent increase was justified this
year.
The third recommendation was made
by the President's Advisory Committee
on Federal Pay, an impartial group of
private sector experts established by law
to advise the President on pay matters.
The Committee endorsed the Pay Agent's
Federal Civilian and Military Pay recommendation for a 7.05 percent in-
Announcement of Adjustment of Certain
Rates of Pay and Allowances.
September 20, 1977
The President announced today that
he intends to grant a 7.05 percent across-
the-board pay increase for the 1.4 million
Federal white-collar employees and a
matching increase for the 2 million mili-
tary personnel. The pay adjustments will
be effective on the first day of the first
applicable pay period beginning on or
after October 1, 1977.
Under the Federal Pay Comparability
Act of 1970, the President has responsi-
bility for determining annually the in-
crease needed to maintain comparability
between Federal white-collar and private
sector salaries for the same level of work.
In making his decision on the size of the
pay raise, the President is required by
the Federal Pay Comparability Act to
consider the recommendations of three
separate advisory panels.
crease.
The 7.05 percent pay increase will cost
about $3.4 billion. There is an allowance
currently provided in the budget for this
increase. The 8.8 percent recommended
by the Federal Employees Pay Council
would have cost about $850 million more
than the 7.05 percent increase.
Affected by this increase are the salary
schedules for Federal civilian employees
of the General Schedule, the Foreign
Service, and the Department of Medicine
and Surgery, Veterans Administration.
Federal blue-collar workers and postal
employees have their pay adjusted by
separate systems.
Additionally affected are the basic pay,
quarters, and subsistence allowance sched-
ules of the Uniformed Services. The law
gives the President some flexibility in dis-
tributing the 7.05 percent increase among
these schedules. A final decision on the
precise distribution has not yet been
made.
1630
