Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 22, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
July 15, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't get a chance to
finish my lunch. I hope you have a chance
to do it. [Laughter]
I don't know what Jody was talking to
you about, but I'd like to maybe take
about 3 or 4 minutes to outline some of
the things that face us at this moment, on
a topical basis, and then spend the
time we have available answering your
questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We've just finished a superb meeting,
I thought, with Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt from Germany. Prior to that, we
had a very good meeting with President
Perez from Venezuela. On Tuesday,
Prime Minister Begin will be here from
Israel, and following that, we'll have
Prime Minister Andreotti from Italy and,
following that, President Nyerere from
Tanzania.
This is a series of meetings that we've
been conducting throughout the whole
year, and I think it's given me a good
chance to learn about foreign opinions, to
re-cement our ties with nations who are
naturally our allies and friends, as are
those that I've mentioned to you this
moment.
We also deeply are involved in the
congressional appropriations legislation at
this point. We have proposed to the Con-
gress a comprehensive energy package,
which was long overdue, and we've been
very pleased so far with the action taken
by both the Commerce Committee and
the Ways and Means Committee. There's
an ad hoc committee that's been set up to
deal just with energy, and they will take
over shortly that responsibility.
We hope that the House will finish
with the entire energy package prior to
the mandatory recess period that will be-
gin on August 6. The Senate is now work-
ing on the energy package in a prelim-
inary way, and they'll receive the legisla-
tion from the House before the summer
work period.
We've done a lot of work on a compre-
hensive welfare reform proposal that we
expect to go to the Congress, I'd say, well
within the next month. And before they
adjourn this year, we'll have a compre-
hensive tax reform proposal presented to
them.
The Congress has moved very strongly
on the major items that we put forward
before the Inauguration comprehensive
ethics legislation, the authority for me to
reorganize the Government, the evolution
of a new Department of Energy, and so
forth. We're very pleased with that rela-
tionship.
1269
