Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 27
ship, his intellect, and his diligence to
duty and country has been reinforced.
As I look forward to continuing to
serve the President and the country at
OMB, I am both cautious and confident.
Having worked at the agency for almost
a year, I realize the size and scope, the
responsibilities and the challenges. I also
realize that at times we at OMB wouldn't
win any popularity prizes, especially at
the budget time. But I am confident that
I can carry out the President's initiatives
and directives.
A major reason for my confidence
stems from the highly capable and effec-
tive staff at OMB. Our Executive Asso-
ciate Directors, Bo Cutter and Harrison
Wellford, their staffs, our congressional
support through Herky Harris, Bob
Dietsch and our Public Information Of-
fice, and all of the people at the agency
have been of invaluable help to me and
to the President. I take comfort that they
will be there ready to help again.
I also feel confident that I can work
with the Congress. While serving as Act-
ing OMB Director, I have made a special
effort to meet with a long list of Senators
and Representatives, and I look forward
to continuing our cooperation.
Next month we will send Congress the
Federal budget for fiscal year 1979, the
year which begins next October 1. It is
President Carter's first full budget, and it
will reflect his priorities. It will show the
country the President's determination to
be fiscally responsible, but it will also
show that he will not neglect the coun-
try's domestic needs and problems. Thus,
while the budget can be described as
tight, it also can be described as respon-
sive-responsive to the problems of our
environment, our youth, the disadvan-
taged, and the unemployed. It will re-
flect the President's determination to
make our Government work more effec-
tively. All of us at OMB look forward to
working with the Congress in implement-
ing the President's budget.
Mr. President, I will always do my best
to carry out OMB's assignments and re-
sponsibilities and your own directives. I
appreciate your confidence in me. Thank
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
you, everybody. You have got a
Thank
good boss.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House. The White House press release
also includes the transcript of Mr. McIntyre's
remarks in a question-and-answer session with
reporters.
National Commission for the
Review of Antitrust Laws and
Procedures
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate. December 27, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
On November 30, 1977, I signed an
Executive Order establishing a National
Commission for the Review of Antitrust
Laws and Procedures. A copy of the Order
is enclosed.
The Commission will study and make
recommendations on legislative or other
proposals for expediting complex antitrust
cases and making the remedies in such
cases more effective, and on the desira-
bility of retaining the various exemptions
and immunities from the antitrust laws.
The Commission shall conclude its work
within six months and submit its final
report to the Attorney General and me
within thirty days after completing its
work.
By the terms of the Executive Order, I
must appoint three of the Commission's
fifteen members upon your recommenda-
2177
