Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Presidential Management Improvement
Awards, to be presented at a White
House ceremony early next year.
I urge you to give your full support to
this special effort. I ask that you review
the structure and processes within your
agency to ensure that they encourage
your employees to develop and propose
innovative ideas. In order that this effort,
and my interest in its success, be made
clear, I want you to convey this message
to all civilian and military personnel
along with your own expression of the
need for their personal involvement.
JIMMY CARTER
Visit of Prime Minister
Tindemans of Belgium
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting Between the President and the Prime
Minister. October 19, 1977
economic problems. The President re-
affirmed U.S. support for the European
Community, noting that he will be visit-
ing E.C. headquarters, as well as that of
NATO, during his upcoming visit to
Belgium. The two leaders both stressed
the importance of significant results in the
multilateral trade negotiations currently
underway, agreeing on the importance of
resisting protectionist measures and recog-
nizing that freer trade would promote the
orderly economic growth of both the
developed and developing countries.
The President reiterated the U.S. com-
mitment to the defense of Western Europe
and to the strengthening of the NATO
Alliance. He expressed satisfaction that
positive steps were being taken in the
Alliance to implement initiatives he had
suggested and that had been adopted at
the NATO summit meeting in May. The
Prime Minister indicated that Belgium
fully concurred in the need for a strong
Europe and pointed to his country's good
record in sharing the defense burden,
The President met today at the White noting that the United States and Bel-
House with Prime Minister Leo Tinde-
mans of Belgium. The Prime Minister,
who is also the current President of the
European Council, is visiting Washington
at the invitation of the President. The
President hosted the Prime Minister,
Foreign Minister Simonet, and the Bel-
gian party at a White House working
lunch. The discussions covered a wide
range of political and economic topics in
both our bilateral relations and U.S. rela-
tions with the Community.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed economic conditions in their
two countries, the European Community,
and the world, and agreed on the need
for continued close cooperation among
the industrial democracies in sustaining
economic growth and addressing global
gium were cooperating in joint produc-
tion of MAG-58 machineguns and the
F-16 aircraft.
The President and the Prime Minister
discussed a wide range of arms control
and disarmament issues. The President
welcomed Belgium's participation in the
International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evalua-
tion. Both leaders agreed on the need to
reduce both the quality and quantity of
arms sold by all weapons-producing coun-
tries. The Prime Minister noted that his
country had been using considerable re-
straint over the export of arms to sensi-
tive areas and that Belgium had taken
important initiatives in the U.N., pro-
posing that controls on arms sales be
considered in the context of regional dis-
armament measures.
1818
