Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
a right, in an unprecedented expression of
democratic principles, to vote in an open
and free referendum or plebiscite that will
take place, as a matter of fact, tomorrow.
He's invited the United Nations to
come in and witness the procedures that
are being used.
So, not only does General Torrijos and
I-do we approve the canal treaties but
the Panamanian people will vote in a ref-
erendum, and as you well know, the
United States Senate, under our own Con-
stitution, must approve the treaties them-
selves.
I'd like to add one other thing. We are
not taking any taxpayers' money to pay
the Panamanians. There will be a sharing
of income from the canal use fees. The
second thing is we have never owned the
Panama Canal Zone. We've never had
title to it. We've never had sovereignty
over it. There's always been recognized by
Theodore Roosevelt originally, the Su-
preme Court has confirmed since then that
this is Panamanian territory. People born
in the Panama Canal Zone are not Ameri-
can citizens. We've always paid them an
annual fee, since the first year of the
Panama Canal Treaty that presently
exists, for the use of their property.
This canal will also be operated jointly
by us. There will be the rest of this century
a nine-person board that will set the policy
for and manage the canal itself. Five of
those members will be American citizens.
Four of them will be Panamanians. All
nine of them will be appointed by the
United States.
So, you can clearly see that in economic
matters, defense matters, priority of use,
fair action on the part of the Panamani-
ans, that our country comes out very well
in this Panama Canal treaty arrangement.
Now, the original treaty that presently
exists—I don't condemn my predecessors
for having signed it. The fact is that no
Panamanian has ever signed it. Before it
was signed in 1903, no Panamanian ever
saw it. But I'm proud of the fact that our
Nation was strong enough and able
enough, no matter what the circum-
stances were about the arrangements with
Panama-I'm proud that we had the will
and the technical ability to build a canal,
because it's been better for our country
and it's also been better for Panama. It's
been better for all the other maritime
nations of the world. So, in balance, in
every aspect of measuring the treaty
terms, our Nation comes out very well in
the negotiations.
The Panamanians wanted very high
monetary payments; they did not get
them. Panama wanted immediate trans-
fer to them of operating rights of the
canal; they did not get them. Panama
wanted an immediate withdrawal of our
Armed Forces; they did not get them. But
I think they've negotiated in good faith,
and our country has come out very well.
Assuming, which I think is completely
accurate, that we have a good equal deal
in the Panama Canal treaties, we also
have tremendous advantages with other
countries. Under Franklin Roosevelt,
under John Kennedy, under Lyndon
Johnson, there were massive efforts made
by the President and the Congress to
strengthen the ties of friendship and trade
and common purpose between ourselves
and our neighbors to the south.
To some degree, to some variable de-
gree, these efforts were successful. But
almost invariably their success depended
upon financial payments or financial
loans or monetary aid. It was kind of like
a big brother giving handouts to smaller
nations to the south to buy their friend-
ship.
During the week that we signed the
Panama Canal treaties in the ceremonies
in Washington, I met with 19 leaders of
1886
