July 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Investigation of Korean CIA
Involvement in Congress
Letter to Republican Congressional
Leaders on Their Proposal for a
Special Prosecutor. July 18, 1977
To Senator Howard Baker: (To Con-
gressman John Rhodes:)
I have reviewed your letter to me dated
June 10, 1977, recommending on behalf
of Republican Congressional leaders that
a special prosecutor be appointed to in-
vestigate allegations of “. . . the Korean
Central Intelligence Agency's involve-
ment in domestic American politics."
After discussions with Attorney General
Bell and others, I have decided that ap-
pointment of a special prosecutor would
be inappropriate and unwarranted, and
would probably impede the investigation.
Your letter does not contain any spe-
cific information indicating that the
Justice Department cannot conduct this
investigation adequately. I assure you
that any implication that the investigation
has not been thorough and impartial is
not well founded. I have been advised by
Attorney General Bell that, in accordance
with sound investigative procedures, the
day-to-day conduct of the investigation is
in the hands of experienced prosecutors,
joined by career investigators of the F.B.I.,
the I.R.S. and other agencies. In addi-
tion, there continues to be active partici-
pation by a Federal Grand Jury, which
has been meeting twice a week to hear
testimony in this matter.
I am also advised by the Attorney Gen-
eral that the investigation is exceedingly
thorough. To date, several hundred per-
sons have been questioned, many repeat-
edly, and more than fifty witnesses have
testified before the Grand Jury. Financial
and other records, amounting to many
thousands of individual documents, have
been obtained, usually by grand jury sub-
poenas, from more than one hundred
different sources. I am told that substan-
tial progress is being made.
Your letter suggests that appointment
of a special prosecutor is warranted be-
cause the controversy "is developing into
a pattern of accusation by innuendo and
trial by leak." You do not cite any facts
to support the notion that media cover-
age of the matters under investigation
has been based on leaks from the Justice
Department.
In fact, I am advised by Judge Bell
that many of the specific assertions in the
press are entirely incorrect; some are un-
supported by, and others are directly con-
trary to, the evidence and information
obtained by the Justice Department.
I also believe there is a serious danger
that appointment of a special prosecutor
at this time would impede the investiga-
tion. The investigation has progressed to
the point where potential prosecutions
have been identified and, in several cases,
the evidence-gathering process is nearly
completed. The record thus far encom-
passes thousands of pages concerning hun-
dreds of separate matters which occurred
over a period of more than five years.
Substitution of new personnel who would
be entirely unfamiliar with this material
would bring the investigation to a stand-
still for a number of months.
Finally, no suggestion has been made
that members of the present Administra-
tion were in any way involved in the
alleged illegal activities so as to raise a
possible need for extraordinary measures
in this investigation. As you know, the
activities in question took place before
this Administration took office. Further-
more, they involved individuals from both
political parties. Attorney General Bell is
advised continuously of the progress of
the investigation, which is under the di-
rect supervision of the Assistant Attorney
General in charge of the Criminal
Division.
1280
