Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
key elements of a settlement. The Presi-
dent and the Minister also discussed the
problem of Palestinian representation at
Geneva, agreeing that this question must
be resolved if the Geneva conference is
to be reconvened.
The President concluded by expressing
his gratification with the steady improve-
ment in relations between Syria and the
United States. He emphasized that these
good relations aid the cause of reaching
a just and lasting peace in the Middle
East. The President asked the Minister
to assure President Asad that he intends
to carry on American efforts to that end.
Meeting With Jordanian
Representatives
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting Between the President and Chief of
the Royal Court Sharif Abdul Hamid Sharaf
and Foreign Minister Hassan Ibrahim.
September 28, 1977
The President and Chief of the Royal
Court Sharif Abdul Hamid Sharaf and
Jordanian Minister of State for Foreign
Affairs Hassan Ibrahim met in the Cab-
inet Room for 1 hour and 20 minutes.
The meeting was also attended by Vice
President Mondale; Secretary of State
Cyrus Vance; David Aaron, Deputy As-
sistant to the President for National Secu-
rity Affairs; Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., As-
sistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern
and South Asian Affairs; Thomas Picker-
ing, U.S. Ambassador to Jordan; and
William Quandt, National Security Coun-
cil staff member, on the American side;
and by Jordanian Ambassador to the
United States Abdullah Salah.
The President welcomed the two Jor-
danian representatives to the White
House by reaffirming the longstanding
friendship and support of the Government
and people of the United States for His
Majesty King Hussein and the people of
the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. The
President noted that these strong ties are a
firm basis for our mutual search for a just
and lasting peace in the Middle East. As
he had in his earlier meetings here with
foreign ministers from the area, the Presi-
dent underlined his own conviction that
peace requires compromise and courage-
ous leadership from all the parties to the
negotiations.
The President and Jordanian represent-
atives agreed on the importance of finding
a formula to begin negotiations through
reconvening the Geneva conference by
the end of the year. They discussed pro-
cedural issues involved in resuming the
conference and the substantive issues to
be resolved in an overall settlement. The
Jordanian representatives presented Jor-
dan's ideas for a just settlement. The
President responded that the Jordanian
ideas will be useful in the continuing talks
with Middle East foreign ministers. Sec-
retary Vance, who had begun talks with
the Jordanians here at an earlier meet-
ing, will be pursuing the discussion both
of their ideas and American suggestions
for reconciling differences between the
parties. The meeting today devoted some
time to the specific problem of how the
Palestinians should be represented at the
Geneva conference. The President and
Jordanian representatives agreed that this
current round of talks should seek a solu-
tion to this question, so as to achieve the
common goal of reconvening Geneva as
soon as possible.
The President concluded by asking the
Jordanian representatives to convey to
King Hussein his assurances that he re-
mains committed to doing all possible in
continuing efforts toward a comprehen-
sive settlement in the Middle East.
1678
