Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 5
The President. So many Members of
Congress have helped, I think I will be
safer if I don't call on other people to
speak. [Laughter] But these were the two
key chairmen, and there were at least
six different congressional committees
that played an instrumental role in this.
And I want to express again my thanks
to them all. Thank you and congratula-
tions.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:15 a.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at the
White House.
As enacted, H.R. 6138 is Public Law 95-93,
approved August 5.
Task Force on Women
Business Owners
Memorandum for the Heads of Certain
Departments and Agencies. August 4, 1977
Memorandum for the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Com-
merce, the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, the Administrator of
General Services Administration, the Ad-
ministrator of Small Business Adminis-
tration
marketing and procurement opportuni-
ties, and lack of management and tech-
nical assistance.
And in addition to these problems, they
face the barriers created by negative at-
titudes toward women.
This Administration wants to encour-
age women to become business owners,
to mitigate conditions and practices that
place women at a competitive disadvan-
tage, and to enhance Federal assistance
to women entrepreneurs. However, there
is a serious lack of current and accurate
information on which to base actions in
support of these commitments.
To provide this kind of information, I
am establishing a Task Force on Women
Business Owners. The Task Force shall:
1. Identify existing data on women en-
trepreneurs, assess its adequacy, identify
needs for additional data and propose
methods of collecting it;
2. Identify the primary practices or
conditions
a) which discourage women from be-
coming entrepreneurs; or
b) which have the effect of discrimin-
ating against women entrepreneurs
or placing them at a competitive
disadvantage;
3. Assess current federal programs and
Subject: Task Force on Women Business practices
Owners
As consumers, investors, and workers,
women play a vital role in the nation's
economy. But the number and size of
women-owned businesses remain remark-
ably small. According to the 1972 Census
statistics the most recent available-the
receipts generated by firms owned by
women entrepreneurs represented only
three-tenths of one percent of the total
for all business firms.
In small business especially, women
business owners face the traditional prob-
lems of lack of adequate capital, lack of
a) which have the effect of discrimin-
ating against women entrepreneurs
or placing them at a competitive
disadvantage; or
b) which are designed to mitigate the
conditions and practices which place
women entrepreneurs at a competi-
tive disadvantage;
4. Based on these assessments, propose
changes in federal law, regulation and
practice for carrying out the commitment
of the Administration, and advise as to
the impact, if any, of such changes on the
federal budget.
1429
