Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I know that General Brown and the
Joint Chiefs unanimously feel strong sup-
port for the Panama Canal treaty is a
very important consideration from you,
from Georgia and from Florida, and from
me as President of our country.
Our Secretary of Defense, former Sec-
retary of State, present Secretary of State,
President Ford, Secretary Kissinger, and
others who have studied this treaty in
detail have concluded that many of the
legitimate concerns faced about the treaty
2 years ago or 5 years ago, 10 years ago,
14 years ago, have been alleviated. And all
those who in the past have been against
the treaty and who would have preferred
that no negotiations begin now say that
since the negotiations have been initiated
and concluded, that the adverse reaction
throughout Latin America and through-
out the world in rejecting the treaty would
be profound.
I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes
about the Panama Canal treaty from the
perspective of a President and a political
figure. This is one of those items that falls
on the shoulders of leaders which is not a
popular thing to assume. Because of long-
standing misconceptions and because of
rapidly changing circumstances that have
not yet been explained, I think it is true
that many American citizens, well-edu-
cated, very patriotic citizens, don't think
the treaty at this point is a good idea.
To change their concept based on facts
and explanations is my responsibility—not
to mislead, not to pressure, not to cajole,
but in a way to educate and to lead. And
I would like for you to join with me, if
you can in good conscience, in that effort.
It requires, as you know, a two-thirds
vote in the Senate. There were 40 Sena-
tors within the past 12 months or so who
signed a resolution deploring the concept
of the Panama Canal treaty. I believe I've
talked to every one of them, and I can tell
you that their response has been very good
because they see that their previous con-
cerns have either been corrected or the
circumstances are now different. There
will obviously be strong opponents to the
treaty. I think that our Nation's security
interests are adequately protected.
Our original acquisition of the Panama
Canal area is one that causes me some
concern, speaking in historical terms.
There was not a single Panamanian who
ever saw the treaty before it was signed by
Panama and by the United States, in the
middle of the night, when the Panama-
nian leaders, including the President, were
trying to get to Washington before the
treaty was signed. Hastily, the treaty was
signed, and that began the process of con-
structing the canal which has been bene-
ficial to our country and to Panama and,
I think, to the world.
We have never had sovereignty over
the Panama Canal Zone, as you undoubt-
edly know by now. We had control of
that zone, as though we had sovereignty,
but we have recognized the sovereignty
of Panama down through the years.
I believe that the most important con-
sideration is that the canal be open to the
shipping from all countries, that the canal
be well operated, that there be harmony
between us and the Panamanians, and
that we, in case of emergency in this cen-
tury and in perpetuity, have the right to
protect the canal as we see fit and the
preferential use of the canal by our own
warships and by those cargo ships that
have strategic purposes. And all those ele-
ments have been written into the treaty.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:45 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House
at a briefing for State officials and business and
political leaders from Georgia and Florida.
Reporters were present for this portion of the
briefing.
1526
