Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 11
and still maintain an efficient operation
of the free enterprise system is something
that we can't decide unilaterally here in
Washington.
I think it's accurate to say that the Gov-
ernors have been very frank in giving us
lowing his remarks, Governor Askew, Gov.
Julian Carroll of Kentucky, and Assistant to
the President James R. Schlesinger held a news
briefing for reporters on the conference.
Proclamation 4512. July 11, 1977
their own advice, describing their experi- United States Space Observance
cnces, and also have been very severe in
their criticisms of aspects of the program
with which they do disagree, and we've all
learned in the process.
I and the Vice President have partici-
pated fully. Dr. Schlesinger, who will
head up a new Department of Energy
shortly, has been there throughout all the
sessions, plus the Secretaries of Com-
merce, Labor, Interior, Transportation.
And we've all learned in the process.
And I am deeply indebted to Governor
Carroll and Governor Askew for having
made it possible for this meeting to take
place.
I might point out that there was de-
cided this morning between Julian Carroll
and Jim Schlesinger to have another
meeting later on almost exclusively on
the subject of enhanced production of en-
ergy, and this will also be of great benefit
to us.
I think the country is well served when
the different levels of government can co-
operate and legitimately share responsi-
bilities under our system of federalism.
Reubin, I thank you again for your
support and for your helping to organize
this meeting. And, Julian, you've brought
together six study groups that have ana-
lyzed important facets of the energy pro-
gram.
Now I'll turn the microphone over to
you, Reubin. And I am sure the press will
have some questions to propose to you, to
Julian Carroll, and to Dr. Schlesinger.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. Fol-
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Our human race has always felt an
urge to explore and understand the world
around us. This drive lay behind the
theories of Ptolemy and Copernicus, the
discoveries of Aristotle and Newton, the
journeys of Columbus and Magellan.
In our time, this spirit has led to the
exploration of space. From single missions,
designed to send satellites into orbit and
land men on the Moon, the United States
space program has grown into a much
broader range of endeavors. Its purpose is
not simply to study space, but to under-
stand its relevance to life on earth. Satel-
lites now orbiting the earth have helped
us to forecast weather patterns accurately,
discover mineral deposits, detect sources
of pollution and establish a global com-
munications network. International proj-
ects such as Apollo-Soyuz have helped
bring the people of the world closer
together through coordinated research
and the cooperative use of land and sea
resources.
To encourage the American people to
reflect upon the purposes, goals and
achievements of America's space program,
the Senate (July 11, 1975) and the House
of Representatives (September 30, 1976)
have requested the President to issue a
proclamation designating the period of
July 16 through July 24 as "United States
Space Observance" and calling for its
1227
