Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 8
retary-and also other agencies of the
Federal Government. So, I think, this is
a good time for our country, for Canada,
and for the future of the American
people.
Again, I want to congratulate the
Members of Congress for doing such a
good job in helping to make this possible.
[At this point, the President signed H.J. Res.
621 into law.]
Now, Jim, you can go ahead and start
working.
SECRETARY SCHLESINGER. I think what
the President has said underscores the
close relationships that we should main-
tain with Canada in regard to what are
common problems, that this will help
restore an era of good feelings between the
two countries, and that this project, large
as it is, is a splendid symbol of that co-
operation.
THE PRESIDENT. Mike?
SENATOR GRAVEL. I think that it's not
only of benefit to the Nation but, I think,
it does lay aside the differences that have
arisen in the contest of where the line
would go our differences with Canada.
I think if there's any nation that we have
a proximity to, it's that great country.
I think the gas that we've been blessed
with in Alaska we've brought to market
efficiently and effectively through this
pipeline.
We are grateful to the leadership of the
Executive, under you, Mr. President, Mr.
Schlesinger, and with the alacrity that
the Congress acted in seeing that this
resolution got to your desk as soon as
possible.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I don't
think there were any dissenting votes. It
was a voice vote. I didn't hear any
SENATOR GRAVEL. There were none.
THE PRESIDENT. Congressman Stag-
gers?
REPRESENTATIVE STAGGERS. I'd just say
that it's a red-letter day for America and
our future.
THE PRESIDENT. Ted?
SENATOR STEVENS. Mr. President, I
think this is just the first of a series of
transportation systems to bring Alaska's
resources to what we call the South 48.
We have a lot more oil and gas and we'll
hopefully get on to those other areas, too,
soon. So, I congratulate you. I think this
is the first time that the Vice President
and I have been on the same side. We
both lost. He favored the Arctic route,
and I favored the El Paso route. But we're
both happy today. [Laughter]
OTHER SPEAKER. Mr. President, the
Vice President did not lose on this issue.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I think all Americans
won. Although we don't look on Canada
as coming under the purview of the For-
eign Relations Committee, Frank-be-
cause they are so much a part of our
country-would you like to say just a
word?
SENATOR CHURCH. Thank you, Mr.
President. I think the route that's been
chosen is the correct one. It happens that
the first leg of that route will be built into
my State, which may have some influence.
[Laughter] But I commend you for
another milestone, and I think this bill
will serve the country well.
THE PRESIDENT. John?
MR. MCMILLIAN. It's my pleasure. This
is my project. I want to thank you for
choosing it, the confidence you had in us.
We're going to uphold that confidence
of both yourself and the Congress and do
what we said to bring this energy source
to you as quickly and reasonably as we can.
THE PRESIDENT. We worked very close-
ly with Jim in preparing this, and I want
to thank you for it.
MR. MCMILLIAN. Thank you, sir.
1979:
