Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNICATION
SECTION 1. Establishment of the
Agency for International Communication.
There is hereby established in the execu-
tive branch an agency to be known as the
Agency for International Communica-
tion (the "Agency").
SEC. 2. Director
The Agency shall be headed by a Di-
rector (the "Director"), who shall serve
as the principal advisor to the President,
the National Security Council, and the
Secretary of State on the functions vested
in the Director. The Director shall report
to the President and the Secretary of
State. Under the direction of the Secre-
tary of State, the Director shall have pri-
mary responsibility within the Govern-
ment for the exercise of the functions
vested in the Director. The Director shall
be appointed by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate,
and shall be entitled to receive compensa-
tion at the rate now or hereafter pre-
scribed by law for Level II of the
Executive Schedule.
SEC. 3. Deputy Director
A Deputy Director shall be appointed
by the President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate. The Deputy
Director shall act for, and exercise the
powers of, the Director during the Direc-
tor's absence or disability or during a
vacancy in said office and, in addition,
shall perform such duties and exercise
such powers as the Director may from
time to time prescribe. The Deputy
Director shall be entitled to receive com-
pensation at the rate now or hereafter
prescribed by law for Level III of the
Executive Schedule.
SEC. 4.
Associate Directors
The President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, may appoint
four Associate Directors, who shall per-
form such duties and exercise such powers
as the Director may from time to time
prescribe and who shall be entitled to re-
ceive compensation at the rate now or
hereafter prescribed by law for Level IV
of the Executive Schedule.
SEC. 5. Performance of Functions
The Director may establish within the
Agency bureaus, offices, divisions and
other units. The Director may from time
to time make provision for the perform-
ance of any function of the Director by
any officer, employee or unit of the
Agency.
SEC. 6. Negotiations
(a) Under the direction of the Secre-
tary of State, the Director shall prepare
for, manage and conduct negotiations
with representatives of foreign states or
international organizations on matters for
which responsibility is vested in the Di-
rector or in the Agency.
(b) For the purpose of conducting such
negotiations, or for the purpose of exer-
cising any other authority vested in the
Director or in the Agency, the Director
may
(1) consult and communicate with or
direct the consultation and communica-
tion with representatives of other nations
or of international organizations; and
(2) communicate in the name of the
Secretary of State with diplomatic repre-
sentatives of the United States in this
country and abroad.
SEC. 7. Transfer of Functions
(a) There are hereby transferred to the
Director all functions vested in the Presi-
dent, the Secretary of State, the Depart-
ment of State, the Director of the United
States Information Agency, and the
United States Information Agency pur-
suant to the following:
(1) the United States Information and
Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 1431-1479), except
1768
