Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 11
SEC. 7. The Secretary of Commerce
shall provide advice to the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget with
respect to the review and preparation of
that portion of the annual Budget of the
U.S. Government dealing with the gather-
ing, interpreting, and disseminating of
statistics and statistical information.
SEC. 8. (a) There is hereby established
the Statistical Policy Coordination Com-
mittee, hereinafter referred to as the Com-
mittee, which shall be composed of the
following members, and such other heads
of Executive agencies as the President
may designate:
(1) The Secretary of Commerce, who
shall be the Chairman.
(2) The Secretary of State.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(4) The Secretary of Defense.
(5) The Attorney General.
(6) The Secretary of the Interior.
(7) The Secretary of Agriculture.
(8) The Secretary of Labor.
(9) The Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.
(10) The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development.
(11) The Secretary of Transportation.
(12) The Secretary of Energy.
(13) The Chairman, Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers.
(14) The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget.
(15) The Chairman, Board of Gover-
nors of the Federal Reserve System is in-
vited to be a member.
(b) The Chairman may designate any
other member to act as Chairman during
the absence of the Chairman. Each mem-
ber of the Committee may designate an
alternate to serve whenever the regular
member is unable to attend any meeting.
The Chairman may invite the heads of
other Executive agencies or their alter-
nates to participate in Committee delib-
erations whenever matters which affect
the interests of such agencies are to be
considered.
(c) The Committee shall advise and
assist the President with respect to the
improvement, development, and coordi-
nation of Federal and other statistical
services, and shall perform such other
related duties as the President may
prescribe.
(d) The Secretary of Commerce, to
the extent permitted by law, shall pro-
vide such administrative support and such
funds as may be necessary to support the
functions of the Committee.
(e) Executive agencies shall, to the
extent permitted by law, provide such in-
formation and assistance as the Commit-
tee or the Chairman may request to assist
in carrying out the functions of the
Committee.
SEC. 9. Any rules, regulations, orders,
directives, circulars, or other actions taken
pursuant to the functions transferred or
reassigned from the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget to the
Secretary of Commerce by the delegations
made in this Order, shall remain in effect
until amended, modified, or revoked pur-
suant to the delegations made in this
Order.
SEC. 10. This Order shall be effective
October 9, 1977.
The White House,
October 7, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:59 a.m., October 11, 1977]
NOTE: The White House Press Office an-
nounced the Executive order on October 11.
It was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
1761
