Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 15
towards that great future, because you
can do it.
By mentioning the numbers of Iranians
living in America, and also the numbers of
Americans living in Iran, I think that you
touched on a very important issue, the
great numbers of people from both sides
getting to know each other every day,
better and better, and developing per-
sonal friendships and friendship between
the two nations. This is a very good guar-
antee that we shall stay, hopefully, always
together, because basically we believe in
the same principles, in the same ideals.
We attach utmost importance to our
relations with the United States and your
friendship for us, because since the be-
ginnings of our relations, America has al-
ways shown a very unselfish and, many
times, very friendly attitude towards us.
We have never had the slightest shadow
casting over our relations, and I pray God
that this will continue always in the
future.
Thank you again, Mr. President, for
your very warm welcome.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:36 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
a permanent central government. Not
only was unity necessary if that struggle
was to be successfully concluded, but it
was essential if the new Nation was to be
able to deal effectively with such matters
as regulating trade, disposing of western
lands, and controlling finance.
Although the colonists shared a com-
mon heritage and spoke a common lan-
guage, their customs, traditions and eco-
nomic needs varied. Because of this their
loyalties were regional in nature. These
differences were overcome and, on No-
vember 15, 1777, the Continental Con-
gress adopted the Articles of Confeder-
ation.
The Articles of Confederation became
our first constitution and served the new
Nation from 1781, when they were rati-
fied, until 1789. Much of what we
learned about government during that
period became part of our Constitution
and our heritage.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, No-
vember 15, 1977, as a Day of National
Observance of the Two Hundredth An-
niversary of the Adoption of the Articles
of Confederation by the Continental
Congress convened in York, Pennsylva-
nia, and I call upon the people of the
Anniversary of the Adoption of United States to observe that day with
the Articles of Confederation
Proclamation 4540.
November 15, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
In the midst of our struggle for inde-
pendence the Continental Congress,
meeting in York, Pennsylvania, recog-
nized that the new Nation would require
appropriate ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fifteenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:07 p.m., November 15, 1977]
2027
