Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I really thought today, when the tear
gas came across the South Lawn, that the
Shah showed a tremendous amount of
self-assurance and graciousness and also
courage in giving his speech to the people
of our country without hesitation, and I
deeply appreciate that exhibition of your
strength.
THE SHAH. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. This is one time when
the news reporters were accurate about
me. I saw on the evening television that
they said it was one of the briefest
speeches I had made. [Laughter] I was
glad to turn the microphone over to the
Shah. [Laughter]
We've had a wonderful chance to visit
and get to know one another. Our coun-
try was blessed a few weeks ago to have
Empress Farah come here and travel
around our Nation. She came to visit
Rosalynn and me. We are very delighted
to have personal friends, as well as leaders
of one of the great nations of the world.
There's an old saying in the East that
history is a mirror to the past and a les-
son for the future. And if there was ever
a country which has blossomed forth
under enlightened leadership, it would be
the ancient empire of Persia, which is
of Persia, which is
now the great country of Iran.
When the Shah assumed a mantle of
leadership in his own country 36 years
ago, he faced a very dismal future. His
country was occupied then by foreign
forces. His father had started some social
change that was very doubtful about its
own success. At that time, there were
about 1,000 people in Iran who had ad-
vanced college degrees, and there are now
15 colleges and universities in Iran, 175,-
000 students in the college, and the Shah
just told me that in 10 years, they'll have
500,000 college students in Iran. This is
a remarkable demonstration of leadership
and growth in the spiritual and also
knowledge of the people of that great
country.
As you well know, Iran has always
been kind of a crossroads. The cultural
history of Iran is absolutely remarkable.
And Empress Farah has taken on her own
shoulders a responsibility for preserving
that ancient culture so that they can learn
from the past and preserve the beauty
for the future.
There's also been a growth in the well-
being of the people there. They've ex-
panded the opportunity for good health
care as well as education.
Just not much more than 15 years ago,
their average per capita income in Iran
was not much more than a hundred dol-
lars per year. The Shah just told me it
was now $2,220 per year last month, and
it's probably more this month. [Laughter]
That shows what a tremendous job he is
doing.
Iran has recognized that their great
natural resources need to be husbanded
and invested to guarantee a sound and a
prosperous future in the years to come.
Iran is a country that is strong mili-
tarily, is strong politically, and is strong
in the commitment and in the spirit of its
people, and also is at peace with its neigh-
bors, is well respected.
Iran is a nation, and its leadership is
epitomized by a man who has a trust of
other countries. Even those that histor-
ically have been enemies now look upon
the Shah and the people of Iran with a
great deal of confidence and trust, rec-
ognizing that they are a stabilizing in-
fluence in that region, indeed, through-
out the Persian Gulf, the Indian Ocean,
and with a growing degree of influence,
in the Western World, in Japan, and in
Africa.
I had a chance today to listen to the
Shah explain to me the perspective of the
region and the rest of the world as viewed
2030
