Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But we now still have a grossly disorga-
nized Federal Government. At the re-
gional office you have the same thing. But
we're working on that. And the Congress
gave me early this year authority to reor-
ganize the structure of the Government.
I'm going to do it, and I need for you
to help me reach this great goal. I believe
we can do it together.
I believe that you would agree that
when John Kennedy was President and
when Lyndon Johnson was President,
that the community action agencies had
a life of their own and helped to make
decisions about government programs. In
the last 8 years and I won't call the
names of the Presidents who were in the
White House [laughter]—those commu-
We only have time for one more ques- nity action agencies were put into a very
tion, I understand from my staff.
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY
PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Romelia
M. Carter, Youngstown, Ohio. As you
probably already know, with the closing of
the steel mills in Youngstown, we have a
terrific problem.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. I'm representing the Youngstown
Community Action Council. We would
like to know, President Carter-now that
it seems as if you are fully aware that the
services that are to be given to the poor
and money for jobs are being used up
now in political patronage-if you have
a way to or if you can explain to us what
your plans are to alleviate this so that the
old meaning of meaningful citizens partic-
ipation once more comes back into stress.
We used to know about citizens participa-
tion, and it was meaningful at one point.
But now it's no longer meaningful. Can
you give us some idea as to what you're
going to do or what method you're going
to use to make us meaningful again?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I might
say that it's always nice to meet my cous-
ins, and I'm glad you are here. [Laughter]
During the campaign I was able to visit
Youngstown, as you may remember, sev-
eral times, and you and Mr. Hall make a
very good representation from that com-
munity today.
secondary position and lost the influence
and the decisionmaking authority that
they formerly had under the leadership of
people like Joe Califano in HEW, who
helped to put into effect many of the
Johnson programs 10 years ago. And un-
der the leadership of Pat Harris and
Juanita Kreps and Grace Olivarez and
others, we're trying to bring back the life
of those community action groups.
I think that it's impossible, no matter
how intelligent or how dedicated a Wash-
ington official might be—it's impossible
for them to know what the needs are in
your community as well as you know
them. That's the reason that I brought
Grace Olivarez with me today, because
that's her responsibility, working with the
people that I've just named, to make sure
that in the future we have a reviving of
the community group influence and au-
thority, whether it's a Hungarian Ameri-
can community or a Spanish-speaking
community or a predominantly black
community in Youngstown where a steel
mill has shut down or a community of
older people in Florida who have moved
down there on a very low income; that
doesn't matter. I want that particular
community to let me know, through the
Government agencies, how we can best
address your problems.
I want to thank you for that good ques-
tion. I think Grace would agree that
we're making a move in the right direc-
1852
