Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
will prevent, as nothing else could possi-
bly do, the possible destruction of our
Nation. And the closeness with which we
cooperate in a time of extreme emergency,
when an attack is imminent, will mean the
defense of our country and, perhaps, of
the free world itself.
I have a great feeling of assurance that
you will perform your jobs well, and I'm
determined, as your commanding officer,
as President of our country, to work
closely with you to prevent any possible
successful attack on our country that's not
met instantly and competently and ade-
quately from our own forces.
So, I'm thankful for what you are and
reaffirm my own partnership and com-
mitment to join with you, on a daily basis,
to prevent our great Nation from being
attacked successfully and also provide for
a successful response if such an attack
should be launched.
Thank you, again, very much for giv-
ing me this sense of assurance in your
superb qualities of leadership and per-
formance of duty.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m.
from the Headquarters of the Strategic Air
Command via the Red Telephone System to
SAC facilities around the world.
During his visit to the base, the President
toured the SAC Headquarters and was briefed
by U.S. Air Force personnel.
Denver, Colorado
Remarks in a Panel Discussion and a Question-
and-Answer Session on Western Water Policy.
October 22, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say first of all
that I am very glad to be back in Colo-
rado, in Denver. This is one of the more
important meetings that I will have a
chance to attend this year.
WESTERN WATER POLICY
I realize that in the Rocky Mountain
States, indeed throughout the West, that
water is the lifeblood of the people who
live here. And I am especially grateful
that the members of the Colorado con-
gressional delegation came in with me on
Air Force One today. And we have, I
think, 10 Western Governors who joined
this group to listen to the discussion with
the panelists and with the audience, and
later they'll be meeting with me privately
to pursue additional items that concern
water and other matters that relate di-
rectly to Governors and their responsi-
bilities.
We have times that are changing, that
require, in my opinion as President of our
country, the evolution of a national water
policy. Up until about a month in the
future, we will be accumulating advice
and questions, proposals, criticisms from
public officials and from private water
users that will come to the Secretary of
Interior, Cecil Andrus, on my right.
In February this analysis will be pre-
sented to me, and I will make a decision
then as to what portions of the national
water policy are ready for final form and
which elements of that policy proposal
option will be needing additional study
by me and others. I will not make a deci-
sion on any of the controversial items
without first discussing these matters thor-
oughly with the Members of Congress,
with the Governors involved, and with the
local and private users of water, not only
in the West but throughout the country.
I want to make clear from the very be-
ginning that there absolutely will be no
Federal preemption of State or private
prerogatives in the use or management of
water. This is not the purpose of the pol-
icy at all.
1861
