Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 4
United Nations
Remarks at a Working Dinner for Officials of
Western and Eastern European Nations.
October 4, 1977
It's very nice for a President to have an
Ambassador who when he's unpopular
takes the blame and when he's popular
gives the President the credit for it.
[Laughter]
There were a few months ago when I
had doubts about Andrew Young
[laughter] and his popularity with the
American people. But I think all of
you
have seen very clearly that he's now one
of the greatest international assets that we
have, and the American people now
recognize that. And, Andy, I want to
thank you for it.
I've had a delightful day here as Presi-
dent of our country, visiting the dis-
tinguished representatives of so many na-
tions around the world. And this evening
during the meal I had a chance to come
around and meet all of you. And to think
for just a moment about the remarkable
harmony that exists here between or
among diplomats and foreign ministers,
prime ministers, presidents, whose people
share even as deep or even deeper a feel-
ing of friendship to one another and a
yearning of peace and harmony and
mutual commitment to solving problems.
And at the same time we go ahead mount-
ing armaments races, and we have diffi-
culty communicating with one another at
the top level. And there's often an in-
ability to bridge a gap which separates
our people.
I think that in a remarkable way we
have an opportunity to correct that defect
in our societal arrangement. The United
Nations has been an entity now for 32
years, I believe. We're very proud of the
fact that its basic home is here. But many
of you share in a commitment that it's
your home, too. And I think there's a
growing awareness among ourselves and
the Soviets and the Israelis and the Arab
countries, the African nations and those
in the Far East, that this is a place to
bring our challenges and our problems and
our differences and our opportunities and
our dreams, and hopefully, to get other
nations to join in a common understand-
ing of the realization of those hopes and
the resolution of differences.
tions, I'm very eager to do everything I
As President of one of the great na-
can to show the world that we have con-
fidence in the community-of-nations ap-
proach. We realize that power and might
and influence and strength and economic
well-being can't provide leadership unless
there is a community of effort. And as a
newcomer to the international scene, as a
newcomer even to the National Govern-
ment in our own country, I've already
benefited greatly from my contact with
and the leaders from your
many of you
own countries. You've been very helpful
to me in giving me advice and counsel
privately, sometimes publicly, which I
also appreciate. And we hope to learn in
the process, and I think we have learned
some things.
We have a great opportunity to move
forward in the next few years. There are
some crises that must be addressed be-
tween ourselves and the Soviet Union in
the SALT talks and the elimination of
testing of nuclear weapons and the elimi-
nation of explosives from countries that
don't have them, as I mentioned today in
my talk, and the questions in the Middle
East, in southern Africa, in the recogni-
tion of newborn nations, and the allevia-
tion of disharmonies that still exist from
past wars.
Those things are challenges to us all.
And this is a challenge that's so great that
it's just imperative that we work to-
gether-not in a quiescent or quiet or
1727
