Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 24
rosy-sounding dreams and ideas for
change begin to wilt and the test for a
huge, negative question that he saw is,
what are the consequences of failure of a
foreign policy move?
Do you gamble a little more on those
kinds of questions than President Nixon,
President Ford, and Mr. Kissinger did,
do you think?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't disagree with
what Kissinger says. We've had a very
good series of conferences with Kissinger,
either myself personally or more fre-
quently the Secretary of State. And Dr.
Brzezinski has participated in some of
those as well. Obviously, it's easier to
criticize any Government effort from out-
side than it is to solve a problem that's
longstanding, once you have the respon-
sibility yourself.
I think we've made some basic changes
in the previous policies that might bear
fruit, but we've not made any additional
steps forward toward a SALT agreement.
We hope we can. I think we are taking a
much more bold approach to that ques-
tion, not only seeking limitations on future
construction, which is what was spelled
out at Vladivostok, but actually asking the
Soviets to join with us in a freeze of
present deployment and development of
nuclear weapons, and then a substantial
reduction below what we have now. This
has never been done before.
We are asking the Soviets to join with
us in a comprehensive test ban that would
prevent any nuclear explosives being
tested. This has never been done before.
Demilitarization of the Indian Ocean has
never been attempted before, and so forth.
I don't say that in criticism of the previ-
ous administration. We have not achieved
success yet in any of these efforts, and
may not. I can't guarantee success.
I think that we have also taken a dif-
ferent approach in the Middle East. And
it's a matter of judgment. Mr. Kissinger's
position was to deal with the Middle East-
ern question in a step-by-step, incremental
way. Our hope is that we can have an
overall settlement by the participants in
the Middle East discussion without delay,
hopefully this year, and that once that
settlement is reached, then the step-by-
step implementation of the ultimate set-
tlement is the best way to go about it. It's
a completely different perspective.
I don't know that I can guarantee suc-
cess. Again, we've tried to look on Latin
America as a group of independent na-
tions equal to us and to deal with them
individually, not as a group or a homo-
geneous block.
We've been much more aggressive, I
think, on the field of human rights. It
means that to some degree our friendships
and our allegiances in the different parts
of the world, like Latin America, have
changed.
We've tried to get away from blind sup-
port of totalitarian governments and tried
to enhance and reward those countries
that are shifting toward a more demo-
cratic process. And we've tried to com-
pliment and encourage countries like
Venezuela, countries like Ecuador that
are shifting strongly toward more demo-
cratic processes. We've taken a very
strong stand that has brought some ad-
verse reaction on the control of nuclear
weapons as far as new countries are con-
cerned in the sales policies of our own
nuclear-enriched fuels. And in addition to
that, we've departed from Mr. Kissinger's
past attitude, along with obviously the
Presidents under whom he's served, in the
sale of conventional weapons. We have
some very strict standards now for the sale
of conventional weapons.
And now it's the consumers' or the
customers' responsibility to convince us
that they need those weapons and that
the sale of those weapons will be to the
advantage of the United States rather
than the other way around where arms
manufacturers freely went to other coun-
1173
