Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ity to acquire land; the farmers wanting
to hold the land that they possessed. This
ultimately went to the Federal courts.
The Federal courts have ruled that the
U.S. law has to be enforced. And Cecil
Andrus, who is the Secretary of Interior,
has no alternative except to enforce the
law.
So, we're not trying to intrude ourselves
gratuitously or on an initial basis into this
controversy; we inherited it. And under
the present law, I'm sworn on my word
of honor to enforce the law and will have
to enforce it.
But I recognize, as do many of you,
that 75 years ago, 320 acres for a husband
and wife of irrigated land was all they
could handle. And now, with massive in-
vestments in large machinery, a larger
acreage is sometimes necessary for an
economically viable farm operation.
So, the law needs to be changed. But we
don't have any alternative except to en-
force the law. And I think Bob Meyer
was not doing anything except expressing,
basically, what I've just said. I don't
think he was trying to do anything sur-
reptitiously or improperly. But I think
that there are other people that can be
adequate spokesmen, even including my-
self. I don't think Bob needs to do that.
DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT
AND BUDGET
Q. Is Charles Zwick of Connecticut a
serious candidate for Director of the
Budget-being considered?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not looking at
this point for any Director of Office of
Management and Budget. I'm completely
satisfied with James McIntyre, who was
my OMB director in Georgia and who
was Bert Lance's deputy, and I think
that it would be an improper time for
me to change the directors of that de-
partment while we are well involved in
the preparation of the fiscal year '79
budget preparation.
So, I'll wait until the end of this year
before I start considering a permanent
OMB Director, and when I do, James
McIntyre would be one of those I would
consider. But I don't have any intention
to pursue that at this time.
NUCLEAR REPROCESSING
Q. I understand that you are against
any more plutonium recycling. We have
a nuclear plant to the east of us, with
three reactors, and we have another one
going up to the west of us with two more
reactors. And we're wondering, with all
these reactors in the area, the huge quan-
tities of nuclear waste material that will
be generated there, well, what are we
going to do about the disposal of these ma-
terials without any recycling? Do you not
think that it might increase our Nation's
energy independence to extend this nu-
clear fuel supply through the recycle?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, re-
cycling or reprocessing, as it's most often
called, is not an answer to the question
that you raised. We've been involved in
nuclear power production now for 35
years, and also weapons production for 35
years. The nuclear wastes, even if they
were reprocessed, would still have to be
stored somewhere. And, as you know,
there have been two major plants of the
most modern possible design already com-
pleted to reprocess spent nuclear fuel.
Both of them have been abandoned be-
cause they simply didn't work economi-
cally, they were not feasible, and also they
created environmental questions of con-
tamination that just were never resolved.
The thing that we are trying to do is
to provide some long-range and compre-
hensive spent fuel storage capability, may-
be injecting the Federal Government into
it more deeply than it has been in the
1706
