Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But I think it's accurate to say that a
strong emphasis on human rights and
every aspect of them has restored to our
people a pride again. And we now have
raised the banner of commitment to the
principles that were filling the hearts of
Americans 200 years ago, of a pride in
the individuality of human beings and a
pride in the basic freedoms and a pride
in what our Nation stands for.
I think now there's a sense among every
national leader in the world that how we
treat the people in our countries is of cru-
cial importance for a change. And the
condemnation of the rest of the world is
a powerful force on those who in the past
have been the most guilty of depriving
our people and other people around the
world of these rights.
We are not perfect yet, but I think
there is a general sense now that the
United States does stand for the prin-
ciples that have made us a great nation.
We've had some serious problems in
Czechoslovakia recently when four dissi-
dents were tried and convicted just be-
cause they were dissidents. And South
Africa recently has made a major retro-
gressive step in depriving people of the
right of free speech and free press. We
have just announced the withdrawal of
our Ambassador from South Africa for
consultations, and we hope to use all the
pressure we can to bring this course of
action.
I think that our Democratic Party, my
own leadership, the accomplishments of
the Congress are going to be measured by
what we do about the comprehensive
energy policy. As you know, this effort is
long overdue, and I don't have time to-
night to go into the domestic implications
of it. But I would like to point out to you
in just a few sentences the international
implications of what we have failed to do
in the last few years.
In 1973 the world was shocked when
the price of oil quadrupled almost over-
night. And we realized that we were in
trouble with excessive waste of the in-
creasingly scarce fossil fuels. Great Britain
has reduced their consumption of oil since
1973; Germany has reduced their imports
of oil since 1973; France has reduced
their imports of oil since 1973; Italy has
done the same; so has Japan. But our
country since 1973 has almost doubled
our imports of oil. We now import more
oil. In spite of the fact that we can pro-
duce a great deal ourselves, we now im-
port more oil than all the European
Community nations combined. We are
the OPEC countries' greatest customer.
We purchase 25 percent of all the oil
exported from the OPEC nations.
This year we will purchase overseas
$45 billion worth of oil-approximately
half of all the oil we use and just about
exactly the amount that we waste that we
could be saving. This is making us in-
creasingly vulnerable and actually can
endanger our own Nation's security as we
come much more heavily on foreign oil,
the supply of which can be interrupted
without our being able to prevent it. It
removes the freedom of action that we
ought to have in dealing with other coun-
tries and causes a constraint on us eco-
nomically that is very devastating.
This past year we had the greatest year
for exports of farm products in history-
$24 billion-but we imported twice as
much oil as we exported all our farm
products combined. This year we'll have a
trade imbalance of $30 billion, and if we
could just hold down oil imports, we
would have a trade surplus of $15 billion.
This robs our economy of very scarce
moneys. It dampens the prospect for jobs
and growth. And unless we act coura-
geously, our reputation as a nation with
will and strength will be severely dam-
1896
