Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 22
ties in the deteriorating urban areas that
have been neglected too long.
ABORTION
MR. AGURS. Mr. President, in light of
what you said about channeling resources
and what-not, I would like to go back
for a moment, if I might, to Tuesday's
press conference during which a discus-
sion of the abortion issue was taking
place. And you were asked to reconcile
your stand on abortion with your stand
for-the statement I am getting at, sir,
is there are certain things in this society-
life is not fair, you said. Poor people can-
not afford certain things that wealthy peo-
ple can. How do you reconcile a state-
ment like that with concern for depriva-
tion and turning around the economic
system?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in any sort of
societal structure or any degree of eco-
nomic prosperity or need, and with any
kind of Federal, State, or local budget,
you have a limitation on money available
for those who need help from government
to give them an equal opportunity. Hav-
ing that limited amount of money to
spend in all, a President or Congress has
to set priorities for expenditure; what is
the greatest need? Is it a higher need
to have preventive health care with phys-
ical examinations for children, immuni-
zation programs, the care for elderly,
adequate housing, adequate food, ade-
quate diet for a certain amount of money,
or should you take a substantial portion
of that money and pay for abortions from
the Government?
I don't think that the Government
ought to finance abortions except when
the abortions are a danger to the poten-
tial mother's life or when they are caused
by rape or incest. We have in this respect
not a callous or unconcerned attitude
toward the poor. But I personally find it
very difficult to have a program which
encourages abortion.
If the purpose of the Government—
and I think its legitimate purpose-is
to prevent the birth of unwanted chil-
dren, I think the best way to spend lim-
ited Federal moneys, again, is in the edu-
cation of sometimes ignorant young peo-
ple, women and men, and making avail-
able to them family planning instruction
plus contraceptive devices that would
prevent a pregnancy to begin with.
I hate to see a government finance a
very expensive program
program where young
women get to depend upon abortion to
correct a mistake that never should have
occurred.
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
MR. SANDERS. You mentioned a long-
range plan, and that has been your con-
tention throughout your campaign. And
you have also been described by a num-
ber of writers as being a man high on
symbols. Do you feel if you had extended
a few more symbols into specifically the
New York area, the black community,
that you probably would have contrib-
uted to heading off what did happen dur-
ing the blackout?
THE PRESIDENT. This is hard to know.
We have had a massive new effort made
since I have been in office, for instance,
concerning employment. We have passed
legislation through the Congress that
helps our economy, about $21 billion
worth, which is a very major amount;
about $4 billion for public works. We
have provided for 1.1 million summer jobs
for young people, plus about 435,000 new
jobs in public service, working for local
and State governments.
In addition to that, we have initiated
now a health screening program for poor
people. We have given a $4 billion tax
reduction, where way over half of it goes
1341
