Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
In my opinion it's very beneficial to our
Nation, to our security, and to our diplo-
matic relationships, to our business trade,
and health to have this treaty ratified.
Every President since President John-
son has been involved in trying to get such
a treaty ratified. Past Secretaries of State
Kissinger, Rogers, Rusk have confirmed
their support for the treaty. President
Ford is strongly in favor of the treaty.
And, of course, our Joint Chiefs of Staff
unanimously, representing the Armed
Forces, feel that this treaty is in our Na-
tion's interests.
I think if we should fail to ratify the
treaty that there would be a threat, at
least, of disruption of the peaceful opera-
tion of the canal. I believe that we could
defend the canal against such threatened
disruptions. But it would be very difficult
for us to do it.
It's not so important who actually owns
the canal; Panama has always had sov-
ereignty over the Panama Canal Zone.
But what's important is whether or not
the canal is open. And I believe that we
can keep it open much more surely if we
work in partnership with Panama rather
than if we fail to ratify the canal and
make an enemy, not only of Panama but
betray the confidence that now exists in
us by the other countries in our hemi-
sphere.
So, you can tell from what I say that I
consider it to be very important. And I'm
very grateful that the American people's
opinion is changing toward favoring the
Panama Canal Treaty as they become fa-
miliar with the elements of it.
MR. VRIESMAN. Mr. President, what's
your current assessment of the chances
for the treaty in the Senate?
THE PRESIDENT. That's hard to say. As
you know, a little more than a year ago,
40 Senators signed the resolution against
the ratification of any treaty. Now many
of those Senators have told me both pri-
vately and publicly that they favor the
treaty itself. It's too early to say. Also, 6
months ago, according to some very re-
sponsible polls among the American peo-
ple, only about 8 percent of our people
favored the treaty. A more recent poll by
Gallup, confirmed by some private polls
that I have seen on a nationwide basis,
show that about 40 percent now favor rat-
ification of the treaty. There are about
45 to 50 percent still remaining who don't
favor the ratification of the treaty. So, I
would say that the trend is in the right di-
rection, but we certainly don't have any
assurance that we have a two-thirds ma-
jority yet.
PRESS COVERAGE OF INTERVIEW
MR. VRIESMAN. Mr. President, this
next question is of special significance to
us as news directors. It comes from Peter
Herford of CBS News. He would like to
know why, in view of your promise of an
open administration, coverage of this
news conference at the Washington end
was limited to a single pool camera for
only the first few moments of the news
conference?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any idea.
I walked into the Oval Office and found
the office just about filled with electronics
equipment and noticed that there was a
television crew included. But the arrange-
ments for who should come in is some-
thing that I was not involved in.
As you know, we've tried to have my
administration as open as possible. I have
had, and will have, two open press con-
ferences every week (month) and fre-
quent press exchanges in between. But I
can't answer that question. I thought that
we had accommodated your own asso-
ciation completely in this interview.
1598
