Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 28, 1977
Detroit, Michigan
Remarks in a Panel Discussion and Question-
and-Answer Session at a Public Policy Forum
Sponsored by the Community Services
Administration. October 21, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that I'm very grateful for a chance to
come back to Detroit. I was here the first
time as Governor in 1973 and then came
back again as Governor in 1974. Then in
1975 I came back several times during
the campaign and not-well, more than
once in 1976.
This is a regional meeting, extending in
many directions from Detroit-suburbs
and urban areas with representatives
here who bring to this panel table a wide
range of interests and also experience
and also advice for me. The purpose of
the meeting is to make sure that I, as
President of our great country, am able
to learn in a human way about the spe-
cial needs of people who have quite often
been most deprived, most alienated from
the sometimes distant Government in
Washington, and to see from a personal
perspective how well-meaning programs
that are poorly administered don't serve
the needs of those who need the services
most and sometimes how Presidents and
Members of Congress, Governors and
even mayors overlook opportunities for
providing a better life for our people.
I'm very proud of Detroit. This city has
come a long way. Two years ago the un-
employment rate here when I came was
about 25 percent-23.4 percent. This past
month it was down about 8 or 9 percent,
which is still too high. But to have that
drastic a reduction in unemployment is
a very great credit to those who serve you
so well.
I was living in Atlanta as Governor,
and Detroit was known as the murder
capital of the Nation. In the last 2 years
alone, with the good work of your mayor
and with close cooperation from officials
in the suburban areas, the State govern-
ment, and particularly the police, the
murder rate has been reduced 64 percent.
And the crime rate in Detroit in the last
year has dropped 21 percent—the great-
est reduction in crime of any major city
in the whole country.
So, these achievements are notable, but
we're here today not to brag on one an-
other but to point out how we can make
our people have an even better life.
The format for this meeting has al-
ready been described to you, I'm sure, but
I will call on each member of the panel
just to comment briefly on your own back-
ground and then bring up an issue that
you'd like to discuss with me. I don't
claim to know all the answers. But I think
in this general discussion that we'll have,
I think all of us are quite relaxed at this
1829
