Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 14
gust, and we still don't have that legis-
lation through.
Three of the five major items have
already been resolved in principle, and I
think they are fairly safe to prevail. We
still have the questions, though, of natu-
ral gas and how to control the consump-
tion of oil. But we are making some
progress.
The other question that we've tried to
address is to bring some integrity back to
the social security system. This is a matter
that's very disturbing to us all, and it's
also been highly controversial.
But we have made good progress this
year. And I think, when you assess what
the Congress has done, you will also be
pleased.
We've tried to commit ourselves and
retain our commitment to the principles
of free trade. One of the unanticipated
pressures on me as President has been for
evolving various methods of protectionism
to erect tariffs or quota barriers against
foreign imports. Our country lives on
international trade, and this is an easy
political question to be demagoged. But
I hope that you all will help me to con-
vince the public that this is not in the best
interests of our Nation.
There are a lot of things, obviously,
that the Government can do. I think that
we need a substantial permanent tax re-
duction next year for business and for
individuals. I see the major redressing of
our problem with unemployment being in
your hands, in the private business sector.
The major means of redressing the per-
manent underlying inflation rate lies in
your hands and in those of people who
work for you to increase productivity and,
therefore, reduce the basic underlying
cause for sustained inflation.
I believe that we have in your hands
the possibility of helping to redress our
balance of trade by producing highly
competitive and quality goods for us to
export. We can do a lot in partnership
with you. The unnecessary paperwork
and regulations and intrusion into the
business lives by Government needs to be
reduced.
We have here tonight with us the
administrator of the Occupational Safety
and Health Act. I think it's accurate to
say that 12 months ago this was one of
the most despised and condemned pro-
grams in Government. But Dr. Bingham
has brought forward revisions in those
administrative procedures that have
helped to remove this burden on your
shoulders.
This past week, she and Ray Marshall
announced the elimination of 1,100 of
the OSHA regulations. And we are try-
ing to reduce our total paperwork burden
on the business and professional commu-
nity. Health, Education, and Welfare
have already reduced their paperwork re-
quirements 27 percent, and we've set a
goal for the whole Nation and for the
whole Government to do the same. And
we are making some progress. We are try-
ing to make weekly reports changed into
monthly reports, monthly into quarterly,
quarterly into annually, and some of the
reports we are trying to eliminate all
together. But we are probing to do a bet-
ter job with your Government.
I just want to say a couple of other
things, and then I'd like to answer a ques-
tion or two, if you'd let me.
I'm a businessman like yourselves.
When I was beginning my Carters Ware-
house and producing certified seed and
buying and storing and ginning cotton
and shelling peanuts, you were the leaders
in our Nation that I looked to and ad-
mired. I recognized then and now the
present achievements that you've already
realized and the tremendous beneficial
impact that you have had and can have
2109
