Aug. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in Manila during the week of August 21,
1977, under the auspices of the World
Peace Through Law Center, to inaugurate
the Eighth World Conference on World
Peace Through Law. Together they will
search for ways to further universal hu-
man liberty and security. Celebrations de-
voted to international legal protections
for human rights will be held not only in
Manila, but in more than one hundred
countries. Accordingly, it is fitting that the
United States join in this effort to focus
the world's attention on the pressing need
for continued vigilance in protecting
fundamental rights and freedoms for all.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Sunday, August 21,
1977, as World Law Day in the United
States. I call upon all public and private
officials and organizations, members of
the legal profession, the clergy, educators,
the communications media, and all men
and women of good will to join with the
peoples of the world on this day in reflect-
ing on the importance of the rule of law in
achieving world peace as well as justice,
freedom and dignity for all.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:53 p.m., August 19, 1977]
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
August 13
The President met at the White House
with William G. Hyland, senior staff
member of the National Security Council.
August 14
The President met at the White House
with Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, who
reported on his trip to Egypt, Lebanon,
Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Israel
for discussions of the Middle East situa-
tion, and also his visit to London for talks
concerning southern Africa.
August 15
The President met at the White House
with:
--Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs;
-Hobson R. Reynolds, Grand Exalted
Ruler, and representatives of the Im-
proved Benevolent Protective Order
of Elks of the World, who presented
the President with the Elijah Lovejoy
Award and also named him the first
recipient of the organization's Ben-
jamin Franklin Howard Award;
-Alan S. Boyd, the President's Special
Representative to negotiations for a
United States-United Kingdom air
services agreement;
-former Secretary of State Henry A.
Kissinger;
-Bert Lance, Director, and James T.
McIntyre, Jr., Deputy Director, Of-
fice of Management and Budget;
-Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall
and G. William Miller, chairman of
the board and chief executive officer
of Textron and chairman of the
President's Committee on HIRE;
1482
