Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
United Nations
Remarks on Signing International Covenants
on Human Rights. October 5, 1977
Mr. Secretary Waldheim, I'm begin-
ning to feel at home here at the United
Nations.
I am honored to sign on behalf of the
United States of America these two inter-
national covenants on human rights.
Of the many affinities between the
United States and the United Nations,
perhaps the most important is that both
had their origins in a vision of the great-
ness of the human possibility.
The American Declaration of Inde-
pendence speaks of the idea that, and I
quote, "all men are created equal.
endowed by their Creator with certain
inalienable rights. . . Life, Liberty, and
the pursuit of Happiness."
The Charter of the United Nations
speaks of "faith in fundamental human
rights, in the dignity and worth of the
human person, in the equal rights of men
and women and of nations large and
small."
Though separated by a century and a
half in time, these visions are identical in
spirit. The covenants that I signed today
are unusual in the world of international
politics and diplomacy. They say abso-
lutely nothing about powerful govern-
ments or military alliances or the privi-
leges and immunities of statesmen and
high officials. Instead, they are concerned
about the rights of individual human be-
ings and the duties of governments to the
people they are created to serve the
rights of human beings and the duties of
government.
The Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights concerns what governments must
not do to their people, and the Covenant
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
concerns what governments must do for
their people.
By ratifying the Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, a government pledges,
as a matter of law, to refrain from sub-
jecting its own people to arbitrary impris-
onment or execution or to cruel or de-
grading treatment. It recognizes the right
of every person to freedom of thought,
freedom of conscience, freedom of reli-
gion, freedom of opinion, freedom of ex-
pression, freedom of association, and the
rights of peaceful assembly, and the
right to emigrate from that country.
A government entering this covenant
states explicitly that there are sharp limits
on its own powers over the lives of its
people. But as Thomas Jefferson once
wrote about the Bill of Rights, which be-
came part of our own American Republic,
and I quote again from Thomas Jeffer-
son: "These are fetters against doing evil
which no honest government should
decline."
By ratifying the other Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, a
government commits itself to its best ef-
forts to secure its citizens a basic stand-
ard of material existence, social justice,
and cultural opportunity.
This covenant recognizes that govern-
ments are the instruments and the serv-
ants of their people. Both of these cove-
nants express values in which the people
of my country have believed for a long
time.
I will seek ratification of these cove-
nants by the Congress of the United States
at the earliest possible date.
It would be idle to pretend that these
two covenants themselves reflect the world
as it is. But to those who believe that in-
struments of this kind are futile, I would
suggest that there are powerful lessons to
be learned in the history of my own
country.
1734
