Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the Armed Forces, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established
a Defense Meritorious Service Medal,
with accompanying ribbons and appurte-
nances, for award by the Secretary of De-
fense to any member of the Armed Forces
of the United States who has rendered
outstanding non-combat meritorious
achievement or service while assigned to
the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the
Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
a specified or unified command, a De-
fense agency, or other such joint activity
as may be designated by the Secretary of
Defense.
SEC. 2. The Defense Meritorious Serv-
ice Medal, with accompanying ribbons
and appurtenances, shall be of appropri-
ate design approved by the Secretary of
Defense and shall be awarded under such
regulations as the Secretary of Defense
may prescribe. These regulations shall
place the Defense Meritorious Service
Medal in an order of precedence after the
Medal of Honor, the Distinguished Serv-
ice Cross, the Defense Distinguished Serv-
ice Medal, the Distinguished Service
Medal, the Silver Star Medal, the Defense
Superior Service Medal, the Legion of
Merit Medal, and the Bronze Star Medal,
but before the Meritorious Service Medal.
SEC. 3. No more than one Defense
Meritorious Service Medal shall be
awarded to any one person, but for
each succeeding outstanding meritorious
achievement or service justifying such an
award a suitable device to be worn with
that medal may be awarded under such
regulations as the Secretary of Defense
may prescribe.
SEC. 4. The Defense Meritorious Serv-
ice Medal or device may be awarded post-
humously and, when so awarded, may be
presented to such representative of the
deceased as may be deemed appropriate
by the Secretary of Defense.
The White House,
November 3, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:53 p.m., November 3, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was announced
by the White House Press Office on Novem-
ber 3. It was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
Survey of Congressional
Constituent Problems
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. October 28, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Survey of Congressional Con-
stituent Problems
Senators and Congressmen devote a
good portion of their time and staff re-
sources, as you know, to helping individual
constituents deal with government agen-
cies. Richard Pettigrew, my Assistant for
Reorganization, recently conducted a sur-
vey of Senate and House offices aimed at
identifying those areas of government
causing constituents the most problems.
This survey has yielded a wealth of infor-
mation on the daily concerns of both the
Congress and the average citizen in deal-
ing with their government.
Responses received so far reflect a
strong consensus as to the need for im-
proved program effectiveness in particular
areas. They provide us a unique oppor-
tunity to improve government's compe-
tence in serving the average citizen. They
suggest problems, moreover, which are
historic in nature and predate this Admin-
1960
