Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
omy and to increase the pace of growth
in the developing nations of the world,
with the benefits of the growth among us
all more widely and equitably shared.
The health of the international eco-
nomic system depends upon the health of
our individual domestic economies. Just
as none of us can prosper without a stable
system, so the system will not be sound
unless we act responsibly at home.
I am pleased that the United States
economy is healthy and growing. Our
rate of inflation, while still too high for
our liking—about 6 percent is moder-
ating and is below that, of course, in most
other countries.
We will meet our economic growth
targets for this year-about 6 percent in
real terms. And we will also maintain a
vigorous and noninflationary growth next
year.
And I am committed to take such ac-
tions as are necessary as President to in-
sure that this optimistic prediction comes
true. We will do so principally because
it is good for our own country, but also
because it contributes to the economic
health of the rest of the world.
Our unemployment rate is steadily
going down. We have very little doubt
about this. And there's a sense of commit-
ment in our country and a strength of our
economic system. They bode us good for
the future. Strong economic growth in
the United States and a slowing pace of
growth in other countries, combined with
an excessive United States import of oil,
have all led to a rise this year in the
United States trade deficit, which has
continued even through last month.
With respect to oil imports, I have pro-
posed to the Congress-really for the first
time in the history of our country—a com-
prehensive energy program, which in the
years ahead, is designed to reduce our oil
imports substantially below what they are
now and to less than one-half the previous
projections for the next 8 years.
We know that it is critical that the Con-
gress enact strong and effective energy
measures. The U.S. must have a credible
program to limit the growth of oil con-
sumption and, therefore, to reduce oil
imports.
I urge all nations, and especially the
major industrial countries, to reduce en-
ergy waste along with us and to pursue
economic growth and stabilization policies
along with us, leading to an expanding,
noninflationary world economy, growing
international trade, and an improved pat-
tern of world trade balances.
The International Monetary Fund has
played already a vital role in keeping the
international monetary system both flexi-
ble and effective. I'm particularly grateful
for the enlightened fiscal discipline which
the Fund and the Bank encourage
throughout the world with their loans.
The present system is working well.
The United States has ratified the
amendments to the Articles of Agreement
of the IMF, and we hope that other
nations, other members will do the same
so as to increase the Fund's resources and
strengthen its capacity for surveillance of
exchange rate policies and the oversight
of monetary agreements.
The new IMF supplementary credit
facility adds an important element to the
IMF capabilities. It has my country's full
support. The United States will also join
with others in working toward adequate
increases in IMF quotas during the Sev-
enth Special Review of these quotas.
The United States remains firmly com-
mitted to policies that will promote freer
and wider trade without the deleterious
consequences of protectionism. My coun-
try joins others in pledging to seek sub-
stantive progress in the ongoing multi-
1670
