Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 3
The enactment of H.R. 1862 carries out
my recommendation that compensation
payments be adjusted this year to keep
pace with the cost of living.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 1862 is Public Law
95-117, approved October 3.
Corporation for Public
Broadcasting
Nomination of Sharon Percy Rockefeller and
Gillian M. Sorensen To Be Members of the
Board of Directors. October 3, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Sharon Percy Rockefeller
and Gillian M. Sorensen to be members of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting for terms of 6
years.
Rockefeller, 32, of West Virginia,
would replace Thomas W. Moore, term
expired. She is an active board member of
WETA-TV in Washington and served on
the Advisory Board of Education during
the Johnson administration.
Sorensen, 36, is associate producer at
Talent Associates and assistant producer
of New York Television Theater. She has
produced a charity telethon and commer-
cial television programs and has been in-
volved in broadcasting and communica-
tions since 1964.
National Advisory Committee for
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency
Prevention
Appointment of Seven Members to the
Committee. October 3, 1977
The President today announced that he
has appointed the following persons as
members of the National Advisory Com-
mittee for Juvenile Justice and Delin-
quency Prevention for 4-year terms:
GEORGE P. BELITSOS, of Ames, Iowa. Belitsos,
30, has been director since 1973 of Youth
and Shelter Services Inc., a community-
based corrections and diversion program. He
is a commissioner of the Iowa Crime Com-
mission. He previously served as director of
the Story County Youth Service Bureau, a
consultant to the Iowa Drug Abuse Au-
thority, and community program director
for the Ames YMCA.
TIMOTHY S. DAVIS, of Tulsa, Okla. Davis, 23,
is presently at the Democratic National Com-
mittee. He worked for Unified Delinquency
Intervention Service in 1975 as a case man-
ager, researcher, and evaluator. In 1974 he
worked as administrative assistant to the
warden at the Atlanta Correctional Center.
Davis has done academic research on alterna-
tives to child institutionalization, urban
planning on police relations, and zoning and
segregation patterns.
MARGARET C. DRISCOLL, of Bridgeport, Conn.
Driscoll, 65, is chief judge of the Connecti-
cut Juvenile Court. Before becoming a judge,
she served as counsel, then legislative coun-
sel to the Connecticut State Labor Council
and practiced law in Bridgeport. She is presi-
dent of the National Council of Juvenile
Court Judges.
STEVEN D. STARK, of Atlanta, Ga. Stark, 25, is
a student at Yale University Law School. He
was issues coordinator for the Carter cam-
paign in 1975 and early 1976 and before
that was a reporter for several newspapers.
In 1970 he was a researcher and counselor
at the Narcotics Treatment Agency in
Washington.
BARBARA T. SYLVESTER, of Florence, S.C.
Sylvester, 48, is active in civic and com-
munity affairs in South Carolina. She is a
member and former chairman of the South
Carolina Board of Youth Services and a
former chairman of the State Board of Juve-
nile Corrections. She worked on the creation
of the South Carolina Department of Mental
Retardation and is chairman of the Mum-
ford G. Fuller Developmental Center Board,
a community school for retarded children.
DIANA M. TAMEZ, of San Antonio, Tex. Tamez,
22, is completing a B.S. in psychology at
the University of Texas. She works on a child
abuse project at the Mexican American
Neighborhood Civic Organization.
1713
