Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
gent positions of the past. The procedural
arrangements hammered out at the 1973
Geneva Conference can provide a good
basis for a reconvened conference. Even
a year ago just think back-the notion
of Israelis and Arabs engaging in face-to-
face negotiations about real peace, a peace
embodied in signed, binding treaties,
seemed like an illusion; yet, today, such
negotiations are within reach. And I'm
proud of the progress that has been
achieved by all nations concerned to make
this dream at least possible.
But to improve the atmosphere for
serious negotiations, mutual suspicions
must be further reduced. One source of
Arab concern about Israeli intentions has
been the establishment of civilian settle-
ments in territories currently under occu-
pation, which we consider to be a viola-
tion of the Fourth Geneva Convention.
On the Arab side, much still needs to be
done to remove the suspicions that exist
in Israel about Arab intentions. It was
not so long ago, after all, that Arab de-
mands were often expressed in extreme
and sometimes violent ways. Israel's exist-
ence was constantly called into question.
The continuing refusal of the Palestinian
Liberation Organization to accept U.N.
Resolution 242 and Israel's right to exist,
along with the resort to violence and ter-
ror by some groups, provides Israelis with
tangible evidence that their worst fears
may in fact be justified.
Differences naturally exist not only be-
tween Arabs and Israelis but among the
Arab parties themselves. And we are ac-
tively engaged in an effort, a very difficult
effort, to narrow these differences so that
Geneva can be reconvened. And we've
called on the other cochairman of the
Geneva conference, the Soviet Union, to
use its influence constructively.
We will continue to encourage a solu-
tion to the Palestinian question in a frame-
work which does not threaten the interests
of any of the concerned parties, yet re-
spects the legitimate rights of the Pales-
tinians. The nations involved must
negotiate the settlement, but we ourselves
do not prefer an independent Palestinian
state on the West Bank.
Negotiations will no doubt be prolonged
and often very difficult. But we are in this
to stay. I will personally be prepared to
use the influence of the United States to
help the negotiations succeed. We will not
impose our will on any party, but we will
constantly encourage and try to assist the
process of conciliation.
Our relations with Israel will remain
strong. Since the war in 1973, we have
provided $10 billion in military and eco-
nomic aid to Israel, about two-thirds of
which was direct grants or concessional
loans. The magnitude of this assistance is
unprecedented in history. It's greatly en-
hanced Israel's economic and military
strength. Our aid will continue.
As difficult as peace through negotia-
tions will be in the Middle East, the al-
ternative of stalemate and war is infinitely
worse. The cost of another war would be
staggering in both human and economic
terms. Peace, by contrast, offers great hope
to the peoples of the Middle East who
have already contributed so much to
civilization.
Peace, which must include a permanent
and secure Jewish state of Israel, has a
compelling logic for the Middle East. It
would begin to bring Arabs and Israelis
together in creative ways to create a pros-
perous and a stable region. And the pros-
pect of coexistence and cooperation would
revive the spirits of those who, for so long,
thought only of violence and of struggle
for survival itself.
Peace would lift some of the enormous
burdens of defense and uplift the people's
quality of life. The idea of peace in the
Middle East today is no more of a dream
than was the idea of a national home for
1956
