Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Saturday, December 31, 1977
Interstate 75 Dedication
Remarks by Telephone to Participants in the
Dedication Ceremonies in Marietta, Georgia.
December 21, 1977
an achievement, I think also, George and
those who are listening, for a proper in-
terrelationship between those who are
concerned about the beauty and the qual-
ity of life in Georgia, who also want a
GOVERNOR GEORGE BUSBEE. Hello, Mr. good transportation system.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Hi. How is it going?
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Everything is go-
ing wonderfully well.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have had
two great transportation achievements in
Georgia in one day.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Well, let me say,
Mr. President, that we have with us on
the platform your Secretary of Transpor-
tation on this, the most historic day in
the history of transportation for our State.
And the audience is aware of the fact
that today we are opening the first high-
way corridor from Canada to the Gulf of
Mexico, through Georgia. But what they
are unaware of is the fact that you have
just made possible on the same day the
direct flight from Atlanta to London. So,
I would like to announce that at this time.
Bert Lance is standing here, too, and
he said also he sold his stock today. So,
this is a real great day here in Georgia
now. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's been a won-
derful occasion for all of us to see such a
fine completion of the most important in-
terstate route in the Nation. And this is
Dr. Eugene Odum,ยน working with Bert
Lance and me several years ago, resolved
some very difficult environmental ques-
tions. And you and the Department of
Transportation in Georgia have brought
it to a very rapid conclusion. And I think
the whole Nation is going to benefit from
this superb route through the most beau-
tiful regions of the country.
Brock Adams has done a good job in
forming a close working partnership with
the Governors throughout the country,
and I know it's a time of celebration for
the whole State.
I am very glad that we finally got an-
other joint project on which you and I
were able to work, and that is direct in-
ternational airline flights from Atlanta in-
to Europe. And I believe that Georgia and
Atlanta, under your superb leadership, is
really making great progress.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Mr. President, let
me say that Senator Nunn had asked
me--he is on the platform with us--to ex-
press his appreciation. Senator Talmadge
ยน Dr. Eugene P. Odum, director of the In-
stitute of Ecology at the University of Georgia.
2165
