Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 3
eral departments and agencies, State,
local and regional officials, interested
groups, and individual citizens.
JIMMY CARTER
International Boundary
Commission, United States
and Canada
Appointment of William M. Schreiber as a
U.S. Commissioner. August 2, 1977
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of William M. Schreiber, of
Indianapolis, Ind., to be a Commissioner
of the United States on the International
Boundary Commission, United States and
Canada. He replaces Richard L. Her-
man. Schreiber is administrator of the
Marion County (Indiana) Board of
Voter Registration.
He was born May 1, 1943, in Ottum-
wa, Iowa. He received a B.S. in secondary
education in 1966 and an M.A. in politi-
cal science in 1975 from Indiana Univer-
sity.
From 1969 to 1973, Schreiber was
legislative assistant to Congressman Andy
Jacobs of Indiana. Since 1973 he has been
administrator of the Marion County
Board of Voter Registration. In 1976
Schreiber was a visiting lecturer in State
Health, the Administrator, Environmental
Protection Agency, the Chairman, Con-
sumer Product Safety Commission, the
Commissioner, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration
I was very pleased to receive your let-
ter of July 27, describing the steps your
four agencies are taking to develop a com-
mon, coordinated approach in regulating
toxic and hazardous substances.
As you know, I am determined to pro-
tect the health of our people and the
quality of our environment from damage
done by toxic substances. We can better
coordinate our efforts and make them
both more effective and less burdensome.
I congratulate you on taking this step
toward a better regulatory system. Your
initiative will be a major contribution to
the Administration's overall regulatory re-
form effort. It is especially useful that you
are beginning the effort with a clear signal
to your employees both in and outside of
Washington of the seriousness of your aim
to work together. Close cooperation
among the regional and field offices of
your agencies is essential if your efforts
are to succeed.
Please keep me informed of your
progress.
JIMMY CARTER
and local government at Indiana Central Surface Mining Control and
University.
Toxic and Hazardous
Substances Regulation
Memorandum for the Heads of Four
Agencies. August 2, 1977
Memorandum for the Assistant Secretary
of Labor, Occupational Safety and
Reclamation Act of 1977
Remarks on Signing H.R. 2 Into Law.
August 3, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's obvious from
the composition of the group here this
morning, that the American people have
an intense interest in preserving the qual-
ity of our lives and the beauty of the land
that God gave us.
1407
