Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
country, "We do not intend to permit
the United States to intervene in the in-
ternal affairs of Panama,” we are both
right. But the language didn't go into
that much detail.
We agreed for expeditious passage of
American and Panamanian ships through
the Panama Canal when necessary. That
language to me is adequate. But that par-
ticular phrase, "expeditious passage," has
been interpreted differently here than it
has in Panama.
I want to be sure that the American
people, when the Senate votes ratification,
and the Panamanian people, when they
have a plebiscite or referendum on the
same treaty the 23d day of this month,
both understand the terms of the treaty
very clearly.
So, General Torrijos and I will be
meeting tomorrow to make sure that we
have a common agreement on what the
treaty means, and we may or may not
issue some clarifying statement. But it's
a constructive proposal, because both of
us want to be sure that our people don't
labor under any misapprehensions about
the intentions or interpretation of the
other country.
HUMPHREY-HAWKINS BILL
Q. Sir, obviously you have made state-
ments regarding your energy proposal and
it being the most important issue you will
face during your term. But full employ-
ment, national full employment, is a topic
you
discussed with the Congressional
Black Caucus numerous times. Have you
made a final decision regarding the Hum-
phrey-Hawkins bill?
The President. During the campaign
I promised to support the Humphrey-
Hawkins bill, but expressed some concern
about the detailed factors included in the
Humphrey-Hawkins bill at that time and
did not approve the version as it then ex-
isted. It's been constantly amended over
the last 2 or 3 years since introduction.
My staff have recently been working
with Congressman Hawkins, with Senator
Humphrey on the telephone, with their
staffs, and others, to evolve a full employ-
ment bill that we could indeed support
without equivocation or hesitancy. We are
making good progress about that. And
I would guess that within the next few
days we would be prepared, if things go
well, to announce our support of the
Humphrey-Hawkins bill.
PANAMA CANAL TREATIES
Q. Mr. President, back on the canal
issue, if you cannot come to some mutu-
ally agreeable statement with General
Torrijos tomorrow, aren't the canal trea-
ties doomed?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it would
be very difficult to get ratification of the
treaties if there is any doubt that General
Torrijos and I, the Panamanian people
and the United States citizens, agree on
what the canal treaties mean.
I don't believe there's any need to
amend the treaty language. To me it's
clear because I've been involved in the
discussions with the negotiators and also
with General Torrijos. But it may be nec-
essary, after he and I discuss the situation,
to issue some clarifying statement. I've not
talked to him personally the last few days.
I did extend an invitation by letter. He
has been in the Middle East, the Scandi-
navian countries, Europe, and he's com-
ing back here tonight, I think.
But I did extend a written letter to him
asking him to meet with me. He was eager
to do so. And we will be meeting tomor-
row. But I think the clarification is cru-
cial. A written agreement or modification
to the treaty may or may not be necessary.
I don't think we need to modify the treaty
itself.
ENERGY LEGISLATIÓN
Q. Mr. President, what was the moral
equivalent of war last spring has now be-
1788
