Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the supply of money primarily from the
Federal Reserve Board.
I think Mr. Burns' primary concern is
that we have created uncertainty in the
business community by our major pro-
posals, and this is a concern which I share.
But when I'm faced with the problem of
whether to ignore a depleting reserve, for
instance, on social security and letting the
integrity of the social security system be
threatened on the one hand, or proposing
bold measures to correct the social secu-
rity problems and I, of course, propose
those corrections to the Congress.
I think we had delayed too long the ad-
dressing of the energy crisis, and these
weeks, when there is a time of uncer-
tainty, creates a dampening effect on the
economy and on the attitude of business-
men toward future investment. But the
alternative was to ignore the energy prob-
lem additionally for months and perhaps
years.
The same thing applies to welfare re-
form; the same thing applies to tax re-
form. I believe that these kinds of criti-
cisms that might have come from Mr.
Burns, that the volume of proposals might
have created uncertainty, are just honest
differences of opinion. And I think I've
made the right decision. I agree with Mr.
Burns that the profitability of our free
enterprise system-the business profits
ought to be up, and one of the things that
I hope to do with the tax reform proposals
and others is to improve capital retention
so that new investments can be made to
provide new jobs.
I might say in closing that I welcome
his public criticisms, and I think that I
can understand his point of view. I have
a luncheon meeting monthly with Mr.
Burns, which is an innovation since I've
been in office, and we exchange our views
very frankly with each other. Sometimes
there's a sharper disagreement at our pri-
vate luncheons even than there is in pub-
lic. But we're working toward the same
goal, and I respect him very much and
the right of him to make his independent
judgments of what I do.
SOUTH AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, on the subject of
sanctions against South Africa, could you
share your thinking on the course the
United States should follow in this situa-
tion?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Our hope has
been and our goal has been to work har-
moniously with South Africa in dealing
with the threats to peace in Namibia and
in Zimbabwe in particular and to encour-
age South Africa to move toward the
elimination of some of those racial prob-
lems which they've had historically, to do
away with apartheid, to give an equal op-
portunity for employment, job promotion,
education, and the participation in the
political and economic affairs of South
Africa for all its citizens.
The crisis was engendered last week
when South Africa took away the rights
of the free press and eliminated many of
the organizations themselves who had
been working toward improved equality
for the citizens of South Africa. I think
it's important that we express in no un-
certain terms our deep and legitimate
concern about those actions of South
Africa.
We are working in harmony with our
Western Alliance friends. We are working
in harmony with leaders in Africa and
throughout the rest of the world. My de-
cision has been to support strong sanctions
against the sale of weapons to South
Africa. This will be carried out immedi-
ately by us.
My prediction is that the United Na-
tions will adopt such a resolution and it
will be overwhelmingly supported by the
1910
