July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
• Create an Assistant Secretary of
Commerce for Communications and
Information.
• Vest some Office of Science and
Technology Policy functions in the
President for redelegation.
• Abolish the Economic
Opportunity
Council and vest those functions in
the President for redelegation.
• Transfer the Committee Manage-
ment Secretariat function of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget to
the President for redelegation.
• Make other incidental transfers at-
tendant to those mentioned above.
Each of the changes set forth in the
plan accompanying this message is neces-
sary to accomplish one or more of the
purposes set forth in Section 901(a) of
Title 5 of the United States Code. I have
taken care to determine that all functions
abolished by the plan are done so only
under statutory authority provided by Sec-
tion 903 (b) of Title 5 of the United States
Code. The provisions in the plan for the
appointment and pay of any head or of-
ficer of any agency have been found by me
to be necessary.
As we continue our studies of other
parts of the Executive Branch, we will
find more ways to improve services in the
EOP and elsewhere. This plan is only a
beginning, but I am confident that it rep-
resents a major step toward a more effi-
cient government that will serve the needs
of the people and the President well.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 15, 1977.
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 1 OF 1977
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representatives
in Congress assembled, July 15, 1977, pur-
suant to the provisions of Chapter 9 of Title
5 of the United States Code.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
SECTION 1. Redesignation of Domestic
Council Staff.
The Domestic Council staff is hereby
designated the Domestic Policy Staff and
shall consist of such staff personnel as are
determined by the President to be neces-
sary to assure that the needs of the Presi-
dent for prompt and comprehensive ad-
vice are met with respect to matters of
economic and domestic policy. The staff
shall continue to be headed by an Execu-
tive Director who shall be an Assistant to
the President, designated by the President,
as provided in Section 203 of Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 2 of 1970. The Executive Di-
rector shall perform such functions as the
President may from time to time direct.
SEC. 2. Establishment of a Central Ad-
ministrative Unit.
There is hereby established in the Ex-
ecutive Office of the President the Central
Administrative Unit which shall be
headed by the President. There shall be a
Director of the Central Administrative
Unit. The Director shall be appointed by
the President and shall serve as chief ad-
ministrative officer of the Central Admin-
istrative Unit. The President is authorized
to fix the compensation and duties of the
Director.
The Central Administrative Unit shall
provide components of the Executive
Office of the President with such ad-
ministrative services as the President shall
from time to time direct.
SEC. 3. Abolition of Components.
The following components of the Ex-
ecutive Office of the President are here-
by abolished:
A. The Domestic Council;
B. The Office of Drug Abuse Policy;
C. The Office of Telecommunications
Policy; and
1260
