Dec. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
could not be with us, but I know that he
and the Congressmen on the platform to-
day join with me in thanking you for
making this day possible in Georgia.
entire Nation. I know that it will help
the people in Florida, in the Midwest,
and all those in between.
So, congratulations again. Merry
Christmas to everybody. I'm very proud
of the work you've done.
And we are also delighted to have you
back in Georgia for what I hope will be
a very merry Christmas today.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, President, and Merry Christmas.
George.
One of the things that is extraordinary
about the completion of I-75 is that un-
der the good work of seven different con-
tractors, the highway has been completed
in 3 years, which is one year ahead of the
original work schedule. And it's going to
mean a lot to people trying to go to and
from Atlanta in the holiday season to
have I-75 open.
And I am very proud of what you have
done, what the Department of Transpor-
tation has done in Georgia, and we look
forward to concluding the other inter-
state highway systems as rapidly as we
can.
But Tom Moreland 2 and Bert Lance
made good partners for you and me. And,
of course, the Congress has worked also as
a part of that close partnership.
I am very glad to be back in Georgia,
and I hope that you will extend to every-
one there my thanks for a wonderful wel-
come back home, for the good support
I've had in the first year as President. And
I'm very proud to have a home where
friendship and harmony exist in the State
government. And we have benefited
greatly in the White House from this
strong support from back in Georgia.
So, good luck to you, George, and my
congratulations to all those who were in-
volved in this rapid completion of a su-
perb connector link now up and down our
2 Thomas D. Moreland, commissioner of the
Georgia Department of Transportation and
State highway engineer.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Good day, Mr.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, George;
same to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:34 p.m. from
his home in Plains, Ga., to participants in the
dedication at the Cobb County Civic Center
in Marietta, Ga.
Farm Program
Exchange of Letters With Mrs. Eston Luke of
Baxley, Georgia. December 21, 1977
December 21, 1977
Dear Mrs. Luke:
Thank you for writing about the prob-
lems farmers are facing.
Well publicized demonstrations in
Georgia and around the country have
brought home forcefully to the American
people the fact that the welfare of Amer-
ican consumers and American farm fami-
lies cannot be separated. This ability of
farmers to act together and focus public
attention upon the problems of American
agriculture is a new and healthy develop-
ment.
You and others who have written and
called are asking what this administra-
tion is doing to help farmers and how, as
a farmer, I view the whole situation.
This has been an even more difficult
year than usual for many farmers.
Drought has done terrible damage to
some sections of our country.
Our own home state has been one of
the hardest hit. Last year Georgia pro-
2166
