Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
corrective measures were taken to restore
that organization's commitment to its
original purposes. Because such measures
have not been taken, I direct that United
States membership in ILO be terminated.
The United States remains ready to re-
turn whenever the ILO is again true to its
proper principles and procedures.
NOTE: Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall read
the statement at a news conference at the White
House on November 1. It was not issued in the
form of a White House press release.
Transatlantic Air Service
Announcement of the Designation of
U.S. Carriers To Serve Certain U.S. Gateway
Cities. November 1, 1977
The President has approved the Civil
Aeronautics Board's decision on one por-
tion of the Transatlantic Route Proceed-
ing, the designation of U.S. carriers to
serve existing U.S. gateway cities.
At present, eight U.S. cities receive air
service to London from two competing
U.S. carriers. The Bermuda II agree-
ment reduced the number of U.S. cities
which may receive such competitive serv-
ice from eight to two. The agreement re-
quires the United States to indicate by
November 1 which two cities will continue
to receive competitive service to London,
and which single carrier will serve each
of the other six gateways.
This decision specifies that the cities
to receive competitive service will be New
York and, on an interim basis, Boston.
The Board will consider further evidence
on whether Los Angeles should replace
Boston as the second city receiving com-
petitive service.
For the other six cities, Pan Am will be
the exclusive carrier for Washington, De-
troit, and San Francisco, and TWA will
serve Philadelphia, Chicago, and, pend-
ing the decision on whether it should re-
ceive competitive service, Los Angeles.
Department of the Air Force
Nomination of John A. Hewitt, Jr., To Be an
Assistant Secretary. November 2, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate John A. Hewitt, Jr., of
Princeton, N.J., to be an Assistant Secre-
tary of the Air Force. He would replace
Everett T. Keech, resigned, and his area
of responsibility would be financial man-
agement.
Hewitt was born July 20, 1943. He re-
ceived a B.S. in engineering management
from the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1965,
and an M.B.A. in production manage-
ment from UCLA in 1966. He served in
the Air Force from 1966 to 1971, serving
as a captain at Headquarters, Space and
Missile Systems Organization, and project
officer responsible for program manage-
ment of large military satellite systems.
Since 1971 Hewitt has worked for the
Chase Manhattan Bank. From 1971 to
1974, he was vice president for corporate
planning, and since 1974 he has been vice
president and staff group executive for
trust and fiduciary investment.
World Jewish Congress
Remarks at the Meeting of the General
Council. November 2, 1977
Chairman Phil Klutznick and President
Nahum Goldmann, members of the
World Jewish Congress:
As my friend Phil Klutznick pointed
out, sometimes praise is not forthcoming
1952
