Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 6
This new Public Service Employment
Program is carefully designed to avoid
disruptive effects to the regular economy:
-Applicants will be required to en-
gage in an intensive 5-week search for
regular employment before becoming eli-
gible for a public service job. Those work-
ing in public service employment will be
required to engage in a period of inten-
sive job search every 12 months.
-In order to encourage participants
to seek employment in the regular econ-
omy, the basic wage rate will be kept at,
or where states supplement, slightly
above, the minimum wage.
-Every effort will be made to empha-
size job activities which lead to the ac-
quisition of useful skills by participants,
to help them obtain employment in the
regular economy. Training activities will
be a regular component of most job
placements.
The development of this job program is
clearly a substantial undertaking requir-
ing close cooperation of all levels of gov-
ernment. I am confident it will succeed.
Thousands of unmet needs for public
goods and services exist in our country.
Through an imaginative program of job
creation we can insure that the goals of
human development and community de-
velopment are approached simultane-
ously. Public service jobs will be created
in areas such as public safety, recreational
facilities and programs, facilities for the
handicapped, environmental monitoring,
child care, waste treatment and recycling,
clean-up, and pest and insect control,
home services for the elderly and ill,
weatherization of homes and buildings
and other energy-saving activities, teach-
ers' aides and other paraprofessionals in
schools, school facilities improvements,
and cultural arts activities.
EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT
The current Earned Income Tax
Credit (EITC) is an excellent mechanism
to provide tax relief to the working poor.
I propose to expand this concept to pro-
vide benefits to more families and provide
relief to low and modest income working
people hard hit by payroll tax increases,
improve work incentives, and integrate
the Program for Better Jobs and In-
come with the income tax system. The ex-
panded EITC, which will apply to pri-
vate and non-subsidized public employ-
ment, will have the following features:
-A 10% credit on earnings up to
$4,000 per year as under current law.
-A 5% credit on earnings between
$4,000 and approximately $9,000 for
a family of four (the point at which
the family will become liable for fed-
eral income taxes).
-A phase-out of the credit beyond
roughly $9,000 of earnings at ten
percent. The credit will provide ben-
efits to a family of four up to $15,600
of income.
-The credit will be paid by the Treas-
ury Department and the maximum
credit for a family of four would be
well over $600.
WORK BENEFIT AND INCOME SUPPORT
I propose to scrap and completely over-
haul the current public assistance pro-
grams, combining them into a simplified,
uniform, integrated system of cash assist-
ance. AFDC, SSI and Food Stamps will
be abolished. In their place will be a new
program providing: (1) a Work Benefit
for two-parent families, single people,
childless couples and single parents with
no child under 14, all of whom are ex-
pected to work full-time and required to
accept available work; and (2) Income
Support for those who are aged, blind or
disabled, and for single parents of chil-
1455
