Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 6
Meeting With President
Alfredo Stroessner
of Paraguay
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting.
September 6, 1977
We have President Stroessner here with
his Foreign Minister and other dignitaries
to participate in the signing of a treaty be-
tween ourselves and Panama. We had an
opportunity to discuss subjects of interest
to our country and to Paraguay, to re-
emphasize the historic friendship that has
bound our countries together, to discuss
the present plans in Paraguay for the de-
velopment of the country's economy, and
also we made plans, I believe, to alleviate
any differences of opinion that might exist
between our country and Paraguay.
The President outlined the plans for
elections in February and offered us an
opportunity to come and observe the elec-
tions there. I told him that I might learn
how to conduct a better campaign if I
could see how the elections were con-
ducted in Paraguay.
We had a discussion about the question
of human rights and the fact that it has
been a problem. And the President out-
lined to me the progress that is being made
in this area.
We were pleased to learn about the
cooperation between Paraguay and the
neighbors in Brazil and Argentina in the
development of water resources. And the
President outlined to me the size of the
fish which he quite often catches in
the beautiful streams of Paraguay.
But we had a good discussion, and we
are very grateful that he could come.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:45 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House. His
concluding remarks in Spanish were not in-
cluded in the transcript.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Meeting With President Alfonso
Lopez Michelsen of Colombia
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting.
September 6, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This is Colombia?
REPORTER. Yes. We are from Colombia.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. I am glad to see
you.
Q. Can you tell me anything about
your meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, President Lopez
and I had a very thorough discussion
about many items. First of all, the pres-
ervation of Colombia's special rights in
the use of the Panama Canal-they will
be extended after the canal treaty goes
into effect.
We also discussed the very important
trade relationships that exist between our-
selves and Colombia and the total com-
mitment that Colombia has always made
to democracy in its purest form and to the
principle of human rights. And we dis-
cussed the importance of many nations
being involved in pursuing the hope that
all people might live in freedom and with-
out oppression from government. And
Colombia has set a very fine example for
the rest of the world to follow.
We discussed the very serious problem
of the traffic in drugs-marijuana, co-
caine, and heroin-and the growing coop-
eration between our country and Colom-
bia. President Lopez has been very help-
1537
