Oct. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and one not very serious—are treated the
same, and young people have been in-
carcerated for long periods of time, who
have committed offenses that would not
even be a crime at all if they were adult.
It costs about $12,000 a year to keep a
young person in prison. This act very
wisely draws a sharp distinction between
these two kinds of crimes. It also en-
courages local administrators, States, and
local governments to deinstitutionalize
those young people who have not commit-
ted serious crimes.
We are extending here the Runaway
Youth Act for 3 years, which I think is a
good step forward, and in this bill is ade-
quate financing for this act itself. There's
also an allocation in fiscal year 1978 of
$150 million for juvenile justice under the
Law Enforcement Assistance Administra-
tion.
I'm very proud of the work that has
been done. As you may or may not have
heard, some of the Senators are not able
to show up this morning because of other
business before their body. I'm particu-
larly sorry that Senator Bayh can't be
here. He's been very instrumental in the
passage of this act. But we have some of
the Members of the House behind me
future, put more emphasis upon the pre-
ventive aspects of crime. And I believe we
can do that best by trying to stop school
dropouts, trying to provide jobs for the
younger people, perhaps after school, in
the summers, give them incentives to do
creative and constructive work and to live
useful lives.
I'm convinced that if we could put into
effect an effective, adequate preventive
program, we could reduce crime in this
country at least 25 percent. I hope this is
a good beginning in that direction.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
It's not an accident that the foremost
spokesman for the elderly in this country
is also Claude Pepper, who's also-[laugh-
ter]-who's the foremost spokesman for
young people.
I want to again thank all of you for
coming. I think it's a good step forward
today. And I believe that if this program
can be administered effectively through
LEAA and through the Department of
HEW, that we'll have a good program
that will take our Nation forward on fight-
ing crime, and particularly among the
young people of our Nation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:34 a.m. at
who have been very effective in dealing the signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at
with this very serious problem of juvenile
crime-Congressman Pepper and others.
It's with a great deal of pleasure that I
now sign into law act 6111, the Juvenile
Delinquency Act of 1977.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 6111
into law.]
I want to congratulate you gentlemen
behind me for the good work you've done.
REPRESENTATIVE PEPPER. Mr. Presi-
dent, we are so grateful for your recogni-
tion of the importance of trying to pre-
serve from the area of criminality the
younger people of the country. We realize
that any approach to the problem of crime
is a very difficult one. We've tried the or-
thodox approach. I wish we could, in the
the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 6111 is Public Law 95-115,
approved October 3.
Veterans Disability Compensation
and Survivor Benefits Act of 1977
Statement on Signing H.R. 1862 Into Law.
October 3, 1977
I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 1862,
a bill which will provide a 6.6 percent in-
crease in compensation payments for over
2 million disabled veterans and their sur-
vivors. These increases will become effec-
tive Saturday, October 1, 1977.
1712
