July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
production and effectuation of those
efforts.
So, with proper understanding and
constraints, I think that our economic
growth can continue at a moderate and
steady pace, give us at the same time an
opportunity for full employment and a
better quality of life and the elimination
of waste of valuable raw materials and
natural resources.
Compared to other countries, that
growth is modest. I think the Germans
are striving this year for 42-percent
growth. We'll probably have a good bit
higher than that, maybe 5½-percent
growth overall.
The Japanese are looking for about a
62-percent growth rate this year. Other
countries, a good bit lower.
But my goal is to maintain a rate of
growth as I've just described.
Let me say in closing that I hope you've
had a chance, while you're here, to get to
know some of the members of the White
House staff. We don't claim to know all
the answers, you know. We're learning.
I have never had a chance to serve in the
Federal Government before, except when
I was in the Navy. I have benefited from
a sense of support and good will and, I'd
say, counsel and constructive criticism
since I've been in office.
We have done the best we could to
stay in touch with people back home.
We've made fairly frequent trips out
through the country. I have made one trip
overseas.
Later on, in just a few days, I will go
down to Charleston, South Carolina, then
over to Yazoo City, Mississippi, then on
down to the coast of Louisiana.
We've instituted and maintained and
will maintain an open press conference
format every 2 weeks, which was pre-
dicted to be a failure, I think, by some,
but which I think has proven to be good.
And your coming here is an innovation
that has meant an awful lot to us.
So, we would welcome your constant
inquiries and your constant advice, and
I know we'll get your criticisms when we
deserve it in your opinion, whether I ask
for it or not.
I've enjoyed being President so far and
recognize that I still have a lot to learn.
Q. May I make one comment? I usual-
ly start with the taxicab driver. So I said,
"How do you like President Carter?"
He said, "Well, he's brought back faith
in the future to our people."
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good way to
close.
I'll have to recognize you.
WATER PROJECTS
Q. May I ask one question about your
water projects? My newspaper, the News
Courier, in Charleston, where you'll be
in a few days, has supported you on the
water project issue with particular refer-
ence to the Russell dam and lake. Con-
gress has given you a hard time, and
some of the Congressmen have given me
a hard time, too.
How do you feel about your success so
far in this, and will you continue to press
this issue with Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I will continue to
press this issue. We've made a tremendous
amount of progress this first year. The
Congress the Senate, at least, has already
agreed to eliminate about half the water
projects. We've cut back severely on
those that will be continued; they've
eliminated all new starts for this year.
If we're not completely successful with
this appropriation bill, then I will pursue
this issue as long as I am in the White
House.
I've really got to go. I appreciate it very
much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on July 16.
1276
