July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of the battles that we fought during the
thirties and forties, in which my father
participated, were decided here in Wash-
ington. And although before the advent
of the rural electrification program my
father and our family had been very close
to the farm geographically, without trav-
eling much, my daddy, who was the first
director of the Central Electric Member-
ship Corporation, on occasion would have
to come to Washington in a fight to pro-
tect the REA program when Roosevelt
was President.
And it expanded the horizons of our
family and taught me that there's a strong
commitment and responsibility of agricul-
tural leaders and workers to help shape
the policies of our Nation not only for our
own benefit and advantage, but for the
benefit of the world.
My first building project—I had for-
gotten about it, but in your recent FFA
magazine, I noticed my old "ag" teacher
said it was a building of a little rough-
hewn model of the White House. [Laugh
ter] I have to admit that at that time I
never thought I'd live here. I was hoping
someday I might look at it through the
cracks in the fence, but I've come further.
But I think, again, that illustrates that
there is no limit on what we can do if we
share experiences with one another and
recognize the opportunities in the greatest
nation on Earth, where background and
a lack of experience is no obstacle to fur-
ther achievement in politics or business or
government or in the management of our
own affairs.
When I came back home from the Navy
in 1953, I continued a commitment that
my father had made. And each year when
the Plains FFA Chapter chooses its Out-
standing Member of the Year, Carter's
Warehouse, which is my business, always
sponsors the trip to the Kansas City Con-
vention for that star FFA student. And I
have to admit that I think because of that,
I was made an honorary lifetime member
of the FFA. But that kept me tied in with
the FFA students at the junior and senior
high school level.
I was able to come to Kansas City and
speak to your convention, and I was ex-
cited and thrilled by the good response of
almost 18,000 FFA delegates from around
the country.
So, you have one of those precious pos-
sessions in your hands—the ancient his-
tory of future farmer organizations and
the bright hope for the future. And I'm
very proud to be part of one of the finest
organizations on Earth, that's never lost
its pride in what has been and its vision of
what can be in the future.
White House. You are leaders among tens
I want to thank you for coming to the
of thousands of other leaders, and that
puts not only a great pleasure and oppor-
tunity in your life but also a heavy respon-
sibility on your shoulders. And it's a very
reassuring thing for a President to be able
to stand here in the Rose Garden, near
the White House where every President
has lived except George Washington—it
was built while he was President-and to
see the intelligence and the idealism mir-
rored in your faces, because I feel that in
the future that our country will be even
greater than it has been in the past.
I thank you for letting me be part of it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Midge
Costanza, Assistant to the President for Public
Liaison.
1304
