Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Many years ago, because of my help
and the help of many others, Georgia
passed a very strong strip mining law. And
I know that many here have worked for
6 years, sometimes much longer, to get a
Federal strip mining law which would be
fair and reasonable, which would en-
hance the legitimate and much needed
production of coal and, also, assuage the
fears that the beautiful areas where coal
is produced were being destroyed.
This has been in many ways a disap-
pointing effort. The Congress has passed
legislation that would meet these needs.
Unfortunately, in the past, the bills have
been vetoed. But I found, as I cam-
paigned around our Nation for 2 years,
that there's an overwhelming, favorable
sentiment among the people of our coun-
try that this legislation be passed.
Because of the complexity of the sub-
ject, you can see the volume that is re-
quired to express the Government posi-
tion in law. And I believe that the good
work of Chairman Jackson, Henry Jack-
son, and Mo Udall, many others behind
me, is a testimony of persistence and en-
lightened leadership.
I think all of you know that Louise
Dunlap has, in the last 6 years, organized
and worked and been persistent in the
face of diversity and disappointment.
I'm not completely satisfied with the
legislation. I would prefer to have a
stricter strip mining bill. I'm concerned
with some of the features that had to be
watered down during this session to get
it passed, but I think that this provides us
a basis on which we can make improve-
ments on the bill in years to come.
I have some deep concerns about the
provision concerning surface rights for
properties in the West. And I will be con-
sulting with Senator Dale Bumpers and
Cecil Andrus and others to see how we
might pursue this question in the future.
But in general, I'm very proud of the
good work that all of you have done, the
fine and very courageous stands that the
Members of the House and Senate have
taken. And it's with a great deal of pleas-
ure that I, as President of our beautiful
country, sign into law the strip mining
act, House Resolution 2, which will pro-
vide for protection of our country in the
future.
And I want to express my thanks to all
those who have done so much work long
before I became President. It's a great
pleasure for me to come in now and to
take at least partial credit for the fine
work that all of you around me have done
for so long.
Perhaps the Senator would like to say
a few words? Mo? Congratulations to
like to say a word?
you. Would you
REPRESENTATIVE UDALL. Well, thank
you, Mr. President.
Someone once said that there's no limit
to what can be done if it doesn't matter
who gets the credit. And this is the work,
as the President has said, of many people.
I see faces here from the coal fields in
Kentucky and West Virginia, who were
fighting a lonely battle in those company
towns, 10 or 15 years ago, before I got
interested, some of the Members of Con-
gress got interested.
I see former Members of Congress,
people like Patsy Mink, who cochaired
the subcommittee, Members of the Sen-
ate and the House, all kinds of good peo-
ple who love this Nation and love its land.
And as I said so many times when I was
fighting with this good man here around
1408
