Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 27
We also are trying to eliminate various
agencies and programs that have been in
the past splintered and divided among
administrators and consolidate them so
that they can be administered better. The
Department of Energy is the most obvious
example.
Another thing that we hope to do is to
have an economy with a reasonable rate
of growth. As we put together the tax
reform package, part of it will obviously
be a substantial tax reduction, which will
give more purchasing power to consum-
ers, let them spend more, hopefully let
employers hire more people, let the econ-
omy grow more, which will bring more
money into the Federal Treasury to bring
about a balanced budget.
So, in all those areas we are contribut-
ing to a balanced budget. Another one
is to be very cautious about the future
cost of new initiatives in programs. In
other words, as you well know, quite often
in the past the Congress has passed a law
perhaps at the request of the President,
with an estimated budget impact and 5
years later have found that the budget
impact is 500 percent more than had
been predicted.
But we're trying to make sure this
doesn't happen in the future. So, through
all those means and others that I don't
have time to go into now-those are the
major ones—but we are struggling every
day to bring about a balanced budget,
without reduction in services, through
more efficiency, more economy, better
organization and a much more careful
husbanding of limited tax revenues and
a stimulated economy with an average
growth maintained at at least a 5-per-
cent level.
We've had good success so far in re-
ducing the unemployment rate. We hope
to wind up this year with maybe 6.3 per-
cent unemployment. It was about 8 per-
cent when I came into office. But we're
still quite concerned about the inflation
rate which is on a worldwide basis, of
growing concern to me and other lead-
ers.
Again, let me thank you for the chance
to meet with you.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:03 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on August 27.
American Embassy Fire
in Moscow
Message to Ambassador Malcolm Toon and
Embassy Staff Members. August 27, 1977
To Ambassador Toon and the American
Embassy Staff:
Your efforts and dedication to duty
during the fire in the American Embassy
in Moscow this week are in the highest
tradition of our foreign service. My com-
pliments to you for persevering under the
most difficult conditions.
Secretary of State Vance's Trip to
the People's Republic of China
Remarks on Secretary Vance's Return.
August 27, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. It's with a great deal of
both pleasure and pride that I welcome
Cy Vance back to our country. He has
had a very important mission to one of
the most important nations on Earth, the
People's Republic of China.
This is a country of central importance
and also influence in the world, and we
attach very high significance to this trip.
1519
