Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
In the Reclamation Act, in grazing and
a number of other of these areas, it is very
important to understand that the West,
however, hasn't necessarily been just an
endless beneficiary. In Colorado, for in-
stance, during the last 70 years, we have
built-70 reclamation projects have been
completed, costing $248 million.
In 1975 alone, in one year alone, those
reclamation projects were related to $331
million worth of crops. So, in one short
year there was gross production from
those crops far exceeding the investment
made from the very beginning and all of
those reclamation projects. Eighty-four
percent of the total Federal investment
is reimbursable to the Federal Treasury
in these reclamation projects, and again
it is not only part of our lifeblood but
it is also something that has been part of
a longstanding Federal-State partnership.
The last point, Mr. President, is how
vulnerable we are to Federal policy. Our
water-there is 94 percent of all of the
lands that you are the landlord of, the
Federal Government-94 percent of all
Federal lands are in the 16 Western
States. So, a mistake in a Federal policy
in some other doesn't have near the rami-
fications in much of the country as it does
here because of how closely we're tied.
Thirty-six percent of our State is owned
by the Federal Government. The water
policy, the Federal policy, grazing pol-
icy-all of these things again go right to
the very heart of Colorado and our econ-
omy. Our social and economic planning is
done on into the future relating to pro-
jections and policies as set down in the
past, and much of them-most of them re-
volve around water.
In summary, Mr. President, again, the
overriding thing is we're honored to have
you here, and we're pleased that you've
come to listen. We've disagreed with some
of your water policies in the past, but we
want to work with you in a partnership,
and we're happy you're here.
THE PRESIDENT. We're going to move
our discussion along as rapidly as possible,
and I'd like to call on any panel members
now who want to discuss the first item
on the agenda, which is the competition
that is evolving already exists between
States for water or between regions for
water.
Mr. el-Ashry.
COLORADO RIVER BASIN
MOHAMED EL-ASHRY. To me, Mr.
President, talking about water in an im-
portant region of the West is talking
about the Colorado River Basin, one ex-
ample of the tremendous competition
that's taking place between the States.
It started in 1922 when the Basin was
divided artificially into an Upper Basin
and a Lower Basin, and using a very high
flow assumption at that time for the
river-it happened to be a wet year at
the time the water of the river was
apportioned among the seven States or
among at least the Upper Basin and the
Lower Basin.
From that point on, water planning in
the Colorado River Basin became focused
upon competition on which State devel-
ops its water first.
As a result, those who were in a posi-
tion to develop southern California in
particular—not only developed on their
apportioned water but developed also
on borrowed water, water that does not
belong to them. And without learning
from past history, central Arizona right
now is developing on borrowed water,
water that does not belong to Arizona.
And in the very near future, both States
will be asked to relinquish the water that
they have used that does not belong to
them. This resulted in the fact that the
Upper Basin States became very nervous
1864
