Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 23, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
September 16, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I want to welcome all of
you to the White House. Some of you
have been here before. I think you've had
a chance to meet with some of our staff
this morning. And I hope that the day
will be fruitful for you.
One of the most important things to me
as President is to have a means by which
I can understand the problems and the
questions that arise throughout the coun-
try—sometimes removed from Washing
ton itself—to get a different perspective
and also, of course, during my news con-
ferences, that have been held and will al-
ways be held, I hope, twice a month, to
receive questions from the Washington
press corps.
The number of issues that confront me
are very voluminous. I'd just like to out-
line a few of them for you in preparation
for your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
This morning I concluded my own
talks with the Prime Minister of France,
and this is a final meeting with him. He'll
now, this afternoon, meet with economic
advisers, the Secretary of State, Secretary
of Defense, Secretary of Energy, and
others so that we, in shaping our own pol-
icies for the future, will know the special
problems of France, and vice versa. These
discussions which I have had with many
foreign leaders have been very helpful to
me.
As you know, I've never served in
Washington before January. I've got a
lot to learn about the processes, and I've
gone out of my way this year to expand
my own circle of knowledge outside just
domestic issues.
Last week, I met with, I think, 19
heads of state of the Latin American
countries. And I think we have a new
relationship with them, brought about
primarily by the prospect of the ratifica-
tion of the Panama Canal Treaty.
We are continuing our negotiations
with the Soviets on the SALT question;
also, on a comprehensive test ban of nu-
clear weapons. And as you know, the So-
viet Union in addition is a cochairman,
along with us, of the Mideast talks that
we hope will take place before the end
of this year.
This coming week, I'll have the first
of a series of foreign ministers who will
come and meet with me from the Middle
Eastern region-Foreign Minister Dayan
from Israel. And during the following
weeks, I'll meet with all the others. These
meetings that come to me directly are pre-
ceded, of course, by long discussions with
the Secretary of State and others.
1615
