Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in an interview-when I asked you, per-
haps embarrassingly, what your weakness
was, you said perhaps a difficulty to com-
promise. It had been difficult with the
Georgia Legislature, and it might be a
difficulty with the Congress. Has this year
in Washington been an education in com-
promise?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, yes. I'm not
sure if I had an adequate education yet,
because I still find it difficult to compro-
inise. But I'm learning. One way that I
have learned since I've been here to avoid
having to compromise so much is by in-
volving the congressional leaders in the
decision in the initial stages. When we
evolved the reorganization bill and when
we put together the Energy Department,
when we evolved the social security bill
and other measures that were controver-
sial, we consulted very closely with con-
gressional leaders ahead of time. So I'm
trying to avoid having to yield to my
weakness, which is a difficulty in compro-
mising. I'm learning every day, I think.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, maybe
we can all come back next year at this
same time.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope so.
MR. BROKAW. On behalf of all my col-
leagues, thank you very much for having
us here this evening, however.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Tom. I've
enjoyed it very much.
MR. BROKAW. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: The interview began at 8 p.m. in the
Red Room at the White House. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
The President's Overseas Trip
Remarks on Departure From the White House.
December 29, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body.
I depart today on a journey that re-
flects both the diversity of the world we
live in and also our own Nation's abil-
ity and desire to deal creatively and con-
structively with that diversity.
It's a rapidly changing world, a world
in which the old ideological labels have
less meaning than ever, in which the uni-
versal desire for freedom and for a better
life is being expressed more strongly and
in more ways than ever before, a world in
which political awakening, economic in-
dependence, and technological progress
have created new demands on the for-
eign policy of our people.
The variety of places that we will visit
over the next 9 days is symbolic of the
breadth and the variety of American in-
terest in this new world.
In France and in Western Europe, we
will reaffirm the historic bonds and our
common values, and we will explore ways
to meet the common problems of the in-
dustrial democracies.
In Poland, the ancestral home of mil-
lions of Americans, we will nourish the
improving relationships between the
United States and the peoples of Eastern
Europe.
In Iran and in Saudi Arabia, we will
discuss key economic relationships and
press for a continuation of the dramatic
progress that is being made in bringing
peace to the Middle East.
In India, which is the largest democ-
racy on Earth, we will seek new paths of
cooperation and communication be-
tween the developing nations of the world
and the industrial north.
And in all these places, we will be re-
affirming our dedication to peace and our
support of justice and of human rights.
It is a changing world, a different
world, and I believe that it's also a differ-
ent America whose message we will carry,
an America more confident and more
united, at peace with other nations and
2202
