Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 27
as revealed by Pat Caddell's poll and
others. The economy has some very good
attributes in it that ought to be recognized
more vividly. The inflation rate is coming
down fairly rapidly. We have an underly-
ing inflation rate, though, of about 6 per-
cent.
The unemployment rate is coming
down slowly but, I think, surely. The bal-
ance of trade is better than it was. We
have a high rate of business investments.
I think we have a lot to be proud of in
this country. I don't believe there's any
other nation that has a stronger under-
lying economic base and more to be
thankful for than our Nation does. But
most of what I hear as President, in dele-
gations that come to see me and large
group meetings that I have, is complain-
ing and expressions of despair, quite often
in hopes that as the Government makes
decisions, that the squeaking wheel will
get more grease and that they'll get more
benefits from Federal Government
policies.
But I think the general sense of the
polls that we discussed at that luncheon
meeting was that there's an inherent op-
timism in our country, there's a concern
about the multiplicity of programs that
we are addressing at this point, and the
fact that the American people can't un-
derstand all that many proposals at one
time.
And one of the things we discussed is
what I said earlier, that I would think that
after this year, as far as I can see in my
own plans, most of those modern prob-
lems would be addressed. But it was a
friendly meeting and there was nothing to
be concerned about.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Mr. President, at a press conference
earlier this year, you mentioned the Pal-
estinians have a right to a homeland and
to compensation for losses they have suf-
fered. From your perspective, do the Pal-
estinians have any other legitimate rights?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Palestinians
have rights, as I described in my United
Nations speech, as do all human beings.
The Palestinians are one major group of
refugees that have been created in the
Mideast. Obviously, there are Jewish
refugees also. But I think all human beings
have the same basic yearning for freedom,
for human self-respect, for a home in
which they can live, for a right to raise a
family, to have education, health care,
food. So, I would say in that respect they
have the same rights as others do.
Q. Mr. President, could I raise an-
other policy issue for a second?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me get Ms. Comp-
ton [Ann Compton, ABC News]. I prom-
ised her.
SOUTH AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, is there any grounds
for critcism of your approach to the
South African problem that you are med-
dling in internal affairs? Do you worry
about getting to a point, responding to
what's going on internally in South Africa,
the United States is trying to dictate its
internal policies?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't believe-
there are certainly grounds for criticism,
but I don't think that this is a legitimate
criticism of us. We have not tried to tell
South Africa what to do about their in-
ternal affairs. We've never laid out any
specific action they should take nor any
time schedule that they should follow.
We have worked harmoniously with
South Africa in some ways in trying to
evolve a solution to the Namibian ques-
tion, formerly Southwest Africa, over
which South Africa still has control, and
to try to get them to work with the
Rhodesian Government in changing
1915
