Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 23
versation with him, have never tried to
influence him, and wouldn't.
I think it's also been announced that
the Senate committees, maybe two com-
mittees, will look further into the allega-
tions against Mr. Lance. I think in the
fairly voluminous report that the Comp-
troller filed, which I did read, that all of
the allegations against him were listed,
the investigative procedures were out-
lined, the findings were described and the
facts revealed.
There be some facts that have not
may
yet been determined. But I think that it's
part of our governmental process not to
discourage, but to encourage the most de-
tailed analysis and investigation when an
allegation is made against a public official.
But I also think it's part of our process
that if allegations are unfounded or if
there is no illegal or unethical conduct
revealed, that the accused public official
should be exonerated. And this is the way
I assess, after great study, the Bert Lance
case. I have no objection to Senator Prox-
mire continuing with an investigation.
And I think this is very good. I'd have no
objection to Senator Ribicoff continuing
with the investigation. But I think that
that's part of our political process that
ought to be encouraged.
Q. You don't see it, then, Mr. Presi-
dent, to be appropriate, as President, to
keep an open mind until all these probes
are completed?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how
long the probes will be continued. So far
as I know, the allegations with which I
am familiar have been investigated and
have been answered. And if any new
information should be derived against
Bert Lance or against the Secretary of
State or the Secretary of the Treasury or
anyone else in my administration, I would
certainly have to assess new information
as it
arose.
But my judgment is that the investi-
gation has been very complete. There's
been a Comptroller's investigation in
Atlanta. There's been, I think, two De-
partment of Justice investigations, I think
two Senate investigations, and now the
U.S. Comptroller investigation. And as I
say again, to repeat myself, there has been
no evidence of either illegalities or un-
ethical conduct and no conduct that was
contrary to the normal practices that exist
in the banking circles in our country.
Q. Mr. President, could I follow up?
If the Comptroller's report had been
made on, say, Mike Blumenthal or some
assistant secretary in your administration,
would you have found it acceptable for
that person as you did for Lance?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
Q. Mr. President, without belaboring
this, during the transition, you and many
of your top spokesmen said you wanted
to avoid not only conflicts of interest in
your top appointments but also the ap-
pearance of conflicts.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Mr. Lance has many loans out. And
although they're held in a private trust,
it is theoretically possible that someone
who holds such a loan could come to him
and ask a favor and without mentioning
the loan, just ask the favor. Does that to
you represent avoidance of the appear-
ance of conflict? Isn't there the appear-
ance of conflict here?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know any
alternative to that. As you know, Secre-
tary Blumenthal was an official, for in-
stance, in the Bendix Corporation. And
he has put his holdings in a blind trust
and instructed them over a period of time
to dispose of those holdings or either to
retain some of them.
I think that our Assistant Secretary of
Defense has similar holdings in Coca-
Cola Company. I have holdings in Carters
1491
