Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 10
Economic growth is good. Under Bren-
dan Byrne's leadership, the Economic
Development Authority has resulted in
24,000 new jobs; the sports complex it-
self, 900 permanent new jobs, plus
thousands of jobs in its construction
period.
Atlantic City will realize a permanent
benefit of 3,900 new jobs permanently,
plus all those that go into the revitaliza-
tion of that city. This in itself is good. But
at the same time, he has had the good
judgment to also be one of the Nation's
gubernatorial leaders on the protection
of the quality of your lives. This is im-
portant for you, and it's important to me
as President.
He's initiated an idea-which has been
accepted by the Congress-called the
Byrne amendment, giving Governors an
input in the decisions made by the En-
vironmental Protection Agency on water
pollution, air pollution, and the protec-
tion of your beautiful beaches. This is an
innovative idea which has caught on now
around the world, around our Nation.
And at the same time, we are eager to see
exploration for new energy sources off the
Atlantic freeboard to keep New Jersey's
oil refineries operating at top capacity.
Brendan Byrne has also had the sensitiv-
ity not to endanger the beauty of New
Jersey's recreation areas on the coast.
Well, these kinds of achievements quite
often are overlooked in a State like New
Jersey where there is no major television
station to serve your State and where the
communications coming into your State,
even from the newspaper medium, is
mainly derived from Philadelphia and
New York. So, quite often, these achieve-
ments are not apparent to people who
watch this quiet and modest man in his
good work.
I noticed that during the time of the
New York City crisis a year or so ago,
a little more than that, when it was almost
impossible for New York City to sell its
bonds and when the sports complex bonds
were put up for sale, there was surprise
in New Jersey because of a low interest
rate and the ease of sale of your bonds.
But it's because of the financial commu-
nity's confidence in Brendan Byrne and
the New Jersey government under his
leadership that saved the taxpayers of this
State tremendous quantities of money and
gave you an opportunity for growth and
improvement.
I'm opposed to runaway spending in
government. And as Brendan mentioned
in his introduction to me, this has been
another notable achievement. Sometimes
Democrats who are concerned about peo-
ple, as Brendan Byrne is, are accused of
wastefulness and of unnecessary govern-
ment growth. Under his Republican
predecessors, the annual increase in State
expenditures went up twice as fast as it
has under Brendan Byrne's leadership.
Well, obviously I could go on and on
describing to you my reasons for pride in
this good man. But I want to close by
saying this: He's a man whose achieve-
ments are notable. He's a man whose past
record is one that is a legitimate source of
pride. He's a man who earns a continued
and complete commitment of those inti-
mate friends who know him best. He is a
man who can't be bought. But the main
thing I like about Brendan Byrne as the
next Governor of New Jersey is that he
loves his State. He loves his people.
There's no way to shake his confidence in
you.
And I know that he realizes that only if
you honor that confidence and give him
your complete support as he struggles
courageously to overcome political odds,
which he has done many times in the
past-I don't believe he has ever lost an
election so far, and I can't say that about
1573
