Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to the Congress that we are working to-
ward ultimate deregulation. I just don't
want to do it too fast.
SOCIAL SECURITY
Q. Mr. President, this is Bob Bailey.
My next question is, what is your plan to
salvage the social security system? Do you
agree with pending legislation that would
drastically increase amounts that em-
ployees pay in social security taxes and
end the equality of tax between employer
and employee? Is this not inflationary, and
what effect will it have on employment?
THE PRESIDENT. Our position on the
social security package has been already
promulgated with a message from me to
Congress early this year and also by leg-
islation that we drafted and presented.
The House action is fairly compatible
with what we proposed. The fact is that
one of the major social security funds will
be completely bankrupt in about 2 years
if we don't take action, and another one
of the three major funds will be running
out of money within about 5 years.
What we are trying to do is to put the
social security funds, all three of them,
on a sound financial basis, permanently,
and to make sure that we have a mini-
mum adverse impact on the economy and
on the working people of our country.
I think that this is, to some degree,
inflationary. But I believe that the major
impact might be a dampening effect on
our economy. I have announced yester-
day that we're going to hold off our tax
reform proposals until we can see what
Congress does on social security. And I
would guess that a major factor would
be that if the social security tax increase
is substantial after the Congress gets
through, we'll try to compensate for this
in the tax reform package. But there's no
alternative that we have. We've got to
increase the contributions to the social
security system so it won't go broke.
And this one decision which the Con-
gress is making-I hope this year; the
House has already passed it—will put the
social security system on a sound basis
permanently, certainly throughout the
rest of this century. And we'll try to com-
pensate for the inflationary impact or the
tax increase on working people by other
means to make sure that the economy is
not severely damaged by this action.
IRRIGATION OF LAND
Q. Mr. President, this is Jim Gill from
California. My next question is, why has
your Secretary of the Interior, Mr. An-
drus, resurrected a bit of legislation
enacted in 1902 that irrigation waters
should no longer be available to any
rancher who is farming more than 160
acres? The reenactment of this ruling is
most archaic today.
Farming methods are geared to produc-
tion of food on a large scale, which is the
backbone of our Nation. It is not eco-
nomically feasible to continue farming
parcels of 160 acres. Are you going to
stand by and permit our most needed
industry the feeding of millions of peo-
ple to be scuttled by a misinformed
member of your Cabinet? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Gill, I appreciate
your very fair and objective analysis of
the question. [Laughter]
Let me respond briefly, because this
is a matter that is very widely misin-
terpreted in some parts of California. I've
been down to Brawley and in the Imperial
Valley area as a candidate and have been
thoroughly familiar at that time, even,
with the circumstances. This was more
than a year ago.
The action that's being taken even by
the Interior Department was not initiated
by us, including, of course, the Secretary
of Interior. This action is a result of very
long, very controversial judicial decisions
1926
