Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tional Endowment for the Arts, the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities,
and the National Science Foundation.
This is an important source of Federal
funds that is outside of the CPB appro-
priation. It accounts for one-fourth of the
national public TV schedule, as well as
many local and State productions. And it
is not covered by CPB's insulation from
political pressure.
I urge Congress to consider promptly,
and to pass, the legislation I am submit-
ting containing the proposals described
in this message. This will provide a firm
foundation for planning the next decade
of public communications in this country.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 6, 1977.
This funding should be coordinated
with the work of CPB, PBS, and NPR to Indochina Refugees
assure that it is used efficiently for pro-
grams that get on the air. I
on the air. I propose that
CPB inventory all such grants in its an-
nual report to Congress and that it act
as a consultant to the agencies and a
clearinghouse for grant information. In
addition, we are drafting administrative
rules for the agencies to assure there is
no improper manipulation of program
Letter to Six Senate and House Committee
Chairmen. October 4, 1977
content.
Public Station Frequency Allocations and
Reception
Most public television stations are on
UHF channels, and most public radio
stations are on the FM band. I urge the
Federal Communications Commission to
seriously consider pending proposals that
would bring public television and radio
closer to parity with commercial stations.
These include proposals for better stand-
ards for TV set reception of UHF chan-
nels and better allocation of FM channels
for public radio. I am hopeful that the
new leadership at the FCC will give UHF
and FM improvements priority attention.
Better spectrum management and re-
ception standards may do more to make
public broadcasting more widely available
than substantial Federal grants for trans-
mitters and increased power. The costs
and benefits of each approach should be
carefully weighed.
Dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with the provisions of
the Indochina Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act of 1975, I am reporting
to you on the status of refugees from
Cambodia, Laos, and South Vietnam.
Though we continue to make progress
in helping the Indochina refugees to be-
come self-sufficient members of their
communities, problems remain. I there-
fore have asked the Congress to extend
the Indochina Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act for three years with a
gradual phasedown in program assist-
ance. I am also concerned over the plight
of Indochinese stranded on the shores of
the South China Sea and in temporary
Thai refugee camps. Therefore, at my
request, the Attorney General has an-
nounced that he is using his parole au-
thority to admit an additional 15,000
refugees into the U.S. I have also directed
that an interagency task force be estab-
lished to develop a longer term solution
to the Indochina refugee problem.
As my report to you shows, a large por-
tion of the Indochina refugees are inde-
pendent and productive members of their
communities. With the continued assist-
1744
