Nov. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ernment of the Republic of Korea on Oc-
tober 31 transmitted to the United States
Government an important new proposal
relating to interrogation of Mr. Tongsun
Park. Active discussions between our two
governments are underway in connection
with this proposal for cooperation. It is
therefore inappropriate and premature to
characterize in detail our negotiations at
this point. The United States position,
however, continues to be guided by the
necessity to be able successfully to prose-
cute illegal acts in the United States in
court trials.
In accordance with Public Law 95-92,
a further report will be transmitted to the
Congress on this matter on or before
January 31, 1978.
NOTE: The report to the Congress was en-
closed with identical letters addressed to the
Honorable Walter F. Mondale, President of
the Senate, the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
projects; however, funds for most of these
programs, except the Clinch River
Breeder Reactor Demonstration Plant,
already have been appropriated and
made available to the Department.
I cannot approve this legislation
because:
It mandates funding for the Clinch
River Breeder Reactor Demonstration
Plant, that will result in a large and un-
necessarily expensive project which, when
completed, would be technically obsolete
and economically unsound. This decision.
would channel scarce and much needed
effort away from a broad-based breeder
reactor development program into a pro-
duction model which will not be required
or economical for many years.
It seriously inhibits the President
from pursuing effectively an international
policy to prevent the proliferation of nu-
clear weapons and nuclear explosive
the Honorable Robert C. Byrd, majority leader capability.
of the Senate, the Honorable John Sparkman,
chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign
Relations, and the Honorable Clement J.
Zablocki, chairman of the House Committee on
International Relations.
The texts of the letters and the report to the
Congress were released on November 5.
Veto of Department of Energy
Authorization Bill
Message to the Senate Returning S. 1811
Without Approval. November 5, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning, without my approval,
S. 1811, the Department of Energy Au-
thorization Act of 1978-Civilian Appli-
cations.
This bill authorizes fiscal year 1978 ap-
propriations for the Department of En-
ergy's nuclear and non-nuclear energy re-
search, development, and demonstration
It puts burdensome limitations on
the President and the new Department of
Energy in exercising necessary judgment
to provide an effective energy research
and development program.
• It puts unwise limitations on our
ability to implement the new spent fuels
policy which I recently announced, to aid
our non-proliferation goals.
It limits the constitutional authority
of the President through three one-House
veto provisions. One of these provisions
could also limit the Administration's abil-
ity to recover a fair price for the uranium
enrichment service provided by the Fed-
eral government.
S. 1811 severely limits the flexibility of
the Executive Branch in expending funds
appropriated for the Clinch River project
pursuant to this authorization. This is in-
consistent with my strong belief that pro-
ceeding beyond completion of the systems
design phase of the Clinch River facility
1972
