Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
those with children can more easily obtain holding civilian jobs has increased to 57.8
Federal employment.
5. Presidential Interns-created a
Presidential Management Intern Program
to bring 250 public administration stu-
dents annually to Washington for one year
of service in the Federal Government.
6. Protection-directed that Federal
employees not lose their Federal employ-
ment solely because of reorganization.
Consumer Protection
1. Consumer Agency-proposed the
creation of a consumer protection office
to represent consumer interests through-
out the Federal Government; passed
House committee.
2. Fair Debt Collection Practices-sup-
ported and signed into law the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, which will pro-
hibit abusive and unfair techniques of
debt collection.
3. Citizen Participation-supported
legislation to reimburse citizens for par-
ticipation in court and agency proceed-
ings, to expand class action authority, and
to expand citizens' standing to sue the
Government.
4. Appointments-appointed consumer
advocates to major regulatory positions.
5. Passive Restraints-required auto-
mobile occupant crash protection through
passive restraints, which will save 9,000
lives and prevent tens of thousands of in-
juries each year.
Economy
1. Unemployment. Unemployment de-
creased from 8 percent last November to
6.9 percent this November.
2. Employment. Employment has in-
creased during the past 12 months by al-
most 4 million-from 88 million to 92
million. This is the largest number of peo-
ple with jobs in the Nation's history. In
addition, the proportion of the population
percent, a record high.
3. Inflation. The rise in the Consumer
Price Index declined from an annual rate
of approximately 9 percent early this year
to an annual rate of 4 percent in October.
4. Duration of Unemployment. The
average duration of unemployment has
decreased during the past 12 months from
15.5 weeks to 13.8 weeks. The number of
persons out of work for 15 weeks or longer
has decreased during this period by 25
percent.
5. After-Tax Income. After-tax income
per person, adjusted for inflation, has in-
creased 4 percent during the past 12
months.
6. Salaries. Gross average weekly salary
has increased since January from $179 to
$195.
7. Housing Starts. Housing starts have
increased 27 percent during the past 12
months; residential building permits have
increased 25 percent during the same pe-
riod. Housing starts are at a yearly rate
of over 2 million units.
8. Industrial Production. Industrial
production has increased 7 percent dur-
ing the past 12 months. Since late 1976,
the use of industrial capacity has in-
creased about 3 percent.
9. Economic Profits. Economic profits
of corporations (before taxes) have in-
creased 11 percent during the past year.
10. Corporate Dividends. Corporate
dividend payments have risen 18 percent
during the past 12 months.
11. Business Capital Outlays (adjusted
for inflation). Business capital outlays are
7 percent more than they were this time
last year.
12. Consumer Savings. Consumer sav-
ings in the form of time and savings de-
posits have increased 14 percent during
the past 12 months.
2141
