Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 19
influence spreads far beyond its own na-
tional borders.
Belgium has been one of our strongest
democratic allies, and the reputation that
Prime Minister Tindemans has, has not
only been exemplified in an enormous
electoral victory recently in his own coun-
try, which shows the faith of his own
people in him, but the fact that he has
been chosen the President of the Council
of the European Community.
We are very interested in a stronger and
an even more united European Commu-
nity. And the leaders and people of our
own country have observed with great
admiration and appreciation the unique
role that Prime Minister Tindemans has
played in spelling out the future evolution
of this strong and united Europe.
We see the European Community as
being an integral part of our own Nation's
future well-being. And, of course, NATO
is also a crucial matter for our own
Nation's security.
We have problems that we share as well
as friendship and achievements. We're
concerned about economics. We're con-
cerned about security. We're concerned
about employment among our young peo-
ple. We're concerned about energy. We're
concerned about friendship that must
exist between ourselves and the Soviet
Union, between the democratic nations
and the nations of Eastern Europe and
further east. We're concerned about the
prevention of proliferation of atomic ex-
plosives. And we are concerned about a
curtailment in the sale of the weapons
of war.
Prime Minister Tindemans and I will
be discussing these and other matters later
on today. But I especially want to empha-
size again how much we value his friend-
ship, his leadership, his counsel and
advice, and how proud I am on behalf of
215 million Americans to welcome the
leader of the great people of Belgium.
Welcome, Mr. Prime Minister, to our
country.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
first of all, I wish to thank you for the
kind words which you have just expressed
for my country and for myself, as well as
for the warm welcome which has been
given us in the United States. Based on
a common heritage and common ideals,
our two countries have developed a very
strong and close relationship.
In the multilateral field, I would just
mention our common membership in
many multilateral and international or-
ganizations as NATO, OECD, the United
Nations, and all the organizations of the
U.N. family.
In each of these we work closely to-
gether, and Belgium has always attached
the greatest importance to the invaluable
contribution that the United States has
made to help these international organi-
zations and specialized agencies to achieve
their goals.
On the bilateral front, Mr. President,
our friendship has been enshrined in blood
on the battlefield and, in time of peace, in
a community of ideals in defense of peace,
justice, democracy, and the dignity of the
human being.
Last year, the United States celebrated
their 200th anniversary of its birth as a
nation. No doubt, the path has been diffi-
cult. Perhaps there have been setbacks,
difficulties, and controversies. But never-
theless, the United States has, during
those 200 years, never wavered from its
main purpose of creating a society where
men and women stand free. For this mag-
nificent achievement, I must express my
admiration to the United States of
America.
We Belgians are an ancient people, but
not such an old state. Indeed, we are now
eagerly looking forward to celebrating, in
1980, the 150th anniversary of our inde-
1815
