Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
with which to help meet reasonable and
legitimate defense needs of our friends
and allies. Such help contributes to our
own security.
When I requested these authorizations
from Congress in March, I emphasized
my commitment to reducing conventional
arms transfers throughout the world and
to imposing greater discipline on our own
arms transfers. Recently I announced a
policy of restraint which is a major step
toward my goal. And the military pro-
grams authorized by H.R. 6884 will help
us make further progress by fostering the
climate of security so important to lasting
reductions in the world's arms trade.
I am pleased to note that some two-
thirds of the funds authorized by the bill,
as I had requested, will be for non-
military programs. These will help bring
economic and political stability to trou-
bled regions of the world. The security
supporting assistance programs in the bill
differ somewhat from those which I pro-
posed to Congress, but I believe that H.R.
6884 will nevertheless permit us to carry
out an effective overall program in fiscal
year 1978. I welcome, in particular, this
bill's recognition of the special impor-
tance of security supporting assistance in
the Middle East and in southern Africa.
However, I must note my serious con-
cern over sections 16 and 20 of the bill.
These provisions amend the Arms Export
Control Act in such a way as to let
Congress prevent Presidential action au-
thorized under law simply by adopting a
concurrent resolution of disapproval.
Such provisions raise major constitutional
questions, since Article I, section 7 of the
Constitution requires that congressional
action having the force and effect of law
be presented to the President for ap-
proval. These provisions also have the
potential of involving Congress in the
execution of the laws, a responsibility
reserved for the President under the
Constitution. I am approving H.R. 6884
because of its importance to our foreign
relations and national security, but
I must express my deep reservations
about these two provisions and my in-
tention to preserve the constitutional au-
thority of the President.
I intend to carry out the programs
authorized by H.R. 6884-the first secu-
rity assistance legislation of my adminis-
tration-in such a way as to improve
prospects for international peace and
security.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6884 is Public Law
95-92, approved August 4.
United States Naval Academy
Board of Visitors
Letter to the Chairman of the Board on
Receiving the Board's Annual Report
for 1976. August 5, 1977
To General Victor Krulak
I have just received from the Secretary
of Defense the November 1976 Report
of the Naval Academy Board of Visitors
and wish to extend to you, as the elected
Chairman of the Board, my sincere ap-
preciation for the leadership so capably
demonstrated in the preparation of this
excellent report.
The comments and recommendations
emphasize the Board's commitment to a
Naval Academy whose growth will be
equal to the challenge of the future. You
have made a significant contribution to
that vital undertaking and the security
it provides our country.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Lt. General Victor H. Krulak, USMC (Ret.),
President, Copley News Service, 350 Camino
De La Reina, San Diego, California 92108]
1432
