Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 15
to say that both nations are benefited by
a relationship that is intimate, close, per-
manent, and valuable.
I'd like to express on behalf of the
American people my thanks for these men
who have come to visit us. And on behalf
of our people, I'd like to offer a toast to
Prime Minister Barre and to his distin-
guished colleagues, to the people of
France, and to the spirit which has al-
ways made France such a great nation.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
gentlemen, once again, here tonight, the
United States and France are at a rendez-
vous of friendship, a friendship which
over 200 years has never been denied.
As you have recalled yourself this
morning, in warm terms which touched
me deeply, our two countries have always
stood side by side to fight for liberty and
justice. It is true that France may some-
times appear to be a difficult ally and has
sometimes appeared to be so. But how
could it be otherwise when one has re-
spect of oneself and respect of others?
France, who has existed for over 1,000
years and has withstood the vicissitudes of
history, knows that strong friendship re-
quires total vigilance. I have therefore
appreciated, first of all, the frank, simple,
and serious tone of the meetings that you
have been kind enough to invite me to
have with you. These meetings will have
These meetings will have
demonstrated to you, Mr. President, that
where the great issues of the world of
today are concerned, our preoccupations
and our aspirations are fundamentally the
same.
The United States is striving with pa-
tience, tenacity, and faith to contribute the
best it has to contribute to peace and
prosperity in the world. France is doing
the same.
France believes, first of all, as she looks
at the world as it has been shaped over the
last 30 years, that a new economic order
must be gradually defined, taking into ac-
count the legitimate aspirations of all
nations. Whatever the framework within
which this will, therefore, take place in
the future, the constructive dialog between
industrialized and developing nations is an
obvious need. Those who would attempt
to jeopardize it and who would substitute
confrontation would assume a tragic re-
sponsibility in the face of history. It is also
extremely important that the freedom of
exchange of any and all kinds be preserved
among nations.
Allow me to say to you, Mr. President,
once again, that in a field which assumes
particular significance in our bilateral re-
lations, the field of aeronautical relations,
we expect, confidently, the decisions of the
United States Government and of United
States justice. We are convinced that they
could in no way contradict the traditions
that your country declares itself to be so
profoundly attached to.
France believes, in the second place,
that in the East-West relations a policy of
détente, understanding, and cooperation
is necessary now more than ever. France
knows from her own long experience that
vigilant trust is far preferable to distrust,
to a refusal to enter into a dialog, and to
incomprehension. The American people,
motivated by a blend of tolerance and con-
viction, which gives it its moral strength,
and of which you, Mr. President, are the
exemplification, cannot fail to be so
persuaded.
France is also aware, as is the United
States, of the dangers posed by nuclear
proliferation. France fully assumes her re-
sponsibilities as a nuclear power. The
measures France has taken in this con-
nection attest to it. We are convinced that
one can, one must, indeed, reconcile the
means to stem proliferation of nuclear
armaments with the indispensable devel-
opment of nuclear energy production, for
tomorrow all shall need that energy.
1605
