Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 30
We have signed now with the Soviets-
I mean with the Cubans-a fishers agree-
ment and a maritime agreement. And we
are continuing in practical application the
antihijacking agreement which has not
been renewed.
We have also opened up the possibility,
which will be realized very quickly, of
diplomatic officials to be stationed in
Washington and in Havana in the em-
bassies of other nations. I don't see any
possibility soon of normalizing relation-
ships with Cuba. Castro's position has
been that a prerequisite to this must be the
removal of the trade embargo before ne-
gotiations can even commence.
As I've said on numerous occasions, my
concerns about Cuba are that they still
have large numbers of political prisoners
incarcerated that ought to be released.
They have large numbers of troops in An-
gola and other places in Africa which
ought to be returned. And they still main-
tain an attitude of unwarranted intrusion
into the internal affairs of some of the
other nations or places in the Western
Hemisphere.
So, I think all those factors tie together.
But I assume from the tone of your ques-
tion you were talking about a military
overthrow of the Castro government.
That is not part of our national purpose.
DEREGULATION OF NATURAL GAS AND OIL
Q. Mr. President, Governor Briscoe of
Texas is circulating just today a docu-
ment several hundred pages long which
is called "The Texas Response to the
National Energy Plan," and this bears
heavily on what he sees as your failure to
deregulate the price of natural gas as he
says you promised in your preelection
campaign. And this is perhaps the
strongest way that the Governor has
come out and said this, and I just won-
der what is the Governor correct when
he says that you went back on your
promise?
THE PRESIDENT. No, he's not.
Dolph Briscoe is my friend, and I don't
want to get into a personal interrelation-
ship with him except on a basis of mutual
understanding and friendship.
I think it's accurate to say that Con-
gressman Krueger and several other
Members of the Congress have ade-
quately put forward the so-called Texas
plan for energy development which, in
my opinion, is primarily based on a com-
plete deregulation of the price of oil and
natural gas, which I think at this time
would be inappropriate and a devastat-
ing load to the well-being of the con-
sumers of this Nation. I also think it's
unwarranted.
The degree of deregulation which we
have advocated, a substantial improve-
ment over what it is now, would result in
the natural gas field alone in a $15-billion
increase in the income of the natural gas
companies between now and 1985.
There have been assessments made by
the Library of Congress and by the GAO
and other groups who advise Members of
Congress, that the so-called Krueger
Plan-I haven't seen the Briscoe Plan; I
would guess they are similar and perhaps
have a similar origin-would cost the
consumers of our country maybe $70 bil-
lion more than what we advocate.
But I think that this is a crucial ques-
tion in the overall energy concept-
whether or not we should have extremely
high prices to be established by the oil
and natural gas companies without con-
straint and accept their proposition that
exploration would build by leaps and
bounds, that we would have unlimited
supplies of oil and natural gas as a re-
sult, and that this is the best approach,
or our own proposition on the other hand.
I don't think that a crash program to
1389
