Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
crossing of our borders is most likely.
Also, we will target our efforts against
smuggling rings which now provide entry
of undocumented aliens into our country.
Secondly, the employment opportuni-
ties would be limited by prohibiting em-
ployers, with strong civil penalties, from
hiring undocumented aliens. The Justice
Department would be responsible for the
enforcement of the laws against these
employers who habitually hire undocu-
mented aliens, and if they violated court
orders, of course, they would also be sub-
ject to criminal penalties.
In the process, we must be fair to the
Latin American, Chinese-American, and
other citizens who are here legally, so that
an employer might not discriminate
against them simply because of their ra-
cial origin.
We want to get as many of the millions
of undocumented aliens as possible regis-
tered. And the inducement for this and a
step that would give us tangible benefits
would be to give them status which they
do not presently enjoy-legal status.
Those who have been in this country
since before 1970 would be eligible for
permanent resident status and might
start their 5-year process ultimately to
become United States citizens. Those who
entered between 1970 and 1977 would be
eligible for temporary status, permitting
them to remain here and to work, but on
a temporary basis only. Those entering
since the beginning of 1977 would be
subject to immediate deportation.
The last point-to increase employ-
ment opportunities in the home countries
from which the undocumented aliens
come. We will work with the Govern-
ment of Mexico—already are—and with
other nations involved, to develop eco-
nomic and technical assistance programs
so it might be more attractive for undocu-
mented workers who are here to go back
to their home countries and others to re-
frain from coming here illegally.
I hope that the Congress will move
quickly on these proposals so that the
actions can take effect very soon. We've
worked very closely with the congres-
sional leaders, and in the House, Con-
gressman Rodino and Congressman Eil-
berg will sponsor this legislation. In the
Senate, Senator Jim Eastland from Mis-
sissippi and Senator Ted Kennedy will
sponsor the legislation. They have already
told me that they will do it enthusiastic-
ally, and prompt hearings will begin on
this subject.
I'd like to turn the rostrum over now
to the other Government officials who
will answer your questions about this
matter.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:20 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following his remarks, At-
torney General Griffin B. Bell, Secretary of
Labor Ray Marshall, and Leonel Castillo,
Commissioner of the Immigration and Nat-
uralization Service, held a news conference for
reporters on the President's message.
Undocumented Aliens
Message to the Congress. August 4, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am proposing to Congress today a
set of actions to help markedly reduce
the increasing flow of undocumented
aliens in this country and to regulate the
presence of the millions of undocumented
aliens already here.
These proposed actions are based on
the results of a thorough Cabinet-level
study and on the groundwork which has
been laid, since the beginning of the
decade, by Congressmen Rodino and Eil-
berg and Senators Eastland and Kennedy.
These actions will:
1416
