Nov. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
perhaps, almost all the people around the
world.
Thank you from the bottom of my
heart.
the East Room at the White House.
But in the process, I had to talk to the
Shah about oil prices. And perhaps the
motion pictures last night, through Lew
Wasserman's influence, helped to hold
down the price of oil next year, because I
talked to the Shah about that. [Laughter] NOTE: The President spoke at 6:10 p.m. in
We are proud to meet all the famous
people. I had a chance to put my arms
around Olivia De Havilland and Lillian
Gish and many others whom I've loved
from a distance. And the great actors who
are here tonight also have been an in-
spiration to many of us.
I went to a lot of movies when I was
young, whenever I could. In the South,
we date life either before "Gone With
the Wind" and after "Gone With the
Wind," as you know. [Laughter]
When "Gone With the Wind" first
came out, every school in Georgia was
closed, and all the students were hauled
to the theaters on the schoolbuses. And
it made a great impact on our lives. I
think, perhaps, we saw a different ver-
sion from what was seen in the rest of
the country. [Laughter] One of my favor-
ite scenes was the burning of Schenectady,
New York [laughter]—just before Grant
surrendered to Robert E. Lee. It was a
great movie. It's not quite as good now
as it was then.
But I think all of us realize, because I
can tell from the expressions on your
face, that the motion pictures have had a
tremendous beneficial effect on our coun-
try. And on behalf of about 220 million
Americans, tonight I would like to ex-
press my deep thanks to those who have
written and produced and directed and
performed and written music for this
wonderful art form which is unique in
being a true people's art form.
I can't express adequately what it has
meant to me personally and to our Na-
tion, and I'm truly grateful to those of
you who have made these wonderful films
brighten the lives of all Americans and,
Visit of President Anwar al-Sadat
to Israel
Statement Following the Arrival of the
Egyptian President in Tel Aviv for Talks With
Prime Minister Menahem Begin.
November 19, 1977
The arrival of President Sadat in
Israel is an historic occasion. The hopes
and prayers of all Americans are with
these two men as they seek progress to-
ward peace for the people of the Middle
East and, indeed, for the entire world.
NOTE: The statement was made available by
the White House Press Office. It was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
Visit of President Anwar al-Sadat
to Israel
Informal Exchange With Reporters on
Departure From the First Baptist
Church. November 20, 1977
REPORTER. Could you tell us how your
prayer for peace in the Middle East
went? What was your prayer, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. My prayer was one
that recognized this whole world wants
peace; that Christ, our Savior, is the
Prince of Peace; that the Middle East
has been particularly afflicted by war,
which no one there wanted, constantly-
almost day by day-conflict, and four
2042
