Sept. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
with Foreign Minister Dayan later on this
month, and this will be one of the items
on the agenda. Our country has taken a
consistent stand for many years that the
establishment of settlements in the occu-
pied territories on the West Bank and
otherwise by Israelis is illegal, and obvi-
ously, this creates a problem and we in-
tend to pursue it.
Q. But despite our stand, in fact it
seems to some in defiance of it, they per-
sist in doing so.
THE PRESIDENT. You certainly ana-
lyzed it very well.
Q. Could you respond to Secretary
Bergland's comments on Mr. Lance?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't heard about
it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House. His
concluding remarks in Spanish were not in-
cluded in the transcript.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Meeting With President Aparicio
Méndez Manfredini of Uruguay
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meet-
ing. September 9, 1977
Méndez
THE PRESIDENT. President
would like to make a statement to the
press, and I think I'll make a brief state-
ment and then leave him here with you
for questions.
It's a grand pleasure for us to have in
our country President Méndez, represent-
ing the people of Uruguay. We had a very
thorough discussion about matters that
are important to both our countries.
One of the major discussions was about
the question of human rights, and Presi-
dent Méndez described to us the progress
that is being made in Uruguay and in-
vited any representative from our coun-
try, or group of representatives from our
country to visit Uruguay to inspect per-
sonally the situations that do exist there.
I pointed out to him that there is a very
grave concern in our Nation about allega-
tions or charges that have been made. And
it's important to Uruguay and also to us
to have these questions answered.
In addition we discussed the question
of the export of leather goods to our
country, and we arranged for early addi-
tional negotiations to take place so that
we can understand the law in Uruguay,
the subsidies that exist, and so that Uru-
guay can understand the special Ameri-
can laws that restrict imports here when
large subsidies are given in the exporting
country.
But these negotiations and discussions
will be expedited in the weeks ahead.
Again, thank you very much.
REPORTER. Mr. President, what is your
feeling about the relations now between
Uruguay and the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I've described
our position. We have very great con-
cern about the status of human rights in
Uruguay. But President Méndez has de-
scribed to me the situation there, the rea-
sons for the restraint, and his commit-
ment to open up the country for observa-
tion by people from our country and to
answer any questions. And my hope is
that under his leadership the relation-
ships can be improved very soon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House. His
concluding remarks in Spanish were not in-
cluded in the transcript.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
Iwas not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
1556
