Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 6
to help it evaluate current and future
needs. This does not eliminate, but makes
more appropriate, CPB's critical role in
programming.
CPB would not need a substantial staff
for program decision-making and pro-
gram-related legal, public information,
audience research, and similar functions.
These operational tasks can be done by
PBS, NPR, and other grantees without
adding persons to their staffs.
CPB would need substantially fewer
than its current staff of 130 to carry out
its missions. The savings from these cuts
and greater efficiency in CPB's retained
functions should go into programming.
Increase Funds Allocated for National
Programming
There are now 271 public television
stations and 203 public radio stations.
They provide a vital service to their states
and communities. But each of these sta-
tions cannot separately produce the high
quality cultural, public affairs, and in-
structional programming their communi-
ties need.
Federal support for strong national pro-
gram services was a principal recom-
mendation of the first Carnegie Commis-
sion. It was a primary aim of the 1967 Act
that created CPB. But CPB now devotes
only $17 million of its current $103 mil-
lion appropriation directly to national
programming. In addition, about $19 mil-
lion of the $58 million CPB gives to local
stations is pooled for that purpose.
More Federal funds should be concen-
trated on national programming. By de-
voting more funds to national needs, pub-
lic broadcasting can give producers ade-
quate lead time and budget to create high
quality domestic productions. It can and
should support more first-rate production
centers, like Children's Television Work-
shop and similar centers for independent
producers, minorities, educators, and
women. It can provide the complete cov-
erage of news events, such as important
Congressional hearings, that commercial
broadcasting rarely offers.
This bill provides that at least 25% of
funds appropriated to CPB in future years
shall be used for a National Programming
Fund for bloc grants for such productions.
This will insure that by FY 1982 up to $50
million, depending on the appropriation
level, would be ear-marked for national
programming. These programs will con-
tinue to be produced on a decentralized
basis, by producers throughout the coun-
try, but intended for national distribution.
In addition, I call on the public broad-
casting system to devote another 25%
of the Federal money to national pro-
gramming. The stations can do this by
pooling money, as the TV stations do now
through the Station Program Coopera-
tive, or it can be done by any other
mechanism. This would provide a total
of up to $100 million for national pro-
gramming in FY 1982. Minorities,
women, and independent as well as sta-
tion producers should have access to these
funds as well as those in CPB's National
Programming Fund.
Local, state, and regional services also
need substantial support. A significant
aspect of that support has been the funds
CPB passes through to local stations for
their discretionary use for local or na-
tional purposes. Unlike the current law,
my bill does not place either a ceiling or
floor on those funds. Allocations for this
purpose should be made from year to year,
as determined through CPB's cooperative
planning process with PBS, NPR, and the
licensees.
I also call on the other funding
sources-particularly the states-to hold
up their end of this funding partnership.
Currently, non-Federal sources such as
state and local governments, individuals,
foundations, and corporations still supply
1741
