Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
the city of Detroit? What I want to ask
you, President Carter, is, for example—at
the present time there is a need for this
type of education, of programs, not only
in the black community but in the Latino
communities. For example, at the present
time, President Carter and Ms. Olivarez,
LULAC National Education Service
Centers has only a chance to be funded
until December. This is the one and only
top educational center mechanism that
the Latino community has all over the
United States. They only have fundings
up to December. I am concerned, because
it deals with all the issues that Mrs. Prieto
and Mrs. Molina have addressed in the
Latino community. I am concerned, just
like all my brothers here in southwest
Detroit. I am also a product of Michigan.
I am concerned with what will you,
President Carter, do in alleviating our
problem when our funding for our
Latinos programs, for Hispanic commu-
nities, are detailed, are not funded to the
capacity that is needed. We need an an-
swer on that, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr.
Acalá. Ms. Olivarez is familiar with the
specific question that you asked. I'm go-
ing to ask her to give you the answer.
Ms. OLIVAREZ. Mr. President, that par-
ticular project is an educational project
that isn't designed exclusively for poor
people. They have been funded by our
agency for it will be 42 years in Janu-
ary. And we have asked them to go to the
Office of Education for that kind of
money, because we don't have enough
money to fund educational centers. Some-
times I think we wind up subsidizing the
other agencies that have larger budgets.
The President. What are the pros-
pects for success in getting it continued?
MS. OLIVAREZ. The prospects for their
getting funding from the Office of Edu-
cation are good, except that there's going
to be a lull of about 5 months simply be-
cause of the bureaucratic situation. But I
am working with the leaders of the orga-
nization to see if we can help them in the
interim while they get their funding from
the Office of Education.
THE PRESIDENT. Do you think I can
help?
MS. OLIVAREZ. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll help. Thank you.
COMMUNITY ACTION PROGRAMS
Q. President Carter, my name is Audrey
Francis, and I'm the mother of nine, and
four are at home. I'm here for the CAP
program. They've insulated my home and
fixed the roof. I need their help badly, and
they are working with the same funds that
they started with 7 years ago. And every
year it's still the same amount, and they
are running out. The ones that are doing
the work are the young people that are
unemployed and out of work. And it's a
case where the poor is helping the poor,
and they're helping me help myself.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Grace
also knows the answer to this. [Laughter].
Since she has a specific responsibility, I'll
let her answer, and I'll follow up.
Ms. OLIVAREZ. Okay. Thank you. I just
wanted to point out that seated behind
you is part of the Michigan congressional
delegation, who have been very good
friends of the Community Action Agency.
And through the help of them and others,
we understand that our funding this year,
particularly for the type of programs that
you're talking about that are administered
at the local levels through the CAP
agency that we'll get a little bit more
money than we had been getting in the
past. So, we expect to be weatherizing a
lot more homes of poor people.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Before we go further,
I'd like to ask the members of the Michi-
1849
