Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
that the present laws are enforced more
quickly and fairly. But I don't think that
the legislation would lead to more rapid
establishment of union workers in the
South.
There is a heavy emphasis now on
unionizing some of our plants in the
South. I don't think this legislation would
affect it one way or the other in any ma-
terial way. But it will be simpler, quicker,
clearer, fairer legislation, and I think it
will be beneficial to the country.
VIETNAM
Q. Mr. President, my name is Susan
Griss. I, too, would like to welcome
you
to Yazoo City. I have seen on the news
this week that the United States, under
the support of your administration, has
endorsed and supported the membership
of Vietnam into the United Nations. The
first thing that the Vietnamese asked for
was financial aid from the United States
to rebuild.
How do you feel about this? Do you
expect the United States to, in fact, sup-
port the rebuilding effort and support the
Vietnamese financially, and do you think
the Congress will support you, too?
THE PRESIDENT. I want to answer-
this is the last question I can answer-I
want to answer it in a little bit broader
sense, but I won't ignore your question.
We have a basic decision to make in our
country in our foreign policy about how
to deal with nations who, in the past, have
not been our friends and who, in some
instances, have been our enemies on the
warfield. Should we write them off
per-
manently as enemies and force them to
be completely under the control and in-
fluence of Communist powers, or should
we start the process of giving them an
option to be both our friends and the
friends of others, hoping that they will
come to a more democratic free society
and join with us in making a better world?
I'm not in favor of writing those coun-
tries off. It's a controversial issue. I might
point out that the Soviet Union, for in-
stance, has a very strong effort being made
to recruit as friends our own neighbors in
Central America and South America.
And I think that this peaceful competi-
tion with the Soviet Union for friendship
of those nonaligned countries is good for
our country, although it is controversial.
I have tried to open up relationships
with Vietnam. The leader in the Congress
in taking this initiative happens to be your
own Congressman Sonny Montgomery.
He went to Vietnam, I think, in a very
courageous and effective way to try to get
the Vietnamese to give us back the bodies
of American servicemen lost in action.
When I got to be President, Congress-
man Montgomery came to the White
House to give me a report on what he had
done. Later, I sent another delegation
back to them to ask them to find those
bodies and to return them to us. They've
done a great deal to try to find and return
those bodies since that time. When Con-
gressman Montgomery went to Vietnam,
they brought back 11 American bodies
and since then the Vietnamese have de-
livered others.
We have always for the last 25 years
opposed Vietnam's entry into the United
Nations. This year we did not oppose it.
And now Vietnam will be a member of
the world community in the United
Nations. I don't have any apology to make
about that action. I am not in favor of the
United States paying any money or repa-
rations to Vietnam, however.
Our time is up. The networks want to
have about eight or ten minutes to close
out after I go. It's now an hour and
twenty minutes. And they tell me that I
need to close.
Before I leave you, I would like to
say this: I've enjoyed being here. The
1333
