Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 5
Youth Employment and
Demonstration Projects
Act of 1977
Remarks on Signing H.R. 6138 Into Law.
August 5, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I think this is a good
week for my administration, for the Con-
gress, and for the whole Nation.
This morning I will sign the final legis-
lative act which implements the stimulus
package that the Congress has approved
to add to our economy crucial elements
that it lacked 6 or 8 months ago.
We are now adding in public service
jobs throughout our country 15,000 per
week. In June, the taxpayers of our coun-
try began to receive permanent benefits in
tax reductions amounting to $5.2 billion
a year. Public service jobs that will im-
prove the quality of neighborhoods and
cities, towns, and provide additional jobs
for our people are being contracted now
at the rate of 1,000 per week. This is the
first practical application of the beneficial
legislation that Congress has passed.
This morning I want to express, first
of all, my deep thanks to the congres-
sional leaders who have been involved in
the passage of a program to put our
young people to work. Chairman Carl
Perkins, Chairman Gus Hawkins, Senator
Pete Williams, Senator Gaylord Nelson—
all the chairmen of major committees
have been very helpful; the Conservation.
Corps chairmen, Scoop Jackson and
Lloyd Meeds, and I particularly want to
recognize Senator Humphrey, who has
been in favor of a Youth Conservation
Corps for the last 20 or 25 years.
I think it's good to point out, too, that
we have with us this morning Congress-
man Roybal and perhaps many others, in-
cluding my own cousins-I was not quite
old enough--who benefited from the
Civilian Conservation Corps back in the
Depression years, implemented under
President Franklin Roosevelt.
This House of Representatives act 6138
does four major things to correct a very
serious deficiency. Although the unem-
ployment rate has dropped in our country
more than one percent already since last
December, we still have enormous unem-
ployment among young people. More
than half the total number of unem-
ployed in our country are under 24 years
of age. And of course, this falls much
more heavily on minority young people
than it does those of us who are male and
white.
This bill will take a great stride for-
ward in trying to correct this serious af-
fliction on our Nation's economy which
is mirrored within the nations of all the
Western democracies. I think all of us
realize that if a young person reaches the
age of 16, 17, 18, all the way up to 24
years of age and can't get a job in the
formative years of a life, there is a feeling
of despair, discouragement, a loss of self-
esteem, an alienation from the structure
of society, a lashing out against the au-
thorities who are responsible, which can
shape that life for years to come.
We are trying to address that now in
the first major step forward. We will not
only provide jobs under this program, but
we will also learn about the best mecha-
nisms for increasing jobs even more in the
future.
The Young Adult Conservation Corps
will permit young people from areas of
high unemployment to go in the open
spaces, in our farmlands, forest lands,
parks, and work in constructive and en-
joyable surroundings
joyable surroundings under the super-
vision of the Interior Department and the
Agriculture Department.
During this summer, prior to the pas-
sage of this legislation, we have already
1427
