Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 27
as some form of military salary) offer
greater potential to serve the national
purpose?
(2) Are specific standards appropriate
and necessary for setting and adjusting
military compensation? If so, what should
the standards be? What elements of com-
pensation should be based on such stand-
ards?
(3) What provisions are appropriate
for differential compensations) such as
special and incentive pays) and what are
the appropriate criteria for using them?
(4) What are the purposes of the mili-
tary retirement system? Is the present
system effective in achieving these pur-
poses? What changes are appropriate?
(5) Should the unique characteristics
of military service be reflected in the com-
pensation system, and, if so, how?
(c) The Commission shall submit a
report to the President through the Sec-
retary of Defense by March 15, 1978. The
report shall recommend how the military
compensation system can best be struc-
tured to serve the national interest. If
changes are recommended, the Commis-
sion should estimate their cost and pro-
pose an implementation plan and time-
table.
SEC. 3. In performing its functions the
Commission shall conduct such studies, re-
views, and inquiries as may be necessary.
In addition to conducting open meetings
in accordance with the Federal Advisory
Committee Act, the Commission shall
conduct public hearings to identify critical
issues and possible solutions related to the
structure of military compensation.
SEC. 4. The Commission is authorized
to request from any Executive agency
such information that may be deemed
necessary to carry out its functions under
this Order. Each Executive agency shall,
to the extent permitted by law, furnish
such information to the Commission in
the performance of its functions under this
Order.
SEC. 5. Each member of the Commis-
sion who is not otherwise employed in
the Federal Government may receive, to
the extent permitted by law, compensa-
tion for each day he or she is engaged in
the work of the Commission at a rate not
to exceed the maximum daily rate now
or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-18
of the General Schedule, and may also
receive transportation and travel expenses,
including per diem in lieu of subsistence,
as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703).
SEC. 6. The Chairman of the Commis-
sion is authorized to establish such addi-
tional advisory committees as may be
deemed appropriate to carry out the pur-
poses of this Order.
SEC. 7. All necessary administrative
staff services, support, facilities, and ex-
penses of the Commission shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be furnished by
the Department of Defense.
SEC. 8. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.
I), except that of reporting annually to
the Congress, which are applicable to the
Commission, shall be performed by the
Secretary of Defense in accordance with
guidelines and procedures established by
the Office of Management and Budget.
SEC. 9. The Commission shall terminate
thirty days after submitting its report.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 27, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:42 p.m., June 27, 1977]
:
1177
