Dec. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
taken, past statements made, you know,
have to be undone. And if it weren't for
the strength of these two men and their
deep dedication to peace, there would be
very little likelihood of a rapid settle-
ment. But I think their strength and
their determination might very well pre-
vail.
Q. Mr. President, do you think that
when you meet with King Hussein in
Iran that you'll be able to talk him into
joining this effort? Do you have hopes in
that direction?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he's never re-
jected coming into the discussions at some
later date. Obviously, any permanent ar-
rangement made concerning the Palestin-
ian question and the West Bank would
have to involve King Hussein. And he's
being kept thoroughly advised about the
negotiations.
He's, I think, taken a very positive at-
titude toward the Cairo-Ismailia meet-
ings. And he's, I think, willing to partici-
pate whenever the time comes. But his
absence is not an obstacle to progress at
this point.
Q. Is it the Syrians that are the real
problem then at the moment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
the only territorial matter that involves
the Syrians is the Golan Heights area. Of
course, the Syrians are also deeply inter-
ested in the question of the Palestinian
Arabs and the West Bank as well.
But there's no reason for them to be
directly involved in those negotiations.
There could be a complete settlement of
the Gaza Strip, West Bank, Palestinian
Arab question without the Syrians' par-
ticipation.
We are hopeful, though, that they will
come into the discussions. And Secretary
Vance was encouraged by Asad's atti-
tude toward Sadat when he was there.
I think the private expressions of his
opinion were much less abusive or nega-
tive than the public reports had been. So,
I think although there might be individ-
ual discussions required before we can
get ready for the comprehensive peace
settlement, there's no doubt in my mind
that if progress can be made, that later
the Lebanese, Syrians, and Jordanians
will come into the discussions.
Q. Is a comprehensive settlement fore-
seeable within the next year?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's foresee-
able. And the major responsibility now is
on the Egyptians and the Israelis, with
the Jordanians being thoroughly in-
formed, because the Arab position is be-
ing represented by President Sadat as it
relates not only to the Sinai but also to
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
So, I think it's foreseeable. But I can't
predict it because I don't know what will
happen. I think after today, after these
series of meetings, there will be likely fol-
lowup by technicians on the political
aspects of questions and defense matters,
both bilateral and on a multinational
basis. But I think today is a crucial day
for it.
Thank you. I'll see you all later.
REPORTER. Thank you. Merry Christ-
mas.
NOTE: The exchange began at 8 a.m. at the
home of Allie Smith, Mrs. Carter's mother.
Plains, Georgia
Informal Exchange With Reporters After
Visiting Alton Carter. December 25, 1977
How is Uncle Buddy
REPORTER.
doing?
THE PRESIDENT. He is much better.
Q. Is he?
THE PRESIDENT. We are really proud
of that.
Q. Is that a new jacket? Is that a
Christmas present?
THE PRESIDENT. No, this is an old one.
I've had this 10 years.
2174
