Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
kinds of fears and are these fears legit-
imate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first
place, any agreement reached in the
Middle East would have to be accepted
voluntarily by the Israelis and by their
Arab neighbors. There won't be any im-
position of a settlement by us or the So-
viet Union or anyone else. So, you have
that much of a safety factor to start with,
that no settlement would be reached
unless the Israelis wanted that settlement.
Secondly, I do not favor and have never
favored an independent Palestinian state
in the West Bank area or in the Mideast
area in presently occupied territory.
We have always, since the first few
minutes of the foundation of Israel, had a
national policy supporting the integrity,
the independence, the freedom, the per-
manence of Israel, and hoping for peace.
All of those factors, I think, have been
met-sometimes challenged, but always
met-except peace.
Now the Israelis and their neighbors,
Arab countries, see the prospect of peace.
The Arab leaders are making statements
now that they could and would never
have made a year ago, recognizing Israel's
right to exist, being willing to negotiate
with Israel directly if we get to Geneva.
There is a serious question about Pales-
tinian representation. My belief is that
when we consider the future status of the
West Bank, Gaza Strip, and the Pales-
tinians, that it ought to be negotiated
with some participation by Palestinians. I
personally think that Israel has agreed—
I think this has been announced-that
they would accept those Palestinians from
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and
that that area would be negotiated by
those Palestinians, Jordan, Egypt, and
Israel on a multinational basis, because
it's all wrapped up in one.
We have also got the prospect of con-
sidering as a separate item, but certainly a
directly related item, the future of the
refugees as such-some Jewish, some, of
course, Palestinian. This would be on a
multinational basis. But I think every
possible right and prospect of Israel's
existence, freedom, security in the future
will be honored, certainly, by Israelis,
backed by us.
MAYOR MICHAEL BILANDIC OF CHICAGO
Q. Mr. President, Mayor Bilandic's
political organization in Chicago is feel-
ing that you are ignoring us since Mayor
Daley died, and some have said that they
wanted you to come out and do some
fundraising and you haven't. Do you have
any problem with the Bilandic organiza-
tion in Chicago?
THE PRESIDENT. No, of course not.
Q. The Vice President was out there
just the other day.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. I
haven't raised money for anybody. I
didn't even know he was running for
election this year.
Q. He's not. The organization con-
stantly raises money.
THE PRESIDENT. I have been to one
fundraiser in New York for the Demo-
cratic National Committee, and I'm go-
ing to another one at the end of this
month in Los Angeles for the Democratic
National Committee. I've campaigned a
half day for Brendan Byrne as Governor
of New Jersey and a half day for Henry
Howell as Governor of Virginia. Those
are the only political involvements that I
have had.
But, no, I get along well with the Bilan-
dic administration. He's been here to visit
with me. I've talked to him on the phone
several times. There's no difference be-
tween us at all.
Q. So there's no problem with the
political organization?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The only question
that's been raised is concerning some of
1804
