Dec. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
powerful weapons and also to prevent any
tests of atomic explosions. We want to pre-
vent nations which do not presently have
atomic explosions from desiring those ca-
pabilities. We want to reduce the sale of
conventional weapons to nations around
the world. And we want to seek in every
possible way closer communications, bet-
ter trade, closer friendship between our
countries.
Poland and your leaders have an ability
and experience to look knowledgeably
both to the East and to the West, and you
can contribute greatly to the mutual ef-
forts of ourselves and the Soviet Union
to reach those agreements which we both
desire.
The ancient alliance between the
United States and Poland in peace and
war has given our people good lives. We
have helped to establish and to maintain
the independence of one another. This
sharing of culture, blood kinship, and
close cooperation in the past can give us a
basis for even better future together.
I hope that at the earliest convenient
time we might be permitted to repay the
hospitality to your leaders, First Secretary
Gierek and others, that you have extended
to us on this visit. It is very valuable to
have Polish and American friendship
combined together to give us what all men
and women want-peace throughout the
world.
On behalf of the people of the United
States, I would like to propose a toast to
the indomitable spirit and to the freedom
of the Polish people, to your enlightened
leaders particularly First Secretary
Gierek and his wife-and to peace
throughout the world.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:27 p.m. at
the Palace of the Council of Ministers. First
Secretary Gierek spoke in Polish, and his re-
marks were translated by an interpreter.
Following the dinner, the President met with
First Secretary Gierek at the Palace.
Warsaw, Poland
Joint United States-Poland Communique
Issued at the Conclusion of the
President's Visit.
December 31, 1977
The President of the United States of
America and Mrs. Carter paid an official
visit to Poland December 29-31, 1977, at
the invitation of the highest authorities of
the Polish People's Republic. The Presi-
dent was accompanied by Secretary of
State Cyrus R. Vance and by Assistant to
the President for National Security Affairs
Zbigniew Brzezinski.
The President laid a wreath at the
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and placed
flowers at the Nike Monument to the
Heroes of Warsaw and at the Monument
to the Heroes of the Ghetto. He also saw
some districts of Warsaw, acquainting
himself with its reconstruction and
development.
During the visit, the President held
talks with the First Secretary of the Cen-
tral Committee of the Polish United
Workers' Party, Edward Gierek.
In the plenary talks, which were chaired
by the President and the First Secretary,
there took part:
From the American side:
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance,
Assistant to the President Zbigniew
Brzezinski,
and other officials.
From the Polish side:
The Chairman of the Council of
State, Henryk Jabloński;
Chairman of the Council of Ministers
Piotr Jaroszewicz,
and other officials.
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance also
held talks with Minister of Foreign Affairs
Emil Wojtaszek.
The President and the First Secretary
expressed their satisfaction with the con-
versations they had held as well as their
conviction that continued visits at the
2216
