Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 23
the groundwork for the optimal use of
fossil fuels.
Verner E. Suomi, University of Wis-
consin, Madison, Wisconsin. As a dis-
tinguished meteorologist, he has provided
a new view of the dynamics of our atmos-
phere which already has brought sub-
stantial benefits to the people of this
Nation and the world. Dr. Suomi has
been a major driving force in the appli-
cation of space systems for improved
weather service to the public.
Henry Taube, Stanford University,
Stanford, California, in recognition of
contributions to the understanding of re-
activity and reaction mechanisms in in-
organic chemistry. His recent work con-
tributes to our understanding of the
mechanism of nitrogen fixation and of
the chemical processes important to fuel
cells and energy storage.
The last award is George E. Uhlenbeck
of the Rockefeller University, New York,
for the major discovery, together with
Samuel Goudsmit, of the electron spin as
a source of a new quantum number. His
long career as a scientist and superb sci-
ence teacher has brought him worldwide
recognition.
THE PRESIDENT. Frank, you might ex-
plain how the recipients were chosen.
I know all of you appreciate what these
wonderful men have done. And I think
they would be worthy of a rising round
of applause.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 a.m. in Room
450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
Energy Information
Administration
Nomination of Lincoln E. Moses To Be
Administrator. November 23, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Lincoln E. Moses, of
Stanford, Calif., to be Administrator of
the Energy Information Administration.
Moses was born December 21, 1921, in
Kansas City, Mo. He received an A.B. in
social sciences (1941) and a Ph. D. in
statistics (1950) from Stanford Univer-
sity.
Moses was an assistant professor of edu-
cation at Teachers College, Columbia
University, from 1950 to 1952. Since 1952
he has been at Stanford University, serv-
ing as assistant professor, then associate
professor, and since 1959, professor of sta-
tistics in the department of statistics and
the department of preventive medicine.
He also served as associate dean of hu-
manities and sciences from 1965 to 1968
and as dean of graduate studies from 1969
to 1975.
Moses is a member of EPA's Environ-
MR. PRESS. The recipients were chosen
by a committee of Presidential appointees.
I was a member of that committee. We
deliberated for several months. We so-
licited nominations from all over the
country, from institutions, professional mental Health Advisory Committee. He
societies. And from a list of several hun-
dred, we selected these 15 outstanding
gentlemen from all fields of science, from
all parts of the country.
THE PRESIDENT. This is the first ex-
perimental pressing of a long-playing
record. Although I won't play this one,
I will be listening to another one.
[Laughter]
has served on the Environmental Pollu-
tion Panel of the President's Science Ad-
visory Committee and on the executive
committee of the Graduate Record Ex-
amination Board. He is coauthor of "Ele-
mentary Decision Theory" (1959) and
"Tables of Random Permutations"
(1962) and the author of numerous arti-
cles in professional journals.
2047
