Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I've consulted with Congress, perhaps
more than any President who has ever
served in this office. And I've consulted
with the Joint Chiefs more than they've
ever seen the President.
I had lunch with the Joint Chiefs last
week, and I said, "How do I compare in
negotiating with you and getting help and
advice from you, compared to previous
Presidents? I met with you at the Blair
House before I was President. I met with
you about 6 or 8 or 10 times since
I've been President." We had long discus-
sions about Korea and about China and
about Taiwan, and about the Middle East
and about SALT and everything else.
And they said, "Mr. President, we saw you
more than we had ever seen any President
that first meeting at Blair House before
you ever came into office." [Laughter] So,
I've learned and I've benefited from it.
I want to thank you again. I got to go,
but I want to thank you again for letting
me have this chance to meet with you.
This is an enormous job. It's one that
taxes any individual human being to en-
compass the challenges and solutions to
problems. The ones that arrive at my desk
are obviously the ones that can't be solved
in a home or in a city hall or at a State
Governor's office, and they come to me.
But I've really enjoyed it.
It's been a reassuring thing to have a
superb Cabinet. There's not a single weak
person on it. I've really been pleasantly
surprised with them. And the Congress has
given me strong and good support. The
differences that have arisen between me
and the Congress have been that the much
more easy job of my preparing a proposal
and drafting legislation, than the Congress
debating it and passing it.
There's an inherent delay in the con-
gressional process which I think is very
good and very healthy. And as you know,
I've never served in Washington before at
all. I've got a good, sound White House
staff. I use my Cabinet more than previous
Presidents have.
We have a full-scale, at least 2-hour ses-
sion here every Monday morning, with the
full Cabinet sitting around this table. Most
of the time, we have a 100-percent at-
tendance. And it's a lively discussion,
and the Secretary of Agriculture, the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
the Secretary of HUD have a chance to
listen to an explanation of what Cy Vance
is doing, what Bob Strauss is doing, what
the Secretary of Treasury is doing. So,
there's a good interchange and good team
spirit.
I don't have the same need for a chief
of staff or a strong, powerful, autocratic
White House staff that President Nixon
felt. There will never be an Ehrlichman
or a Haldeman in my White House staff
that gives orders and commands to the
Cabinet members who are trying to run
the major agencies of Government.
This is not the way I ran the Governor's
office in Georgia. It's not the way I am
going to run it here. And some of the local
press have deplored the fact that I don't
have a similar set-up as was the case when
President Nixon was in office. It's just not
my way of running things. As you know,
President Eisenhower also had a chief of
staff, Sherman Adams, who ran things
almost like a secondary President.
But I've substituted for that an unprec-
edented use of the Vice President. He
and I are close, personal friends. We have
a harmonious partnership. I've grown to
respect and like him more every day I've
known him. And he has authority and re-
sponsibility in foreign and domestic affairs
and also in helping to manage the White
House staff that no Vice President has
ever dreamed of having. And it takes a
great deal of the burden off my shoulders.
Formerly, Vice Presidents were over in
the Executive Office Building across the
2100
