Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
A very high portion of people whom
you serve are older. I think about 60 per-
cent in your neighborhood, I understand,
are maybe 65 or older-an extraordinary
percentage. And they live on a fixed in-
come. So, we're trying to do something
to hold down inflation of all costs. We got
some statistics this morning that show
that the inflation rate, at least for last
month, is less than 4 percent. I would like
to maintain this permanently. I don't
think we can, but at least we're making a
step in the right direction.
The last point I want to make is that
under the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Department, for the first time, we
have a special Assistant Secretary for
neighborhoods. His name is Father
Baroni. And I know you're familiar with
him.
During the campaign, two things that
I emphasized almost everywhere I went
was, one, the importance of the neigh-
borhood, and the second was the impor-
tance of the family. I think if we can keep
those family structures intact, that will
make a great step forward.
And now, to get to someone who has
always been very reluctant to express her-
self openly [laughter]-Gladys Wood-
ard.
SENIOR CITIZENS
Ms. WOODARD. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. I'm going to make this very short
because we have some more panelists
here, and they're going to have to talk
to you, too. I've talked to you a lot, and
I'm going to talk to you again. I'll be in
Washington next weekend. [Laughter]
The Older Americans Act is concerned
with the quality of life for the elderly. In
Michigan and particularly in Detroit,
many senior citizens are living on limited,
frozen incomes, in many instances as low
as $3,000 per year or less.
Many of the persons here, and espe-
cially elderly people, they always face gas
heat shutoffs or threats to shut it off be-
cause they have no money to pay the gas
bills. It's too high. This is caused by de-
linquency as a result of last winter's severe
cold wave. Now, I know you talk about
energy, Mr. President, but these people
must keep warm. Otherwise, they'll have
pneumonia—anything. Even though the
application for utilities relief was filed
with the Department of Social Services,
the threats and actual shutoffs has been
taking place in a ruthless fashion here in
the city of Detroit.
We are deeply concerned that, in addi-
tion to last winter's severe cold, we may
face another severe, cold winter this
winter. And we urge you, Mr. President,
to use your power in your office to inter-
vene on the behalf of the lives of thou-
sands of senior citizens, not only of De-
troit but across this country. We also urge
a moratorium on heat shutoff from now
until the winter is over, especially for
senior citizens and for ADC mothers that
have a house full of children.
There's a need to address the problems
of the ethnic poor, especially senior citi-
zens, who cannot receive services because
of inability to communicate. There's a
need to urge Social Security, the Depart-
ment of Social Services, and other service
agencies to develop a sensitivity to the
needs of those who are isolated by lan-
guage and cultural barriers. Those people
are suffering, too. We don't have enough
people to teach these people to take steps
to recruit bilingual personnel and to avail
themselves of community resources per-
sons who can help and advocate and
temper their language, and they suffer.
Also, in low-income areas we are also
suffering in housing. And I agree with
Father here: Everybody doesn't want to
leave their rightful neighborhood. I also
1836
