Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
larly to make certain that the issue of
minority business development receives
the attention of policymakers at the high-
est level of the Government.
In order to provide a focus for our
efforts and to set achievable goals for this
administration, I have taken the following
actions:
First, I fully endorse the efforts under-
way to revamp and improve the SBA
Section 8(a) program. Vernon Weaver
has established an 8(a) Review Board. I
have asked him to move expeditiously and
to consult with interested Members of
Congress and other concerned citizens to
make certain that this key program oper-
ates in the most efficient, effective, and
fair manner possible. We should not per-
mit our disappointment at the manner in
which this worthwhile program has been
administered in the past to diminish our
desire to make it work.
Second, I have instructed all executive
departments to work with the Office of
Minority Business Enterprise and the
Small Business Administration to devise
effective minority business assistance pro-
grams.
Third, I have asked the Office of Fed-
eral Procurement Policy to review and to
revise procurement regulations to assure
adequate involvement of minority and
small business firms by requiring that re-
cipients of major Federal contracts show
how they will involve minority and small
businesses before, rather than after a con-
tract has been awarded.
Fourth, I have requested that the
Treasury Department, as an Interagency
Council member, lead a task force to pre-
pare a report on sources of capital and
mechanisms for financial assistance for
minority business.
Finally, I have instructed all executive
departments to double their purchases of
services from minority firms through di-
rect and indirect procurement activities
during the next 2 fiscal years and to re-
port to me on their progress in meeting
this goal. This increase should raise the
level of Federal Government purchases
from minority firms to about $1 billion.
We will closely monitor the effort of each
department to see that this goal is
achieved.
I believe that we should improve and
strengthen existing programs rather than
make wholesale changes at this time.
However, we will assess the operation of
these programs under their new leader-
ship, and we will not hesitate to recom-
mend changes where they seem war-
ranted.
These steps provide a good beginning
for our efforts in this area. We will show
steady and sustained progress throughout
my term of office in promoting the de-
velopment of minority business enterprise.
Federal Communications
Commission
Nomination of Charles D. Ferris To Be a
Member. September 12, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Charles D. Ferris, of Bos-
ton, Mass., to be a member of the Federal
Communications Commission. The Presi-
dent indicated that if confirmed, Ferris
would be designated Chairman of the
Commission. He would replace Richard
Wiley, term expired.
Ferris was born April 9, 1933. He re-
ceived an A.B. in physics from Boston
College in 1954, and a J.D. from Boston
College Law School in 1961.
In 1954 and 1955, Ferris was a research
physicist for Sperry Gyroscope, and from
1958 to 1960 he was an assistant profes-
sor of naval science and marine engineer-
1580
