Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
first and immediate goal is to bring all
the parties in the Mideast dispute to
Geneva for a conference. We are deal-
ing with Israel directly. We are dealing
directly with Lebanon, Syria, Jordan,
and Egypt. We are trying to act as an
intermediary between Israel and each
one of those Arab countries that border
their own country.
There are some differences among the
Arab nations, which we are trying to
resolve, concerning a unified Arab dele-
gation or individual Arab delegations
and the format which might be used to
let the Palestinian views be represented.
At the same time, we have a further
complicating factor in that we are joint
chairmen of the Geneva conference
along with the Soviet Union. So, in the
call for the conference, in the negotia-
tions preceding the format of the confer-
ence, we have to deal with the Soviet
Union as well. So, on top of all that, and
perhaps preeminent in my own mind, is
that we are not an idle observer or by-
stander, we are not just an intermediary
or mediator. We have a vital national in-
terest in the ultimate peace in the
Middle East.
It's obvious to me that there can be no
Middle Eastern peace settlement without
adequate Palestinian representation.
The Arab countries maintain that the
PLO is the only legitimate representative
of the Palestinian interests. The Israelis
say that they won't deal with the Pales-
tinians, or certainly not the well-known
PLO members, because they have been
identified in the past as committed to the
destruction of the nation of Israel.
So, we are trying to get an agreement
between the Israelis and the Arab coun-
tries, with widely divergent views, about
the format of the meeting and, also, who
would be welcomed to the conference to
represent the Palestinians.
This is something that is still in the
negotiating stage, and I cannot predict a
final outcome. We have no national posi-
tion on exactly who would represent the
Palestinians or exactly what form the
Arab group would take in which the
Palestinians would be represented. I just
can't answer that question yet because
the question has not been answered in
my mind.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
Q. Does the United States recog-
nize "recognize" is the wrong word-
but accept the PLO as a representative
of the Palestinians?
THE PRESIDENT. We have pledged to
the Israelis in the past, and I have con-
firmed the pledge, that we will not nego-
tiate with, nor deal directly with the
PLO until they adopt United Nations
Resolution 242 as a basis for their in-
volvement, which includes a recognition
of the right of Israel to exist. We have
let this be known to the PLO leaders
through various intermediaries, through
intermediaries through the United Na-
tions, leaders in Saudi Arabia, Syria,
Egypt, Jordan, and so forth. They know
our position.
If the PLO should go ahead and say,
"We endorse U.N. Resolution 242; we
don't think it adequately addresses the
Palestinian issue because it only refers to
refugees and we think we have a further
interest in that," that would suit us
okay.
We would then begin to meet with
and to work with the PLO. Obviously,
they don't represent a nation. It is a
group that represents, certainly, a sub-
stantial part of the Palestinians. I cer-
tainly don't think they are the exclusive
representatives of the Palestinians. Ob-
viously, there are mayors, for instance,
1687
