Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
number of military outposts, the length of
time when this interim solution might be
in effect-I think Prime Minister Begin
said it would be reassessed at the end of
5 years the degree of participation of
the governments of Israel and Jordan in
a possible administrative arrangement—
all these questions could add a tone of
progress or a possibility for resolution of
what seems to be insurmountable ob-
stacles.
So, I think that Prime Minister Begin
already has shown a great deal of flexi-
bility. Obviously, President Sadat and
King Hussein and others would have to
accept whatever proposal is put forward.
But the length of time when the in-
terim agreement would be in effect would
be negotiable and the exact relationship
between the new self-rule government as
far as its autonomy is concerned, its de-
pendence upon or subservience to the
Jordanians or the Israelis all these
things are still to be negotiated. So, I
think there is enough flexibility at this
point.
MR. MACNEIL. Could I just ask one
followup on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
MR. MACNEIL. Has either Egypt or
Israel, or both, asked the United States
formally yet to provide guarantees for
any agreement that is made?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in my private
conversations with some of them, they
have expressed to me that if a guarantee
arrangement between ourselves and
Israel should be worked out, that it
would be acceptable to the Arab lead-
ers. But we've never discussed this be-
tween ourselves and Israel in any defini-
tive form.
My preference would be that our in-
volvement would be minimized after an
agreement has been reached. But if it
became a matter of having the negotia-
tions break down completely, our hav-
ing some limited role as mutually ac-
cepted among those parties involved,
then we would consider it very, very
favorably.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION TALKS
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, if we
may move along in another area of for-
eign policy for just a moment, there now
seems to be some signals coming out of
Geneva, and even from friends of this
administration, that we will not have a
SALT agreement in 1978, or at least one
will not get before the Senate. That's the
word from Senator Alan Cranston, who
is known as a very good vote counter in
the Senate. Is that your thinking as well,
that we are not going to have a SALT
agreement with the Russians during this
next year?
THE PRESIDENT. I would be disap-
pointed if we don't have a SALT agree-
ment this year. We've made good prog-
ress on SALT. We started out with
SALT I, the Soviets having a very heavy
advantage, about a 3-to-2 ratio in
their favor. President Ford and Secre-
tary Kissinger made great progress, I
think, at Vladivostok and in their sub-
sequent negotiations, to provide the first
indication of equality. And we will
maintain that posture of mutual advan-
tage between ourselves and the Soviets.
We have added a new dimension, to
have tight constraints on future deploy-
ment of weapons, both quantitatively and
also the quality of the weapons, and to
reduce actually the number of destructive
weapons permitted.
We still have some negotiating to do.
But we have made good progress on
SALT. We have also been pleased with
the results of negotiations with the Soviet
Union on the comprehensive test ban to
prohibit any testing of nuclear weapons
at all.
2191
