Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
strong diplomatic ties to the United States.
As we know, many generations before
that, American merchant seamen and
whaling ships were received with open
arms by the people of New Zealand as
they visited those ports of call.
Prime Minister Muldoon is a strong and
able leader. He comes here to express the
common bonds that bind his country with
our own. We have a very strong alliance
between Australia, New Zealand, and the
United States. And this has been the basis
for a firm foundation of economic and
political and military comradeship, which
has sustained us in times of testing and
times of trial and times of danger.
New Zealanders have fought shoulder
to shoulder with American fighting men
in World War I and World War II, in
the Korean war, and in Vietnam. And
this is a country which is in a strategic
part of the world and, in addition to their
military alliances, have worked closely
with us for the economic development of
the southern Pacific region.
It's very important that we understand
the trade benefits that come to both our
countries by this close and friendly rela-
tionship, consultation on economic mat-
ters, and planning for the future. We are
very pleased that this relationship does
exist.
Prime Minister Muldoon is a man who
has a particular interest in the economic
well-being of his own people. He has, since
he has been in office, reduced the adverse
balance of trade in New Zealand much
more than 50 percent. The unemployment
rate in New Zealand is only 1 percent,
which shows what a good leader he is and
also shows the commitment of the New
Zealand people to hard and honest work
for the benefit of one another.
We had one of our nuclear cruisers go
into New Zealand recently, a port in
Wellington. The New Zealand people, on
their own initiative, had a program called
Dial-A-Sailor. The private families in that
capital city were encouraged to invite
American seamen to come to their homes
for a visit, and every sailor on that ship
received between five and eight invitations
to visit homes in Wellington. I'm very
proud that this kind of natural friendship
exists, not only at the governmental level
but also between the people of our
countries.
Prime Minister Muldoon has shown a
great interest in my own administration
since the first weeks, and I look forward
to working with him during this day to
make sure that we recommit ourselves to
the principle that peace and cooperation
and security are indivisible.
Mr. Prime Minister, I, on behalf of the
215 million Americans, welcome you as
a friend to our country. Thank you, sir.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Your Excellencies, and ladies and gentle-
men:
Thank you, sir, for the warmth of your
welcome and for your very kind words
about my country.
The ties that draw together New Zea-
land and the United States are of long
standing. Americans, as you've said, were
amongst the earlier visitors to our shores.
Indeed, in 1840, when the British Gov-
ernment formally claimed sovereignty
over New Zealand by the Treaty of
Watangi, there were probably more
American whalers in the country than
there were British residents.
We, like you, are part of the New
World. We, like you, were settled by men
and women who came to find a new life
in a new land. We were Britain's frontier
as you were Europe's. Those who made
our two countries, Mr. President, shared
similar hopes and aspirations. Their ex-
perience developed in them a respect for
self-reliance and individual enterprise and
a healthy distaste for class privilege, af-
fectation, and pretension. In New Zea-
land, as in the United States, a man was
judged by what he was and did, not by his
1990
