Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 6
tions technology chosen by an eligible ap-
plicant. Federal funds should support the
most efficient technical means to make
publicly funded programming available
to the widest audiences.
CPB will be able to use a portion of the
facilities funds being transferred for dem-
onstrations of new public service delivery
systems, such as two-way communication
via satellite.
Encourage Journalistic Independence
Unlike commercial broadcasters, pub-
lic broadcasters are forbidden by current
law to editorialize on issues of public im-
portance. This ban makes sense for sta-
tions licensed to a state or local govern-
ment instrumentality. But Congress has
recently amended the tax code to allow
private non-profit organizations to advo-
cate positions on public issues. The Pub-
lic Broadcasting Act should be similarly
amended to allow non-governmental li-
censees to exercise their First Amend-
ment rights.
This change would not require editor-
ials, but it would permit them. Public
broadcasters should have an equal oppor-
tunity with commercial broadcasters to
participate in the free marketplace of
ideas.
States hold about half of the U.S. pub-
lic television station licenses. Another step
toward journalistic independence would
be for state and local governments to
better insulate these stations. The danger
of undue political control is as real here
as at the Federal level. This bill does not
compel any particular form, but I want
to encourage states to establish independ-
ent boards to assure insulation.
Require Public Accountability
Independence from government con-
trol does not mean a public station has no
obligation to account for its stewardship.
But such accountability is best exercised
directly to the local citizens who contrib-
ute to the station's support. I therefore
propose sunshine for public stations that
receive Federal funds; they should be re-
quired to open their board meetings and
financial records to the public.
This legislation is not intended to re-
strict a public station board's privacy on
personnel matters, or otherwise sanction
unwarranted invasions of personal pri-
vacy. But local citizens should have access
to the basic decisions public stations make
in allocating tax funds and private do-
nations. This is already standard practice
at CPB, PBS, NPR, and many public
stations.
Increase Participation of Minorities and
Women
This bill makes it clear that the em-
ployment discrimination laws apply to
stations and other producers that receive
CPB funds. It conditions such grants on
nondiscrimination, just like receipt of a
grant from a Federal agency. Since CPB
is not a Federal agency, enforcement of
this requirement will be delegated to a
Federal agency with expertise in this field.
This change, combined with making
minority ownership a goal of the facilities
program, will help bring greater diversity
to the decision-making levels of public
broadcasting. But statutory amendments
alone are not enough. Public broadcast-
ing should make its own effort to become
an entry-level training ground and model
for the other media in meeting the needs
of women, Blacks, Hispanics, and other
minorities.
Study of Federal Agency Program Fund-
ing
Last year approximately $25 million
was contributed to public broadcasting di-
rectly by four agencies-HEW, the Na-
1743
