July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
concern for human rights is aimed spe-
cifically at them or is an attack on their
vital interests.
There are no hidden meanings in our
commitment to human rights.
We stand on what we have said on the
subject of human rights. Our policy is
exactly what it appears to be: the posi-
tive and sincere expression of our deepest
beliefs as a people. It's addressed not to
any particular people or area of the world,
but to all countries equally, yes, including
our own country.
And it's specifically not designed to heat
up the arms race or bring back the cold
war.
On the contrary, I believe that an
atmosphere of peaceful cooperation is far
more conducive to an increased respect
for human rights than an atmosphere of
belligerence or hatred or warlike con-
frontation. The experience of our own
country this last century has proved this
over and over again.
We have no illusions that the process
will be quick or that change will come
easily. But we are confident that if we do
not abandon the struggle, the cause of
personal freedom and human dignity will
be enhanced in all nations of the world.
We're going to do that.
In the past 6 months we've made clear
our determination-both to give voice to
Americans' fundamental beliefs and to
obtain lasting solutions to East-West dif-
ferences. If this chance to emphasize peace
and cooperation instead of animosity and
division is allowed to pass, it will not have
been our choice.
We must always combine realism with
principle. Our actions must be faithful to
the essential values to which our own
society is dedicated, because our faith in
those values is the source of our confidence
that this relationship will evolve in a more
constructive direction.
I cannot forecast whether all our efforts
will succeed. But there are things which
give me hope, and in conclusion I would
like to mention them very briefly.
This place where I now stand is one of
the oldest cities in the United States. It's a
beautiful town of whose culture and urban
charm all Americans are proud-just as
the people of the Soviet Union are justly
proud of such ancient cities as Tbilisi or
Novgorod, which there they lovingly pre-
serve, as you do in Charleston, and into
which they infuse a new life that makes
these cities far more than just dead rem-
nants of a glorious historical past.
Although there are deep differences in
our values and ideas, we Americans and
Russians belong to the same civilization
whose origins stretch back hundreds of
years.
Beyond all the disagreements between
us-and beyond the cool calculations of
mutual self-interest that our two countries
bring to the negotiating table—is the in-
visible human reality that must bring us
closer together. I mean the yearning for
peace, real peace, that is in the very bones
of us all.
I'm absolutely certain that the people
of the Soviet Union, who have suffered so
grievously in war, feel this yearning for
peace. And in this they are at one with
the people of the United States. It's up to
all of us to help make that unspoken pas-
sion into something more than just a
dream. And that responsibility falls most
heavily on those like you, of course, but
particularly like President Brezhnev and
me, who hold in our hands the terrible
power conferred on us by the modern
engines of war.
Mr. Brezhnev said something very in-
teresting recently, and I quote from his
speech: "It is our belief, our firm belief,"
he said, "that realism in politics and the
will for détente and progress will ulti-
1314
