Sept. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
you're a working-class family. Brendan
Byrne is a man who will fight for you if
you want better health care, better hous-
ing, better education.
He's also a man who has fought for you
to let the rich pay their fair share of taxes
and to let the working people benefit from
lower property taxes. And if you want
your property taxes to go up in the future,
if you want your sales tax to go up in the
future, if you want to put a burden on the
poor and working-class and retired peo-
ple, vote against Brendan Byrne.
But if you want fair taxes and better
services, support Brendan Byrne in the
election, which is what I'm doing and
what those behind me are doing.
Thank you very much. I am proud to
be back in New Jersey. God bless you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. out-
side the college. Prior to his remarks, the Presi-
dent toured the college and was briefed on the
facilities by Dr. Stanley S. Bergen, president of
the college.
Trenton, New Jersey
Remarks at a Rally in the Chambersburg
Neighborhood. September 10, 1977
Georgia, and he began his own political
career at a rally and an endorsement back
there at the old Taylor Opera House,
which I understand is now a parking lot.
And I hate to say that Plains, my home-
town, is becoming a parking lot as well.
But I think there's a lot that ties us to-
gether. My own family came to this coun-
try, my ancestor, as an indentured servant.
I was talking to Brendan Byrne on the
way here from Newark this morning, and
his parents arrived about 100 years ago.
One of his grandfathers worked in the
Stetson Hat Company. Another one was a
caretaker and a gardener who worked for
the wealthy people in the Orange area.
And I know many of you and your fami-
lies have come here from other European
countries. This is a sign of two things:
One, the strength of our Nation depends
upon this diversification, the fact that we
are different. We are proud of the differ-
ences that exist between us, but we all fit
in together to comprise Americans. And
that's what makes us have the greatest
nation on Earth.
I've done a lot of campaigning in the
last couple of years. And as I came down
the street behind me and shook hands, I
noticed a special thing. Quite often every-
Good afternoon, everybody. I'm glad body rushes forward and reaches out to
to be here. The last time I was near the
"burg," I was on a train and I was hungry
and I had a great horseshoe made out of
bread delivered to me at the train station
from the "burg," and I do appreciate the
good food and the expression of friend-
ship.
I understand this is the home of some
of the greatest pizzas in the world. Or as
we say in Italian, tomato pies. [Laughter]
And also, of course, this great city of
Trenton is the home of a President who
was an inspiration to me and to many
others. As you know, Woodrow Wilson
lived for a while and practiced law in
grab my hand. But down the street behind
me, I noticed that almost every parent
stepped back and pushed their little child
forward to reach out and shake the Presi-
dent's hand, and I think that's a good
sign.
The first time I heard of Brendan Byrne
was a little more than 4 years ago. I was
Governor of Georgia in 1973, and I began
to hear radio programs and see on tele-
vision about a man from New Jersey that
couldn't be bought. And I became inter-
ested in him. And I came up to help him
raise money and to help him plan his cam-
paign for Governor of your State.
1576
