July 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to people who have less than $10,000 in ing or the subsidized housing program,
income.
I have tried to make appointments in
very major and sensitive positions to
black people so that would be an obvious
indication about my own concern about
minority citizens.
Housing is a very important aspect,
the rebuilding of downtown urban ghetto
areas. That falls under the responsibility
of the Housing and Urban Development
Department. I put Pat Harris, who hap-
pens to be a black woman, in charge of
that.
A lot of young people serve in the Army
who are minority members of our com-
munities. I appointed the first black Sec-
retary of the Army. The head of all edu-
cation programs in the Nation happens
to be a black woman.
So, I have tried not only to give sym-
bols but I have also tried to make sure
we started programs that would be effec-
tive. Of course, the first budget that I
have available to implement is the 1978
budget, which begins the first of October.
And the brief period I have been in office,
I think, has been a period that we have
used to the utmost advantage so far. But
the outcome of our efforts to give poor
people a new lease on life and a new
chance to improve themselves is one that
can only be proven over the months
ahead.
MR. SANDERS. President Jimmy Carter
is our guest on this edition of the "Black
Press." We will be back for more questions
right after this word.
We continue our questions with Joe
Brown.
HOUSING
MR. BROWN. You have said housing
is important to particularly minorities and
the poor. But it is reported that your ad-
ministration wants to cut subsidized hous-
the program now, which is to provide
about 400,000 homes per year, and it is
reported that your administration wants
to cut that back to 50,000 homes per year
using additional moneys to go to welfare
recipients.
If that is true, then, sir, how-it doesn't
seem to add up that housing is important
to minorities, but we are taking from one
poor group and giving to another poor
group.
THE PRESIDENT. The housing budget
we put forward, which the Congress is
going to approve without a doubt, is prob-
ably the greatest single step forward that
has ever been taken in the country. We
are now building at a rate of about 2
million new homes a year in this Nation,
and this has been a standard rate of
growth over the last number of months.
Block grant programs for urban renewal
are being approved by Congress, just as
Pat Harris and I recommended.
The question that has been raised, not
by me but by some of my heads of depart-
ments, is one that must be decided in the
future, coming along as a part of a com-
prehensive welfare reform, and the basic
question is, should you provide very nice
homes for a few families in our country
or should you give many poor people ad-
ditional income so that the average qual-
ity of their housing should be improved
for millions of people.
So far the basic philosophy of our Gov-
ernment has been to give very nice homes
to just a few people and make many mil-
lions of people suffer. But this is a matter
that will have to be addressed, I would
say, in the next 12 months.
But overall, the amount of money that
goes for better housing for poor people is
going to increase, I guess, every year I
am in the White House.
1342
