Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 1
past, to handle spent fuel from commer-
cial powerplants.
At the same time, we are trying to pre-
vent countries that don't have a nuclear
explosive capability from getting into the
reprocessing field. This reprocessing ca-
pability also means that a nation could
very well acquire the atomic bomb.
I have no objection to the plutonium
age coming. I have no objection to
breeder reactors. I don't think that the
time has yet come. We are now about to
waste, in my opinion, about $2 billion if
the congressional action on the Clinch
River breeder reactor is carried out where
we don't need the particular breeder re-
actor that's in question.
I think 25 or 30 years from now-
maybe not quite that long—we will need
to go into the breeder reactor field. By that
time there's no doubt in my mind that
major advances will be made in the tech-
nology. We have a massive research and
development program that would include
pilot plant operation in the plutonium
field. So, this is a problem, again, that I've
inherited.
My background and graduate work is
in nuclear physics. I think I understand
most of the principles involved. So, we
are reprocessing spent fuel now under the
Government programs. There has not yet
been resolved the problem of whether to
reprocess and how to store spent nuclear
fuel from commercial plants. In most in-
stances, they are storing that spent fuel
on their own premises and sometimes,
perhaps, carelessly-I can't prove that.
Past efforts to reprocess commercially
have been a complete failure, and I just
think that the emphasis ought to be in the
prevention of the proliferation of explo-
sives around the world. And we will be
ready to move into the plutonium or
breeder field when the time comes and
when we need it.
We do have a breeder reactor operat-
ing today. It began operation about a
month ago. It's at Shippingport, Penn-
sylvania. It was developed under the aus-
pices of Admiral Rickover, and it uses a
thorium base for the breeding capability.
It'll be up to a hundred percent operat-
ing level within the next few days. So, the
breeder reactor concept is with us.
PRESIDENT'S SUPPORT IN FARM AREAS
Q. Sir, the New York Times recently
carried a story that indicates you're losing
support among farm people. I was won-
dering if you're aware of this, and if so,
do you plan anything to counteract this
possible loss of support as indicated in
this newspaper article?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know
from looking at the maps the day after
the election, my political support was
about equally divided between urban
and rural people. There were geograph-
ical delineations. I didn't carry many of
the States in the Midwest or in the Far
West. I carried the rural areas in the
South and in New England and in States
like Wisconsin and Minnesota, Ohio, very
well.
I don't think any of our polling results
indicate that I've lost support in the Farm
Belt. The farmers are disturbed, and I'm
a farmer and I'm disturbed as well. We've
had a complete, total failure of our corn
crop. We won't make any cotton at home.
Our soybean crop is very badly damaged.
Our peanut crop is probably going to be
off 25 or 30 percent-because of weather,
not because I became President. [Laugh-
ter] But I know from experience that
farmers tend to blame the President when
they have a short crop or when the prices
are low.
I think this new farm bill, when it's
analyzed by farm groups, and also the set-
aside program for wheat and some feed
1707
