Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
million pairs in 1976 to an average of 162
million pairs during the next 4 years.
3. Anti-Boycott-helped to develop
and signed into law a bill prohibiting
American participation in secondary eco-
nomic boycotts by foreign countries such
as the Arab boycott of Israel.
4. Steel-announced a comprehensive
program to help the domestic steel indus-
try by establishing a "reference price sys-
tem," which will curb the dumping of
under-priced, imported steel.
Transportation
1. U.S.-U.K. Air Agreement-nego-
tiated a new air services agreement with
the United Kingdom.
2. Passive Restraint-ordered airbags
or automatic belts to be placed on all new
cars by 1984. Such a program is expected
to save 9,000 lives and prevent tens of
thousands of injuries per year.
3. Auto Efficiency Standards-raised
fuel efficiency standards for new cars to
22 mpg in 1981, 24 mpg in 1982, 26 mpg
in 1983, and 27 mpg in 1984. These will
save approximately 1 million barrels of oil
per day by 1990.
any
4. Concorde Noise Rules-proposed
the first noise rules to govern domestic
flights of the Concorde SST and fu-
ture SST's. The proposed rules would per-
mit Concordes to use domestic airports
only if they meet reasonable, nondiscrimi-
natory noise rules set by local airport oper-
ators. New SST's would be required to
meet the 1969 subsonic noise standards.
5. Trans-Bus-required public trans-
portation authorities receiving Federal
funds to purchase Trans-Bus, a vehicle ac-
cessible to the handicapped, after 1979.
6. Airline Deregulation-supported
congressional efforts to deregulate the air-
line industry; passed Senate Commerce
Committee.
7. International
Airfares-approved
Laker Airways' application for low-cost,
transatlantic service and subsequent ap-
plications from other airlines offering re-
duced transatlantic and advance-purchase
fares.
8. Northeast Corridor Construction-
began work on the $1.7 billion Northeast
Corridor railbed improvement program
which will facilitate high-speed rail travel
between Boston and Washington, D.C.
9. Waterway Use Fees-urged congres-
sional passage of waterway user fees; dif-
ferent versions have passed the Senate
and House.
10. Vehicle Safety-improved the ve-
hicle safety defect program, causing the
recall of 8 million vehicles for safety-
related defects.
11. Cargo Airline Deregulation-sup-
ported and signed into law a bill to dereg-
ulate the cargo airline industry.
Veterans
1. Discharge Review-established
discharge review program to permit up-
grading of less-than-honorable discharges
for Vietnam era veterans; signed a bill ex-
panding this principle to cover all vet-
erans.
2. Disability Compensation-proposed
and signed into law a bill giving a 6.6 per-
cent cost-of-living increase to recipients of
veterans disability compensation, benefit-
ing 2.5 million people.
3. GI Bill Benefits-proposed and
signed into law a bill raising by 6.6 per-
cent the GI bill educational assistance
benefits for 1.7 million Vietnam-era vet-
erans.
4. Pensions-proposed and signed into
law a 6.5-percent increase in pensions for
2.3 million veterans.
5. Project HIRE established, in asso-
ciation with the National Alliance of
2148
