Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 12
about $48 billion more than deregulation
of natural gas would by 1990. They
mainly said that Americans would not be
able to get as much gas under your plan
and, therefore, would have to resort to
other types of more expensive fuel. Could
you respond to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I haven't heard
of that report, but I can tell you that the
Congressional Budget Office and the
Library of Congress, independently of Dr.
Schlesinger in his assessments, have con-
firmed our own figures. In fact, both those
reports anticipate that deregulation of
natural gas would be much more expen-
sive than even the figures that we have
put forward.
My estimate is that our own proposal,
which I think gives an adequate incen-
tive for production and exploration of
new natural gas, would amount to about
a $15 billion increase in income for the
oil companies, natural gas producers, by
1985.
The Congressional Budget Office esti-
mates that this would be, under deregula-
tion, about $85 billion, which is $70 bil-
lion more with complete natural gas de-
regulation for new gas than what we pro-
posed. The Library of Congress figures go
up to about $150 billion. This means that
the consumers of this country would have
to pay to the oil and natural gas com-
panies an enormous extra amount for a
very slight increase in natural gas pro-
duction, if it was completely deregulated.
I'm not in favor of complete deregula-
tion. We estimate that if natural gas was
completely deregulated, that the in-
creased production would be about 1.1
trillion cubic feet of natural gas at an
increased cost of more than $70 billion.
This means that for every additional
thousand cubic feet discovered, it would
cost the American consumers about $60.
So, I think that our proposal is rea-
sonable. I think that deregulation as pro-
posed by some Members of the Congress
would be a gross overburden on the
American people and would not result
in a substantial increase in production.
RELATIONS WITH THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, what do you make of
all the unfriendly rhetoric coming out of
Moscow lately? And do your sources sug-
gest that it may not just be because of
your human rights campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
explain the unfriendly rhetoric. Our pro-
posals have been fair and reasonable, and
almost all of them have been made public.
We have pursued our hopes for increased
friendship with the Soviet Union, a re-
duction in nuclear weaponry, an easing of
the tensions between ourselves and the
Soviets through quiet diplomatic chan-
Ambassador, with Cy Vance, the Secre-
nels, with myself talking to the Soviet
tary of State, going to Moscow, and in
continuing negotiations at Geneva and
other places by Paul Warnke and other
representatives of me. I believe that the
Soviets, perhaps, have some political rea-
sons for spelling out or exaggerating the
disagreements. I don't know what those
reasons are.
Our positions have been carefully con-
trived and constantly reassessed. I have
no inclination to change the positions that
we have taken; I think they are fair. And
I believe that calm and persistent and fair
negotiations with the Soviet Union will
ultimately lead to increased relationships
with them.
And the public statements that the So-
viets make, attacking me personally or
our own Nation's good faith, are both er-
roneous and ill-advised. But what their
reasons for it might be, I do not know.
1235
