Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
jobs to, in essence, provide full employ-
ment and reduce unemployment.
My question to you is, after having
been in office now for 9 months, do you
still feel strongly that you will be able to
balance the budget before the end of your
first term?
THE PRESIDENT. If we can have a rea-
sonable level of economic prosperity in
our country, the answer is yes. Of course,
I can't control, as you know, and no one
else can control, the worldwide trends
and shortages, inflation, and absence of
export. But with reasonable growth, 5,
6 percent GNP growth per year, the
answer is yes.
Q. Thanks for being here, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to close this
out now very quickly. I would like to ask
Dick Lamm to give a very brief closing
statement. He said he only needs one
minute. I would like to ask Cecil Andrus,
the Secretary of Interior, to make a brief
statement. And then I would like to ask
the Governors, if they will, to meet with
me privately after this meeting adjourns.
Dick Lamm.
SUMMARY
GOVERNOR LAMM. Mr. President, very
briefly, in your office I noticed a plaque
that says, very appropriately, "O Lord,
Thy sea is so vast and my boat is so
small." I think when you think of that
occasionally, if you could think that in
the West we look at that and we say, "O
Lord, our land is so vast, but our water is
so little." It really is.
Second, Mr. President, Colorado, as
you can see, does speak with many voices,
as does every area. I think it's important
for you to know a couple of things, how-
ever. Number one is that with regards to
the water projects that our State legis-
lature, which is a representative body-
sometimes I argue with them, but never-
theless, it is our elective representatives—
they voted 97 to 3 in favor of actually
going ahead with those water projects that
were on your "hit list."
But thirdly, most important, I think it
is important that you do understand that
not only in terms of the reclamation
projects that we do need, that we do
recognize the wisdom of much of what
you say.
The West is running out of the amount
of water that we can supply, that we are
going to have to start learning better
water conservation, we are going to have
to better manage what we have, and that
we definitely have a common cause.
We are very honored that you came
here so we can listen and learn together.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Almost all of the re-
sponsibilities that have been brought out
here today fall directly under the Secre-
tary of Interior, Cecil Andrus. As you
know, he is a former Governor of Idaho.
He's a westerner. He understands, I
think, many of the problems that you
have described. But he, like myself, is
eager to learn more. He has been out here
several times since we have been in office,
works closely with many of those who
have already spoken today. And I would
like to call on Cecil to make a brief state-
ment as we close out our meeting.
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Thank you very
much, Mr. President.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think it was
much more beneficial to all of us that any
time that I might have spent at the micro-
phone was used by the panel members
that you see here and members of the
audience to have the opportunity to ex-
press their opinion to the President of the
United States.
Now, we might disagree with one an-
other, but where else in the world other
than in America, and in Denver, Colo-
1883
