Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 30, 1977
Roanoke, Virginia
Remarks at a Campaign Rally for Democratic
Candidates for State Office.
September 24, 1977
Thank you, everybody. Right on.
Thank you very much.
It's a great pleasure to me to be back
in Virginia with men who will be im-
portant in your lives in the future, as
they have been in the past-Attorney
General Ed Lane, Lieutenant Governor
Chuck Robb, Governor Henry Howell.
I thought I knew Henry Howell well.
I've always heard he was a man of the
people. He's the first person I ever saw
that came to the White House and ate a
cheeseburger with a knife and fork.
[Laughter]
I've always been proud of the fact that
when I first came to Virginia to begin my
campaign a couple of years ago and
didn't have very many friends, I went to
Henry Howell's home, and he and Betty
were nice enough to let me sleep there.
I think Henry may have mentioned that
on occasion. [Laughter] And I need for
you to help me in the next few weeks, be-
cause 15 or 20 years from now, I would
like very much to be able to tell my
grandchildren that I slept in the same
bed that was used by the Governor of
Virginia. [Laughter]
You have a beautiful State. Of course,
I come from a beautiful State, but when
I do come to Virginia, I feel an extra
degree of humility, because your State
has produced eight Presidents and mine
has only produced one. [Laughter] It's
not an accident that Virginia has pro-
duced men and women who have laid
the cornerstone of our country, because
in historic times and in modern times
alike, the characteristics that fill your
heart are the ones that have made our
Nation great.
In 1973 I was Governor of Georgia. I
didn't have much time to be away from
my own duties. I did not have any re-
sponsibilities for the national Demo-
cratic Party. But I heard about a man
who was running for Governor. I was a
small businessman, and I wanted to be
sure that I could come to give my own
help in a very small way to a man who
believes in sound management, balanced
budgets, no tax increases. As a farmer, I
wanted someone who understood agri-
culture and the proper interrelationship
that must exist between State govern-
ment and the Federal Government. And
I wanted someone as my friend who
truly represents the best interests of those
who are not rich, not influential, and
don't want to dominate government for
themselves, but want to see government
controlled by consumers and housewives
and the working people of this country.
So, I took a Saturday off, and I came
to Virginia to campaign for Henry
1653
