July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The Office of Management and Budget
would remain as a separate entity in the
EOP, but some functional changes should
be made. Four functions should be trans-
ferred from OMB to other parts of the
government:
• Administration to the new EOP Cen-
tral Administrative Unit;
• Executive Department/Labor Rela-
tions (except for Pay Agent, Execu-
tive Level Pools, and Legislative
Analysis) to the Civil Service Com-
mission;
• Advisory Committee Management
Secretariat to the General Services
Administration;
• Statistical Policy (except Forms
Clearance) to the Department of
Commerce.
I have asked the OMB to reorganize its
management arm to emphasize major
Presidential initiatives, such as reorga-
nization, program evaluation, paper-
work reduction, and regulatory reform.
The Council on Environmental Quality
(CEQ) should remain in the EOP as an
environmental adviser to the President.
The CEQ's major purpose is to provide
an independent assessment of our policies
for improving the environment. Toward
this end, it will analyze long term trends
and conditions in the environment. It will
advise OMB on the reorganization of nat-
ural resources functions within the Fed-
eral government. The Council will retain
the functions it now has under NEPA and
Executive Order No. 11514 with the ex-
ception of routine review of the adequacy
of impact statements and the administra-
tive aspects of their receipt and handling.
The EPA will take over CEQ's evaluation
responsibility under the Federal Nonnu-
clear Energy Research Development Act
of 1974. The CEQ will continue to review
and publish the Annual Report on En-
vironmental Quality.
The strength of the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers (CEQ) lies in its eco-
nomic analysis of current policy choices.
It also presents objective economic data,
makes macroeconomic forecasts, and anal-
yzes economic trends and their impact on
the national economy. It will continue
with a small reduction in staff.
The Office of Science and Technology
Policy (OSTP) should retain those
science, engineering, and technology func-
tions which can be so useful in helping the
President and his advisers make decisions
about policy and budget issues. Instead of
the Intergovernmental Science, Engineer-
ing, and Technology Advisory Panels, the
President should rely on an intergovern-
mental relations working group, chaired
by the Science Adviser. The Federal Co-
ordinating Council on Science and Tech-
nology should operate as a sub-Cabinet
working group chaired by the Science Ad-
viser. The reorganization work of the
President's Committee on Science and
Technology would be part of the overall
reorganization effort. The responsibility
for preparing certain reports should be
transferred to the National Science Foun-
dation.
The proposal places manageable limits
on OSTP's broad mandate while em-
phasizing functions that support the
President.
The Office of the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations (STR) is now
operating effectively and will be retained
essentially as is. With the difficult negotia-
tions now underway in Geneva, the bene-
fits of transferring the STR to another
agency are outweighed by the potential
reduction in its effectiveness as an inter-
national negotiator.
The National Security Council (NSC)
will be retained in its present form and
its staff slightly reduced.
Intelligence Oversight Board (IOB)
should be retained to insure that abuses
1258
