Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 11
mental Programs of the Smithsonian In-
stitution. Since 1976 he has been West
Coast Representative for Defenders of
Wildlife and for Monitor, Inc.
Agency for International
Communication
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977.
October 11, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith Reorganization
Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1977 to consolidate certain
international communication, educa-
tional and cultural, and broadcasting
activities of the United States Govern-
ment. I am acting under the authority
vested in me by the Reorganization Act,
chapter 9 of title 5 of the United States
Code. I am also acting pursuant to sec-
tion 501 of the Foreign Relations Author-
ization Act, Fiscal Year 1978 (Public Law
95-105), which provides that my recom-
mendations for reorganizing these activ-
ities be transmitted by October 31, 1977.
This reorganization will consolidate
into a new agency, to be known as the
Agency for International Communica-
tion, the functions now exercised by the
State Department's Bureau of Educa-
tional and Cultural Affairs and the
United States Information Agency.
The principal aspects of this proposal
are:
-The new agency will take over
USIA's international communications
programs (including the Voice of Amer-
ica) and the international educational
and cultural exchange activities now con-
ducted by the Bureau of Educational and
Cultural Affairs.
-The agency's Director will be the
principal advisor on international infor-
mation and exchange activities to the
President, the National Security Council,
and the Secretary of State. Under the di-
rection of the Secretary of State, the Di-
rector will have primary responsibility
within the Government for the conduct of
such activities. The Director, the Deputy
Director and the Associate Directors of
the new agency will be confirmed by the
Senate.
-The two commissions that now ad-
vise USIA and the Bureau of Educational
and Cultural Affairs will be combined
into a single seven-member commission.
Members of this nonpartisan commission
will be chosen from fields related to the
agency's mission. The commissioners will
be appointed by the President and con-
firmed by the Senate.
The purpose of this reorganization is to
broaden our informational, educational
and cultural intercourse with the world,
since this is the major means by which
our government can inform others about
our country, and inform ourselves about
the rest of the world.
The new Agency for International
Communication will play a central role in
building these two-way bridges of under-
standing between our people and the
other peoples of the world. Only by know-
ing and understanding each other's ex-
periences can we find common ground on
which we can examine and resolve our
differences.
The new agency will have two distinct
but related goals:
• To tell the world about our society
and policies-in particular our com-
mitment to cultural diversity and
individual liberty.
• To tell ourselves about the world, so
as to enrich our own culture as well
as to give us the understanding to
deal effectively with problems among
nations.
1765
