Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 4
reciprocity, and mutual accommodation of interests, if these are observed,
then the United States and the Soviet Union will not only succeed in limit-
ing weapons but will also create a foundation of better relations in other
spheres of interest.
The United States is willing to go as far as possible, consistent with
our security interest, in limiting and reducing our nuclear weapons. On a
reciprocal basis we are willing now to reduce them by 10 percent or 20
percent, even 50 percent. Then we will work for further reductions to a
world truly free of nuclear weapons.
The United States also recognizes a threat of continued testing of
nuclear explosives.
Negotiations for a comprehensive ban on nuclear explosions are now
being conducted by the United States, the United Kingdom, and the
Soviet Union. As in other areas where vital national security interests are
engaged, agreements must be verifiable and fair. They must be seen by all
the parties as serving a longer term interest that justifies the restraints
of the moment.
The longer term interest in this instance is to close one more avenue
of nuclear competition and thereby demonstrate to all the world that the
major nuclear powers take seriously our obligations to reduce the threat
of nuclear catastrophe.
My country believes that the time has come to end all explosions of
nuclear devices, no matter what their claimed justification, peaceful or
military, and we appreciate the efforts of other nations to reach this same
goal.
During the past 9 months, I have expressed the special importance
that we attach to controlling nuclear proliferation. But I fear that many
do not understand why the United States feels as it does.
Why is it so important to avoid the chance that 1 or 2 or 10 other
nations might acquire 1 or 2 or 10 nuclear weapons of their own?
Let me try to explain why I deeply believe that this is one of the
greatest challenges that we face in the next quarter of a century.
It's a truism that nuclear weapons are a powerful deterrent. They
are a deterrent because they threaten. They could be used for terrorism
or blackmail as well as for war. But they threaten not just the intended
enemy, they threaten every nation, combatant or noncombatant alike.
That is why all of us must be concerned.
Let me be frank. The existence of nuclear weapons in the United
States and the Soviet Union, in Great Britain, France, and China, is
1717
