Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
citizens, simply because we're not the lead
agency in serving senior citizens.
You pointed out the guidelines and the
time involved in getting your application
in. May I point out to you that Mr. Glen-
wood Johnson, the Regional Director in
our Chicago office would you stand,
Glenwood? I'd like you to get together
with him after this, and would you repeat
to him your concerns on the guidelines
and when the application goes in and all
that, to be sure that if there's a major
problem that we take care of it imme-
diately.
Like I said, we don't have the respon-
sibility for senior citizens. We get $10 mil-
lion. And our job is to be sure that we
identify as many of those who are eligible
for the existing programs. But that amount
has been static for the last 4 or 5 years.
We're hoping that we'll get a little bit
more. But I'm not sure that it's only money
that's going to solve the problem. I think
we need to coordinate a little bit better.
And then, lastly, I should tell you that
we do have an interagency group looking
at the whole issue of who is in poverty
and who isn't in poverty, and what do
they mean by poverty guidelines, and how
do you measure poverty in this era where
people, even the middle class, can't af-
ford to pay utility bills and buy houses.
THE PRESIDENT. We're going to go to
the audience now. I would like to say,
though, one thing about, particularly, Mr.
Fox's comments, since he represents the
elderly. The Senate, as you know, passed
this week a change in the mandatory re-
tirement age from 65 to 70. I have always
felt that it was better for a person that age
who wants to work to be allowed to do so,
rather than to force them into retirement
or onto the unemployed rolls.
Also, we are moving strongly to take
advantage of what you've just described,
that it's always cheaper for someone
to receive services in their own home than
it is to go into a nursing home or go into a
public institution. Almost invariably, too,
the elderly person or retired person is
much happier if they can live in one's
own home. And that involves public
meals. It also involves health care. It also
involves recreation. And we know that
there are many who need help with hous-
ing. We are continuing and restrengthen-
ing the 202 housing program that pro-
vides public housing for the elderly, and
of course, the Section 8 rent supplements
will help all those around this table and
those whom you do represent.
I thought that Ms. Chappell I'm
sorry I pronounced your name wrong—
made some very good points on the special
problems of people who are not elderly,
who are not disabled, but who do qualify
and genuinely need the services of the
welfare program under HEW.
There's too much of an overlap and a
lack of communication among the dif-
ferent Federal agencies. We're trying to
bring some order out of chaos in making
sure that these agencies do have a special
responsibility, that they have to cooperate,
communicate, and work with one another,
because if it's hard for me in the White
House, with all my authority, to under-
stand which Federal agency does what,
it's impossible for you to understand which
Federal agency does what.
We do have an outstanding group of
women at the top levels in our Federal
Government. Graciela Olivarez is only
one of them. At the head of the Housing
and Urban Development Department, we
have a strong, competent woman; at the
head of the Commerce Department,
responsible for all public works programs
and EDA programs, we have a strong and
competent woman; at the head of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Agency
[Commission], as you know, we have a
strong and competent woman, and many
others in Cabinet and sub-Cabinet levels.
1847
