Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I'm going to do the
best I can to have the treaties ratified.
And I think that we will succeed. But
the time schedule is something that I can't
predict right now. It's going to be a matter
of great importance to me and to our
country and to this hemisphere, and I
think a failure to ratify the treaty would
have very serious consequences.
Q. The Hill leaders are saying it won't
be 'til next year. Do you accept that that's
probably what will happen?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is, I think,
a guess at this point that would be good.
But I've talked to the leaders on the
Democratic and Republican sides, and if
it seems apparent that we have enough
votes to ratify the treaty during this ses-
sion of Congress, they've all assured me
that that would be their desire.
Q. Don't bring it up if you don't have
the vote.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right.
Q. What do you mean by "serious
consequences"? You've said that several
times now. Do you mean war?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, no, I wouldn't
want to predict war. But I think it would
be a serious disappointment on behalf of
all the nations of this hemisphere in the
refusal to ratify the treaty by our coun-
try. I don't, obviously, predict war. But
there would be a deterioration of the rela-
tionships between our country and almost
every nation south of here.
Q. Do you see your own relationship to
other foreign policy questions tied to your
success or failure on this particular one?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, to some degree,
yes, because it tests the character and the
will of the American people to do what's
fair, what's right, what's decent, and to
treat other nations with respect, and at
the same time to enhance the security
and well-being of our own people. And I
think it would be a reflection on our judg-
ment and our fairness if the treaty was
not ratified.
Q. And if it is ratified, do you then
have a better hand in the Mideast, on
SALT, on other questions?
THE PRESIDENT. I think my own posi-
tion would be enhanced in that it would
be a show of support for my administra-
tion by the Congress and the people, yes.
NOTE: The exchange began at 3:15 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Meeting With President Carlos
Humberto Romero of
El Salvador
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting.
September 8, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
President Romero from El Salvador
was very gratifying to us.
In the past, there has been great con-
cern in the United States about two ques-
tions: One, the question of human rights
and the fact that charges have been made
and allegations have been made that
there were violations of these rights in El
Salvador.
President Romero has informed me
that he has requested that a commission.
on human rights from the United Na-
tions or OAS go to El Salvador to see the
great progress that has been made there
in the last 2 months. And we are grateful
to get this good news.
Another item that has been of great
concern to us and all the nations of this
hemisphere has been the absence of ap-
proval by the Congress of El Salvador of
1552
