Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 8
These proposals would provide adequate incentives for exploration
and production of domestic oil and gas, but some of the oil companies
want much more-tens of billions of dollars more. They want greatly
increased prices for "old" oil and gas-energy supplies which have already
been discovered and which are being produced now. They want imme-
diate and permanent deregulation of gas prices, which would cost con-
sumers $70 billion or more between now and 1985. They want even
higher prices than those we've proposed for "new" gas and oil, and they
want the higher prices sooner. They want lower taxes on their profits.
These are all controversial questions, and the congressional debates,
as you can well imagine, are intense. The political pressures are great
because the stakes are so high, billions and billions of dollars. We should
reward individuals and companies who discover and produce new oil and
gas, but we must not give them huge windfall profits on their existing
wells at the expense of the American people.
Now the energy proposal that I made to Congress last April has
three basic elements to ensure that it is well balanced. First, it's fair both
to the American consumers and to the energy producers, and it will not
disrupt our national economy. Second, as I've said before, it's designed
to meet our important goals for energy conservation, to promote a shift
to more plentiful and permanent energy supplies and encourage increased
production of energy in the United States. And third, it protects our
Federal budget from any unreasonable burden. These are the three stand-
ards by which the final legislation must be judged. I will sign the energy
bills only if they meet these tests.
During the next few weeks, the Congress will make a judgment on
these vital questions. I will be working closely with them. And you are
also deeply involved in these decisions. This is not a contest of strength
between the President and the Congress, nor between the House and the
Senate. What is being measured is the strength and will of our Nation—
whether we can acknowledge a threat and meet a serious challenge
together.
I'm convinced that we can have enough energy to permit the contin-
ued growth of our economy, to expand production and jobs, and to protect
the security of the United States-if we act wisely.
I believe that this country can meet any challenge, but this is an
exceptionally difficult one because the threat is not easy to see and the
solution is neither simple nor politically popular.
I said 6 months ago that no one would be completely satisfied
with this National Energy Plan. Unfortunately, that prediction has turned
1985
