June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency (Planning and Manage-
ment). Drayton is a lecturer on public
regulation and management reform at the
Kennedy School of Government at
Harvard University and a management
consultant for McKinsey & Co. in New
York City.
He was born June 15, 1943, in New
York City. He received an A.B. from
Harvard, an M.A. from Balliol College,
Oxford University, and a J.D. from Yale
Law School.
Drayton has been a management con-
sultant with McKinsey & Co. since 1970.
He has been on leave from McKinsey
since 1975, serving as a visiting associate
professor at Stanford Law School in 1975-
76 and a lecturer at the Kennedy School
of Government in 1976-77. In 1976 he
worked on the Carter-Mondale campaign
and transition staff on regulatory reform
and reorganization.
U.N. Commission on the
Status of Women
Appointment of Koryne Horbal as
U.S. Representative. June 27, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of Koryne Horbal, of Min-
neapolis, Minn., as the Representative of
the United States on the Commission on
the Status of Women of the Economic and
Social Council of the United Nations.
Horbal is vice president and secretary of
the American Contracting Corp. in
Minneapolis.
She was born February 11, 1937, in
Minneapolis. She worked for Batten, Bar-
ton, Durstine and Osborn advertising
agency from 1955 to 1965, and has been
with the American Contracting Corp.
since 1958.
Horbal is a member of the Democratic
National Committee, the DNC Charter
Commission, and the National Organiza-
tion of Women. She served on the Carter-
Mondale National Steering Committee
in 1976.
President's Commission on
Military Compensation
Executive Order 11998. June 27, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is
hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is established the
President's Commission on Military Com-
pensation, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, which shall be composed of
not more than nine members who shall be
appointed by the President.
(b) The President shall designate a
Chairman from among the members.
SEC. 2. (a) The Commission shall re-
view at least the analyses, findings, and
recommendations related to military com-
pensation which have been completed by
the Quadrennial Reviews of Military
Compensation, the Comptroller General,
the Interagency Committee Study of Uni-
formed Services Retirement and Survivor
Benefits, the Department of Defense Re-
tirement Study Group, and the Defense
Manpower Commission.
(b) The Commission shall identify,
study, and make recommendations on
critical military compensation issues, spe-
cifically addressing the following issues:
(1) What form of military compensa-
tion is the most effective for meeting the
needs of the Nation in peace and war?
Is the present pay and allowances system
appropriate? If not, what changes (such
1176
