Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 12
don't have any complaints about it. I
think you've been fair.
Thank you, again.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:03 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on November 12.
Sugar, Sirups, and Molasses
Imports
Proclamation 4538. November 11, 1977
IMPORT FEES ON SUGAR, SIRUPS, AND
MOLASSES
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
1. The Secretary of Agriculture has ad-
vised me that he has reason to believe
that certain sugars, sirups, and molasses,
derived from sugar cane or sugar beets,
classified under items 155.20 and 155.30,
of the Tariff Schedules of the United
States (TSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202), are
being, or are practically certain to be,
imported into the United States under
such conditions and in such quantities as
to render or tend to render ineffective, or
to materially interfere with, the price sup-
port operations now being conducted by
the Department of Agriculture for sugar
cane and sugar beets, or to reduce sub-
stantially the amount of any product be-
ing processed in the United States from
domestic sugar beets and sugar cane.
2. I agree that there is reason for such
belief by the Secretary of Agriculture.
Therefore, I am requesting the United
States International Trade Commission
to make an immediate investigation with
respect to this matter pursuant to section
22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as
amended (7 U.S.C. 624), and to report
its findings and recommendations to me
as soon as possible.
3. The Secretary of Agriculture has
also determined and reported to me, with
regard to such sugars, sirups, and mo-
lasses, that a condition exists which re-
quires emergency treatment, and that the
import fees hereinafter proclaimed should
be imposed without awaiting the report
and recommendations of the United
States International Trade Commission.
4. I find and declare that the imposi-
tion of import fees hereinafter proclaimed,
without awaiting the recommendations of
the United States International Trade
Commission with respect to such action,
is necessary in order that the entry, or
withdrawal from warehouse, for con-
sumption of certain sugars, sirups, and
molasses, described below by value, use
and physical description, and classified
under TSUS items 155.20 and 155.30,
will not render or tend to render ineffec-
tive, or materially interfere with, the price
support operations now being conducted
by the Department of Agriculture for
sugar cane or sugar beets, or reduce sub-
stantially the amount of any product proc-
essed in the United States from domestic
sugar beets or sugar cane.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
acting under the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and Statutes of the
United States of America, including sec-
tion 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment
Act, as amended, do hereby proclaim that
Part 3 of the Appendix to the TSUS is
amended as follows:
(a) A new headnote is added which
reads as follows:
4. Sugar, sirups, and molasses
Licenses may be issued by the Secretary of
Agriculture or his designee authorizing the
entry of articles exempt from the fees provided
for in items 956.10, 956.20, 957.10 and 957.20
2019
