Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
or a safe ladder, it would take you a year
to do it. And it would take a 200-page
volume to describe every possible danger
that could be related to a ladder or a
chair.
I think the Federal Government ought
to get out of those kinds of detailed safety
precautions when the worker can observe
with his or her own eyes that a danger
exists, and then have the safety regula-
tions covered perhaps by increases in the
payment for workmen's compensation if
an employer does have a dangerous place
for the employees to work.
It's a little different in the case of health
because, for instance, in my peanut shell-
ing plant for years we treated peanut seed
with what is called sericin, which is a
mercury compound. I had no idea that it
was poisonous, and neither did my other
employees that worked with me in the
shelling plant. But had we had OSHA
back then in the fifties and early sixties
they could have told us that a mercury
compound was dangerous to our health
because an employee can't tell what is
dangerous.
For a long time nobody knew that
breathing cotton lint would give you
permanent lung disease or asbestos fibers
would cause death. Nobody knew any-
thing about radioactivity. So, I think in
the field of health care that the regula-
tions often are necessary.
In the safety area, I don't think many
of them are necessary. But we are doing
what we can now to simplify the whole
system, to shift the program as I've de-
scribed to you. I hope the Congress will
help us with it and just a change in those
regulation forms that I described to you
will make a million and a half small busi-
nessmen happy before the end of Sep-
tember.
NEUTRON BOMB
Q. Good evening, Mr. President. My
name is Michael Espy, and I'm presently
a law student out of state. I understand
the effect of the neutron bomb will serve
to devastate human life through the
spread of radiation, while leaving prop-
erty, military structures, and other tangi-
ble objects relatively unaffected through
the minimal blast and heat effect.
In light of this, what is the rationale
behind
your encouragement of a produc-
tion of a weapon of this nature, which
would seem to prioritize property over the
preservation of human life?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I have not yet decided whether to produce
the neutron bomb or to deploy it among
our own forces in Europe and other places.
I will make that decision before this sum-
mer is over. I've not yet studied the
subject.
But I might point out to you a few brief
facts about it. Any nuclear weapon is hor-
rible, and the first nation that uses nuclear
weapons must be sure that the act is justi-
fiable in the protection of invaded prop-
erty or other very serious reasons for such
use.
We now have the warheads of the
Lance missile and our large gun projec-
tiles, nuclear weapons. They destroy large
areas of territory with both the bomb blast,
fire from the explosion, and radiation. For
the same projectile, you would have about
the same radiation, much less blast or
flames. This means in a way-and I think
everybody agrees with it—that if you ever
use a neutron bomb, it's much better than
using a regular presently deployed projec-
tile or Lance missile warhead. I hope
never to use either one.
If we use them, for instance, on prop-
erty that is invaded our country or the
countries of our allies—then you would
need to move into that area as rapidly as
1331
