Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Bills Concerning Indochina
Refugees and Prisoner
Transfers With Mexico and
Canada
Remarks on Signing H.R. 7769 and S. 1682
Into Law. October 28, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body.
This is one of those days and one of
those occasions when our Nation puts its
best foot forward. One of the most diffi-
cult things for a strong and proud country
to do is to acknowledge its own commit-
ment to a difficult political principle like
the one of human rights.
It's easy for us to preach to other coun-
tries, to criticize South Africa, to criticize
Czechoslovakia, to be concerned about
Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union,
and to talk about prisoners in Chile. But
when it comes down to our own Nation,
we are so proud of our past achievements
that quite often it's hard for us to ac-
knowledge our own needs for compassion.
I doubt if any other group of refugees
in my lifetime have been so devastated
by war than those from Vietnam and
Laos, Cambodia. And it's been a very
controversial thing domestically to have
people come into our country who don't
know the language, who are not, at the
time they come, self-sufficient, and who,
when they receive language training and
vocational training and education and
job placement, compete for scarce jobs.
But the Congress again has shown that
we are a great nation, not just militarily
and economically but in our commitment
to principles.
This bill from the House, number 7769,
acknowledges our gratitude and also our
debt, also our commitment to a better life
for the refugees who have been here for a
number of months, even years, from
Southeast Asia and those who have come
just this year. It permits the granting to
them of additional opportunity for lan-
guage training, for vocational training,
for basic education principles, for counsel-
ing, for job placement.
It also gives them legal resident alien
status which they can obtain after they
have been here 2 years. Most of them
have already been here that long and be-
came eligible for citizenship.
I think this is a great step forward. Al-
though the citizenship procedures take 5
years, it puts them on an equal basis with
others who come to our country with re-
newed hope for their lives.
I'm very glad, also, that this provides
us with a means, at some significant ex-
pense to the Federal Treasury, to help
State and local governments, who have
been bearing an inordinate financial re-
sponsibility for these refugees. And now
it puts it on a firm financial basis so that
there can be an assurance, leading up to
an ultimate conclusion of this program
as these people are assimilated into our
society, that they will be cared for prop-
erly.
So, it's with a great deal of pleasure
that I sign this bill, House of Represent-
atives bill 7769, that provides human
rights to the refugees from Southeast Asia.
I particularly want to thank those in
the Congress behind me who worked so
hard on this. I won't try to name them all,
but I'm very grateful to them. And I be-
lieve that this exemplifies, in a fine spirit,
what our country stands for.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 7769
into law.]
I think before I ask some of the Con-
gress Members to say a word that I'll
cover the other bill as well. It has the same
general tone, but kind of a mirror image.
This bill carries out the principles of
treaties with our closest neighbors and al-
1918
