Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Christmas is also a time of tradition.
This is a time to look back, to see the fine
things of life that, because they are so
good and decent, have been preserved.
This evening, we have a ceremony that
will commemorate one of those commit-
ments. For more than 50 years, since Cal-
vin Coolidge lived in the White House,
every single President has been over to
join in the lighting of the National
Christmas Tree. This also commemorates
a continuity of beliefs-belief in one
another, belief in our Nation, belief in
principles like honesty and justice and
freedom, and our religious beliefs, above
all.
Ours is a nation of peace, and I thank
God that our Nation is at peace. We not
only preserve a peaceful life for those who
live in the United States, but one of the
major commitments of our leaders be-
fore me and now is to try to institute an
opportunity for peaceful existence for
others. In regions that might be torn with
war, we try to bring friendship, and in re-
gions of the world that are torn by dis-
putes, we try to bring understanding.
We've seen two great leaders in re-
cent weeks, the President of Egypt, the
Prime Minister of Israel, lead in a dra-
matic way and, indeed, inspire the world
with courage. And it is strange, isn't it,
that it requires courage just to search for
peace under some circumstances. Well,
our Nation has been a bulwark where
those who want peace can turn, and the
staunchness of our commitment has been
and can be an inspiration to others.
A few months ago, I designated Decem-
ber 15, today, as a day of prayer. And I
hope that all of you in this great audience
and all who watch and listen on televi-
sion, radio, will make a special promise
to yourselves during this holiday season
to pray for guidance in our lives, purposes,
guidance for the wisdom and commitment
and honesty of public officials and other
leaders, guidance that we can see our
Nation realize its great potential and the
vision that formed it 200 years ago, and
guidance that we will fulfill our deepest
moral and religious commitments.
We look back on our own personal
lives. Cecil Andrus remembered his fam-
ily. I remember my own when I was a
child and when Christmas was a day that
we thought about 365 days a year-look-
ing forward with anticipation, trying to
measure up with standards, looking
around our shoulders to see who was
watching our performance. And some-
times I know that when we look back,
we tend to put a rosy attitude or picture
of what actually occurred. My favorite
poet is Dylan Thomas, and he wrote "A
Child's Christmas in Wales," and he
tried to point out the confusion that
sometimes exists in the mind of an adult
about childhood, when he said he couldn't
remember whether it snowed 6 days and
6 nights when he was 12 or snowed
12 days and 12 nights when he was 6.
But it didn't really matter, because the
memory was precious even though it was
slightly confused.
We've never seen it snow in Plains on
Christmas, but we're going back to Plains
next week to be with our friends, to be
with our families, to be with those who
have loved us throughout a lifetime and
those whom we still love, for Christmas
is also a time of celebration, of festivity, of
enjoyment, of pleasure, of self-gratifica-
tion, even. And there is no incompatibility
between memories, religious beliefs, tradi-
tion, peace, and going back home and be-
ing happy. They all kind of tie together.
Our Nation is not one of solemn faces
and sad demeanors, but our Nation is one
of hope and vision and even happiness.
And Christmas is a time to remind us that
even when we do suffer and are disap-
pointed in the United States and live even
a dismal life, compared to our own imme-
2126
