Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 20
"(e) (1) The head of each Executive
agency that maintains any existing build-
ing or will maintain any new building
shall submit no later than six months after
the issuance of guidelines pursuant to sub-
section (d), to the Administrator a ten-
year plan designed to the maximum ex-
tent practicable to meet the goals in sub-
section (b) for the total of existing or new
Federal buildings. Such ten-year plans
shall only consider improvements that are
cost-effective consistent with the criteria
established by the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget (OMB Cir-
cular A-94) and the method established
pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section.
The plan submitted shall specify appro-
priate energy-saving initiatives and shall
estimate the expected improvements by
fiscal year in terms of specific accomplish-
ments-energy savings and cost savings
together with the estimated costs of
achieving the savings.
(2) The plans submitted shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, include the
results of preliminary energy audits of all
existing buildings with over 30,000 gross
square feet of space owned and main-
tained by Executive agencies. Further, the
second annual report submitted under
subsection (g)(2) of this Section shall,
to the maximum extent practicable, in-
clude the results of preliminary energy
audits of all existing buildings with more
than 5,000 but not more than 30,000 gross
square feet of
feet of space. The purpose of such
preliminary energy audits shall be to iden-
tify the type, size, energy use level and
major energy using systems of existing
Federal buildings.
(3) The Administrator shall evaluate
agency plans relative to the guidelines es-
tablished pursuant to subsection (d) for
such plans and relative to the cost estimat-
ing method established pursuant to sub-
section (c). Plans determined to be defi-
cient by the Administrator will be re-
turned to the submitting agency head for
revision and resubmission within 60 days.
(4) The head of any Executive agency
submitting a plan, should he disagree with
the Administrator's determination with
respect to that plan, may appeal to the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget for resolution of the disagree-
ment.
"(f) The head of each agency submit-
ting a plan or revised plan determined not
deficient by the Administrator or, on ap-
peal, by the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, shall imple-
ment the plan in accord with approved
budget estimates.
"(g) (1) Each Executive agency shall
submit to the Administrator an overall
plan for conserving fuel and energy in all
operations of the agency. This overall plan
shall be in addition to and include any
ten-year plan for energy conservation in
Government buildings submitted in ac-
cord with Subsection (e).
(2) By July 1 of each year, each Execu-
tive agency shall submit a report to the
Administrator on progress made toward
achieving the goals established in the
overall plan required by paragraph (1)
of this subsection. The annual report shall
include quantitative measures and accom-
plishment with respect to energy saving
actions taken, the cost of these actions, the
energy saved, the costs saved, and other
benefits realized.
(3) The Administrator shall prepare a
consolidated annual report on Federal
government progress toward achieving the
goals, including aggregate quantitative
measures of accomplishment as well as
suggested revisions to the ten-year plan,
and submit the report to the President by
August 15 of each year.
"(h) Each agency required to submit
a plan shall submit to the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget with
the agency's annual budget submission,
1301
