Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
nomic conditions, so that our national
economic progress will not be at the
expense of any one group or area.
This Conference is an important op-
portunity for citizens organizations, pub-
lic interest groups, labor and business
represenatives, and State and local offi-
cials to recommend ways in which my
administration can work toward bal-
anced economic growth and development
in the years ahead.
I am pleased to announce the appoint-
ment of Dr. Michael S. Koleda, former
vice president of the National Planning
Association, as Director of the Confer-
ence. Under his able leadership, the Con-
ference will become a national forum
through which our concern about these
issues and our determination to seek solu-
tions can be expressed.
I have asked Secretary of Commerce
Juanita M. Kreps to coordinate the
efforts of her Department with those of
the Departments of Agriculture and
Housing and Urban Development and
other departments and agencies in pre-
paring for this Conference.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House an-
nounced the appointment, by Secretary of
Commerce Juanita M. Kreps, of Dr. Michael
S. Koleda as Director of the Conference.
Undocumented Aliens
Remarks on Transmitting a Message to
the Congress. August 4, 1977
I have an announcement to make this
afternoon, and then following my brief
statement, the Attorney General and the
Director of the Immigration and Natu-
ralization Service and the Labor Secre-
tary will answer your questions.
Within this last decade, the problem of
undocumented aliens or illegal aliens or
undocumented workers has become in-
creasingly severe. It now comprises a total
of literally millions of people who have
come into our country against the law
and who are still in the United States.
Last year alone, 875,000 undocu-
mented workers were apprehended by the
immigration officials, and the estimates
are that only one out of three coming into
our country are actually caught.
Last month alone, in San Diego
County, 35,000 undocumented workers
were apprehended, and this is a 25-
percent increase over last year. So, the
problem is not only severe but it's get-
ting worse.
I'm today sending the Congress a mes-
sage on this complex problem of undocu-
mented aliens. As you may know, we've
been studying this problem for the last
several months, and the Congress has
been working on it for the last several
years.
I'm proposing actions that would meet
four major needs: first of all, to regain
greater control over our own borders;
secondly, to limit employment opportu-
nities of those who are illegally in our
country and who are competing with
American workers for scarce jobs; third,
the registration and the regulation of the
millions of undocumented workers who
are already here; and, fourth, improving
cooperation with countries from which
these undocumented workers are coming
into our own Nation.
The proposals that I'm making to Con-
gress fulfill each of these needs. First of
all, border controls would be improved
by adding at least 2,000 additional en-
forcement officers at the borders and by
concentrating their presence where the
1415
