Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 13
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think I'll be
working with most of the Members of
Congress.
Q. Mr. President, do you think the cre-
ation of a Palestinian state would lead to
the destruction of Israel-or entity-
THE PRESIDENT. I've never advocated
an independent Palestinian state.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon on the
South Grounds of the White House.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
OCTOBER 13, 1977
ENERGY LEGISLATION
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body.
Back in April when a national energy
policy was presented to the Congress and
to the people, I said that because of the
importance of it that this was a moral
equivalent of war. I haven't changed my
mind. In fact, the seriousness of the en-
ergy crisis is even more acute than it was
then.
But as is the case in time of war, there
is potential war profiteering in the im-
pending energy crisis. This could develop,
with the passing months, as the biggest
ripoff in history. And the issues involved
here are extremely important. We live in
a nation and we believe in the free enter-
prise system where market forces deter-
mine prices. But the oil and gas industry
is not part of that system because prices
are not free. They are heavily influenced
by decisions made outside our country by
the OPEC nations, and they are heavily
influenced by some control over the rate
of production by American companies.
And there's an inevitable increasing short-
age of oil and gas, which we all recognize,
I believe, without dispute.
Prices have gone up drastically in the
last few years. They are going to go up
some more. That also is inevitable. But
the question is: Who will profit from
these prices and to what degree?
The package that was presented to the
Congress in April is fair. It's well-bal-
anced. It assures that the American peo-
ple are not robbed. It also ensures that
the oil companies get enough incentive to
ensure adequate exploration and produc-
tion. But the oil companies apparently
want it all.
And we are talking about enormous
amounts of money. Never before in our
history has this much money been in-
volved in a decision controlled by Govern-
ment policy and by legislation.
The struggle is intense. It's going to go
on for a long time. But the basic question
is going to be resolved within the next few
weeks in the Congress.
Now, the oil companies deserve incen-
tive, and our proposals have been both
fair and they have been adequately gen-
erous. In 1973, for instance, just before
the OPEC price rise and the oil embargo,
the oil and gas industries had an income
of $18 billion. Under our proposal, by
1985 their annual income would be about
$100 billion, an enormous increase. What
the oil companies and gas companies are
now demanding and making some prog-
ress-is $150 billion. The difference will
not encourage increased production of oil.
But that difference will come out of the
pockets of the American consumers and go
into the pockets of the oil companies
themselves.
Our proposal, if adopted, would give
the oil companies, the producers them-
selves, the highest prices for oil in all the
world. But still they want more.
1783
