Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
after that, quality of life, the beautifica-
tion of our lands, the production of
energy.
I don't think that we need to establish
exclusive priorities for any of those needs.
I think we do have adequate water sup-
plies throughout our country to meet our
needs if they are husbanded well, not
wasted, and if we can work in harmony.
But one thing that happens-and I
have already noticed in the brief time I
have been in the White House-is that
when people see the threat of a future
shortage, they tend to increase their
wastefulness to be sure they get their share
of water that might be even scarcer in
the future that's not scarce today. And I
know that this is the case not only in
water but in many other areas.
I think a thorough and open debate
and the expression of a multifaceted ap-
proach to the single question of water as
we have had here today will make sure
that we can kind of relax to some degree,
at least as we learn about one another
and grow to trust one another and see
the special needs that each of us has.
And I don't think there's any doubt
that I and the Congress and my successors
in the White House in years to come will
have to establish priorities in the alloca-
tion of scarce financing for major water
projects. But I don't think that we need to
be concerned at this point that we don't
have adequate water to meet our needs.
We don't know what the energy situ-
ation might be in the future. I think that
here is the greatest unknown quantity
that has recently come on the scene that
bothers me and everyone else. But when
I say priorities, that doesn't mean that
we are going to deprive urban dwellers
in order to keep farms in operation or
deprive farm operations in order to con-
trol floods. I think they all can be har-
monized within a common effort.
Let me call on Joe Sullivan now, who
both
is a dry land farmer producing
wheat and grains. He is a past president
of the Colorado Association of Wheat
Growers. He serves on the State Mine
Land Reclamation Board. And he is par-
ticularly familiar with the energy impacts
on agricultural land.
So, Joe Sullivan, for a brief remark,
please, Joe.
POPULATION GROWTH
MR. SULLIVAN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Many of the remarks that I wish to ad-
dress have already been addressed, so I
will bypass them. But I think that it is
important that we consider the popula-
tion expansion that western Colorado is
seeing and will probably see accelerate
in the next few years.
And I live in Rio Blanco County in
western Colorado where much of the oil
shale and the coal development is taking
place. I believe that there is water avail-
able, that this can be done without detri-
ment to agriculture, but I think that we
need to plan now for storage facilities in
order to do this.
I would like to point out also that in
western Colorado, that as far as agricul-
ture is concerned, that much of the land
that is used for agriculture is used for
livestock production. And the livestock
production is dependent upon our irri-
gated valleys for hay to maintain them.
So, rather than just the loss that we
may have in a valley, we affect several
thousands of acres if we are not able to
produce the hay that is necessary to main-
tain our livestock herds.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. I think
that you have put your finger on one of
the impending conflicts between energy
production and agricultural production
that we need to address. And I think to
1876
