Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 22
troller's report and by other testimony
that has come forward. Some of my staff
have put a lot of time on it. I don't think
their effort was misplaced. I think it was
good for us to be informed. I think it was
good for Jody, in his daily briefings to
you, to be accurate. And I think had we,
through error or through neglect, given
you a false statement, even though it
might have been completely uninten-
tional, that would have been a very seri-
ous matter.
But as far as my own time and effort
was concerned, it's had a slight but de-
tectable effect of diverting me from some
things. I don't think the country has suf-
fered, and I think that's one of the rea-
sons that Bert decided to resign—not for
his own benefit, but to make sure that I
didn't have this potential problem in the
future.
Q. If Mr. Lance had not decided to re-
sign, were you prepared to have him stay
on or would you have tried to persuade
him to resign?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question because it's, first of all, hypo-
thetical. As I said before, it wasn't a mat-
ter of Bert Lance operating in isolation
from me. We had thorough discussions
about the matter. I left it completely up
to him. He and I talked about the ad-
vantages of his staying, the disadvantages
of his staying to him, to my administra-
tion, to the Government, to his family.
And Bert consulted with his own attorney,
he consulted with several Members of the
Congress, he consulted with the people
back home.
He talked it over with members of his
family, and he came to me and said he
had decided it was best for him and for
me if he resigned. And as has always been
the case between me and Bert, I was hon-
est with him. I didn't artificially try to
talk him out of it, because as we discussed
the same facts and the same issues and
the same prospects for the future, I think
that our minds were working in the same
direction.
But I have always trusted Bert Lance
to do the proper and the unselfish thing.
And my guess is that he was much more
concerned about me and my administra-
tion and the reputation of the Govern-
ment and the diversion of our attention
to his case away from things that were
important for the people. I think that was
by far the most important factor in his
decision.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's fifteenth news con-
ference began at 5 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
National School Lunch
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4523. September 22, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Since 1946, the National School Lunch
Program has been serving nutritious
lunches to the school children of Amer-
ica. In its first year, the program served
lunch to 6 million children daily; today
nearly 25 million children in 92,600
schools and residential child care insti-
tutions take advantage of this program
every day. Lunches under this program
are available to 94 percent of all children
attending public schools in America.
As the program begins its fourth dec-
ade, its dedicated workers are making a
significant effort to improve the nutri-
tional quality and appeal of the food
while developing menus in keeping with
1643
