Sept. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
II. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
The Federal budget process incon-
veniences State and local governments
because they never know from one year to
the next how much money will be avail-
able to fund continuing programs. Fed-
eral payments are sometimes tardy and,
when the check does arrive, it may fail to
indicate which program it is for.
• Advance appropriation. State and lo-
cal officials have pointed out that a lack
of adequate advance information about
Federal spending levels makes State and
local planning and budgeting difficult.
Since approximately 25 percent of State
and local expenditures are from Federal
sources, unexpected budget decisions in
Washington have serious consequences
around the country. As one way of deal-
ing with this problem, the Office of Man-
agement and Budget is reviewing five ma-
jor programs that the National Gover-
nors' Conference recommended be con-
verted to an advance appropriation status,
beginning in the FY 1979 budget. These
programs are Basic Support for Voca-
tional Rehabilitation, Maternal and Child
Health Services, Special Programs for the
Aging, Title XX Social Services, and
Summer Youth Employment.
•Letters of credit. Delays in receipt of
Federal grant payments have led many
State and local officials (as well as the
Federal Paperwork Commission) to rec-
ommend that letters of credit be used in-
stead of checks. Letters of credit allow a
grant recipient to draw funds from the
Treasury for approved grants at the time
the money is needed. At my request, the
Department of the Treasury is expanding
the use of letters of credit throughout the
executive branch. This action will im-
prove monitoring of Federal aid funds.
The next grant programs to be con-
verted to letters of credit are Economic
Adjustment Assistance, Rent Supple-
ments for Lower Income Families, and
Urban Mass Transit. The Federal Gov-
ernment is now saving about $180 million
annually in interest which would be lost
if cash advances were made to grant re-
cipients before the money was actually
needed. By introducing new payment
techniques and increasing the use of let-
ters of credit, Federal savings can double.
• Electronic fund transfers. Another
method for speeding the payment of Fed-
eral grants is through the use of electronic
fund transfers. Several experimental pro-
grams are now underway in, for example,
the Department of Agriculture and the
Department of Transportation. By mem-
orandum today, I am directing the heads
of executive departments and agencies to
work with the Secretary of the Treasury
to identify additional programs which
can benefit from the use of electronic
fund transfers. This is one way to reduce
the occasions when grantees must spend
their own money and wait for Federal
reimbursement. State and local govern-
ments should not be put in the position of
having to lend the Federal Government
money, which is, in effect, what happens
when they must borrow money to pay
bills while awaiting Federal funds.
Labeling of checks. When grantees
receive checks from the Federal Govern-
ment, the checks should indicate clearly
what they are for. At present, they often
do not. Consequently, State and local offi-
cials must spend time determining the
correct account before they can deposit
the check. As President, I encounter a
great many problems that are complex
and difficult, so it is refreshing occasion-
ally to find one that is neither. By memo-
randum today, I am directing the heads
of all executive departments and agencies
to designate, on the face of all checks they
send to grant-in-aid recipients, the spe-
cific program they are for.
1560
