Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
fuel itself. We can't provide storage for
the major portion of the world's spent
fuel, but we are willing to cooperate. And
when a nation demonstrates to us your
need for spent nuclear fuel storage, we
hope to be prepared to accept that re-
sponsibility, working closely with you.
All the costs of the nuclear fuel cycle
should be accurately known as well as
possible. And there should be an open-
minded approach to this very controver-
sial and very difficult subject.
I hope, as the President of our country,
to learn from you, and I will welcome
your advice and your counsel. I welcome
your caution and, on occasion, your criti-
cism about American policies. And I be-
lieve that we'll find a common ground on
which we can work together in harmony
be willing to contribute our own financial
and other support to make that possible.
In closing, let me thank you for being
willing to participate in this international
discussion. I am very eager to study your
own debates and derive information from
you. We will cooperate in every possible
way that we can to give our people of the
world adequate power sources and, at the
same time, to keep their lives from being
endangered.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. in
the Loy Henderson Conference Room at the
State Department. The organizing conference
of the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle
Evaluation was hosted by the State Department.
to make sure that our people do have a Visit of Prime Minister
better quality of life, that alternate fuel
supplies are evolved in an effective and Leo Tindemans of Belgium
adequate way, that energy is conserved to
an optimum degree, and that the threat
of nuclear destruction is minimized.
I want to congratulate all of you on
being willing to come here to meet to-
gether, because there has been an inclina-
tion to avoid controversy. This question is
inherently controversial. The interests on
occasion are highly divergent, and many
of these matters have not been discussed
adequately in the past.
I'm very grateful that the International
Atomic Energy Agency is here because
there is no conflict between this effort and
the tremendous contribution that that
Agency has been making and will make in
the future.
We want to do everything we can to
strengthen the safeguard system already
established. And if there is a recommen-
dation from this group that the functions
of the International Atomic Energy Agen-
should be expanded, we will certainly
су
Remarks of the President and the Prime
Minister at the Welcoming Ceremony.
October 19, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. On this beautiful day,
it's a great pleasure for me to welcome to
our country one of the great world leaders
who has shown, through the influence of
his own nation and his own strength of
character and reputation, what can be
done to enhance the principles of demo-
cratic government, a better way of life for
our people, and the basic human freedoms
throughout Europe and, indeed, through-
out the world.
When I was first inaugurated President,
the first official visit of my administration
was by Vice President Mondale to Brus-
sels. And Prime Minister Tindemans and
the people of Belgium welcomed this early
visit as a true indication of the strong
friendship that has always prevailed be-
tween our countries and, also, the impor-
tance that we attach to this nation whose
1814
