Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
purpose of the Agriculture Act of 1977
and properly paid respect to Bob Berg-
land, Tom Foley, all the members of the
committee, your staff in the White House
who worked so very cooperatively and so
diligently in formulating this legislation.
It's a big asset to the American people,
and to the world, for that matter.
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly agree with
that, Senator.
Chairman Tom Foley.
REPRESENTATIVE THOMAS S. FOLEY.
Mr. President, I can only echo those re-
marks of Senator Talmadge and express
our deep appreciation to you and to the
Secretary and to all of those in your ad-
ministration who have worked so cooper-
atively with all of those members of the
committee, Republicans and Democrats,
House and Senate, to bring this bill about.
And I want to also say that I join with
you in expressing appreciation to Bob
Poage, the vice chairman of our commit-
tee and a man who I think on our side
represents the most skilled and knowl-
edgeable single Member of the House of
Representatives in agriculture. He's leav-
ing us next year when he retires, but he
takes with him all of our good wishes and
thanks for all he has done on this bill and
every other bill in agriculture.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I know that all
of you in the audience and in the press
are very eager to read this legislation in
detail. [Laughter] And I would like very
much to have your comments about it
after you've read it word by word. It's an
exciting document and one that I think is
going to be a great boon not only to Amer-
ican family farmers but to everyone who
consumes our products.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at
the White House.
As enacted, S. 275 is Public Law 95-113,
approved September 29.
Federal Civilian and Military
Pay Increases
Executive Order 12010. September 28, 1977
ADJUSTMENTS OF CERTAIN RATES OF
PAY AND ALLOWANCES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and the laws of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, it
is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Statutory Pay Systems. Pur-
suant to the provisions of subchapter I of
Chapter 53 of Title 5 of the United States
Code, the rates of basic pay and salaries
are adjusted, as set forth at the schedules
attached hereto and made a part hereof,
for the following statutory pay systems:
(a) The General Schedule (5 U.S.C.
5332(a)) at Schedule 1;
(b) the schedules for the Foreign Serv-
ice (22 U.S.C. 867 and 870(a)) at Sched-
ule 2; and
(c) the schedules for the Department
of Medicine and Surgery, Veterans Ad-
ministration (38 U.S.C. 4107) at Sched-
ule 3.
SEC. 2. Pay and Allowances for Mem-
bers of the Uniformed Services. Pursuant
to the provisions of Section 1009 of Title
37 of the United States Code, the rates of
monthly basic pay (37 U.S.C. 203 (a) and
(c)), the rates of basic allowances for
subsistence (37 U.S.C. 402), and the rates
of basic allowances for quarters (37
U.S.C. 403(a)) are adjusted, as set forth
at Schedule 4 attached hereto and made
a part hereof, for members of the uni-
formed services.
SEC. 3. Effective Date. The adjustments
in rates of monthly basic pay and basic
allowances for subsistence and quarters
for members of the uniformed services
shall be effective on October 1, 1977. All
other adjustments of salary or pay shall
1681
