Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 2
for a Democratic President, and I want
to thank you especially for that warm wel-
come, which I haven't heard in quite a
long time. Thank you very, very much for
it.
I'm deeply honored to receive this
medal. I accept it with a sense of gratitude
because of the organization from which it
comes and because of the man for whom
it is named. For more than half a century,
Dr. Nahum Goldmann has been a scholar
and a political leader and a fighter for the
rights of all people. His career is proof
that a man who is outspoken and some-
times controversial can still be a brilliant
and an effective statesman. As the head
of this organization and many others, he
has played a more significant role in world
affairs than have many heads of state.
He's stepping down now as president of
the World Jewish Congress, but his pres-
ence will remain, for he is the kind of man
whose moral authority transcends any
title or any office.
The World Jewish Congress has always
sought to promote human rights in a uni-
versal way. In this, it is faithful to the
ethical traditions from which it springs,
for Jewish teaching has helped to shape
the consciousness of human rights that is, I
believe, now growing throughout the
world.
In large measure, the beginnings of the
modern concept of human rights go back
to the laws and the prophets of the Judeo-
Christian traditions. I've been steeped in
the Bible since early childhood, and I
believe that anyone who reads the ancient
words of the Old Testament with both
sensitivity and care will find there the
idea of government as something based
on a voluntary covenant rather than
force the idea of equality before the law
and the supremacy of law over the whims
of any ruler; the idea of the dignity of
the individual human being and also of
the individual conscience; the idea of
service to the poor and to the oppressed;
the ideas of self-government and toler-
ance and of nations living together in
peace, despite differences of belief. I
know, also, the memory of Jewish perse-
cution and especially of the holocaust
lends a special quality and a heartrending
sensitivity to your own commitments to
human rights.
This organization has made a major
contribution to ensuring that human
rights became part of the Charter of the
United Nations as one of its three basic
purposes, along with the preservation of
peace and social and economic progress.
The principal authors of Universal Cove-
nant on Human Rights were Eleanor
Roosevelt, an American Protestant,
Charles Malik, a Lebanese Catholic, and
René Cassin, a French Jew. Because of
their work and the work of others, no
government can now pretend that its mis-
treatment of its own citizens is merely an
internal affair.
These accomplishments have helped
start a process by which governments can
be moved forward, exemplifying the
ideals which they publicly profess. Our
own actions in the field of human rights
must vary according to the appropriate-
ness and effectiveness of one kind of
action or another, but our judgments must
be made according to a single standard,
for oppression is reprehensible whether its
victims are blacks in South Africa or
American Indians in the Western Hemi-
sphere or Jews in the Soviet Union or
political dissidents in Chile or Czecho-
slovakia.
The public demonstration of our own
Government's commitment to human
rights is one of the major goals that my
administration has set for United States
foreign policy. The emphasis on human
rights has raised the level of consciousness
1953
