Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
the oil into small ships; the small ships go
through the Panama Canal and bring the
oil, in the future, up to the gulf coast or the
eastern coast.
it
On natural gas, when it does come,
will be liquified at a very, very low tem-
perature, put in large ships and brought
down perhaps to the Panama Canal itself.
There is no way to change it back into
gas, send it across Panama, and reliquify
it. It costs too much.
So, in the future, I would say that we
will need a sea level Panama Canal that
can handle our large warships and the
large tankers and freighters that are part
of international commerce now.
So, I think we ought to keep good re-
lations with Panama. We can prevent an
attack on the Panama Canal by a foreign
government. It would be almost impos-
sible to prevent the disruption or closing
of the Panama Canal by sabotage if the
Panamanians were determined to put it
out of commission. So, it is important for
us to work with Panama and not against
Panama.
So, to summarize, between now and
the year 2000, we will retain under the
proposed treaty our control, partial sov-
ereignty with Panama having sovereignty
as well. This is derived from 1907. After
the year 2000, we will give up the actual
operation of the canal to Panama but
retain the right to defend it with our
armed forces and to keep it open, with
first priority given to American warships
and Panamanian warships to use it. I
don't know what the treaty terms might
be, but that's the best report that I can
give you right now.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Hello, President Carter. My name is
Jeff Hogue, and I'm a student at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee. Last year, yourself
and the Democratic Party proposed the
creation of a national health insurance
program. I was wondering if you would
briefly explain how such a program would
work and how, at the same time, you
could accomplish your goal of decreasing
the budget and the national deficit with
a program of such outrageous spending.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. I have de-
scribed in general already some of the
principles that ought to be used to cut
down on the cost, which is the first step
under the bill we've already presented to
Congress to cut down on unnecessary
health care, to have more emphasis on
prevention, outpatient treatment, the use
of paramedical personnel, and so forth.
We presently spend in this country about
$600 a year [per person] for health care;
by far more than any other nation on
Earth. And I believe that without any
substantial increase in the total expendi-
tures, we can have a good health care
system.
If we put one in, and I would like to
see it done, a comprehensive health care
system, then the financing of it will still
come, either from taxpayers, which it
presently is now to some degree, private
users of health care, and other organiza-
tions formed, like Blue Cross/Blue
person-
Shield, by the citizens ourselves. I
ally prefer the health insurance program
to be administered, to the extent that it
can, on a competitive basis by private in-
surance firms, like Blue Cross/Blue Shield.
When it's obvious to me and to the Con-
gress and, ultimately, to the American
people that the Government should play
an additional role in managing the health
care or insurance system, then I would
not hestitate to do that.
No matter what we do, this program
needs to be phased in over a fairly long
period of time. By early next year, 1978,
we will be prepared to present to the Con-
gress a comprehensive, nationwide health
insurance program, with emphasis on the
things I've described to you-I think
1327
