Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
curs around the city, the inner city, that
they not be asked to subsidize it.
The other point I would like to make is
that people are concerned about growth.
They want it managed. They want to be
involved with the planning of it. And I
think our Governor has made a very
good step in developing the Planning and
Coordinating Council. We have not been
planning and managing growth well so
far.
Many of us are in fear of the problems
of cities in the East being repeated here
and the sprawl of Los Angeles happening
here. And I think that we can avoid those
mistakes with the kinds of talent and en-
ergy and commitment here in Denver.
And I hope that we do and not repeat
the past.
The third point I would like to make
is that though we want managed growth,
controlled growth, it doesn't mean that
many of us are antigrowth. Growth is
very important for minorities particu-
larly. With economic development and
growth, minorities can participate as en-
trepreneurs as well as workmen. The
economy in its expansion hopefully will
take those on the bottom rung of the
economy along with them.
One of the things that concerns the
minority community, however, is that
there are not enough minorities on pol-
icymaking level commissions or boards so
that the minority input is made on energy
planning.
The other concern is that most of the
energy development will occur on the
Western Slope. It is expected that about
14,000 new jobs will be created in pro-
duction and construction. But most of the
minorities live here in Denver on the
Eastern Slope.
The other point is that if these minori-
ties are going to participate in the econ-
omy and going to benefit from those jobs,
some sort of program will have to be de-
veloped to get them over on the Western
Slope. Many of them perceive that, per-
haps, it is an unknown territory and even
hostile. A lot of the companies there are
not familiar with affirmative action pro-
grams. We don't know whether or not
they will take the initiative. So, a pro-
gram has to be developed along those
lines.
I guess people in the cities are con-
cerned about a whole range of issues. But
I think not only minorities but everyone
here in Colorado wants to maintain our
lifestyle, see our economy grow and keep
Denver the way it is. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I think the audience would agree with
me that the panel has done an extraordi-
narily good job in bringing a multifaceted
approach. It shows how many different
voices there are, when you start talking
about energy, that want to be heard. I
would like to call now on any member of
the audience who would like to ask a ques-
tion. We have about 15 minutes left for
that, and then I have a meeting with the
Governors to pursue some of these mat-
ters.
Can you just identify yourself before
you ask a question?
QUESTIONS
FARM PRICES
Q. Mr. President, my name is John
Stulb, and I farm and ranch in Lamar,
Colorado. Today we have talked about
the relationship between water and agri-
culture. And of prime concern to agricul-
ture, not only here in Colorado but across
this Nation, is our present price situation.
The agriculture producers of this country
at this time are receiving a comparative
value for their product at an alltime low,
never before exceeded except in the Great
Depression.
1878
