Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 15
memorate the Hispanic influence on
American life.
There are only, I think, three other na-
tions in the world that have more Span-
ish-speaking citizens than does the Unit-
ed States. And I think it's important that
we're now beginning to recognize the
tremendous contribution that was de-
rived from Spanish-speaking people in
our own country's history.
I come from a State which had its first
settlements in the early 1500's by Span-
ish settlers. And, of course, had the his-
tory books been written in Spain instead
of England, we would recognize this heri-
tage much greater not only in Georgia
and in Florida but in California and
other parts of our own country.
I've tried to bring into our Govern-
ment highly qualified leaders of Spanish-
American communities. We haven't gone
far enough, but we've made a good start
at the top levels in the administrative
branches of Government, to direct the
Community Services Administration, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service,
as top officials, assistant secretaries of our
major departments and above. No other
President had ever appointed more than
one Spanish-American citizen to that
level. We've already appointed five. Also,
we have superb people appointed to rep-
resent our own country at the ambassa-
dorial level in international affairs.
So for these reasons, I'm very grateful
that this week has been set aside to rec-
ognize our common heritage. I signed a
proclamation on the 29th of August ask-
ing the American people to set aside this
week to observe this special and impor-
tant heritage.
I'd like to add just a word to this occa-
sion, derived from my conversations last
week. We had some very frank discus-
sions, sometimes debates, with the lead-
ers of nations which are highly demo-
cratic-Mexico, Costa Rica, Venezuela,
Colombia, and others—and some leaders
of nations that are not so democratic.
There was a general sense that the im-
portance of human rights was now being
recognized in a more vivid way, and there
was a general feeling that countries which
had ignored the right of individuality and
freedom and liberty were being damaged
in their future trade relationships, ac-
ceptance in the world community, access
in the future to atomic fuel for power
production, and in other ways. And I
think this is a good step in the right direc-
tion.
There was also a feeling of a new op-
portunity for friendship, the recognition
of common purpose, cooperation, and
mutual respect on an equal basis—not as
a powerful nation looking down upon a
weak nation; not as a father looking down
on a son; not as a strong brother looking
on a weak brother—but as equals, because
I see very clearly we can derive as much
or more benefit from good relations with
our friends in Latin America even than
they can derive from us.
With the signing of the Panama Canal
Treaty we've demonstrated vividly that
the American people can be fair, that the
time for colonialism on our part is over,
and that this can open up a new vista
not only for better friendship with Pan-
ama but all the nations in the South and,
also, that it can add to the enhancement
of our trade, our international posture
and reputation and, also, our Nation's
security.
We are very eager to see the Panama
Canal kept open for use by all countries.
And to have 25 or 30 other nations now
join in with us in a commitment that the
canal will be kept neutral and open in
1601
