Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cent. It's obvious that we need some eco-
nomic stimulus next year, and also I don't
want the Federal budget to continue to
grow in its proportion of the gross na-
tional product of our Nation. It's now-
it had gotten up to about 23 percent. We
are cutting it down now to a little above
22 percent. And by the time my term is
over in 1980, I would like to get this
down to about 21 percent through care-
ful management and wise spending of
our funds.
I have to judge, though, between how
much money I retain in the Federal
budget, in the Federal Treasury in order
to balance the budget quickly, compared
to how much we give back to the taxpay-
ers in the form of tax cuts, to let them
have the money to spend and to let the
private enterprise system produce more
jobs and a better life for us.
So, I think that we have done well so
far, and I think we'll make a much wiser
decision on the tax reform package and
tax reduction package for next year hav-
ing gotten a good, firm realization of the
social security tax changes and a fairly
good hope of what the energy package
will be as well.
MR. BROKAW. I guess the question still
is, do you think that a balanced budget
by 1981, which was a campaign promise,
is a realistic goal for a man who is now
in office, given all of the claims on the
Federal budget?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, I
can't guarantee that. We've always
known that balancing the budget would
be difficult. It depends upon how fast
business invests, how many people are at
work, which cuts down obviously on ex-
penditure for unemployment compensa-
tion and welfare payments, and there has
to be some tradeoff.
If there was an absolutely rigid fixa-
tion on a balanced budget, then there
would be no chance for tax cuts. But I
think when you take into consideration
that we have $25 billion tax reductions
for the people next year with about $6
billion tax reductions this year-that's
$31 billion-that's a major benefit to the
people. I just can't give a firm commit-
ment on how we will balance tax cuts
versus a balanced budget by 1981.
MR. SCHIEFFER. But aren't you going
to have just super growth, faster growth
rate than anyone really predicts, to be
able to balance the budget by 1981? Isn't
that what it boils down to?
THE PRESIDENT. It would take about
a 10-percent annual increase in real terms
in business investment with the present
projections of economic need. We want to
cut the unemployment rate down con-
siderably, and of course, we want to deal
with the problems of the cities. We want
to meet the legitimate needs of our peo-
ple and at the same time not let inflation
get out of hand.
So, balancing all these factors is some-
thing that you have to do almost daily
in making decisions from the White
House.
ADMINISTRATION PRIORITIES; PANAMA
CANAL TREATY
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, it is re-
ported that Vice President Mondale,
with you, of course, is working on a list
of
your top priorities for next year with
the feeling perhaps that you had too many
top priorities this year to give to Congress.
Can you tell us what the top two or three
priorities would be, and can you tell us
if it would include a national health in-
surance program, which organized labor
feels you promised to introduce this year?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I intend to intro-
duce a national health program to the
Congress this year, late in this session.
They can't pass it this year, but it will
be introduced.
2194
