Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 17
So, I don't like tariffs as such. They
would particularly be damaging to our
closest friends and allies in this hemi-
sphere. They also, I think, would cost the
American taxpayer a great deal more.
And I think that an international agree-
ment on sugar of about 13 cents would be
the preferable approach, and until that
can be put into effect, I have reluctantly
agreed to support the price support as-
pects of the new farm bill.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, Jim Wisch, with the
Texas Jewish Post, Dallas and Fort
Worth.
First of all, on behalf of the American
Jewish Publishers Association, I want to
thank you for the profound message you
sent from your wife, Rosalynn, and your-
self to the American Jewish community.
It was indeed very sincere. And with re-
gard to your sincerity, which was recog-
nized by all editors across the country, re-
gardless of their background, I want to
point up to you your profound statement
on the Mideast which we published right
before the election, which was highly in-
formative and set out many things that
you had proposed to do.
I just returned from the Mideast, where
I had a long, long conversation with Am-
bassador Lewis. And it seems to me
there's a great deal of apprehension go-
ing on amongst American Jews and Jews
of the world, and somehow it rests upon
what some of your decisions are going to
be.
I think this apprehension could be
cleared, because I think there may be a
disagreement, perhaps, in semantics
rather than in objectives. And I wonder if
you had been concerned about your popu-
larity or your interpretation vis-a-vis your
embracement of the PLO, and that your
regard for them has given them a prop-
aganda ploy where they have become re-
calcitrant-they still employ Chapter 16,
the complete destruction of Israel. Now,
people think that you are pushing Israel
to sit down and recognize the PLO, re-
gardless of that point in the PLO's plat-
form. 242, your resolution, which you so
eloquently described last July, says that
nobody can sit down unless it's a face-to-
face discussion and they recognize the en-
tity of each nation as being a sovereign
nation like we are doing with Panama.
And in view of this regard, I wonder if
you plan to clear this up or elucidate or
however you plan to handle this.
THE PRESIDENT. With all due respect,
that's one of the most distorted assess-
ments of my own policy that I've ever
heard.
Q. It is not my assessment-
[laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q. But it's incumbent upon me to
bring it to you.
THE PRESIDENT. I've never endorsed
the PLO. Our Government has had no
communication, at all, directly with the
PLO. The only communication has been
when representatives of the PLO have
been to Arab leaders immediately prior to
a Cy Vance visit with them or their visit
to our country and have delivered mes-
sages to us indirectly.
Our agreement with the Israeli Gov-
ernment several years ago, before I be-
came President, was that we would not
communicate with the PLO as long as
they did not refute their commitment to
destroy the nation of Israel and did not
accept the right of Israel to exist. Our
public position is the same as our private
position. There is no difference between
them.
We have said that if the PLO would
accept publicly the right of Israel to exist
and exist in peace, as described under
1623
