Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
going to be filled with roughly two-thirds
black students and one-third white stu-
dents, but the people of Yazoo City, be-
lieving in your young people, having con-
fidence in one another, and looking for-
ward to the future with great anticipation
and courage and confidence, overwhelm-
ingly voted to build this new school which
will be occupied for the first time this fall,
and I'm proud of you. It shows the good
judgment of Mississippians.
And last November 3, I also witnessed
the good political judgment of the State
of Mississippi. If we could have just
changed three votes, it would have shown
the good political judgment of Yazoo
County as well. [Laughter]
I've enjoyed this first, almost exactly 6
months of being your President. I've tried
to open up the decisionmaking process of
our country to you and the people like you
all over the Nation.
I think Presidents, Members of Con-
gress, Cabinet officers, Federal adminis-
trators can make better decisions to the
extent that we receive the judgment, com-
mon sense, and the benefit of the experi-
ence of people around the country. So,
I'm very grateful to have a chance to get
out, away from Washington, to see and
talk and listen to you and others like you.
Earlier this afternoon I went to Charles-
ton, South Carolina, and I spoke to about
1,400 people there who represented the
State legislatures of the Southern States.
I didn't talk about highway funds, wel-
fare programs, revenue sharing. I talked
about foreign policy. I talked about the
interrelationship between our country and
the Soviet Union, a very important speech
that spells out our Nation's policy which
might affect the lives of you and your
children and your grandchildren in years
ahead, because I don't think that my visits
to the South and other places ought to be
limited to a discussion of just things that
involve dollars and cents or even impor-
tant things like inflation or welfare
programs.
Our Nation's international policies
ought also to be understood by you, de-
bated by you, discussed by you, argued
by you, and ultimately, decided by you.
We've got a great country, and what we
want, obviously, is to have the true charac-
ter of the United States of America dem-
onstrated in every action we take, not only
in our own domestic affairs but also
throughout the world.
And one of the great bursts of applause
that came this afternoon was when I said
that we are deeply committed to carrying
out the purposes and the principles of the
United States in our deep and permanent
and unchanging commitments to human
freedom and human rights, and you can
count on that.
Tonight I want to take about an hour
and a half to listen to your questions and
try to give you the best answers I can. I
don't claim to know all the answers. I have
a lot to learn. I learn a lot from people
like you and from the Members of your
congressional delegation, from your State
and local officials.
And I think it's also good for the citi-
zens of our country, who are watching
television tonight, to learn from your ques-
tions, to see what are the things that con-
cern the people in Yazoo City, Mississippi.
So, we'll start on my right in just a
moment with the first question, and I
think we have four microphones in the
audience and I'll try to keep my answers
clear. I'll try to answer the questions that
you actually ask me. If I don't know the
answer, I'm going to tell you I don't know
the answer.
But if there's a question now, we'll start
with the first microphone.
Yes, sir? Would you tell me your name,
first of all, and then your question?
1317
