Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
not sprinkler irrigation—that the grasses
that grow as a result of over-irrigation are
the bad grasses, the grasses the cattle don't
eat. Heck, we know that. And there's im-
plications in this report that we don't
know it.
So, I think the question of waste is
truthfully exaggerated.
exaggerated. Furthermore,
every bit of water that we put on the land
that isn't used by the plants goes back to
the stream in return flow and is used by
the next fellow.
Now, I'll say one more thing, because
I know everybody wants a crack. I'll ad-
mit that this year on our ranch we tended
to over-irrigate during May and June be-
cause we were really fearful that we
wouldn't have any water because of the
drought. And this is actually what hap-
pened: We ran out of water on our ranch
on some of the tributaries of the main
river in July, and we had a hard time
making our hay crop. In fact, our hay
crop was down about 150 tons.
Now, the reason that we tended to over-
irrigate during that period is because we
didn't have any storage. And if we had
had storage, we would have apportioned
the water that Governor Dick spoke about
over the growing season rather than trying
to get it all at the beginning.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
I would like to call now on Mr. Elton
Miller, who is an irrigated farmer on the
South Platte River, and he's a member
of the Farmers Union and also a member
of the Colorado State Agricultural Com-
mission.
Mr. Miller.
MR. MILLER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I would like to relate the importance
of water to Colorado agriculture. It's very
important. Colorado's base has been built
around agriculture over the last hundred
years. Agriculture has either been first or
second in production and industry in Col-
orado. So, it's important. We want to keep
the agriculture base in Colorado.
Only 4 percent of Colorado's land is
irrigated, yet it produces two-thirds of the
value of the crops that we sell each year.
So, that gives you some idea.
With our short rainfall we can't pro-
duce the crops that we are producing with
this water. And we think that our valleys
that are irrigated are as fertile as any
place in the United States. I would just
like to remind you, Mr. President, in 1974
Colorado ranked 15th in the country in
agriculture sales, just ahead of 16th place
Georgia. [Laughter] I'm sure you knew
that.
But the water is vital to us, and I think
some of our concerns in agriculture and
I would like to thank you for the state-
ment you made. I think it eases a lot of
our minds on the opening about our water
rights. My own water right dates back to
1864, a direct flow water right. And when
you talk about changing this, it really
worries us farmers.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
MR. MILLER. So, we do appreciate your
opening remarks on that. I think it's im-
portant we are going to have some en-
ergy development. We're going to have
some growth in from the energy develop-
ment, also probably some growth here in
the front range. It's important that we
develop some more sources of water. If we
don't, that water is going to come from
agriculture, because we cannot compete
in the free marketplace for water with
the energy companies and urban devel-
opment.
So, as that is inevitably coming, we
need some water storage. We have years
when we have water running out of Colo-
rado and we need some storage for that,
because otherwise our irrigated agricul-
1870
