Oct. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dexter, Mich., to be an Assistant Secre-
tary of the Navy. He would replace Gary
D. Penisten, resigned, and his area of re-
sponsibility would be financial manage-
ment.
Peapples was born November 6, 1940,
in Benton Harbor, Mich. He received a
bachelor's degree in economics (1962)
and an M.B.A. in finance (1963) from
the University of Michigan.
After graduation Peapples joined the
General Motors Corp. financial staff in
Detroit. In 1968 he was transferred to
General Motors treasurer's office in New
York as a staff assistant.
In 1971 Peapples was appointed direc-
tor of the capital analysis and investments
section of the General Motors New York
treasurer's office. In 1973 he became as-
sistant divisional comptroller of the Delco
Moraine Division of General Motors, and
since 1975 he has been assistant treasurer,
bank relations, of GMC.
Peapples is a member of the board of
directors and executive committee of the
American Freedom Train Foundation.
National Institute of Education
Appointment of P. Michael Timpane as
Deputy Director. October 12, 1977
The President today announced that he
has appointed P. Michael Timpane, of
Arlington, Va., to be Deputy Director of
the National Institute of Education. He
would succeed Emerson Elliott, resigned.
Timpane was born November 27, 1934,
in Troy, N.Y. He received a B.A. (1956)
and an M.A. (1964) from Catholic Uni-
versity and an M.P.A. in education pol-
icy, government, and economics from
Harvard University in 1970.
Timpane served as special assistant to
the deputy for civil rights in the office of
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Manpower from 1964 to 1968. From 1968
to 1972, he worked in the office of the
Assistant Secretary of HEW for Planning
and Evaluation, serving as Deputy As-
sistant Secretary and Director of Educa-
tion Planning in 1971 and 1972.
Timpane then served as a senior fellow
at the Brookings Institution in the eco-
nomic studies program. Since 1974 he has
been on the staff of the Rand Corp. in
Washington, serving as director of studies
for the Aspen Institute of Humanistic
Studies Program for Education in a
Changing Society, principal investigator
of "Youth Policy in Transition," and, cur-
rently, director of the Center for Educa-
tional Finance and Governance.
Timpane has served as a consultant to
the National Institute of Education and
an editorial consultant to "Evaluation"
magazine. He is the author of numerous
articles.
National Museum Services Board
Nomination of 15 Members of the Board.
October 12, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate the following persons as
members of the National Museum Serv-
ices Board:
For 5-year terms:
LLOYD HEZEKIAH, director of the Brooklyn
(New York) Children's Museum;
PETER H. RAVEN, director of the Missouri
Botanical Garden in St. Louis;
GEORGE C. SEYBOLT (to be designated Chair-
man of the Board on confirmation), of West-
wood, Mass., chairman of the American As-
sociation of Museums' trustees committee;
For 4-year terms:
LEWIS DAVIS, a New York architect who has
done extensive work in museum design;
1780
