Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 5
2. Seasonal Financing Loans
The Federal Government is continuing
to provide loans to New York City under
the New York City Seasonal Financing
Act. A total of $1.5 billion has been
loaned the city since July 1, including a
$325 million loan on October 4. An addi-
tional $575 million is expected to be
loaned during the remainder of the year.
The Treasury Department is working
closely with State and city officials to
facilitate the city's return to the public
market.
The administration is also reviewing
the city's borrowing needs for the post-FY
1978 period, and remains committed to
working with the city to assure that those
needs are met.
3. Countercyclical Revenue Sharing
The administration's extension of
countercyclical assistance, which provided
$121 million for the city in its fiscal year
1977, is expected to increase to over $130
million in fiscal year 1978. These funds
are used by the city to maintain vital
services, to prevent municipal employee
layoffs, and to relieve the burden of local
taxation.
4. Employment Training
The administration is increasing the
city's funding under the Comprehensive
Employment Training Act from $180
million in the city's fiscal year 1977 to
$411 million in 1978. These funds have
significantly helped the city to provide
important services during its fiscal crisis
and to create jobs for the unemployed.
5. Local Public Works
Under the administration's $4 billion
public works program, assistance in the
city will nearly double from $102 million
in the city's fiscal year 1977 to $192
million in 1978. This assistance will pro-
vide a particularly critical boost to the
city's depressed construction industry.
6. Community Development Block Grant
This special revenue sharing program
supports a wide range of community and
economic development activities. The
administration proposed and the Congress
has now enacted a dual distribution
formula which increases aid for older
distressed cities. This will add some $64
million more to the city's grant in the
next fiscal year, for a total of $229 million.
The city will also be eligible for assist-
ance under the newly enacted $400 mil-
lion Urban Development Action Grant
program, which permits the Secretary of
HUD to make discretionary grants to
stimulate private sector investment in
distressed cities.
This proposal should be effective in
leveraging significant private investment
in cities such as New York.
7. Urban Mass Transit
On Monday, Secretary Adams an-
nounced discretionary mass transit grants
totalling $280 million to the city's transit
system and the commuter rail network
surrounding the city. Most of the assist-
ance is for the modernization of existing
facilities, with the balance going to fur-
ther progress on major additions to their
system which began in previous years.
8. Westway Highway
The administration has approved an
$800 million grant for this highway proj-
ect, which State and city public officials
believe will stimulate economic develop-
ment on Manhattan's West Side.
In addition, the Federal Department of
Transportation has approved the sale of
the right-of-way of the Westway Inter-
state Highway to New York State. This
sale is expected to result in approximately
$80 million in revenues to the city, 90 per-
cent of which is financed by the Depart-
ment of Transportation and 10 percent
by New York State. These funds will pro-
vide significant budget relief to the city.
1731
