July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
neighbors, who had been picked up by
an Israeli ship and to whom he gave a
home. It was an act of compassion, an
act of sensitivity, and a recognition of him
and his government about the importance
of a home for people who are destitute
and who would like to express their own
individuality and freedom in a common
way, again typifying the historic struggle
of the people of Israel.
I've been encouraged by his statements
that all the points of dispute with his
Arab neighbors are negotiable; that this
year might be a time of success in the so
far frustrated efforts to bring permanent
peace and security into the Middle East.
We share that common project. And
although there might be differences of
perspective and viewpoint between him
and me, his nation and the United States,
that common goal of finding a path to
permanent peace will inevitably bind us
together.
We are honored by his presence. We
welcome him and his wife as our visitors.
And I would like to close my comments
of welcome to him by quoting from
Isaiah, from a Bible which he and I both
read, given to us by God, whom we both
worship. Isaiah said: "And the work of
righteousness shall be peace, and the
effects of righteousness, quietness and
assurance forever."
sir.
Thank you very much, and welcome,
[At this point, the Prime Minister responded.
His opening remarks were in Hebrew, and the
translation follows:]
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
I have come from the land of Zion and
Jerusalem as the spokesman for an an-
cient people and a young nation. God's
blessing on America, the hope of the
human race. Peace to your great nation.
[The Prime Minister continued in English.]
Mr. President, I have come to you as
the spokesman for an ancient people and
a young renascent nation. In our own
time these people were strewn into the
abyss. It had to extricate itself from the
depths of the pits with the last vestige
of its strength through an unequaled
fight for national self-liberation of the few
against the many, of the weak against the
strong, of right against might.
This is, Mr. President, the reason why
we yearn for peace, pray for peace, and
shall do everything humanly possible and
make all the possible endeavors to bring
about real peace between us and our
neighbors. Peace is inseparable from
national security.
May I assure you, Mr. President, that
to us that concept is no excuse for any-
thing; neither is it a cloak of anything.
To us, with the experience of physical
annihilation and spiritual redemption,
national security may mean the lives of
every man, woman, and child in Israel.
The lives can be, under certain circum-
stances, directly threatened and put in
jeopardy.
Mr. President, we in Israel see in you
not only the fair citizen of your great,
mighty country, but also the leader and
the defender of the free world.
However, the free world has shrunk,
indeed has been shrinking. It can be
likened in our time to an island battered
by bitter winds, by stormy seas, by high
waves. Therefore, all free women and
men should stand together to persevere in
the struggle for human rights, to pre-
serve human liberty, to make sure "that
government of the people, by the people,
for the people, shall not perish from the
earth."
Mr. President, I am deeply grateful
for the heartwarming words you said to
1282
