Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 30
The other part of your question about
the Office of Management and Budget-
Jim McIntyre is the head of the OMB
and he's doing a very good job. Whether
or not I would replace him in the future
still has to be decided.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, to come back to the
Middle East for a minute, is the United
States Government taking any concrete
steps with some of the other governments
that have been reluctant, such as Syria,
the PLO, which is not a government, and
the other countries, to bring them into
this process that has been initiated by
Israel and Egypt? And if so, what steps
are we taking?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, not with the
PLO; we have no contact with the PLO.
But with Jordan and with Syria, with
Lebanon and, in a supportive role, with
the Saudi Arabians and others, we have
played, I think, an adequate role. At the
time we discovered that President Sadat
was going to make a proposal to go to
Jerusalem, we immediately began to use
whatever influence we had available to
us to encourage the other nations not to
condemn President Sadat. This particu-
larly applied to Saudi Arabia, to Jordan,
to the European countries, to the Soviet
Union, and to Syria. In some instances,
either they decided not to condemn him
or our influence was successful.
We would like very much to keep any
of the nations involved in the immediate
Middle Eastern discussions from reject-
ing an ultimate peace settlement and
withdrawing from the prospect of going
to Geneva. This includes, of course,
Prime Minister Begin and President
Sadat. They have not rejected the con-
cept that there must be a comprehensive
settlement.
In the meantime, we don't see any-
thing wrong; in fact, we look with great
favor on the bilateral negotiations be-
tween Israel and Egypt. In the meantime,
we are trying to induce the Syrians, the
Lebanese, the Jordanians, and, as I say
again, in a supporting role, the Saudis
and others, to support both the ongoing
negotiations that will continue from Je-
rusalem into Cairo and also to avoid any
condemnation of Sadat that might dis-
rupt his influence and put an obstacle to
peace in the future.
That's about all we can do. We have
no control over any nation in the Middle
East. When we find the progress in the
Middle East being stopped, we use all
the initiative that we can. When we see
progress being made by the parties them-
selves, we support them to move on their
own.
I think it's much more important to
have direct negotiations between Egypt
and Israel than to have us acting as a
constant, dominant intermediary. I think
this is a major step in the right direction.
We hope later that Jordan and Syria and
Lebanon will join in these discussions,
either individually or as a comprehensive
group, dealing with Israel directly.
Q. Mr. President, you used the word
"induce." What inducements is the
United States Government offering to
Syria and the others?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are not of-
fering them any payment of money or
anything, but we primarily capitalize on
their clear determination, their clear de-
sire to have peace. There is no doubt in
my mind at all that President Asad, who
has been one of the most highly critical
leaders of what Sadat did there's no
doubt in my mind that President Asad
wants peace with Israel, and there's no
doubt in my mind that King Hussein
wants peace with Israel. And sometimes
2059
