Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 8
These three major provisions, coupled
with the other authorities of H.R. 6161,
provide the statutory framework for the
Environmental Protection Agency to im-
plement a firm, but responsible program
for meeting and maintaining air quality
standards which are necessary to protect
the health of all of our citizens.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6161 is Public Law
95-95, approved August 7.
The statement was released at Americus, Ga.
Public Works Appropriations Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 7553
Into Law. August 8, 1977
I am signing H.R. 7553, the public
works appropriations bill.
This bill is a precedent-setting first step
in trimming spending on unnecessary, ex-
pensive, and environmentally damaging
construction projects. In response to ad-
ministration review of construction proj-
policy reform proposals and will continue
to scrutinize carefully all ongoing and pro-
posed water projects. In addition, with
the exception of two projects which re-
quire further analysis by the Interior De-
partment, the projects deleted by the
Congress in this bill should be deauthor-
ized immediately so that the first step is
made permanent.
I am, therefore, signing this bill with the
intention of accomplishing:
deauthorization of deleted projects;
-continued close scrutiny of all proj-
ects; and
-institution of lasting reforms in water
policy.
I would also note that H.R. 7553 ap-
propriates over $500 million for research
other advanced nuclear power technolo-
and development on breeder reactors and
gies. The legislation does not, however,
appropriate funds for the unnecessary
Clinch River Breeder Reactor Project.
My FY 1978 budget proposal which
vigorous research and development pro-
H.R. 7553 will implement provides for a
ects and recommendations to the Con-
gram for breeder reaciors. In FY 1978,
gress, nine unsound projects have been
deleted and four modified. This is unprec-ity at Hanford, Wash., which will tell us
we will complete the Fast Flux Test Facil-
edented progress. In addition to this ac-
tion, the Congress has refrained from
funding unbudgeted new construction
starts.
I welcome this positive step. Action on
this appropriations bill marks the begin-
ning of a major effort on the part of this
administration to cut back on waste in this
area.
This effort will be continued.
I note that this bill contains funding for
10 projects for which I recommended de-
letion of funds. I remain very concerned
about these projects.
Much remains to be done to accomplish
lasting reform in water resources policy.
My administration is developing water
much more about how to design an ad-
vanced, environmentally sound, and eco-
nomical breeder than Clinch River Breed-
er can. We will fund major research on al-
ternative breeder technologies, improved
safety systems, and other advanced atomic
power sources.
Congress has yet to complete action on
the legislation authorizing our nuclear
breeder research and development pro-
gram. I will urge Congress to reject pro-
posals leading to an investment of over
$2.2 billion of tax dollars in the Clinch
River Breeder Reactor Project—a reactor
which we do not now need, which is eco-
nomically unsound, and which will be of
little assistance in determining the com-
1461
