Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 9
and also the controversial matters like
welfare reform, energy problems, in-
creased taxation on some kinds of energy
sources-all of these matters contribute to
the deterioration of the overwhelming ap-
proval rating that I did have, which I
think was extraordinarily high.
But this is compatible with what has
happened with other Presidents who were
active, and although, of course, I would
like to have a hundred percent approval,
I'm perfectly willing to continue to be
judged on what is the ultimate outcome
of these affairs.
In my judgment, Bert Lance ought to
have a chance for a hearing without de-
lay, comprehensive in nature, with every
allegation and fact produced for the
American people to know and for the
Congress to know and for me to under-
stand. And I'm very eager to see the tes-
timony presented by the Comptroller
General's by the Comptroller's report
and the Senate investigating committees.
And there has never been any doubt in
my mind that the outcome of these in-
vestigations will be not only proper but
also will be well accepted by the Ameri-
can people.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 5:15 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Meeting With President Jorge
Rafael Videla of Argentina
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meet-
ing. September 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. We discussed several
items, but the two that we discussed at
most length were, first, the question of
nonproliferation of nuclear explosives. We
are very hopeful that Argentina, which
has been in the nuclear field for 25 years
in the production of power, will join with
other nations in this hemisphere in sign-
ing the Treaty of Tlatelolco to prevent
any development of explosives. And I was
very encouraged by what President Videla
had to say.
The other item that we discussed at
length was the question of human
rights the number of people who are in-
carcerated or imprisoned in Argentina,
the need for rapid trial of these cases, and
the need for Argentina to let the world
know the status of the prisoners.
President Videla was very frank with
me about pointing out the problems that
have existed in Argentina and his com-
mitment to make very rapid progress in
the next few months. He wants Argentina
to be judged not on his words alone, but
on the demonstrable progress that he
stated would be made.
We had a thorough discussion, and I
think it was one of the most productive
and most frank discussions that I've had
with any leader.
I've had a chance to visit Argentina in
the past and know the tremendous
strength of your people and of your econ-
omy, the beauty of your nation, and the
serious problem that presently exists in
the opinion of the world about Argentina
because of the repression of human rights
and the terrorism that has existed there.
But we have great hopes that rapid
progress might be made in alleviating this
problem. And I was encouraged by what
President Videla had to say.
REPORTER. Mr. President, it seems that
Israel is intent on establishing yet more
settlements on the West Bank. Does that
make it even more difficult to find a peace-
ful settlement in that area?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, this creates
additional problems. I will be meeting
1555
