Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
completely publicized negotiations, are
very good for our country, for our de-
fense, our Nation's security, our Nation's
prosperity brought about by trade, the po-
litical alliance or friendship that must
exist between ourselves and our neighbors
in this hemisphere, and from the spirit,
I believe, of the rest of the world that our
country is large and strong and fair.
It would be a serious mistake for any-
one to assume that the Panama Canal
Treaty is not important. It would also be
a very serious mistake for anyone to as-
sume that the Panama Canal is not im-
portant. It is important. It has been im-
portant to our country for the last 75
years; it will be important to our country
for the next 75 years.
It would be a mistake for anyone to say
that our country couldn't defend it if it
were attacked by insurgents, by terrorists,
or by well-meaning patriots of Panama in
opposition to the stance of the Panama
Government.
We could defend the Panama Canal,
and if it is attacked by any means,
I will
defend it, and our country will be able to
defend the canal.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff have said, in
a concerted effort even by nongovern-
mental forces against the wishes of the
Panama Government, it might take 100,-
000 or 200,000 troops to defend the canal.
But it can be done, and it will be done.
I believe that it's best not to face this
prospect, not to take an action that would
bring about an attack on the Panama
Canal. We can do this with these treaties
by forming a continuing partnership with
Panama to help us keep the canal well
operated, well maintained, open for our
use, at the same time guaranteeing it to
our country, which the treaties do, the
absolute right to defend the canal as we
see fit for the rest of this century.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary
of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the
President of our country has a right to
choose, within the zone itself, the lands
and waters necessary to be occupied by
our own forces to keep the canal open.
We also have the right under the trea-
ties, confirmed by a recent joint statement
between myself and General Torrijos, af-
ter the year 2000, to take what action we
see fit as a nation to defend the canal, to
keep it open, and to keep it available for
our ships.
During the rest of this century and after
the year 2000, we have the right of what
is called expeditious passage. In time of
emergency or in time of need, as judged
by us, our ships have a right to go through
the canal as quickly as possible and also,
when needed, to move to the head of the
line if our Nation's security is at stake or
if I or my successors in the White House
think there is a need.
This is a common agreement between us
and Panama. There is no doubt about it.
And these two basic questions-do we
have a right to defend the canal; do we
have a right for our ships to have priority
in using the canal-have been seriously
distorted in the past, now clarified by pre-
cise English and Spanish language be-
tween myself and the leader of Panama.
I might say also that the Panamanian
negotiators and General Torrijos have
acted in good faith. Throughout the last
14 years there have been no threats, no
implied statements that if you don't ap-
prove the treaty, the Panama Canal might
be damaged. They have never done this.
Although Panama does not have a demo-
cratic government like our own, General
Torrijos has gone a second mile in making
sure that not only he as a leader approve
the treaties, along with his own chosen
Cabinet, but the Panamanian people had
1885
