Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 11
and perhaps of the world as far as in-
tegrity is concerned and sound judgment
and fairness.
I don't know, in my own limited ex-
perience as a statesman, a public official,
but as a long student of history, that I've
seen this happen before so quickly. It's
also an almost unprecedented thing to
know that a group of military leaders love
their nation so much and love the prin-
ciples of human freedom so much that
without fanfare or turmoil or bloodshed
they've laid a firm basis for rapid transfer
of authority to the people themselves
through free elections and through civil-
ian rule.
And a democratically chosen constitu-
tional convention comprised of about
230, 240 people are already completing
the first draft of the constitution which
will have a president and a bicameral
congress, legislature, and they have main-
tained an absolutely free judicial system.
And the anticipation is that the first
elections might take place in 1979, per-
haps no later. They've extracted the finest
aspects of British jurisprudence, in my
opinion, and retained it. They have a
unique system, Cy,¹ of choosing judges.
The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of the nation and the chief justices of the
supreme courts of the states choose the
new appointees to be judges, and they are
submitted to the Military Council and, as
a pro forma thing they're approved. This
is something that I would welcome here
in the United States. It would take off
me the responsibility of appointing judges.
[Laughter]
But the point I'm making is that there
is a remarkable trend of change with pride
and determination of preservation of hu-
man rights and absolute human freedom,
a deep commitment to democracy in an
extremely rapid way, and an acquisition,
1 Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance.
because of fulfillment, of the trust of the
other nations of Africa and, indeed, of the
whole world.
And I'm very proud to see our own
relationship with Nigeria improving
rapidly.
As we've discussed today, the problems
with Chad and Libya, the advice that I've
had is, "Let us handle it. We're already
working with the Chadeans and the Lib-
yans, and I believe that we can resolve
it." And as we are deeply concerned about
the Horn of Africa, I've learned today
that the OAU has a standing committee
and that Nigeria will be the lead nation in
bringing Somalia and Ethiopia together if
things go well. And through negotiation,
perhaps the differences can be resolved
with an alleviation of the bloodshed that's
being demonstrated there now.
Well, I'm very proud to have this
friendship, because our hopes are the
same for Africa as those that exist in the
hearts of our visitors here tonight—that
there might be peace, that there might be
an honoring of national borders, that there
might be a complete absence of military
intrusion or unwarranted influence from
the European nations or the super pow-
ers, ourselves or the Soviets, or any other
outside force, that there might be the es-
tablishment of majority rule, an end to
racism and discrimination, that there
might be maximum autonomy for the na-
tions that exist there, enhancement of
human freedom, and an improvement in
the quality of life of people who live in
Africa.
These are exactly the same things we
hope for. And because of my own limited
knowledge of Africa, but a burgeoning
interest in Africa on the part of our own
Nation, it helps me to have a friend, ad-
viser, and counselor like our guest here
tonight to make sure that our own deci-
sions are made on the basis of sound ad-
vice and accurate analysis of things as they
exist.
1773
