Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 10
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you always have
that inherent conflict, which is one that
was pointed out earlier about the unem-
ployment rate in the Humphrey-Hawkins
bill. On the one hand, economic stimula-
tion leads to rapid growth, more employ-
ment, at least on a temporary basis; and
on the other hand, you have the high in-
flationary pressures develop when you
have an excessive supply of money, an ex-
cessive stimulation of the economy.
I strongly support the autonomy and
independence of the Federal Reserve. We
have had a 2-percent increase in interest
rates this year because of action taken by
the Federal Reserve. But there's a fairly
good balance now, in my opinion, be-
tween the Federal Reserve on the one
hand, controlling the supply of money in
the marketplace to some degree; the Con-
gress, which has direct authority to act,
which indirectly controls the supply of
money by changes in the tax laws, rebates,
and so forth; and the President, of course,
participates with the Congress in estab-
lishing budget levels, the rapidity with
which programs are carried out once the
money is authorized by Congress, and so
forth. I wouldn't want to change that
basic structure. I think it's good.
I might say that the press reports of
disharmonies or arguments or a lack of
friendship or cooperation between me and
Chairman Burns are completely errone-
ous. We have meetings regularly. We dis-
cuss the economic issues openly and freely.
The Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, the Secretary of Treas-
ury, the Vice President attend those meet-
ings.
Coincidentally, today is one of those
monthly meetings when I'll be with Mr.
Burns. We've never had any disagree-
ments on those subjects. So, I don't think
that I have any inclination to criticize the
actions that have been taken by Mr.
Burns.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Mr. President, you canceled your
trip overseas in order to be here for the
last stages of the fight over your energy
bill. You gave a speech on television the
other night. What else do you personally
intend to be doing, during this period
when you would have been traveling, to
bring about a result that's acceptable to
you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know of any-
thing that's more important for me to do
as President, other than defending our
Nation and guaranteeing its security, than
to have the Congress conclude their long
year's work with a successful result, spell-
ing out legislation and an energy policy
for our Nation to help resolve a serious
problem.
Energy waste threatens our country's
economy, jobs, inflation. Energy waste
threatens our Nation's own security,
makes us overly dependent on foreign im-
ports, which might be interrupted at any
time. And I think that the best thing I
can do the rest of this year is to work
closely with the Congress, individually
with Members of the Congress, with the
conferees who are now engaged in very
productive work. And I canceled the trip
reluctantly, but with the additional reali-
zation that our relationship with the
countries that I would have visited will
be much better in the future if the United
States takes this belated action to provide
a workable energy policy.
The Congress is making, I think, good
progress. There are five major elements
of the energy package, five separate bills
that will come to my desk eventually.
They have almost completed work on two
of them; the others are highly contro-
1999
