July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
heavy emphasis on a legitimate incentive
to work for those that are able to work.
ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
Q. Mr. President?
DISCRIMINATION
Q. Mr. President, there's a case com-
ing up before the U.S. Supreme Court
next term on the issue of whether insti-
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Schram [Martin tutions of higher learning can grant pref-
J. Schram, Newsday].
Q. Mr. President, at the risk of going
back over well-plowed ground, I'd like to
ask you why it is that you did not ask Mr.
Begin what his plans were concerning the
existing settlements on the West Bank,
and more specifically, were you led to be-
lieve from your own studies in advance of
those talks that he was not going to take
this action?
THE PRESIDENT. I hate to admit it to
you, Mr. Schram, but I did not think
about raising the subject of recognizing
the legality of those settlements. The item
that I wanted to discuss with him and
I did—both in the public meeting with
Cabinet members and also privately up-
stairs in the White House, was the estab-
lishment of new settlements. And I
pointed out to him, as I've said earlier,
that I thought the establishment of new
settlements would be a very difficult thing
for public opinion to accept, both here
and in the Arab countries, and that if—
he pointed out to me that new settlers,
as a result of his campaign statements
and those of his opponents, were eager to
go into the area—I don't think it's violat-
ing any confidence to tell you what I said,
and that was that I thought it would be
easier for us to accept an increase in the
population of existing settlements than it
would be to accept the establishment of
new settlements. But I did not think
about talking to him concerning the
granting of legal status to those settle-
ments. It was an oversight which never
was discussed.
erences in admission patterns to members
tion has the opportunity to file an amicus
of minority groups, and your administra-
brief in this case. What's your position on
that?
THE PRESIDENT. I hate to endorse the
proposition of quotas for minority groups,
for women or for anyone else, that con-
travene the concept of merit selection.
However, I think it is appropriate for
both private employers, the public gov-
ernments, and also institutions of
education, health, and so forth, to try to
compensate as well as possible for past
discrimination, and also to take into con-
sideration the fact that many tests that
are used to screen applicants quite often
are inadvertently biased against those
whose environment and whose training
might be different from white majority
representatives of our society.
It's not an easy question for the courts
to answer, or the Congress. It's not an
easy question for me as President to an-
swer, either. I just want to be sure that
if we do make a mistake in this carefully
balanced approach, that the mistake
might be to end discrimination and not
the other way around.
But, of course, I will have to comply
with the Supreme Court ruling. And I
might say that the Secretary of HEW and
the Attorney General, who are lawyers-
and I'm not-will prepare our position.
I'll be involved in that preparation, but
I've given you the best answer I can.
Yes?
1372
