Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 15
D. The Economic Opportunity Coun-
cil.
SEC. 4. Appointment of the Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Communica-
tions and Information.
There shall be in the Department of
Commerce an Assistant Secretary for
Communications and Information who
shall be appointed by the President, by
and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, and who shall be entitled to re-
ceive compensation at the rate now or
hereafter prescribed by law for Level IV
of the Executive Schedule.
SEC. 5. Transfers of Functions.
The following functions shall be trans-
ferred:
A. All functions vested in the Director
of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy and in the Office of Science and
Technology Policy pursuant to sections
205(a) (2), 206 and 209 of the National
Science and Technology Policy, Orga-
nization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (Pub-
lic Law 94-282; 90 Stat. 459), are here-
by transferred to the President. The In-
tergovernmental Science, Engineering,
and Technology Advisory Panel, the
President's Committee on Science and
Technology, and the Federal Coordinat-
ing Council for Science, Engineering and
Technology, established in accordance
with the provisions of Titles II, III, and
IV of the National Science and Tech-
nology Policy, Organization, and Priori-
ties Act of 1976, are hereby abolished, and
their functions transferred to the Presi-
dent.
B. Those functions of the Office of
Telecommunications Policy and of its
Director relating to:
(1) the preparation of national secu-
rity, emergency, and other Presidential
telecommunications policy options;
(2) disposition of appeals from as-
signments of radio frequencies to sta-
tions of the United States government;
and
(3) procurement and management
of Federal telecommunications systems,
are hereby transferred to the President.
All other functions of the Office of Tele-
communications Policy and of its Direc-
tor are hereby transferred to the Secre-
tary of Commerce who shall provide for
the performance of such functions.
C. The functions of the Office of Drug
Abuse Policy and its Director are here-
by transferred to the President.
D. The functions of the Domestic
Council are hereby transferred to the
President.
E. Those functions of the Council on
Environmental Quality and the Office of
Environmental Quality relating to the
evaluation provided for by Section 11 of
the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research
and Development Act of 1974 (Public
Law 93-577, 88 Stat. 1878), are hereby
transferred to the President.
F. Those functions of the Office of
Management and Budget and its Director
relating to the Committee Management
Secretariat (Public Law 92-436, 86 Stat.
770, as amended Public Law 94-409, 90
Stat. 1247) are hereby transferred to the
President.
G. The functions of the Economic Op-
portunity Council are hereby transferred
to the President.
SEC. 6. Incidental Transfers.
So much of the personnel, property,
records, and unexpended balances of
appropriations, allocations and other
funds employed, used, held, available, or
to be made available in connection with
the functions transferred under this Plan,
as the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget shall determine, shall
be transferred to the appropriate depart-
ment, agency, or component at such time
or times as the Director of the Office of
1261
