Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 9
Government will be as courageous and effective and fair as you demand
that it be.
This will not be the last time that I, as President, present difficult
and controversial choices to you and ask for your help. I believe that the
duties of this office permit me to do no less. But I'm confident that we
can find the wisdom and the courage to make the right decisions-even
when they are unpleasant so that we might, together, preserve the
greatness of our Nation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. from the Oval Office at the White House. His
remarks were broadcast live on radio and television.
Federal Mine Safety and
Health Amendments Act of
1977 and Air Cargo Deregulation
Bill
Remarks on Signing S. 717 and H.R. 6010 Into
Law. November 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This morning I'll sign
two bills of great importance to our coun-
try. I think every American knows that a
major contributing factor to our own
economy is the courageous and sometimes
endangered miners who go deep beneath
the earth to bring to the surface, for our
use, coal and other minerals.
This morning I will be signing a mine
safety bill which goes far forward in pro-
tecting not only the miners in the coal
fields of our country but also previously
uncovered miners in the areas that pro-
duce minerals other than coal.
This sometimes is not highly pub-
licized, but last year, 1976, we had 113
miners who were killed and more than
7,000 who were disabled in mines other
than coal mines. This bill extends the
same safety and health standards to those
mines as has been the case with coal. In
addition, in the past, the enforcement of
the existing coal mining regulations has
not been rapidly assured.
We all remember the tragedy in the
Scotia mine, where repeated findings of
ventilation faults, I think 63 or 64 of
them, were uncorrected. And then we
had a major tragedy in that mine. This
bill permits a more rapid enforcement of
the coal mining safety and health stand-
ards when defects are found.
The other very important aspect of this
bill is that it transfers the enforcement of
the mine safety and health acts to the
Labor Department. These were formerly
in the Interior Department. Ray Mar-
shall is here, the Secretary of Labor, and
I believe that there's a general recogni-
tion among the miners of our Nation and
among the administration officials, in-
cluding the Secretary of Interior, that this
will mean a much closer relationship be-
tween the enforcement of this law by the
Federal Government agency and those
who live with their lives constantly in
danger.
It's with a great deal of pleasure that
I sign this legislation. I would particu-
larly like to congratulate Carl Perkins, a
Congressman who's been instrumental in
this field for many, many years; Pete
Williams, who can't be here. He's in New
Jersey. New Jersey is almost covered with
water. He felt that he ought to be with
his own people today. And I particularly
1987
