Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 25
while I was over in the Middle East area.
But the only time I would have available
is either Tehran or Riyadh. And nothing
has been worked out with President Asad,
but Secretary Vance had long discussions
with all of them, which is probably ade-
quate.
Q. Do you think it's possible to have
a meaningful peace solution in the Mid-
dle East if the Palestinians don't have an
independent state, an independent
entity?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've never fa-
vored a separate nation or an independ-
ent state for the Palestinians. I think that
they ought to be tied in, in some way at
least, with Jordan. That's my preference.
But anything that Prime Minister Begin
would work out with the Jordanians or
the Palestinians or the Egyptians would
suit us.
We have no prohibition against any
arrangement, including a tie with Jordan
or otherwise. This is going to be a dual
discussion between President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin-one on a bilateral
basis concerning the Sinai region and the
relationship directly between Israel and
Egypt. The other one, of course, would
relate to a much broader range of ques-
tions concerning the West Bank, the
Gaza Strip, and how the Palestinian
Arabs would be treated in a final settle-
ment.
One of the things that is being dis-
cussed is an interim arrangement for sev-
eral
years so that they might feel their
way toward more sense of security. I
think Israel feels very deeply that leaders
come and go. Myself, Begin, and Sadat,
you know, won't be in office after a num-
ber of years. And there has to be a firm
foundation of peace between the peoples
involved so that any yielding of territory
or any lessening of security would be at
least more carefully considered and
weighed in the balance of historical
times.
But I think that if I've ever seen two
people who were determined to be suc-
cessful under the most difficult negotiat-
ing positions, it is Begin and Sadat. I've
talked to both of them at length. We've
had long and voluminous messages
through diplomatic channels as well.
And, of course, Cy Vance has been over
there to visit with both of them recently.
And I know that they are determined to
be successful.
There's a difference, as you know, be-
tween the governments in Israel and
Egypt. Prime Minister Begin is con-
strained by the parliamentary system. He
has a cabinet and a parliament, the
Knesset, and he has to negotiate with
them and deal with them. I think, so far,
he's been successful in selling his proposal
that he is making to Sadat today to his
own leadership. And I've read news re-
ports and have had private reports that
there had been a good bit of disagree-
ment originally. But they gave him their
vote of confidence in the cabinet. So, he
is negotiating from a strong position
among his own people.
Sadat, of course, being a President,
being a very strong and powerful consti-
tutional officer in the system of govern-
ment Egypt has, can speak much more
quickly, make decisions much more rap-
idly. He has to do much less consultation
with other Egyptian officials than does
Begin. But I think the recent attitudes
among the general public in both those
countries is conducive to peace.
I think Sadat has the overwhelming
support of his own people. I think Begin
has the overwhelming support of the
people of Israel. So, I have good hopes
about it. But I've seen enough of the
detailed subjects for negotiation already
to know how difficult it is. Past positions
2173
