Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
of intelligence is routed immediately to
relevant components and commands. In
periods of crisis or in wartime, the power
to assign collection tasks may be delegated
to the Secretary of Defense upon the
express direction of the President.
3. The Director of Central Intelligence
should have full and exclusive authority
for approval of the National Foreign In-
telligence Program (NFIP) budget prior
to its presentation (through usual proce-
dures) to the President, for its presenta-
tion to Congress, for reprogramming of
NFIP funds, and monitoring the imple-
mentation of programs. In response to the
DCI's guidance, the departments and
agencies of the NFIP will submit their
proposed national program budgets to the
DCI and assure that the DCI has all in-
formation necessary to perform his budg-
etary responsibilities. The National For-
eign Intelligence Board will advise the
DCI on all of his budgetary responsibili-
ties in the same manner as it does on
national intelligence production and
other activities of common concern. De-
partment heads will retain the right to
appeal the DCI's budget decisions to the
President. The Director of Central Intel-
ligence will be provided with adequate
staff support to ensure his full access to
relevant information and the capability
to carry out audits and evaluations of
intelligence programs.
4. The Director of Central Intelli-
gence will continue to act as the primary
adviser to the National Security Council
and the President on substantive foreign
intelligence and to have full responsibility
for production of national intelligence in
appropriate consultation with depart-
mental analytical centers. He will retain
all other powers provided to him under
relevant statutes and Executive orders.
5. Apart from the foregoing, line au-
thority will remain with the heads of the
relevant departments and agencies. All
other organizational and operational ar-
rangements and responsibilities assigned
under existing statutes and Executive or-
ders shall remain in full effect. Personnel
and administration, management and
support activities, operational implemen-
tation of DCI tasking, and audit/inspec-
tor general functions will remain
presently assigned under departmental
arrangements.
These decisions will be embodied in a
new Executive order for the intelligence
community as an interim measure until
appropriate charter legislation can be
introduced and enacted by Congress.
Visit of President Nyerere
of Tanzania
Toasts of the President and President Nyerere
at a Working Dinner for the Tanzanian
President. August 4, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. Infrequently on the
world scene, there arises a young leader
at the beginning of the history of a na-
tion who in a strange but all pervasive
way represents what his people are and
what his country hopes to be. And our
guest tonight is that kind of leader.
Fourteen years ago, he came here when
his nation was 2 years old. He had been
searching for a role of leadership in a sac-
rificial way, came from a small town, and
came to visit our young President, Presi-
dent John Kennedy. They exchanged
ideas about the future, and he honored
our country then by coming.
Now our guest, President Nyerere from
Tanzania, has come here as a distin-
guished senior citizen-still young in body
and in spirit, but experienced and re-
spected and, a man who, when he speaks,
has others listen; a man of modesty and
1423
