Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
rates to those homeowners who use the
least amount of electricity. If you have a
big building like this or a big office build-
ing or a big factory, the more electricity
you use, the less you pay per kilowatt-
hour. And we want to be sure that that's
turned around.
We also want to make sure that there's
an end to the construction of unnecessary
electric powerplants, because when there
is a waste of electricity and the power
companies have to build new plants to
meet that need—increased demand that's
not necessary then the present con-
sumers of electricity have to pay for the
construction costs. This has not been ad-
dressed adequately in the past.
The other point I'd like to say is we are
very concerned about health. We have
put into effect a new immunization pro-
gram. Now only about 45 percent of our
young people are immunized against dis-
eases.
When I was a child, or when some of
you were children, almost a hundred per-
cent of us had had immunization shots.
We hope to increase that very quickly.
And, you know, our CHAPS program,
where we give full physical examinations
for
young people at a very early age-we
now have only about 1/2 million children
who get that program. We intend, before
I go out of office, to increase this 500 per-
cent and have about 8 million more young
people get these physical examinations
and when things are found wrong with
them at an early age, to give them health
care that they need. Because if they go
into the teenage years and later years, if
they've had an early disease or problem
that could have been corrected, it becomes
very expensive for the public and also, of
course, destroys their lives.
So, we have many programs that are
now being put into effect very quickly
under me and the Democratic Congress
that I think are going to meet the needs
of some of the people that you represent
so well in Minnesota.
MS. SHAW. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Joan.
Mike Maloney.
APPALACHIAN MIGRANTS
MR. MALONEY. Mr. President, I'm
Mike Maloney. I'm the son of an Appa-
lachian coal miner. I'm now an Appa-
lachian migrant and director of the Urban
Appalachian Council in Cincinnati,
which is an advocacy organization for
Appalachian migrants.
We now know who the urban poor are.
The urban poor are black Southerners,
from the South. They are white South-
even though they may be third generation
erners from the Appalachian South and
from the flatland South. They're internal
migrants from Puerto Rico. They're
Chicanos or Mexican Americans. And
they are the elderly that you and Father
Hernady were talking about, of the na-
tional ethnic minorities. The bulk of the
urban poor are in those groups. Our con-
cerns as Appalachians are the same as
has already been expressed.
I do need to mention that there are 6
million first- and second-generation moun-
tain people now living outside the Ap-
palachian region and that we're one of
the largest ethnic minorities in the urban
North. And it doesn't seem that the Fed-
eral Government knows that we exist. In
many cases, the local governments don't
know that we exist.
But if the Government has programs
that help with unemployment, that help
with the education of low-income chil-
dren and housing, and if Government pro-
grams give some emphasis on the develop-
ment of the neighborhoods, which are
where people live, and consult with the
people who live in neighborhoods, and
1840
