Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
vestigation of narcotics trafficking cases. I
am asking the appropriate Federal agen-
cies to determine the difficulties these
provisions present to effective law enforce-
ment. If it appears they can be amended
to improve law enforcement without in-
fringing upon legitimate privacy interests,
I will submit legislation to the Congress.
MARIHUANA
Marihuana continues to be an emo-
tional and controversial issue. After four
decades, efforts to discourage its use with
stringent laws have still not been suc-
cessful. More than 45 million Americans
have tried marihuana and an estimated
11 million are regular users.
Penalties against possession of a drug
should not be more damaging to an indi-
vidual than the use of the drug itself; and
where they are, they should be changed.
Nowhere is this more clear than in the
laws against possession of marihuana in
private for personal use. We can, and
should, continue to discourage the use of
marihuana, but this can be done without
defining the smoker as a criminal. States
which have already removed criminal
penalties for marihuana use, like Oregon
and California, have not noted any sig-
nificant increase in marihuana smoking.
The National Commission on Marihuana
and Drug Abuse concluded five years ago
that marihuana use should be decrimi-
nalized, and I believe it is time to imple-
ment those basic recommendations.
Therefore, I support legislation amend-
ing Federal law to eliminate all Federal
criminal penalties for the possession of up
to one ounce of marihuana. This decrimi-
nalization is not legalization. It means
only that the Federal penalty for posses-
sion would be reduced and a person would
received a fine rather than a criminal
penalty. Federal penalties for trafficking
would remain in force and the states
would remain free to adopt whatever laws
they wish concerning the marihuana
smoker.
I am especially concerned about the
increasing levels of marihuana use, which
may be particularly destructive to our
youth. While there is certain evidence to
date showing that the medical damage
from marihuana use may be limited, we
should be concerned that chronic intoxi-
cation with marihuana or any other drug
may deplete productivity, causing people
to lose interest in their social environment,
their future, and other more constructive
ways of filling their free time. In addition,
driving while under the influence of mari-
huana can be very hazardous. I am, there-
fore, directing the Department of Trans-
portation to expedite its study of the ef-
fects of marihuana use on the coordina-
tion and reflexes needed for safe driving.
DRUG TREATMENT
My immediate objective will be to
widen the scope and improve the effec-
tiveness of Federal drug treatment pro-
grams. In conception and in practice, they
have been too narrow. Drug addiction can
be cured; but we must not only treat the
immediate effects of the drugs, we must
also provide adequate rehabilitation, in-
cluding job training, to help the addict
regain a productive role in society. In the
past, Federal programs have given dis-
proportionate attention to the heroin ad-
dict while neglecting those who are de-
pendent on other drugs.
To improve the quality of Federal drug
treatment, I am recommending these
steps:
• In recognition of the devastating ef-
fects that certain nonopiate drugs can
have if abused, I am directing the Secre-
tary of Health, Education, and Welfare to
expand resources devoted to care for
abusers of barbiturates, amphetamines,
and multiple drugs used in combination,
including alcohol.
1404
