Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 28
whose solidarity is already indivisible, and
so that is the reason why its power is real.
A global reform is stated. No partial
solution will overcome the problem. The
new international order must be demo-
cratic and based not only on economic
changes but on new economic and ethical
premises, because another dramatic real-
ity, which the great nations had not until
now noticed, is that the world is neither
an unlimited reservoir of resources nor
that its exploitation could go on on the
present terms impoverishing more and
more the producing countries in order
to maintain irritating levels of waste and
consumption in the industrial ones.
Unfortunately, technological civiliza-
tion could well be called the civilization
of waste. It is founded upon an irrespon-
sible arrogance of men who want to ap-
propriate, without limit, the resources of
nature and consume them as if they would
never be depleted, in spite of the abuses
which are inflicted upon it.
Fortunately, voices such as yours are
beginning to be heard, which denounce
this lack of suicidal prevention as well as
these attacks against nature.
We must have as a starting point a
deep criticism of the way of life of the
industrial societies, greedy consumers of
resources. The survival of human society
is at stake.
The principles of classical liberalism
and traditional capitalism have been re-
vised in the national order. The poli-
cies of taxation, of social security, of
social function of property, of the limi-
tation of monopolies have originated in
the requirements of the new society. In
the international order the same must
occur. We are beginning to realize that
international controls must be devised
to guarantee nations their economic
rights. Likewise, it is imperative on the
part of all countries in the international
community, the acceptance of a code that
regulates the actions of transnational
companies, which have weakened and
transgressed the national sovereignty of
the developing countries and have deeply
eroded their morals with the generalized
practice of bribery.
Petroleum, a privileged one among the
raw materials, confers upon the produc-
ing countries, members of OPEC, an
historical responsibility vis-a-vis their
countries and all of humanity.
OPEC has generated awareness with
regard to interdependence in the world.
It has shown the vulnerability of all coun-
tries, without exception, in a situation
like the present, and it has made it much
more difficult for the developed world
to go on exploiting the developing world.
OPEC's actions have made clear the
contradictions of the present world order
as well as the possibilities that the third
has at its disposal for dialog and under-
standing. The objectives of OPEC are
not the price of oil; they go much fur-
ther, to the achievement of that new in-
ternational economic order. That is why
I dare to affirm that it will be impossible
to disrupt the unity of OPEC. No one
has to fear it. It acts responsibly.
Mr. President, and Mrs. Carter, in
our conversations we must talk about
these and others of the many problems
that deal with the bilateral relations be-
tween our two countries, with Latin
America, with the Third World, and
other aspects of world politics of com-
mon concern. We will have to talk about
hidden conflicts in our hemisphere, of
possible solutions, of the responsibilities
of the United States and of our own.
With my words in this kind and
friendly dinner expressive of the cordial-
ity with which we have been received, I
have wished to refer to fundamental as-
pects that commit the responsibility of
nations and governments in the construc-
tion of the new world order, just and
equitable.
1187
