Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 20
Child Health Day, 1977
Proclamation 4522. September 20, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
This Nation was established to provide
its people with the chance for better lives.
Our early settlers and those who expand-
ed the Nation westward bore their sacri-
fices and hardships with the assurance
that in this free land future generations
would enjoy opportunities still
dreamed of.
un-
The health of America's children today
often determines what their future can be
tomorrow. Over the years the number
of deaths among babies has been drasti-
cally cut and we have made great strides
toward eliminating the diseases and hand-
icaps of childhood. We still have much
to learn and accomplish, especially in the
areas of birth abnormalities, child abuse,
teenage alcoholism and drug addiction,
lack of availability of medical care, and
damage brought on by environmental
factors.
But it is tragic for a child to die or
endure lifelong handicaps from condi-
tions we can prevent. Although such
diseases as polio, measles, rubella, diph-
theria and whooping cough have been
subdued for the time being, they are not
beaten. It is in our power to protect all
our children, but nearly 40 per cent of
those under the age of 15 are inade-
quately immunized. Some of these chil-
dren will die or have serious disabilities
and unborn babies will be permanently
damaged from these preventable diseases
and their complications.
No American child should die or suffer
needless handicaps from diseases for
which safe and effective vaccines are
readily available. Neither should any
child be deprived of adequate nutrition
or a safe environment. While pushing
back the walls of our knowledge and im-
proving medical techniques may be re-
stricted to scientists and medical experts,
this is an area where every citizen can
have an impact on giving our children
the opportunity for better health, both
now and in the years to come.
To encourage awareness of the funda-
mental necessity of a year-round program
for the protection and the development
of the Nation's health, the Congress, by
joint resolution of May 18, 1928, as
amended (36 U.S.C. 143) has requested
the President to issue annually a procla-
mation designating the first Monday in
October as Child Health Day and calling
for its appropriate observance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Monday, October 3,
1977, as Child Health Day. I invite all
Americans, as well as all agencies and
organizations dedicated to the well-being
of children, to unite on that day in support
of activities that will alert each of us to
our separate and collective responsibilities
to protect and enhance the health of
America's children and to provide them
with the opportunity to live in safety and
to grow up strong and knowledgeable
about their own and their families' health
needs.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
September, in the year
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5:03 p.m., September 20, 1977]
1631
