Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 17
well aware of your concern for the need
for fairness to Mr. Lance, and you're re-
spected for that by the people who sup-
port you the most; those same people are
the most concerned about the success of
your Presidency. And on another issue, re-
cently you remarked that life isn't always
fair. I wondered if you are confronted
with the problem of whether a resolution
may be necessary which is not altogether
which is not altogether
fair to Mr. Lance, but which is necessary
for the larger concerns of the Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that's something
I'll have to balance. And as I said yes-
terday in a telephone talk to the news pro-
gramers of television and radio stations,
I don't know of anything illegal that Bert
Lance has done. I don't know of any un-
ethical conduct on his behalf. And I'm
keeping an open mind about this entire
subject until the Senate goes through its
present procedure of analyzing in detail
all of the new charges and allegations and
claims and staternents that have been
made about Bert Lance.
He's now being given a fair chance to
say these are all of the charges, this is
my
answer to them. And of course, I will cer-
tainly have an eagerness to learn of any
reason for me to change the assessment
that I've just made. But I want to be fair
about it, and I have a sure sense of the
basic fairness of the American people.
The facts, if divulged, will be conclu-
sive, I think, in the shaping of public
opinion. And one problem about the
whole incident that I can't comprehend,
perhaps, adequately, is-let's leave Bert
Lance out of it for just a moment; just
take any of you, or myself. If a series of,
say, incorrect allegations are made day
after day after day with the highest
possible publicity, the lead story on every
television network every night and the
headlines in the Washington Post and
other newspapers every day, and then all
those allegations are proved to be false,
how much of those allegations remain to
damage the character of the person who
might be totally innocent?
And then you say, well, this person is
damaged so that he can't perform his
functions adequately, when the damage
has been caused either erroneously or
falsely. Well, if that was the only factor,
then my decision would be easy. But if
I also have confidence that as the Ameri-
can people learn-and it might take a
while that the allegations were basically
false and have successfully been answered,
that the character of the person, say, your-
self, would be restored, then my decision
would be a different one. And I really
have been concerned about this matter, as
you know.
I don't know an easy answer. But at
this point, I have no evidence to indicate
that Bert's done anything illegal or uneth-
ical. I wish that every one of you could
read the FBI report which has been the
subject of many references. Bert has an
ability, under the law, to get the FBI re-
port under the Freedom of Information
Act and make it public.
They interviewed, I guess, a hundred
people-three of those people were in the
Comptroller's Office; three additional
ones were in the Department of Justice.
And the FBI questioned them about these
same allegations, and the response of
those, I think, all men, six men, were
unanimously almost effusive in their rec-
ommendation of Bert. But now their testi-
mony under the pressure of Senate inter-
rogation is a little bit different. But at the
time that the Senate investigated first, I
think the information was offered to them.
Obviously, a lot of new questions have
been raised. But in general, I'm still keep-
ing an open mind about it.
1617
