Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
REDUCTION OF FRAUD AND ABUSE
The few providers and recipients guilty
of fraud and abuse in our welfare pro-
grams not only rob the taxpayers but
cheat the vast majority of honest recip-
ients. One of the most significant bene-
fits of consolidation of existing cash
assistance programs is the opportunity to
apply sophisticated management tech-
niques to improve their operation. The
use of a central computer facility will per-
mit more efficient processing of claims,
reduce the incidence of error in calculat-
ing benefits, and facilitate the detection
of fraud. No longer will people easily
claim benefits in more than one jurisdic-
tion.
We will strongly enforce current pro-
grams directed at assisting local officials
in obtaining child support payments from
run-away parents, as determined by judi-
cial proceedings.
We will ensure that the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare will vig-
orously root out abuses and fraud in our
social programs.
We will work for passage of current
legislation designed to crack down on
fraud and abuse in our Medicaid and
Medicare Program. The administration
of these programs will be a major chal-
lenge for federal and state officials. It
provides a valuable opportunity to dem-
onstrate that government can be made to
work, particularly in its operation of pro-
grams which serve those in our society
most in need.
IMPLEMENTATION
Because of the complexity of integrat-
ing the different welfare systems of the
50 states and the District of Columbia
into a more unified national system, we
estimate that this program will be effec-
tive in Fiscal Year 1981. Moreover, we
recognize that the National Health In-
surance plan which will be submitted
form and rationalization of the Medicaid
next year must contain fundamental re-
program, carefully coordinated with the
structure of this proposal. However, we
are anxious to achieve the swiftest imple-
mentation possible and will work with the
Congress and State and local govern-
ments to accelerate this timetable if at all
possible.
Given the present complex system, wel-
fare reform inevitably involves difficult
choices. Simplicity and uniformity and
improved benefits for the great majority
inevitably require reduction of special
benefits for some who receive favored
treatment now. Providing the dignity of
a job to those who at present are denied
work opportunities will require all the
creativity and ingenuity that private busi-
ness and government at all levels can
bring to bear. But the effort will be
worthwhile both for the individual and
for the country. The Program for Better
Jobs and Income stresses the fundamen-
tal American commitment to work,
strengthens the family, respects the less
advantaged in our society, and makes a
far more efficient and effective use of our
hard-earned tax dollars.
I hope the Congress will move expedi-
tiously and pass this program early next
year.
The White House,
August 6, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Community Services
Administration
Nomination of Frank Jones To Be ar
Assistant Director. August 6, 1977
The President has announced his inten-
tion to nominate Frank Jones of Arling-
1458
