Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have damaged you. At the first meeting
of your Cabinet appointees, Cabinet de-
signees at St. Simons Island-there was
a meeting which Mr. Lance attended,
and you were there-it was pointed out to
every member of this Cabinet a feeling on
your part and those of some of the staff
closest to you, that because of the recent
past political history in the country and
partly because of the expectations that
had been raised by your campaign, that
this was sort of a last chance; that if the
public became disappointed and disillu-
sioned in your administration, that the
result would be very, very damaging.
Early in this press conference, you
said Bert Lance is my friend, I have
known him personally as well as my own
brother and without any doubt in my
mind or heart that he could be, that he
was a good and honorable man.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. Do you think that you may have
been, if only slightly, less than fully pru-
dent and diligent because of your feeling
towards Mr. Lance in the way you read
some of these things, when he talked to
you on November 15, when he talked to
you on December 1, when the FBI report,
which I understand has also an appendix
with some of these judgmental matters
about the propriety of some of Mr.
Lance's banking practices-in retrospect,
do you feel that in effect two standards
were applied: one, a very firm, strong
standard which you set, and one for Mr.
Lance, who you knew so well that you
felt you didn't have to examine it that
closely?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't think I've
been remiss in that incident at all, even
looking at it from this retrospective point
of view.
Obviously, you can make a much better
judgment on someone who comes in as a
member of a Cabinet if you yourself have
known that person for years, if you know
that person's general reputation, if you've
worked intimately with that person in
times of stress and matters of challenge
and have seen the basic competence,
courage, honesty, unselfishness there. This
existed in Bert Lance.
And I don't think there's any doubt
that the FBI check of Bert Lance was just
as thorough as was the FBI investigation
of any other member of the Cabinet. I
think that if you examine the entire FBI
report now, that you would confirm that
if that was all you knew about him and
had never seen Bert Lance before, you
would agree that he was superlatively
qualified to be a Cabinet-level officer.
So, I don't think there's any feeling on
my part that my friendship with him dis-
torted my point of view in assessing his
competence. My friendship for Bert
Lance, my long knowledge of him just
confirmed a very favorable assessment of
his qualifications by those who did not
know him.
Q. Has the Lance case diverted your
attention at all away from important
matters at home and abroad? Has there
been a price that you've had to pay
there
and the American public has had to pay
because of the Lance case and the heavy
attention being placed upon it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have to admit
that there has been some diversion of my
attention. I've been deeply concerned
about the case. I've been concerned about
Bert Lance personally. I've been con-
cerned about the impact on my adminis-
tration if some of those serious allegations
proved to be true. And it hasn't taken
nearly so much of my own time as it has
that of, say, Jody Powell, who's had to
face this questioning every day, which I
think was a good thing.
Bob Lipshutz on my staff has had to
confirm the accuracy of the answers to
questions that were raised by the Comp-
1642
