Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
bassador Andrew Young highlighted our
concern for the Third World.
WESTERN EUROPE
The administration has: participated
in a successful Belgrade CSCE conference
(Conference on Security and Coopera-
tion in Europe), including a review of
human rights; prepared another MBFR
(mutual and balanced force reduc-
tions) proposal to advance talks; inaugu-
rated four NATO efforts (the long-term
defense program; the short-term im-
provements; the "two-way street" in de-
fense purchases; the East-West study);
agreed to provide a $300-million loan and
forged a multination consortium to help
democracy in Portugal; and secured a
major IMF loan for Italy.
SOVIET UNION-EASTERN EUROPE
The administration has put the U.S.-
Soviet relationship on a more reciprocal,
realistic, and what we hope will be an
ultimately more productive basis for both
nations. The administration has improved
relations with various Eastern European
countries, including Yugoslavia, as a
result of the Vice President's visit, and
Poland, as a result of Secretary Kreps'
visit and the President's scheduled state
visit.
ARAB-ISRAELI CONFLICT
The administration stressed the need
for a comprehensive settlement which has
three core elements: definition of the na-
ture of the peace, establishment of rec-
ognized borders and security, and resolu-
tion of the Palestinian question. We have
urged, with considerable success, the
Arabs and the Israelis to be forthcoming
on peace commitments, direct negotia-
tions, and peace treaties. We have sup-
ported the Sadat-Begin dialog.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
The administration has followed the
Shanghai Communique in efforts toward
normalization of relations, while empha-
sizing the mutuality of efforts necessary to
complete the process. Recognizing their
strategic importance, we have also contin-
ued to develop a consultative relationship
with the Chinese on global affairs.
KOREA
The details of the Korean ground troop
withdrawal plan have been designed to
alleviate major Asian apprehensions that
the United States is in the process of dis-
engaging from the region.
VIETNAM
The administration has started the
process of normalizing relations through
talks in Paris and has established a mech-
anism to continue to try to account for
our servicemen still missing in action.
AFRICA
Vice President Mondale informed
Prime Minister Vorster in Vienna that
U.S.-South Africa relations depended
upon South Africa moving away from
apartheid. With the British, we offered a
plan for Rhodesian independence. We
initiated a Five Power Group to negoti-
ate toward an independent Namibia. We
have restored good relations, based on
mutual respect, with black African states
of all political leanings.
LATIN AMERICA
The administration has developed a
new global approach to Latin America
and the Caribbean, one which recognizes
the diversity of the region rather than one
which pretends a single policy identified
by a simple slogan. (This approach has
been well received in the region.) The
President signed the Panama Canal
2151
