Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 25
more rapidly but, I have to tell you, frank-
ly, that the Congress this year has almost
all it can handle. But I've worked out with
the congressional leaders that next year
they'll start their full work on a compre-
hensive health care system for our country.
I want to add just a couple of more
points. Then I'll be through.
We are concerned about the rebuilding
of American urban centers. I won't cover
what Patricia Harris is going to cover in
her speech, but we've asked for $5 billion
increase in budget authority and proposed
new formulae to focus this attention where
it's needed most. In housing we are in-
creasing Title VIII sections of housing,
reviving the 202 housing programs for
elderly people. We've proposed an exten-
sion of $200 million in separate funding
for private day care services, and action
by both Houses of Congress is quite near.
And we recently proposed major reforms
in the foster care system to permit more
easily approved adoptions and to hold
families, again, together.
I could go on and on, because the list
of programs is very long and the amount
of money involved is very great, and the
eagerness to implement these programs by
me and the Democratic Congress is there
and the Cabinet officers and administra-
tors contains an attitude not of holding
back what Congress has approved, as has
been the case too often in the past, but an
eagerness to put into effect these programs
completely and without delay.
Now, I've mentioned a lot of figures to
you. I've talked a lot about programs that
we've already passed, about a lot of money
that's already been appropriated. And
then you might say, "Well, he's talking
about a lot of money and a lot of help.
But I haven't seen that money in
community yet." But the point I'm mak-
ing to you is it takes time to change the
trends of history and to reverse the bu-
my
reaucratic mechanism to one of support
and compassion and concern and enthu-
siasm from what was formerly reluctance
or lack of enthusiasm.
We have, obviously, a long way to go.
So, when I talk about these figures, it's
not with a sense of final accomplishments.
It's with a sense of dedication to the fu-
ture to perform as President of our great
country in such a way as to make you
proud and to let you feel that there is in
the White House and there is in the
Democratic Congress and there is within
the Cabinet members of my administra-
tion a partner with the Urban League,
eager to work in the private and govern-
mental sectors toward common goals. I'm
talking about real money, real programs
to help real people in real need of help.
And I'm not talking about just abstract
figures-although a billion dollars is a lot
of money--or meaningless statistics about
percentages of reduction of unemploy-
ment. I'm talking about a flood of new
programs that will be coming into your
own community in the weeks and months
ahead. I'm talking about my administra-
tion living up to its commitments to the
poor and to the hungry and to the timid
and to the weak and to the unemployed.
I need your partnership and you need
my partnership. And I believe that that
partnership is available to us and it can
have a profound impact so that
you and
I and my Cabinet and the Congress to-
gether can make this a better place in
which to live, particularly those who
haven't yet realized the guarantees ex-
pressed 200 years ago by our Founding
Fathers, of life and liberty and the pursuit
of happiness.
We've made great strides in this coun-
try already. We still have a long way to
go. And you've got my pledge to respond
well to counsel, to advice, to caution, and
to criticism. And I believe that this can
1351
