Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of foreign policy and national security are
these:
HUMAN RIGHTS
The President has strengthened our
human rights policy, and we are letting
it be known clearly that the United
States stands with the victims of repres-
sion. We are also working to advance the
full range of human rights, economic and
social as well as civil and political. He has
signed the American Convention on
Human Rights, the International Cove-
nant on Economic, Social, and Cultural
Rights. Our foreign assistance programs
will reflect more clearly our human rights
concerns. We have encouraged several
countries to permit inspection visits from
the International Committee of the Red
Cross. We are strongly supporting inter-
national organizations concerned with
human rights, particularly the Inter-
American Commission on Human
Rights, whose budget was tripled this
year.
NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION
The administration has developed a
comprehensive policy covering domestic
and export activities and has initiated an
international, technical evaluation of the
entire nuclear fuel cycle. The President
signed Protocol I of the Treaty of Tlate-
lolco, which creates a nuclear weapons-
free zone in Latin America.
ARMS TRANSFERS
For the first time, the United States
has adopted a policy of restraining both
the number and the kinds of American
arms sold abroad. We have also begun
to discuss restraint with other major arms
suppliers.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION TALKS
At the end of the last administration,
the SALT negotiations were at a stale-
mate. The efforts of this administration,
beginning with the March proposal set
forth by Secretary Vance in Moscow,
have resulted in major progress in the
SALT negotiations. We are now working
on a comprehensive settlement consist-
ing of a treaty to last through 1985, a 3-
year protocol, and a Statement of Princi-
ples to guide the SALT III negotiations.
Almost all the major issues are now re-
solved, and we anticipate completion of a
SALT II treaty in the early part of next
year.
PANAMA CANAL TREATIES
After 14 years of negotiations under
four U.S. Presidents, the United States
and Panama adjusted their relationship
as it applies to the Panama Canal. Pres-
ident Carter and General Omar Torrijos
signed two canal treaties on September 7,
1977, which would gradually transfer re-
sponsibility for the operation and defense
of a neutral canal to Panama. The trea-
ties give the United States the permanent
right to defend the canal's neutrality.
COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN
Negotiations are underway on a treaty
banning all nuclear explosions.
NORTH-SOUTH RELATIONS
The United States image in the less-
developed world and the United Nations
has changed dramatically from that of an
adversary to that of a potential partner.
In the Security Council debate on Africa,
we played a mediating role. Our arms
control policies have made a favorable
impression on the United Nations' annual
review of disarmament issues. We played
a constructive role in the Maputo and
Lagos conference. And we participated,
for the first time, in an ASEAN (Associa-
tion of Southeast Asian Nations) min-
isterial meeting. The appointment of Am-
2150
