Sept. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
myself but only if you honor his trust
and not just give him your quiet or quies-
cent or financial support, but let your
neighbors and friends and all those who
can hear your voice know how much you
support him and actively struggle to see
the reelection of this good man, will New
Jersey reach its ultimate potential.
I'm proud of Brendan Byrne. I value
his friendship. I know what he means to
New Jersey. I know what he will mean to
your State and to our Nation in the
future.
You help him, I'll do my best, and we'll
all benefit from his great leadership in the
future.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:13 a.m. at
Airport Satellite A-2, Newark International
Airport.
Newark, New Jersey
Remarks at the College of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey. September 10, 1977
Governor Brendan Byrne, to Senator Pete
Williams, to Congressman Pete Rodino,
to Mayor Ken Gibson, and to my good
friends from New Jersey:
I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes
this morning about some of the things
that are of great importance to you. The
first thing I'd like to talk to you about is
the New Jersey State income tax. There
are people in this State who don't ap-
preciate the great courage and good judg-
ment of Brendan Byrne in putting into
effect, along with your legislature, a State
income tax which cuts your own property
taxes in New Jersey by hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars.
This tax was designed to give you more
than $500 million more for better educa-
tion. This tax was designed to cut prop-
erty taxes. And your own mayor told me
a few minutes ago that not only have
property taxes been cut 7 percent in New-
ark but they will be kept cut next year as
well.
This also prevents an increase in sales
tax. And as you well know, the income tax
is designed to be paid by rich people who
can afford it best, rather than the working
people and the older people of this coun-
try.
As a matter of fact, in New Jersey, 84
percent of all the senior citizens in this
State pay zero New Jersey income tax. So
this tax has given you a fair system which
benefits poor people and working families
and puts, for a change, some of the tax
burden on the rich people that weren't
paying taxes in the future-they will pay
it in the future. They haven't been paying
it in the past.
Another thing I'd like to mention is
this: You've now got a Governor who
looks to the future with great confidence
in you and in this State.
This afternoon, Mayor Ken Gibson
will take 2,000 of your children to see a
football game between [Florida] College
A&M and Howard University. If it hadn't
been for the leadership of the mayor, they
wouldn't be going. If it hadn't been for
the leadership of the Governor, you would
not have had the sport complex for them
to play in. So, this is a sign of his looking to
the future for your welfare and benefit.
As I look around me, in the distance I
see new housing programs. In the last 4
years, New Jersey, in the area in which
we are now located, Peter Rodino's dis-
trict, Ken Gibson's city, has had more new
housing come here than in all previous
history put together. And we are just get-
ting started together to give you a better
place to live.
I'd like to talk to you for a minute
about health care. Just behind us is a cen-
1574
