Oct. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Obviously, our own administration is
completely unanimous in believing that
we have made a major step forward. We
retain the right to defend, to choose the
lands and waters, to operate and manage
the canal throughout this century, 23
former Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird,
former Secretary of the Navy Paul H. Nitze,
and former Secretaries of State Henry A.
Kissinger, William P. Rogers, and Dean Rusk.
more years, and after the year 2000, to Judge John J. Sirica
insure that the canal will be open for all
commerce, and neutrality guaranteed, our
ships granted the right of expeditious pas-
sage, our interests have been met.
But, in addition, the signing of these
treaties alone prior to ratification has been
a vivid proof to the people of the nations
of our hemisphere that there's a new era
of friendship and cooperation and an af-
firmation of mutual purpose, an end to
colonialism that's profound.
Every business leader that I know of
has come out in favor of the Panama
Canal treaties who have expressed them-
selves at all. Trade, commerce, mutual
defense will all be enhanced with this
new interrelationship.
A few weeks ago, I met with 19 heads
of state from nations in South and Cen-
tral America and the Caribbean. Every
one of them pointed out to me the new in-
terrelationship. Not a single one predi-
cated future progress on grants or aids or
financial contributions. This is a tremen-
dous bonus that our Nation will derive
from the ratification of these treaties.
I need your help on this most contro-
versial of subjects this year. The matter is
in doubt. It's not going to be easy. But
the Democratic Party has never asked
for ease.
I want to be a good President. With
your help, I can be a good President. But
I also want to be a good Democratic
President.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel. In his remarks, he referred to
Exchange of Letters on the Retirement of the
U.S. District Court Judge. October 6, 1977
To Judge John Sirica
On behalf of the American people, I
congratulate you for your distinguished
career in the Federal judiciary since 1957.
You have been given an opportunity af-
forded to few of us who enter upon pub-
lic service: to exhibit, at a time of the
greatest challenge to our system of gov-
ernment, the personal courage and wis-
dom needed to sustain it, and by these
actions to become a lasting symbol of
unflinching devotion to duty.
As you retire now from regular active
service, you have my warmest wishes for
good health, happiness, and more years
of fruitful contributions as a Senior
Judge.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable John J. Sirica, United States
District Court for the District of Columbia,
Washington, D.C.]
My dear Mr. President:
October 4, 1977
This is to formally advise you that I
have decided under the provisions of
Section 371 (b) of Title 28, United
States Code to retire from regular active
service as a Judge of the United States
District Court for the District of Colum-
bia and to assume the role and status of a
Senior Judge of that Court effective at
1750
