Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 11
and despair in the field of health and one
who has chosen to alleviate suffering and
despair in the field of human freedom.
I'm very grateful today to have this
opportunity on behalf of more than 200
million Americans to recognize these
noble recipients of the award, one in life,
one in death, but we know that they both
live now and a thousand years from now,
perhaps, will still live in the minds and
hearts of Americans.
I'd like to first call Dr. Jonas Salk for-
ward to present an award to him and to
read a citation.
[At this point, the President read the citation,
the text of which follows:]
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA AWARDS THIS PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL
OF FREEDOM TO DR. JONAS E. SALK
Because of Dr. Jonas E. Salk, our country is
free from the cruel epidemics of poliomyelitis
that once struck almost yearly. Because of his
tireless work, untold hundreds of thousands
who might have been crippled are sound in
body today. These are Doctor Salk's true
honors, and there is no way to add to them.
This Medal of Freedom can only express our
gratitude, and our deepest thanks.
I'd like to give this to Mrs. Salk to
deliver to her husband later. Thank you.
DR. SALK. Mr. President, you have
President, you have
drawn special attention to me for the
successful control of poliomyelitis. Our
freedom from fear of this disease is the
result of years of work by a great many
who preceded me and who followed. This
freedom was achieved to the mutual par-
ticipation of the public as well as the sci-
entific and medical communities.
I am deeply moved to receive the Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom along with
Martin Luther King, Jr., whose life and
work contributed so richly to the ulti-
mate freedoms we seek-freedom from
human exploitation and oppression. Our
Founding Fathers spoke about the right
to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi-
ness, but without freedom from oppres-
sion and from disease, the pursuit of hap-
piness has little meaning.
I hope that all the world will see your
own aspirations and commitments to life
and to liberty, the world over, in the
meaningful recognition that you have
given to the importance of human rights
and human health.
The achievements to which you have
drawn attention serve as examples of more
that might be accomplished through na-
tional and international commitments to
improve the health and well-being of
people everywhere.
Laurels are not to be rested upon. They
crown what is valued and desired by so-
ciety. They impose responsibility as well
as offer encouragement.
In this spirit, I am pleased to accept the
honor you bestow upon me and, in so
doing, upon all those who work in the
same vineyard toward improving the
health and well-being of humankind. And
I thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. When I was a child
in Georgia. I, along with all other people,
perhaps, in the world my age, were con-
stantly fearful of the blight of a polio epi-
demic. In our own country alone in the
years shortly before the Salk vaccine was
developed, there were 52,000 people who
were stricken with polio. And miracu-
lously, because of the intelligence and
commitment of Dr. Salk, this scourge was
removed. And as he very generously de-
scribed to us, many people before this
achievement and since then have contrib-
uted as well to this alleviation of a con-
stant threat.
When I was a child in Georgia, there
was another threat as well which was even
more all-encompassing and which afflicted
us as did a physical disease, and that was
1229
