Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 25
seq.; 88 Stat. 2073, 19 U.S.C. 2483), and
as President of the United States of
America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. In order to redefine an
existing item for purposes of the General-
ized System of Preferences (GSP), the
Tariff Schedules of the United States
(TSUS) are modified by deleting from
item 791.74, TSUS, the description:
"In part of textile materials the aggregate
weight of which exceeds the weight of any
individual non-textile material contained
therein",
and substituting therefor the following
description:
"Containing 50% or more by weight of cot-
ton, wool, or man-made fibers, or any com-
bination thereof, or containing 50% or
more by weight of textile materials with
wool comprising 17% or more by weight of
the article.".
SEC. 2. The amendment made by this
order shall be effective with respect to
articles that are both: (1) imported on
or after January 1, 1976, and (2)
entered, or withdrawn from warehouse,
for consumption on or after March 1,
1977.
The White House,
July 23, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5:02 p.m., July 25, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
National Urban League
Remarks at the League's National
Convention. July 25, 1977
Mr. McGannon and my good friend
Vernon Jordan, distinguished members
and guests of the Urban League:
The last annual convention I attended,
I went as a guest. And I heard, as the
main speaker of the final banquet eve-
ning, Eleanor Holmes Norton give a mov-
ing speech about the ties that bind fam-
ilies together and how the deprivations
of poverty and the lack of an ability of
primarily black males to be proud of
themselves justifiably was a disruptive
influence on the family structure. It was
a moving speech.
And now, Eleanor Holmes Norton is
in Washington, here with me, trying to
bring together the thrust of the Federal
Government to ensure equal opportunity
in employment. And she'll be part of your
program this year.
In Atlanta, as a joint friend of mine
and Vernon Jordan's at the time when
Vernon was thinking about running for
Congress, the man who finally ran for
that seat, Andy Young, has become
throughout the world the exemplification
of what this Nation stands for, what our
Government stands for in the field of
basic human rights. And Andy Young
will be on your program this year as a
member of our Cabinet, a man who has
a voice of his own, but who works closely
with me. And I might say other members
of the United Nations have joined with
him in letting the deprived people of the
world know that the United States, with
all its power and influence, is interested
in them and is their friend.
We've been concerned about the dete-
riorating quality of urban centers, and we
now have a Secretary of the Housing and
Urban Development Department—a
woman who understands because of her
background and inclination, her experi-
ence and her heritage, the problem with
struggling people who feel excluded from
societal structures-Patricia Harris. And
she'll be on your program later on as part
of my own administration.
Griffin Bell will be here to explain the
new thrust of the Department of Justice.
1347
