Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 30
cials, interested groups and individual
citizens.
You may be asked to contribute time,
resources, and staff assistance to this
effort. If so, I hope you will make your
best effort to ensure its successful com-
pletion.
My Reorganization Project staff will
contact you or an appropriate member
of your staff shortly to discuss the ap-
propriate role of your department or
agency in the study.
I consider this to be a high priority
matter. I know I can count on your
support.
In order to inform all affected par-
ties that this review is underway, I have
directed that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Comprehensive Review of Ad-
ministrative Services Delivery
I have directed my Reorganization
Project staff at the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to begin a comprehen-
sive review of the management of ad-
ministrative services within the Federal
Government. The project will be admin-
istered jointly by OMB and the Admin-
istrator of the General Services Admin-
istration.
A preliminary staff review indicates
significant problems with existing serv-
ices. It has been 30 years since the first
Hoover study led to the creation of the
General Services Administration; it is
time to reexamine the objectives and
benefits of our present system in light
of those years of operating experience.
A major objective of the study is to
improve the delivery of administrative
services to Federal agencies. It will assess
the roles of the General Services Admin-
istration and others in the provision of
services related to real and personal prop-
erty, automated data processing, tele-
communications, and records manage-
ment.
The Project will rely heavily on the
advice and counsel of the Congress, Fed-
eral Departments and Agencies, State
and local officials, interested private or-
ganizations, and the public. Your agen-
cies are the principal consumers of Fed-
eral administrative services. You have
expressed your concerns about their qual-
ity. This is your opportunity to help im-
prove them.
You may be asked to contribute time,
resources, and staff assistance to this
effort. If so, I hope you will make your
best effort to ensure its successful com-
pletion.
My Reorganization Project staff will
contact you or an appropriate member
of your staff shortly to discuss the ap-
propriate role of your department or
agency in the study.
I consider this to be a high priority
matter. I know I can count on your
cooperation and assistance.
In order to inform all affected par-
ties that this review is underway, I have
directed that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: Fact sheets on each of the studies were
also included in the release.
Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare
Nomination of Charles F. C. Ruff To Be
Deputy Inspector General. June 30, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Charles F. C. Ruff, of
Washington, D.C., to be Deputy Inspec-
tor General in the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. Ruff is now an
1195
