Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 1
Fair Labor Standards
Amendments of 1977
Remarks on Signing H.R. 3744 Into Law.
November 1, 1977
cause the history of the minimum wage
laws has been that the administrations
in authority then and the Congress would
raise the minimum wage up to an equiv-
alent position compared to other wages.
And then year by year as other manu-
The President. I see a lot of happy faces facturing wages rose, the minimum wage
here this morning.
In 1938, which was 39 years ago, Pres-
ident Roosevelt, in the presence of Sen-
ator Jennings Randolph and also in the
presence of President George Meany,
signed the first Fair Labor Standards Act.
This was a time of great depression. It
was a time when our Nation suffered. It
a time when unemployment was
rampant, when the standard of living of
most of our people was quite low. And it
was a time when discouragement about
the future preyed upon the shoulders of
almost all American people.
And this bill said that Americans who
had to work with their hands, the labor-
ers of our Nation, those from low-income
families, should be treated fairly. They
should be given a right to an income
which would at least buy the necessities
of life. It was an innovative, almost a rev-
olutionary idea, and the American people
accepted it somewhat reluctantly. There
were predictions of economic catastrophe,
that inflation would run rampant, that
people would lose their jobs, because a
25-cent hourly wage was more than the
economy could bear.
I first came into the labor force in
1941 when the minimum wage was 40
cents an hour, and that was my first job.
And each time that we've tried to boost
the lower level of salary for the most
underpaid workers, there have been pre-
dictions of catastrophe. But each time, in
my opinion, the change has helped our
Nation and its economic strength.
Again, the Congress has acted, perhaps
belatedly in each instance, but wisely, be-
stayed the same. And after 3, 4, 5, 6, or
7 years, finally there would be another
catchup phase, and those workers at the
lower levels of the economic scale would
be given what they deserve.
The Congress has now passed House of
Representatives bill 3744, which sets a
new scale of minimum wage to be raised
in January of next year to $2.65 an hour,
then step by step each year succeeding
that up to maintain an appropriate rela-
tionship with other manufacturing wages.
It has been a step in the right direction,
again. Again, there are predictions that
there will be an adverse effect on infla-
tion. There will be some slight increase
in inflation, perhaps, and some people,
perhaps, might not gain a job that they
would have otherwise. But the overall im-
pact of this bill, again, is good.
Annually, there will be added to the
low- and middle-income families about
$2 billion in increased income, which will
increase the wealth of our Nation. It goes
to the hands of those who will spend it
for the necessities of life. And the stimu-
lative impact on our economy, I think,
will be very beneficial.
We are concerned about youth unem-
ployment. And we've tried to make com-
pensatory steps this year effective with
the help of the Congress, in a comprehen-
sive youth employment act, increase in
the CETA programs, local public works
programs, and an overall stimulative
package. And we face future opportuni-
ties to compensate for any deleterious
effects of this bill. But I'm very glad to
have a chance to sign it into law.
1947
