July 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ducing States, obviously have a different
perspective from some of the parts of the
Nation where we are primarily consuming
States like Georgia. But I think all those
views that are strongly held need to be
understood, debated, and of course the
Congress and myself together will make
the final judgments from the Federal
viewpoint. But I respect Governor Ed-
wards' views. He's knowledgeable about
the subject and I think he represents ac-
curately the feeling of the Louisiana peo-
ple.
But I have scheduled, along with Dr.
Schlesinger and the Governors' confer-
ence, an additional meeting at the request
of Governor Edwards and others just on
the question of production, enhanced pro-
duction of oil, gas, coal, nuclear, solar
energy. And, I think, this is a very good
suggestion that we received from him and
it will be done within the next few weeks.
OFFSHORE DRILLING
Q. Mr. President, did you see anything
on the rig that could be determined nega-
tive as far as persuading other areas of
the United States for offshore drilling?
And many of the advances that have
taken place in the technology were a very
pleasant surprise to me. I did not see any-
thing there that caused me concern. I
think at the present time because of a
slowdown in exploration on the east
coast, because of reluctance on the part
of some political leaders in the northern
part of the Eastern Coast and other rea-
sons, that we have an excessive capacity
now for drilling and I hope to do what
I can, working with Dr. Schlesinger and
the Congress and others, to expedite the
drilling rate, particularly on the eastern
seaboard. But I saw nothing that caused
me concern this morning.
EXPLORATORY DRILLING
Q. Mr. President, there is a bill before
Congress expanding the OCS act which
will put the Federal Government into ex-
ploration and also put 3 to 5 years' delay
into the timetable of finding and produc-
ing oil. This is going to affect and hurt
the service companies and the contractors
such as the people you visited today. What
is your position on this bill as it stands
now?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I didn't. I think THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are two
it's accurate to say that this was one of different bills that I know about. Now, I
the most advanced drilling rigs in exist- don't approve of either one of them. But I
ence in the world. It was obviously spot- think that it's legitimate for the Federal
less and I asked them if it was always that Government to have the right, the author-
clean, and they said that yes, every time ity for exploratory drilling in areas to be
they had a President visit―[laughter]—leased to the oil companies.
that it was. But it was superlative and the
design of the rig, the control of the mech-
anisms for safety, the constant scanning
of the bottom of the sea with television
and other mechanisms, the obviously high-
trained crew long experienced in this
realm, the ability to drill at a depth of
about 1,000 feet, the rapidity of drilling,
which yesterday was 1,100 feet, drilled in
one day, sometimes as high as 2,000 feet,
I thought it was extraordinary.
I think one of the bills, however, per-
mits the Federal Government to drill on
private property and State-owned prop-
erty and also the Federal lands. And the
other one makes it mandatory that the
Federal Government drill in an area be-
fore it's leased. I don't like any one of
those approaches.
But to give the Federal Government the
authority when it's decided to be needed
by the Secretary of the Interior and the
1336
