Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
dangers they pose to the public at large.
Third, I support legislation giving
the Food & Drug Administration the au-
thority to apply standards of safety and
efficacy to all drugs, by repealing those
laws which exempt a variety of drugs be-
cause they were placed on the market be-
fore a certain date. A number of barbitu-
rates fit into this category.
• Fourth, Some physicians still know-
ingly overprescribe a wide variety of
drugs. Although, as a result of careful
education, physicians have voluntarily re-
duced their prescriptions for barbiturates
by 73 percent during the last five years,
a few are continuing to misprescribe these
and other drugs deliberately. I am direct-
ing the Attorney General, in full coopera-
tion with State officials, to begin a con-
certed drive to identify and prosecute
these violators.
No government can completely protect
its citizens from all harm-not by legisla-
tion, or by regulation, or by medicine, or
by advice. Drugs cannot be forced out of
existence; they will be with us for as long
as people find in them the relief or satis-
faction they desire. But the harm caused
by drug abuse can be reduced. We cannot
talk in absolutes-that drug abuse will
cease, that no more illegal drugs will cross
our borders because if we are honest
with ourselves we know that is beyond our
power. But we can bring together the re-
sources of the Federal Government intel-
ligently to protect our society and help
those who suffer. The sufferers include the
overwhelming majority of the public who
never abuse drugs but for whom drug
abuse poses the threat of broken families,
a lost child or fear to walk the streets at
night. Beyond that, we must understand
why people seek the experience of drugs,
and address ourselves to those reasons. For
it is ultimately the strength of the Ameri-
can people, of our values and our society,
that will determine whether we can put
an end to drug abuse.
The White House,
August 2, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Review of Natural Resources
and Environmental Programs
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. August 2, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Comprehensive Review of Nat-
ural Resources and Environmental Pro-
grams
I have directed my Reorganization Proj-
ect staff at the Office of Management and
Budget to review the organization of all
Federal responsibilities for managing nat-
ural resources and protecting the environ-
ment.
These responsibilities are now dispersed
among 8 Departments and numerous
agencies, involving 160,000 employees
and expenditures of more than $17 billion
a year. Other Departments and agencies
are involved less directly. There is no way
to coordinate their policies and actions.
This situation has led to difficulties in
managing resources and safeguarding the
environment; waste of time and money;
confusion to the public; and ineffective
coordination of geophysical and environ-
mental research and technology.
This organizational review will seek
better ways to set policy, make decisions
about resource management and environ-
mental quality, improve research and
technical support, and assure consistency
in programs.
Its success will depend on active partici-
pation by members of Congress, the Fed-
1406
