Sept. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
New Jersey voters now prefer the judg-
ment that Brendan Byrne made.
I have to tell you, quite frankly, that
the first time I came to New Jersey, I was
impressed with kind of a sense of discour-
agement. There was not much progress
here; there was not much excitement
here. But that time has changed. There's a
new sense of honesty and commitment to
principles of which all of you are proud.
A sunshine law has opened up govern-
ment for your scrutiny. Public financing
of the Governor's election has removed
the inordinate influence of those who
might tend to disrupt or corrupt govern-
ment. Financial disclosure laws have been
passed, a superb protection law for con-
sumers. A corruption control effort un-
der your good attorney general has been
initiated.
tion that I know can completely prevent
the corruption that is always a potential,
I think all of you would agree that it's
Brendan Byrne.
I'd just like to mention a couple of
other things that caused me to come here
this morning, and to congratulate you on
your good judgment 4 years ago and your
coming good judgment this year as well.
We've seen in the last 4 years, because of
sound management in your State govern-
ment, a better partnership evolve be-
tween New Jersey and Washington. Not
just since I have been in office, but even
under a Republican administration, New
Jersey has now begun to benefit from the
sound planning and the intense commit-
ment to receive your fair share of Federal
program assistance on a partnership basis.
And this sense of honesty and also
achievement in New Jersey has been
Jersey has been
matched by dramatic programs that are
symbolic in nature, yes, but which reviving, transportation,
ify the very determination that can in-
sure the future greatness of your State.
There is no more successful sports com-
plex in the entire United States than the
new one that you have. Who would ever
have thought that there would be a cham-
pionship soccer team around here with
76,000 people coming to see a sport where
5
years ago, 2,000 people would not have
come.
And Atlantic City, which in years gone
by, generations gone by, was a place of en-
joyment and growth and prosperity and
brightness of life and which a few years
ago had lost its hope for the future, now
faces a prospect of thousands of new jobs
and a strong center for the world to see
of enjoyment because of Brendan Byrne.
I'm concerned about corruption. When
gambling or horseracing or any other op-
portunity exists, there's always that possi-
bility. But if there's one man in this Na-
When Brendan Byrne came into office,
New Jersey was 49th among all the States
in getting Federal program aid for hous-
ing, transportation, education, law en-
forcement. And now that situation has
dramatically changed, and New Jersey
has already moved up to 34th. Well, I
don't want him to go much further.
[Laughter] But I think this shows that
with him in office, working with Pete
Williams and the other congressional
leaders that you've chosen, New Jersey
can benefit by just getting back your fair
share of the Federal tax dollars which you
have been paying historically and which,
too often, have been going to other States
for their benefit and which are now com-
ing to your State for your benefit.
I admire his quiet determination and
tenacity. He exemplifies this in the most
superb way. Once Brendan Byrne sets his
mind on something, he'll never back
down. And I'm just glad, along with you,
that the things on which he is determined
are the things that benefit the people of
his own State.
1572
