July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
on the cigarette packages and put con-
straints on advertising. The American
people, in spite of that, still prefer to go
ahead and smoke. I don't happen to
smoke myself, but I don't condemn others
who do.
But there's no way to rationalize in-
herent conflicts of that kind. I don't see
any likelihood, though, that the Congress
is going to eliminate the price supports on
tobacco any time in the foreseeable future.
One of the things, as you know, is about
sweeteners, artificial sweeteners now. It
may be that the Congress will decide to
put a warning on the diet soft drinks
rather than completely prohibiting the
use of saccharin. The present law, though,
requires that saccharin be taken off the
market altogether if it proves to be a dan-
ger to your health.
This is a difficult thing to rationalize.
How much does the Government move in
and constrain Americans' habits in that
respect? This is not anything new, as you
know. I'm reminding you of things that
I'm sure you know.
I think the 18th amendment to the
Constitution prohibited the sale of al-
cohol, which is obviously dangerous to
one's health-if used in excess, at least—
and after the trial period, that was re-
pealed because the American people
didn't accept that constraint on their
lives. And now all the States and the
Federal Government accept taxes from
the sale of alcoholic beverages.
I would put the tobacco in the same
category, roughly, with that where the
American people demand the use of the
product and the Federal Government
tries to stabilize, tax, and modify, in the
most beneficial way, the production and
distribution of that product.
Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. You go ahead. I'll get
you next.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. If you had it to do all over again,
would you find a different way to raise
the human rights issue with the Soviet
Union?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't think of any
different way to do it. I've thought about
that a lot, because it certainly was not
done to aggravate any other government
nor to single out any country.
Every time I've ever made a statement
about human rights, I think without ex-
ception I have always included our coun-
try in as a people who are constantly
searching for ways to alleviate or to re-
duce discrimination practices and to in-
sure that our high standards for human
rights would be realized.
So, I don't think I would do it any
differently. To me, this is an integral part
of the consciousness and commitment of
America. It's another step forward in the
realization of the goals and aspirations
that we established 200 years ago.
We are not trying to send in troops
to make other nations conform to us, we
are not trying to punish anyone else. But
I think there has to be some means in a
democracy like ours, first of all, for a Pres-
ident to exemplify or to personify what
the American people believe. And my
opinion is that the American people be-
lieve very deeply in the concept of
human rights.
I think it's important that this com-
mitment be expressed publicly. We've
been through some sordid and embarrass-
ing years recently with Vietnam and
Cambodia and Watergate and the CIA
revelations, and I felt like it was time for
our country to hold a beacon light of
something that was pure and decent and
right and proper that would rally our citi-
zens to a cause. But I've been cautious
not to single anyone out for condemna-
tion.
1274
