Aug. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Warehouse and in my own farms. You
can't expect a public official to dispose of
all their net worth before they come to
government.
And the legal framework of having
those holdings put in a trust where the
owner of that stock or property does not
control the action concerning it, whether
it's completely adequate or not, is the
best that we can contrive.
There is also a complicating factor in
the holding of bank stock. There's a U.S.
law that prevents this resale of bank
stock, I think within 6 months or 9
months after it's purchased. And this is
designed to prevent the buying and trad-
ing and negotiations with bank stocks just
for a profit motive in a transient way.
And so there has been a time limit on
when the Lance bank stock could be sold.
So, I do think that the appearance of
impropriety or illegality or unethical con-
duct has been honored. But obviously,
there could be those who say that because
I still own several hundred acres of land
in Georgia, that I have a conflict of inter-
ests relating to agricultural legislation.
But I've done the best I could to isolate
myself from it.
I think that's the best we can do, and
I really believe that it's adequate.
Q. Mr. President, do you think the
American taxpayer has reason to question
the competence of a man in charge of the
Federal budget who, after he has taken
that job, wrote seven overdrafts on his
own account?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't know-you
are referring to Mr. Lance?
Q. Yes. It's in the Comptroller's report.
The President. I see. Well, obviously
it's better not to write overdrafts.
[Laughter]
I can't deny that I have written over-
drafts on my own bank accounts on occa-
sion and so has my wife, not deliberately,
but because of an error or because of
higher priorities that I assigned to other
responsibilities that I had at the time. I
think that there's no doubt that Bert
Lance is one of the more competent and
intelligent people that I have ever known
in my life.
I realized 8 or 9 months ago, and I still
realize, that the management of the
Office of Management and Budget is one
of the crucial assignments that will deter-
mine the success or failure of my own ad-
ministration. And I cast about in my mind
about who, among all those that I knew
or knew about, would more competently
fill that position.
My choice, without any competition, I
might say, was Bert Lance. I still have
that much faith in his honesty and his
competence. And the fact that he has had
overdrafts, I think-is obviously better
had he not had them, but is no reflection.
on his basic judgment or competence.
He, like many other successful business
leaders, has a multiplicity of bank ac-
counts, stockholdings, business invest-
ments. And he has tried to sever himself
from all those management responsibili-
ties by placing his holdings into the hands
of a trustee. And I can't answer the ques-
tion about private bank account over-
drafts. But my guess is that when an over-
draft has occurred in a particular ac-
count, that his deposits in other accounts
in that same bank were more than ade-
quate to cover them.
PANAMA CANAL
Q. Mr. President, going back to the
Panama Canal, do you favor a widening
of the canal to make it usable for the
largest modern warships and perhaps an
American investment in a sea-level canal,
as you mentioned earlier?
THE PRESIDENT. It's obvious to me
that over a period of time the Panama
1492
