Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 19
torically been divisive either for 29 years
or for 2,900 years.
Finally, I'd like to say this: Success this
year is going to require a great deal of
courage. As has often been pointed out,
it's much more difficult to make peace
than it is to make war, because in search-
ing for peace there has to be an accom-
modation; in searching for war, there has
to be an arousing of animosity and hatred
and a using of innate dissension and dis-
trust as a basis.
But the courage that exists in our fine
visitor is one of the factors which en-
courages me to look toward great progress
this year toward true peace in the Middle
East.
We share a common religion. We share
mutual economic trials, tribulations, suc-
cesses, and hopes. We are bound together
politically, culturally, ethically by blood
relationships. And these common pur-
poses and goals and characteristics pro-
vide a sure base which will withstand the
trials and difficulties of a challenging
year.
I look forward to it with a great deal of
anticipation, and I'm very proud tonight
to welcome to the White House the new
Prime Minister of Israel and to offer a
toast to this good and decent and coura-
geous man in whom the hopes of many
are focused, and on the brave and coura-
geous people of the great and courageous
nation of Israel.
To the people of Israel and to you, Mr.
Prime Minister.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
after having met you, I can say it was a
great day in my life to be here, to speak
to you, to listen to you. We have had very
few good days in our lives in our genera-
tion. Most of the days were spent in strug-
gle, in persecution; to time in being
hunted, in dreams, in suffering. And the
days of solace are not many.
This is one of the best days in my life,
having met the President of the United
States, having learned that this is a man, a
great friend of humanity, a man of great
understanding and feeling and, therefore,
as I can say now wholeheartedly, a great
friend of Israel.
Therefore, tonight, Mr. President, with
your permission, I will say something
about what I believed to be, perhaps since
my childhood, the moral greatness of
America.
In 60 years, America has saved man-
kind from three very grave dangers. The
first was Prussian militarism, which dur-
ing the First World War almost trampled
under foot all of Europe and, ultimately,
the world. 1917 was a crucial year. There
were mutinies in the French Army. The
great question was: "Whom? Who is
going to break whom?" And then the out-
cry was heard throughout Europe: "The
Yankees are coming." The army of Gen-
eral Pershing fought valiantly. Mainly, the
spirit of the European armies, of the al-
lies, rose. And then victory came.
The second time America saved man-
kind came during the period when, as
Churchill said, all the embodiment of evil
in mankind turned a great nation—a na-
tion of poets and philosophers-into a
bloodthirsty mob, thirsty first of all for
Jewish blood. And in that hour, perhaps
the darkest in our time, we lost a third of
our people. That would mean 80 million
Americans wiped out. Those are phantas-
magoric figures which scientists make up
in connection with the megatons. But
megatons are produced never to be used.
As we believe, all free men and all those
who believe in divine providence, we have
to live with those phantasmagoric figures
to the last day on Earth.
A dark age started in Europe and
throughout the world. We should always
tell the truth. There was a time when Eng-
1289
