Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
concerned about the issue of human rights
also, but more particularly am interested
in your opinion, your feelings on the
abortion issue.
•
First of all, I'd like to commend you on
your opposition to Federal funding for
abortion on demand. And I would per-
sonally like to see you continue in your
opposition to abortion on demand—this
issue. My question is: Do you consider
the issue of abortion on demand as a
human rights issue since unborn children
are human beings, created in God's image,
and if you do not consider the abortion
issue as a human rights issue, why not,
and then if you do consider it, will you
actively oppose abortion on demand in
other areas during your administration?
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Doctor.
I think of all the questions that have
faced me as a candidate, this was the one
that was most widely discussed. The
Supreme Court has ruled in several in-
stances on the abortion question in recent
years. One basic ruling has been that at
the first stages of pregnancy that a woman
has a right to have an abortion. Georgia
had a law that prevented abortions except
in the case of danger to the mother's life
or when the pregnancy was caused by in-
cest or rape.
As Governor, I personally supported
that law. When the Supreme Court struck
it down, we passed the most conservative
abortion law possible under the Supreme
Court ruling.
I do think that the abortion issue in-
volves the question of human rights.
There's an inherent conflict in the basic
discussion: the right of a woman to have
control over her own body, free from in-
terference by government, and on the
other hand, the right of the embryonic
child to live.
The Supreme Court has drawn a line
between the first 3 months of pregnancy,
as you know, when abortions are per-
mitted, and the other roughly 6 months of
pregnancy when very tight constraints are
placed on the right to have abortions.
That's an arbitrary line that's drawn, and
as President, I support the ruling and will
enforce it to the best of my ability.
I don't favor the Federal Government
financing abortions. The last year about
300,000 abortions were paid for by Fed-
eral funds. I was told that in the District
of Columbia this past year there were
more abortions than there were births.
I'm afraid that to take a very permissive
stand on abortions, paying for them,
which puts them in the same category,
roughly, as other contraceptive means,
will be an encouragement to depend upon
abortions to prevent pregnancy.
So, I would rather emphasize, as Presi-
dent and I might say the Secretary of
HEW agrees with me completely on this
issue, Joe Califano-I would rather em-
phasize the prevention of the pregnancy
at the time of sexual intercourse and not
have the woman who might be very poor
and very ignorant depend upon abortions
as a way to terminate a pregnancy because
of carelessness or sometimes a deliberate
act.
It's very disturbing how many of the
recipients of Federal payments for abor-
tion in the past have been repeaters. They
come back time after time for additional
abortions which show that it's not entirely
ignorance.
So, with a good education program,
with a firm stand not to encourage abor-
tions as a normal way of life, and with the
provision to poor people of government-
supported contraceptive devices if the per-
son believes in their use, these are the al-
ternatives that I personally favor in pref-
erence to abortions.
1325
