Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 2
putting their shoulders to the grindstone,
that the Congress shares with me a com-
mitment to taking decisive action on our
energy problem.
As the House begins voting on the
various energy proposals, there are five
points which I consider to be critical.
First, I would urge the House to retain
the natural gas pricing program which I
proposed and which has been adopted by
the Commerce Committee and by the Ad
Hoc Committee. This program provides
ample incentives for the production of
natural gas from new reservoirs, it elim-
inates the artificial distinction between
the interstate and intrastate gas markets,
and assures that consumer costs for gas
are kept within manageable bounds. If,
as some Members of Congress have ad-
vocated, natural gas were deregulated,
the consumers' bill would increase by bil-
lions of dollars and producers would reap
extraordinary excess profits. Deregula-
tion would only increase supplies by
about 2 per cent above my program, and
the price we would have to pay for that
increase is exorbitant. A vote in favor of
deregulation would undermine one of the
basic tenets of my energy plan-fairness.
Second, I would urge the Members of
the House to resist an amendment which
would eliminate rebates to home heating
oil users and to those taxpayers who most
need assistance to meet higher fuel costs.
I believe that the formula adopted by the
Ad Hoc Committee for rebates of the
crude oil equalization tax should not be
changed.
Third, I do not believe that an amend-
ment which would "plow back" some of
the revenues collected under the crude
oil equalization tax is necessary or fair.
Drilling activity in the oil industry is at a
17-year high, and industry cash flows are
so large that some major oil companies
have made major acquisitions of non-en-
ergy companies. My plan provides for
substantial incentive prices for new oil
and gas exploration and production. In
fact, the plan provides oil producers as
high a rate of return as is available any-
where in the world. The Ways and Means
Committee fully discussed and debated
this issue and three times rejected a plow-
back proposal. I would urge that the
House membership defeat this inequitable
and unnecessary proposal.
Fourth, I understand that a 5-cents-
per-gallon increase in the gasoline tax will
be proposed by Congressman Howard.
This tax would be earmarked for highway
construction and maintenance and for
mass transit. While I initially recom-
mended a standby gasoline tax which
would provide a specific disincentive on
the wasteful use of gasoline, or a gasoline
tax with greater flexibility for use of the
revenues, I recommend positive action on
this proposed tax which is supported by
the House leadership.
Finally, I strongly support the Ad Hoc
Committee's amendment to strengthen
the tax on oil and gas use by large indus-
trial consumers by striking the unneces-
sary exemption for certain new facilities.
I am convinced that the hard work
that the Congress has undertaken over
the last 3 months will result in a strong
and effective bill. I commend the Con-
gress for its work and am looking forward
to seeing final passage of the National
Energy Act this year.
United States Military Academy
Board of Visitors
Letter to the Chairman of the Board on
Receiving the Board's Annual Report
for 1976. August 1, 1977
To General Wilcox
Thank you for the report on the
United States Military Academy pro-
1397
