Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
share trials and difficulties and seek com-
mon solutions. I think it's strengthened
the South.
I would not be here as President had
it not been for the Civil Rights Act and
for the courage of some leaders and I
don't claim to be one of them-who
changed those bad aspects of the South
to the present greatness of the South. So,
from the good things and the bad things
in our heritage, it made the human rights
issue be very vivid to me. But I'd say the
most important aspect of it is that it is
part of the consciousness of the free peo-
ple of the greatest nation on Earth, the
United States.
U.S. CORPS OF ENGINEERS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Cindy
Fuze, and I am also a local housewife. The
United States Corps of Engineers pres-
ently has a project underway to strip large
areas of hardwood forests from the banks
of the Yazoo River, allegedly to aid navi-
gation. Many landowners and conserva-
tionists oppose this project.
My question is, can you tell me an effec-
tive way that a concerned individual such
as myself might have to oppose, to express
opposition to this kind of wasteful proj-
ect and proposition?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am. I would
say that one of the ways that you as a
private citizen can help is to ask a question
about the subject on nationwide television
to the President of the United States.
I don't know about your specific project.
I have to admit that I'm not familiar with
it. But I think that the Corps of Engi-
neers, at least since I've been in the White
House, is beginning to change its concept
about what is a good expenditure of tax-
payers' money and what is not.
In my opinion, it's much more valuable
to have a wild stream and swampland and
hardwood forests the way God made it
than it is to have an open ditch that has
been destroyed to some degree. But I think
that the values that are attached to these
questions are changing.
Obviously, a large part of the delta area
of Mississippi that's so valuable to you and
all others was former swampland that was
drained. So, the balance needs to be struck
and I am very eager to see wasteful water
projects that are very, very costly, that
were approved 25 years ago, or 15 years
ago, be terminated, and that every project
now be assessed on the basis of modern
day concerns about environmental quality,
open spaces as well as the value of dollars
expended.
So, although I don't know about your
specific project, it's one that ought to be
looked at very closely. I'm very proud to-
night that your Congressman and your
two Senators are here. And I think that
their hearing from you and others like you
would be very important to them. I guar-
antee you that if Senator Eastland and
Senator Stennis come to me and say, "Mr.
President, we would like to see this proj-
ect stopped," that I will stop it, if I can.
I might add very quickly that the House
of Representatives passed over my objec-
tion almost all the water projects that I
wanted to veto. But under the leadership
of Senator Stennis, about half of those
water projects were eliminated from the
appropriations bill, and I'm very deeply
grateful to him and others who supported
my position.
TAX REFORM
Q. Mr. President, my name is Kenneth
Helton, and I manage the local Sunflower
grocery store. My question is, what is
being done to ease the tax burden of the
middle class working people, and how will
the Federal Government go about this?
Also, Mr. President, as Jerry Clower
might say, we need the Federal Govern-
1329
