Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
aged, and we will be in serious trouble,
even more than we are now.
I hope and believe that the Congress
will act with courage to meet this very
serious need and that we can do this in
such a way-shifting toward conserva-
tion, toward alternate sources of en-
ergy-that we'll provide an adequate
incentive for the oil and gas producers
and not rob the consumers in the
process.
This also makes it very important for
us to reexamine one of the most impor-
tant foreign policy responsibilities that
falls on our shoulders, and that's in the
Middle East. As you well know, we have
made progress this year in trying to bring
peace, and permanent peace, to the Mid-
dle East. My overwhelming commitment
and the commitment of the Nation is to
guarantee a strong, independent, secure,
and peaceful Israel.
A few days ago in a conversation with
about 30 Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives, I said that I would rather
commit suicide than to hurt the nation of
Israel. I think many of them realize that
the two concepts are not incompatible.
[Laughter] If I should ever hurt Israel,
which I won't, I think a political suicide
would almost automatically result, be-
cause it's not only our Jewish citizens who
have this deep commitment to Israel but
there's an overwhelming support through-
out the Nation, because there's a common
bond of commitment to the same prin-
ciples of openness and freedom and
democracy and strength and courage that
ties us together in an irrevocable way.
I think it's important, though, for the
people of our Nation to remember that
now that we are moving toward a com-
prehensive settlement of the Middle East
disputes, that we have two roles to play.
One role is the one that I've just de-
scribed: an unshakable partnership with
Israel, an unshakable support of Israel-
the only staunch and dependable major
ally on which Israel can depend. That's
one of the two roles. The other one is as a
mediator, a trusted political entity that
cannot afford to betray the trust of all
those that we hope to bring together in
Geneva before this year is over to talk
about the terms of a genuine peace.
I've had long, detailed, private conver-
sations with the leaders of Israel and her
neighbors. And I'm convinced that the
Egyptians want permanent peace, and
I'm convinced that the Jordanians want
permanent peace, and I'm convinced that
the Syrians want permanent peace, and
I'm convinced that the Lebanese want
permanent peace, and I know also, of
course, that Israel wants permanent peace.
But if I ever betray any of those leaders
as they look to me and to our country to
bring them together to discuss the ex-
tremely sensitive and divisive issues that
have caused hatreds and animosities to
exist, closed borders and barbed wire to
exist, a lack of communication and com-
mon purpose to exist for generations, even
centuries, then the hopes for peace will be
dashed for many years to come.
My own belief is that we do have a
chance for success. There is a very deli-
cate balance, because there have been
strong statements made in the past that
now must be forgotten. And there must
be an inexorable movement toward an
open discussion on a bilateral basis, where
Israel can sit down with Syria on an equal
basis and discuss the Golan Heights and
sit down with the Egyptians and discuss
the Sinai and on a multinational basis dis-
cuss the problems of the Gaza Strip and
also the West Bank and the Palestinian
refugee
refugee question. These must be ad-
dressed, and I believe that all the leaders
agree that this is a prospect for the future.
It's very difficult for me at times to ex-
plain to the public the private negotiation
1897
