Dec. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's twenty-second news
conference began at 5:30 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Victoria Hotel in Warsaw,
Poland. It was broadcast live via satellite on
radio and television in the United States and
was taped for broadcast later that evening in
Poland.
Several of the reporters spoke in Polish, and
their questions were translated by an
interpreter.
Earlier in the day, the President attended a
working luncheon with First Secretary Gierek
at the Parliament Building.
Warsaw, Poland
Toasts of the President and
First Secretary Gierek at a State
Dinner. December 30, 1977
THE FIRST SECRETARY. Dear Mr. Presi
dent, dear Mrs. Carter, ladies and
gentlemen:
I wish to express, Mr. President, our
satisfaction of your visit to Poland. I rest
assured that together with the highest
authorities of the Polish People's Repub-
lic, it is indeed shared by the entire
ple of Poland.
peo-
We take great pleasure in seeing Mrs.
Carter in our midst. We also welcome
prominent members of the party accom-
panying you on this visit.
In your visit, Mr. President, we see a
reaffirmation of the friendly feelings of
the American people for the people of
Poland and a reflection of the intentions
to further expand cooperation between
our two countries. Indeed, these feelings
and intentions enjoy our full reciprocity
as the expansion of Polish-American co-
operation remains in keeping with the
tradition of friendship between our two
peoples.
It is in the interest of our two countries.
It helps deepen détente and shape up
constructive international relations. Rich
and noble are the traditions we jointly
refer to. Poles were among the first settlers
on the American soil. In the American
struggle for independence, a splendid
chapter has been written by Kosciuszko,
Pulaski, and other great Polish patriots,
for whom the cause of freedom of their
own land was inseparably linked with that
of all peoples.
It can be assumed with all certainty that
from the outset of and all through the
Bicentennial of the United States, which,
along with the American people, we
marked here with friendly observances, a
significant share to the expansion of the
American economy, civilization, and cul-
ture has been contributed by Poles.
We are glad that today the overwhelm-
ing majority of the multimillion masses of
Americans of Polish extraction as good
United States citizens keep maintaining
their sentimental and cultural ties with the
land of their ancestors, that they wish
favorable development of cooperation
with the Polish People's Republic. The
people of Poland are also cognizant of
our common struggle in the great anti-
Nazi coalition.
Mr. President, I trust that the para-
mount cause guiding us mutually is the
consolidation of peace. The Polish people
in particular only too well know both its
price and value, for wasn't it so that the
city of Warsaw-which we have risen
from the ashes-had been doomed to
total extinction? For its heroic resistance,
for its contribution for the victory of na-
tions over the fascists, our nation paid the
price of more than 6 million human lives,
of the loss of over 40 percent of the
national wealth.
It paid the price of most cities turned
to ruins and thousands of villages reduced
to ashes. The memory of those tragic ex-
periences impressed forever in the Polish
minds and hearts imposes the loftiest of
obligations upon us
upon
to do all in
2212
