Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and local officials in the West Bank area
who represent Palestinians. They may or
may not be members of the PLO. So,
we are not trying to define an exact for-
mula that we would prescribe for others.
We are trying to find some common
ground on which the Israelis and Arabs
might get together to meet in Geneva.
I think, by the way, that both the
groups, the Arabs and the Israelis, have
come a long way. They are genuinely
searching for a formula by which they
can meet. They want peace. And I think
they are to be congratulated already, be-
cause in the past number of years they
have made very strong and provocative
statements against one another, and
now, to move toward an accommodation
is a difficult thing for them. And we are
trying not to make it any more difficult.
Q. Mr. President, what are the as-
surances given to the PLO in the event
of accepting 242?
THE PRESIDENT. If they accept U.N.
242 and the right of Israel to exist, then
we will begin discussions with the leaders
of the PLO. We are not giving them any
further assurance of that because we are
not trying to prescribe, as I said, the
status of the PLO itself in any Geneva
conference. But it would give us a means
to understand the special problems of
the Palestinians. And as you know, many
of the Israeli-some of the Israeli
leaders have said that they recognize
that the Palestinian question is one of
the three major elements. But I can't
and have no inclination to give the PLO
any assurances other than we will begin
to meet with them and to search for
some accommodation and some reasona-
ble approach to the Palestinian question
if they adopt 242 and recognize publicly
the right of Israel to exist.
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, this morning a
group of Republicans who came over
here to meet with you reported that you
told them that on certain matters you
perhaps worked even more closely with
them than the Democratic majority.
wonder if, noting what has been hap-
pening to some of your programs in the
Congress, that you feel more comforta-
ble with the Republicans now, and what
effect do you think those words this
morning will have on the eventual out-
come of certain energy matters in the
Senate which must, of course, receive
support from the Democrats?
THE PRESIDENT. Energy was not one
of the examples I used. I did point out
the almost unanimous approval of the
the
Republicans, for instance, for
AWACS sale to Iran, which I think is
important and advisable, and I pointed
that one out.
I also pointed out the extreme inad-
visability of the Congress trying to put
tight controls over our international
financial institutions allotments. For in-
stance, the Congress has said, in a very
serious mistake, that we could not con-
tribute to the World Bank or to the in-
ternational regional banks if any of the
money was to be used in a country that
produced citrus fruits or palm oil or
sugar, or if it was to be used for loans to,
I think, eight different nations.
This is an unprecedented encroach-
ment on the independence of the World
Bank, and it would mean that our con-
tribution to the World Bank could not be
made. This is another item where the
Republicans see the matter much more
clearly, in my opinion, than do some of
the Democrats.
1688
