July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ENERGY PRICES
Q. Hello, Mr. President. My name is
Sue Tatum, and I come to you tonight
with a question on behalf of my friends
who are low-income people and fixed-in-
come people. As you can imagine, they
are having increasing difficulty paying
utility bills. On a day like today it doesn't
make a lot of difference, unless you want
a fan, I guess. But many times their util-
ity bills approach, and sometimes exceed,
their income. Is there anything on the
horizon to help these people?
THE PRESIDENT. I wish I could give
you good news, Miss Tatum. But I think
no matter who's in the White House, no
matter who's in the Congress, that the
price of energy is going to go up. We are
simply running out of oil and natural gas,
and the production of coal, atomic power,
solar energy is going to be more costly
in the future.
The major effort that we are putting
forward in the energy program is to cut
down on waste and for a family that is
poor, whose utility bills are very high,
the insulation of homes, the stopping of
the use of electricity during the time of
day when the demand is very high, the
change in the rate structure of electric
power to make sure that big business
doesn't get very cheap rates and the home-
owners get very high rates, those are
some of the things that we are doing.
But my guess is that in 5 years from
now the price of electricity, the price of
gasoline, the price of natural gas, the
price of propane, the price of coal is
go-
ing to be higher. So, the only solution, it
seems to me, is a much fairer distribution
of energy and also a great reduction in
how much energy a family uses to meet
its own needs. It's not a hopeless case.
I might close my answer by saying this:
Germany, Sweden, Japan, other coun-
tries have the same standard of living as
we do. Their families have just as good a
life as we do, as far as the material things
are concerned. They use only one-half as
much energy as we do. So, I think we
need to cut back on the consumption and
waste of energy. That's the main thing to
do.
The last point I want to make—an-
other one is we need to control infla-
tion. The Government can't do it by it-
self. I've been very disturbed today to
find out that one of the largest steel com-
panies is increasing its price for steel
products another 7 or 8 percent for tin
plate materials.
This means that they've increased the
price of that particular steel product
122 percent this last September, less
than a year. I don't think it's necessary.
So, I would say that private homeown-
ers, business leaders, industrial producers,
and Government, all have to work to-
gether to hold down inflation, hold down
the consumption of energy; but we can't
depend on cheaper energy in the future.
I'm sorry.
OIL COMPANIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Roger
McGrath, and I am employed by South-
land Oil Company, a small independent
oil company which built our first oil re-
finery here in Yazoo County almost 40
years ago. We compete in the market-
place against major oil companies, with
abnormal advantages due to their control
of crude oil supply, prices, and economy
of scale.
In your energy address to the Nation
on April 20-and we applaud you for fac-
ing the energy problem-you recognized
the problems we independents face and
called for improved antitrust enforcement
based upon separate accounting for sep-
arate functional segments of the oil in-
dustry. But the proposed national energy
1320
