Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 16
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:56 p.m., September 16, 1977]
United States Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency
Nomination of Ralph Earle II To Be Special
Representative for Arms Control and
Disarmament Negotiations.
September 16, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Ralph Earle II, of Haver-
ford, Pa., to be Special Representative for
Arms Control and Disarmament Negotia-
tions at the Arms Control and Disarma-
ment Agency (ACDA). Earle is cur-
rently alternate Chairman of the U.S.
Delegation to the Strategic Arms Limita-
tion Talks.
Earle was born September 26, 1928, in
Bryn Mawr, Pa. He received an A.B.
from Harvard College in 1950 and an
LL.B. from Harvard Law School in 1955.
He served in the U.S. Army from 1950
to 1952.
Earle practiced law with the firm of
Morgan, Lewis and Bockius in Philadel-
phia from 1956 to 1968, as an associate
and then a partner. In 1968 and 1969, he
served as Principal Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense and Acting Assistant
Secretary of Defense for International
Security Affairs.
From 1969 to 1972, Earle was defense
adviser to the U.S. Mission to NATO. In
1972 and 1973, he was a consultant for
SALT in the Office of the Secretary of
Defense. He was Representative of the
U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency to SALT from 1973 until earlier
this year, when he became alternate
Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to
SALT.
Visit of Prime Minister Barre
of France
Remarks to Reporters Following the Prime
Minister's Departure. September 16, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, are you
planning to go to France this year?
THE PRESIDENT. I've been invited by
President Giscard to come while I was in
the summit meeting in Great Britain in
May, and we're trying to work out a
schedule where I might visit. But I can't
tell yet. It will depend upon the pros-
pects for Congress adjournment and some
other uncertainties now. But I would like
very much to visit France if I can.
Q. And what about the SST Concorde?
THE PRESIDENT. We'll make a decision
on the Concorde, as far as our own Gov-
ernment can make the decision, on the
24th of this month, which is next week.
And this will describe some of the noise
limitations on the Concorde, the com-
pliance with my own Government's posi-
tion that the test period should be
honored. And I think that we'll be mak-
ing this report on time, as scheduled.
Q. Mr. President, was there electronic
surveillance at the Panamanian negoti-
ating delegation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'd rather re-
strict my answers right now to the ques-
tions about France.
Q. Mr. President, tell us, please, about
the professor, Mr. Raymond Barre; you
spoke yesterday at the dinner about Mr.
Barre was like a good professor.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he is one of the
more knowledgeable people in the world
international economics, and his
1607
