Sept. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This opens a new chapter in our rela-
tions with all nations of this hemisphere,
and it testifies to the maturity and the
good judgment and the decency of our
people. This agreement is a symbol for
the world of the mutual respect and co-
operation among all our nations.
Thank you very much for your help.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. in
the Hall of the Americas at the headquarters
of the Organization of American States. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Alejandro
Orfila, OAS Secretary General.
Following the President's remarks, General
Torrijos of Panama spoke, and then the two
leaders signed the Panama Canal Treaty and
the Treaty Concerning the Permanent Neutral-
ity and Operation of the Panama Canal.
Panama Canal Treaties
Remarks at a White House Dinner for Western
Hemisphere Leaders Attending the Signing
Ceremony. September 7, 1977
We are not going to have toasts tonight,
but I would like to say a few words of
welcome to all of you.
I would like to start with one of the
best friends I have, and a great leader of
our country, President Ford, and welcome
him here this evening.
And someone else who has inspired our
country, and who has set an example of
leadership and beauty and gracious ex-
ample for us, and who also recognized
the Marine Strings from olden times-
Lady Bird Johnson.
I know that most of you were at the
ceremonies where the treaties were signed,
so I won't try to introduce all our guests,
but I would like to present to you again
our special guest for this evening, Gen-
eral Torrijos from Panama and his wife,
Mrs. Torrijos.
Some guests that General Torrijos cares
much more about now than he does about
me are the Members of the United States
Senate. [Laughter] We are glad to have all
of you here. It's a very fine thing for you to
come.
I think that this was a very fine night,
too, in the life of the Organization of
American States. Secretary General Or-
fila, we are very proud to have you here.
Mr. Ellsworth Bunker and Sol Linowitz,
would you stand just a moment? General
Torrijos said he's going to be very lone-
some in Panama in the future without
Ambassador Bunker being there.
[Laughter] He's been negotiating in Pan-
ama now for 14 years. And this is a great
accomplishment for our country and also
for Panama.
We invited a special guest from Brazil
here tonight, Pele, but at the last minute
he had to leave to go to Spain.
I was talking to General Torrijos. As
you may know, the lightweight boxing
champion of the world is Señor Durran
from Panama, and he's very hard to
match, but we tried to match him by the
heavyweight champion of the world,
Muhammad Ali, and we are very glad to
have you here.
There's another man that I would like
to introduce he and his wife. I've been a
very close reader of the sports page for
the last several weeks, because we have a
very distinguished Georgian who has, I
think, come forward with a great deal of
enthusiasm and skill, a great deal of
understanding of the elements, the oceans
in particular. He's exemplified, I think,
the name of his boat. He's a very coura-
geous man-Ted Turner. We are very
proud to have you here tonight. And as
you all know, he will represent us in the
America's Cup races very shortly, having
overwhelmed his opponents much better
1544
