Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 30
I would appreciate your cooperation to
enable the Working Group to complete its
task on or about November 11th.
JIMMY CARTER
National Forest Products
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4530. September 30, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
From the time the first explorers and
settlers set foot on this land, the abundant
products of America's forests have been
regarded as a major resource. Today they
still provide a significant portion of our
materials for construction, furniture and
other important industries and create mil-
lions of jobs.
Unlike many of our precious natural
resources, our forest products can be re-
plenished. The need to make optimum
use of these important resources must be
balanced with vital environmental con-
cerns, so that we make the best possible
use of our forest lands, preserving the ir-
replaceable, conserving the beauty and
ecological balance while providing impor-
tant raw materials for our Nation's eco-
nomic well-being. Small, private non-in-
dustrial interests own 59 per cent of our
commercial forest land. We encourage
them to make wise use of this land. As a
Nation we must all work together to pre-
vent and control pollution, fires, insects
and diseases that damage our forests,
while striving to maintain and improve
fish and wildlife habitats.
In recognition of the importance of
America's forest resources and in the con-
tributions of the forest products industry
to our Nation's growth, the Congress has,
by joint resolution of September 13, 1960
(74 Stat. 898), designated the week be-
ginning the third Sunday of October in
each year as National Forest Products
Week and has requested the President to
issue an annual proclamation calling for
its observance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby call upon the people of the
United States to observe the week be-
ginning October 16, 1977, as National
Forest Products Week, with activities and
ceremonies designed to direct public at-
tention to, and demonstrate our gratitude
for, the forest resources with which we are
blessed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-seven, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:14 p.m., September 30, 1977]
Country Music Month, 1977
Proclamation 4531. September 30, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Country music, once the simple expres-
sion of America's isolated hill country and
farms, has spread to our most sophisti-
cated cities. It has always told of the basic
human emotions and experiences-of
childhood heroes and lost places, forgot-
ten dreams and everyday goodness and
disappointments as well as great sadness,
1697
