Sept. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ful in this effort of ours, and we have been
helpful, I hope, in his effort, as well.
We have no differences between our
countries. There is great friendship and
great cooperation, and this has existed his-
torically. And I think that our own visit
together was one of complete understand-
ing and cooperation.
I also, of course, expressed my thanks to
President Lopez and to his family for be-
ing so hospitable to my own wife when
she was in Colombia recently and re-
minded him of my own visit to Colombia
back in 1973 when I was Governor of
Georgia.
So far as I know, the relationships be-
tween the United States and Colombia
are excellent. It means a lot to us in this
country to have the people of Colombia
supporting the Panama Canal Treaty that
has been evolved between the United
States and Panama.
And I think it's accurate to say that
President Lopez has been very helpful
during the negotiations themselves.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6 p.m. on the
South Grounds of the White House. His con-
cluding remarks in Spanish were not included
in the transcript.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Meeting With President
Augusto Pinochet Ugarte
of Chile
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting.
September 6, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am.
Q. Do you mind telling us how it went
this time?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, very well. This
was President Pinochet of Chile, and we
had a good discussion about matters that
are important between us. We talked
about the possibility of Bolivia having ac-
cess to the ocean, the importance of
Chile's ratifying the nonproliferation
treaty and implementing the Treaty of
Tlatelolco.
We also discussed the importance of
holding down the armaments race in the
Andean region. And I discussed with
President Pinochet the problem that exists
with the question of human rights in
Chile, and he described to me some of
the steps they are taking to improve the
rights of the people there as they have
recovered from the recent coup, and also
we discussed the possibility of some ob-
servers who might go into Chile to observe
what has been done there.
But these are matters that are, I think,
important to Chile. They are certainly im-
portant to us and to the interrelationships
that exist in our hemisphere.
Q. Did you ask him about missing
Americans in Chile or anything about the
problems concerning American citizens?
THE PRESIDENT. We talked about the
release of prisoners and the right of those
to be tried, the expedition of the judicial
system, which has, he admitted, been
delayed in some instances, and the elimi-
nation of their intelligence agency, I think
a couple of weeks ago; also the new proc-
ess by which a prisoner can be released
from incarceration in exchange for ex-
tradition. In other words, if they want to
be released, they leave the country.
We have had a very frank discussion
about this serious problem. I think the
Chilean leaders, including President
Pinochet, recognize that the reputation
of their country has been very poor in the
field of human rights. He acknowledged
that they have had problems in the past.
He claimed that progress had been made
in recent months and told me that their
1538
