Aug. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
retary Vance at the conclusion of these
talks.
I'd be glad to answer any questions.
Mr. Gerstenzang [James R. Gersten-
zang, Associated Press].
QUESTIONS
PANAMA CANAL
Q. Mr. President, you have said that
your foreign policy decisions should be
made in consultation with the American
people and that these decisions should
reflect their thinking.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Yet there have been, so far, strong
expressions of public disagreement with
the Panama Canal treaty as we now see
it.
How do you reconcile these differences,
and what steps will be taken to convince
the American people that you are right,
that they are wrong, and that the canal
treaty is in the best long-term interests of
the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. We expect to con-
clude the drafting of the detailed lan-
guage in the Pamana Canal treaties
within the next few days, but they have
to be compared to be sure that the Span-
ish text and the English text are compati-
ble and that all the elements have been
expressed in legal and proper language.
As soon as that is done, the text of the
treaty will be released to the Members of
the Congress and also to the American
people and the news media. At this time
we are going on a fairly detailed expres-
sion of principles which will be the basis
for the treaty itself. And that set of prin-
ciples in some minute detail has already
been released.
I think there's been a great deal of mis-
conception about what is being con-
cluded in Panama, which may be one of
the reasons that there is not popular sup-
port for the Panama Canal treaty at this
point.
The negotiations were begun 13 years
ago when President Johnson was Presi-
dent, as a result of an altercation, blood-
shed, loss of life by both Panama and
American troops there. And in my opin
ion, the terms of the canal protect Amer-
ican interests very well. We will retain
control of the Panama Canal throughout
this century. We will have an assurance
in perpetuity following the year 2000 that
the Panama Canal will be neutral, that
our ships will have unlimited access to
the canal, along with the ships of other
nations. We have no constraints on the ac-
tion that we can take as a nation to guar-
antee that neutrality. Our own ships and
those of Panama will have priority for ex-
peditious passage through the canal in a
case—in a time of emergency.
And I think that this is an agreement
that is very conducive to continued peace,
to better relationships with nations and
people in the Latin American area, and
I think most of the objections that were
raised earlier about a giveaway, a highly
exorbitant payment to Panama, loss of
control, takeover by some other govern-
ment, a prohibition against the free use
of the canal-all those concerns, which
were legitimate in the past, have now
been answered successfully for our Na-
tion within the present negotiations.
But it will be a major responsibility of
my own, through my own statements and
through those of others who support the
Panama Canal treaty to give the Ameri-
can people the facts. I think that to a
substantial degree, those who do have the
facts and have studied this situation close-
ly concur that these two treaties are ad-
vantageous for us. This is a bipartisan
support. It does involve, of course, myself
and the members of my administration.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff, with absolutely
1488
