Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
1963 he was an attorney in the Office of
the Assistant General Counsel for Inter-
national Affairs at the Defense Depart-
ment.
From 1963 to 1965, Aldrich was legal
adviser to the U.S. Delegation to the
North Atlantic Council in Paris. From
1965 to 1969, he was assistant legal ad-
viser for East Asian and Pacific Affairs at
the State Department. Since 1969 he has
been deputy legal adviser of the Depart-
ment of State.
Aldrich was head of the U.S. Delega-
tion to the Fourth Session of the Diplo-
matic Conference on the Reaffirmation
and Development of International Hu-
manitarian Law Applicable in Armed
Conflicts, held at Geneva in 1977, and
of the U.S. Delegation to the Conference
of Government Experts on Possible Pro-
hibitions or Restrictions on the Use of
Certain Conventional Weapons, held in
Lugano, Switzerland, in 1976.
Aldrich was legal adviser to Dr. Henry
Kissinger for the Vietnam negotiations in
Paris in 1972 and 1973, and principal
drafter of the Protocols to the Agreement
on Ending the War and Restoring the
Peace in Viet Nam. He was Chairman of
the U.S. Delegation to the 1971 and 1972
Geneva Conferences of Government Ex-
perts on International Humanitarian Law
Applicable in Armed Conflicts, and to the
1974, 1975, and 1976 Diplomatic Con-
ferences on the same subject.
Transatlantic Air Fares
are a $256 budget fare, roundtrip between
New York and London, and a $290 ad-
vanced
vanced purchase excursion ("super-
APEX") fare, roundtrip between London
and New York. Similar super-APEX
fares will be offered from Boston, Phila-
delphia,
delphia, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles,
Washington, and Miami.
The CAB has recently allowed a $256
standby fare and a $280 budget fare, but
on September 16 it ruled against the $256
budget fare and the $290 super-APEX
fare.
In his letter to the Board, the President
stated that “I have decided to reject the
Board's order as inconsistent with this Ad-
ministration's foreign economic policy. I
must emphasize that my international
aviation policy carries with it a commit-
ment to low fare, competitive interna-
tional air service for the benefit of Amer-
ican consumers.'
In its decision, the Civil Aeronautics
Board expressed concern that low fare
service by scheduled airlines might ad-
versely affect the charter industry.
To make sure that consumers have the
widest variety of low fares available to
them, the President urged the Board to
move as rapidly as possible to remove Fed-
eral regulations that impede low cost
charter service. The Departments of State
and Transportation will also be undertak-
ing discussions with European government
aviation authorities to remove restrictions
on both charters and other low fare
services.
The fares approved today are experi-
mental and will be available to the public
Announcement of Approval of New Low-Cost through March 31, 1978. Transportation
Fares. September 26, 1977
President Carter today overruled the
Civil Aeronautics Board and approved
new low-cost transatlantic air service. The
specific fares approved by the President
Secretary Adams will study these winter
fares to determine how responsive they are
to the public need and how these fares
and charter services might be made more
widely available as the basis for long-term,
low-cost transatlantic service.
1668
