Aug. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
strength of our Nation depends in large
part on the ideas and technologies that
have emerged from our pursuit of ques-
tions at the frontiers of science. We must
continue to invest in the development of
fundamental knowledge to help meet the
challenges and opportunities of the fu-
ture. My 1978 Budget, now before the
Congress, reflects the high order of im-
portance this Administration gives to
basic scientific research.
We are aware that the technological
advances which result from scientific in-
quiry represent a mixed blessing, often
creating strains upon the environment,
our natural resources, and our ability to
wisely manage progress. The remedy is
not to retreat from new knowledge but to
progress further in our understanding of
the processes that underlie our universe,
drawing upon the inventiveness of our
people and keeping alive the political
freedom that guarantees our scientists
the right of free and open intellectual in-
quiry.
This annual Report of the National
Science Foundation expresses in con-
crete terms the achievements of scientists
and engineers supported by the Founda-
tion's programs during the past fiscal year.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 15, 1977.
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Science
Foundation, Annual Report 1976" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 129 pp.).
The message was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Jewish High Holy Days
Message of the President. August 15, 1977
Rosalynn and I extend warmest greet-
ings to our fellow Americans of the Jewish
Faith on the occasion of your High Holy
Days, in which symbolically “mankind
passes in judgment before the heavenly
throne".
As you solemnly review and judge your
own conduct during the past year, we are
all reminded that we serve God most
faithfully by showing concern for our
friends and neighbors.
In a world made small by modern tech-
nology, all peoples and nations have be-
come closer together, and the concern for
others has become more important than
ever. This is the wellspring of our na-
tion's commitment to human rights, and
it is why we are determined that all of
America's words and deeds will honor
that commitment.
Among the Rosh Hashonah prayers re-
cited in the synagogue is one which looks
toward the day when mankind will be
joined in universal brotherhood. This is a
prayer to which all of us add our heartfelt
Amen as we wish each of you a happy
and prosperous New Year.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations
Appointment of Six Members of the
Commission. August 15, 1977
The President has appointed the fol-
lowing persons to be members of the Ad-
visory Commission on Intergovernmental
Relations:
REUBIN ASKEW, Governor of Florida (replac-
ing Philip W. Noel, term expired);
RICHARD KNEIP, Governor of South Dakota
(reappointment);
RICHARD A. SNELLING, Governor of Vermont
(replacing Daniel J. Evans, term as Governor
expired);
1476
