Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
But in general, of course, I am a very
loyal Democrat. I appreciate what the
Democrats have done, but in some areas
the Republicans have helped me more.
I would say another example would be
the reorganization effort. I think as a mat-
ter of philosophy, the moderate-to-con-
servative Members of the Congress and I
see compatibly a need for strict Govern-
ment reorganization. But this means, cer-
tainly, that many Democrats have coop-
erated just as well.
VICE PRESIDENT'S ROLE
Q. Mr. President, you have been under-
scoring of late how very important the
Vice President-very important role he is
playing in your administration. And I
was just wondering whether the Vice
President has become in actuality as well
as in effect your deputy, the deputy Pres-
ident or assistant President?
THE PRESIDENT. I probably meet with
the Vice President on a daily basis more
than all the other staff members that I
have combined. He brings to my own in-
ner circle of advisers an experience in the
Congress and in Washington. He, obvi-
ously, has a stature, political stature in-
herent in his office itself. And his wide-
ranging interests, that I have welcomed
and encouraged, include domestic poli-
tics, our relationships with the Congress,
domestic matters like tax reform, sensi-
tive civil matters like the Bakke case, in-
ternational matters like southern Africa
or the Middle East. He has a detailed
knowledge of the SALT negotiations now
and the history of SALT negotiations in
the past.
So, there is no aspect of my own daily
responsibilities as President that are not
shared by the Vice President. He has a
unique background in the Congress of
having been both a member, simultane-
ously, of the Senate Finance Committee
and also the Senate Budget Committee.
So, here again, he's had a broad range of
experience.
I would say, without derogating the
other members of my staff, that there is
no one who would approach him in his
importance to me, his closeness to me and,
also, his ability to carry out a singular
assignment with my complete trust.
SALT NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, it is said that we
have modified our SALT position some-
what and, on the basis of that, we may
be very near an agreement, and, on the
basis of that, you may be meeting with
Mr. Brezhnev in a few weeks or months.
Is any or all of that true? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I will resist the temp-
tation to comment on the accuracy or
veracity of past comments made in the
news media--and by you-[laughing—
I understand.
I think some of those statements are
fairly accurate. We have been encouraged
recently by the cooperative attitude of the
Soviets. I have met several hours, on two
occasions, with Foreign Minister Gro-
myko. And they have been fairly flexible
in their attitude, and we have tried to
match their cooperative stance.
There has been no decision made about
a time or place for a meeting between me
and Mr. Brezhnev. In fact, the meeting
itself is certainly not a sure thing at all.
It is, as a matter of record, his time to
come to the United States, if and when a
meeting does take place, and he has that
permanent standing invitation which he
can accept as he sees fit.
Our purpose in the SALT negotiations
this year has been generally twofold: One
1689
