Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 19
I appreciate your concerns in this mat-
ter, and thank you for your letter. I am
satisfied that the investigation is proceed-
ing in a vigorous and impartial manner,
and I therefore have determined that
appointment of a special prosecutor is
neither warranted nor advisable.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to Representative John J. Rhodes,
minority leader of the House of Represent-
atives, and Senator Howard H. Baker, Jr.,
minority leader of the Senate.
Visit of Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel
Remarks of the President and the
Prime Minister at the Welcoming
Ceremony. July 19, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This is a very important
day in the history of our Nation and, I
think, perhaps for the future of the
Middle East and perhaps even for the
future of the world.
We have with us a very distinguished
visitor, Prime Minister Begin and his
wife, Aliza. I'm particularly thrilled to
have them come here. We've had many
distinguished visitors this year, but he's
the first one who comes as the head of a
nation who is junior to me. All the others
have been Presidents or Prime Ministers
or Kings much longer. So, I welcome a
chance to act as a senior statesman this
morring, Prime Minister Begin.
We also have very important questions
to discuss between us. We approach these
conferences with deep common interests
and with a sincerity of purpose that
naturally binds us together.
Prime Minister Begin represents a
nation which has just demonstrated again
the importance of a true democracy
where people in an absolutely uncon-
strained expression of individual prefer-
ence in open elections can decide who
their leader will be.
This has been a great test for Israel,
and the orderly transition of authority
and responsibility from one political party
to another has been carried out not only
with peace and cooperation but, I think,
with an enhancement of the confidence in
the people of Israel in the future.
I think, to me, having read the writings
and biography of our distinguished visi-
tor this morning, there's a great parallel
between what Israel is, what it stands for,
and what Prime Minister Begin is and
what he stands for. He's a man who has
demonstrated a willingness to suffer for
principle, a man who has shown superla-
tive personal courage in the face of trial,
challenge, disappointment, but who has
ultimately prevailed because of a depth
of his commitment and his own personal
characteristics. And this is a strong paral-
lel with what his nation has been and is.
He's a man of principle and a man of
independence, and the nation of Israel
is a people of principle and independ-
ence.
One of the important personal char-
acteristics about Prime Minister Begin
which I admire is his deep and unswerv-
ing religious commitments. This has
always been a guiding factor in his con-
sciousness and in his pursuit of unswerv-
ing goals. There's a quietness about him
which goes with determination and a fiery
spirit in his expressions of his beliefs to
the public. And this is as it should be.
I was particularly impressed that the
first official action of his government was
to admit into Israel 66 homeless refugees
from Vietnam who had been floating
around in the oceans of the world, ex-
cluded by many nations who are their
1281
