Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
cludes a prohibition against employers'
hiring undocumented aliens.
9. Welfare Reform-proposed compre-
hensive reform of the Nation's welfare
system, including the creation of 1.4
million public service jobs by 1981.
10. Supplemental Unemployment
Benefits-supported and signed into law
a bill to extend Federal supplemental un-
employment benefits for 26 additional
weeks.
11. Humphrey-Hawkins-endorsed the
Humphrey-Hawkins full employment
bill, establishing a 4-percent unemploy-
ment rate and reasonable price stability
as national goals for 1983.
Energy
1. National Energy Plan-proposed
the Nation's first comprehensive energy
policy. Bills have passed both Houses of
Congress and are now in conference.
2. Emergency Natural Gas-proposed
and signed into law a bill that permitted
the President to make emergency alloca-
tions of natural gas during last winter's
shortage and permitted emergency pur-
chase of unregulated gas.
3. Department of Energy-proposed
and signed into law a bill to combine 11
Government entities into one Cabinet-
level Department of Energy.
4. Alaska Natural Gas-negotiated an
agreement with Canada concerning a
joint transportation route (the ALCAN
Project) for Alaskan natural gas; secured
congressional approval of the route de-
cision.
5. Strategic Petroleum Reserve-un-
dertook to expand the National Strategic
Petroleum Reserve from 500 million bar-
form standards for licensing of nuclear
exports, establishing criteria for the ne-
gotiation of new nuclear technology
exchange agreements, and authorizing
regulations for more expeditious review
of nuclear export licenses; passed the
House.
Environment
1. Clean Air-supported and signed
into law amendments to the Clean Air
Act, including strict auto emission and
stationary air standards.
2. Strip Mining-supported and signed
into law a strip mining bill (twice vetoed
by Ford), which will set the first Federal
environmental standards for strip mining.
3. Water Resource Projects-initiated
a major review of Federal water resource
development projects to ensure that those
recommended for funding in FY '78 and
future years are economically and en-
vironmentally sound as well as safe;
signed legislation halting nine previously
authorized projects.
4. Redwoods-proposed a moratorium
on logging in Redwood National Park;
submitted legislation to expand the park
and protect it from further commercial
use.
5. Water Pollution-proposed amend-
ments to the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, involving reform of the sew-
age treatment construction grant pro-
gram and strict protection for Federal
wetlands; amendments have passed a
House-Senate conference.
6. Environmental Message-submitted
to Congress a comprehensive environ-
mental message which included support
for four new wilderness areas, eight new
wild and scenic parks, and water resource
rels to 1 billion barrels of oil, giving the policy reforms.
country a 10-month stockpile.
6. Nuclear Nonproliferation-pro-
posed legislation to control the worldwide
spread of nuclear fuels by applying uni-
7. Whaling-ordered protection of
whales within 200 miles of U.S. coast;
cooperated with the International Whal-
ing Commission on bowhead whales; and
2143
