Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 29
a concept of tax credits for tuition if it
were added in the tax reform bill that you
send up, or would you entertain any
thought of putting it in the bill yourself?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. We have
a limit to how many additional tax credits
and tax benefits can be put in the legisla-
tion and still have equity and fairness and
a progressive tax structure. It's obvious
that each individual item proposed for
tax reform is attractive. You know, when
the parents who have children in college
don't pay those taxes, somebody's got to
pay it for them. And the ones that pay it
for them are the parents who don't have
children in college.
Quite often, the parents who don't have
children in college are older people whose
children have passed that college age or
the very poor families in our Nation or
the working families in our Nation who
just can't afford to put a child in college.
So, I have doubts about it, although I
wouldn't say that I'll veto a bill or work
against that particular proposal.
We are trying to have three things come
out of the tax reform measure: One is
greater equity or fairness, with an end to
or a reduction, at least, in the loopholes
and tax credits and privileges that have
been there for a long time. Another one
is a more progressive, overall income tax
rate. And, of course, the third one, and
perhaps the most important for the tax-
payers, is simplicity, so that everybody
feels when they fill out the tax form that
they are being treated fairly. So, I can't
answer your specific question any better
than I have now.
area
INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM
Q. Mr. President, may I ask you, in the
of terrorism-incidentally, I'm
Claude Lewis from Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. In dealing with terrorists, is the
posture of the U.S. Government going to
be one of complete noncooperation with
the terrorists, such as has been developed
in Japan and West Germany and other
nations? And, also, I understand you dis-
agree with the U.N. resolution insofar as
how far it goes; you feel it should be much
stronger. Can you tell us a little bit about
that your position on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We have taken a
position-I would say, among the strong-
est of any nation-against terrorism, seek-
ing to get the United Nations to agree
with us on all nations refusing to accept
aircraft that have been hijacked, for in-
stance, and also agreeing to return the
hijackers or terrorists to the country from
which they committed a terrorist act.
I believe that we'll have some success,
particularly because of the high publicity
that accrued to the recent Lufthansa hi-
jacking that terminated, as you know, in
Somalia. We encouraged the Somalian
Government to cooperate with the West
Germans. We worked closely with the
West Germans in providing information
that we had about the terrorist organiza-
tions. And we learned from them and
from the Israelis, for instance, after they
had an actual experience in rescuing kid-
naped passengers from planes.
It's a matter that concerns all countries.
And recently, we've had some indications,
through United Nations statements and
otherwise, that the Soviets were moving
toward a more responsible position in de-
ploring and working against terrorism.
There are still some countries, like
Libya and Algeria, for instance, who feel
that they ought to open their borders to
terrorists and to let them land there. And
their position that they take publicly is
that they save lives by doing so, that
there has to be some place for the air-
plane to land once it is hijacked.
We are also cooperating and trying to
ensure that the very strict security meas-
1939
