July 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the organizational structure of Govern-
ment. It minimizes unnecessary interven-
tion in the private lives and the business
lives of our Nation and, at the same time,
to be more efficient, more economical and
simpler structured, with a clear delinea-
tion of authority and responsibility on the
officers who will be responsible for cer-
tain functions.
We have, at the same time, tried to re-
store or improve our relationship with the
developing nations of the world, with our
own allies in Europe, with the African
countries and, particularly, to deal with
the long-standing problems in Rhodesia
and Namibia. And at the same time,
we've made strong and continuous over-
tures to our friends in the southern part
of this hemisphere to make sure that we
have as close as possible a relationship
with them.
The last thing I'll mention, in passing,
which is of crucial importance to us all, is
the progress in our friendly relations with
the Soviet Union. I put a lot of time on a
speech that I made in Charleston last
week to try to encapsulate, as best I could,
the overall thrust of our policies.
We were successful yesterday in reach-
ing an agreement with the Soviet Union
and Great Britain to go to the detailed
negotiations of an agreement on the com-
prehensive test ban. Our own desire is
that we prohibit the testing of nuclear ex-
plosives completely, and we are making
some progress in that direction. So far, the
Soviets still would like to reserve the right
to conduct some peaceful nuclear explo-
sives.
But we've opened up new concepts of
actual reductions in atomic weapons for
the first time since they've been invented,
to restrain military development in the In-
dian Ocean, to work with the Soviets on
comprehensive SALT discussions, a pro-
hibition against the destruction of obser-
vation satellites, prior notification of firing
of test missiles, and so forth.
So we've a lot of things going on with
the Soviet Union, which I think, poten-
tially, are going to be very constructive.
We have found them in their private atti-
udes toward us to be very forthcoming and
cooperative. And these are difficult mat-
ters which have been ignored or postponed
for decades, and we're trying to address
them as forthrightly as possible.
I could go on with another long agenda,
but I won't do that. I'd rather let you
pick out the other items on the agenda
that I have not mentioned, and I'll try
to answer your questions as briefly and
thoroughly as I can.
CUBA
Q. Mr. President, previous administra-
tions and previous Presidents have made
a strong commitment and promises to the
Cuban people in behalf of their freedom.
Example: President Kennedy at the Or-
ange Bowl, Miami stadium: "I will return
this flag" he was referring to the 2506
Brigade flag-"in a free Havana." Now,
we are approaching Communist Cuba.
Are we abandoning our promise of sup-
port to the people of Cuba?
-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I believe that,
obviously, the Cuban-Americans here
have complete freedom. We are not com-
mitted to the destruction by military force
of the present Cuban Government; our
hope and aspiration is that maximum
freedom for people who live in Cuba can
be achieved. But I think at the time of
the Bay of Pigs, our country gave up the
thought that we might do it by military
attack.
We've proceeded very cautiously in our
dealings with the Castro government. I've
spelled out publicly on many occasions my
own attitude toward this procedure.
1388
