Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
know that all our people feel very deeply
that we must have peace.
Those who love peace most are those
who serve in the Armed Forces and whose
lives would first be lost if conflict occurs.
But we know that peace can best be pre-
served by maintaining the strength of our
Nation. We must be strong enough mili-
tarily, we must have a strong commitment
of the American people, and there must
be a demonstrable will to defend freedom
in order to prevent war. Those are the
commitments that I make to you.
Those are the commitments that I
make to you, and I ask you today and
millions of Americans to join me in assur-
ing that the future will hold peace for all
of us, because our will for freedom and
our commitment to the principles of our
Nation will always be strong in gratitude
to those in the past who have given their
lives and those today who are willing to
give their lives for the preservation of
the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:28 a.m. at
the Amphitheater after laying a wreath at the
Tomb of the Unknowns.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Rev. James Paul Carter, chaplain, Audie Mur-
phy Veterans Administration Hospital, San
Antonio, Tex., and Maj. Gen. Charles C.
Rogers, USA, winner of the Medal of Honor.
Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud
and Abuse Amendments
Remarks on Signing H.R. 3 Into Law.
October 25, 1977
We seem to have some happy people
here today.
As most of you know, I was Governor
for 4 years and later spent 2 years cam-
paigning around the country to be elected
President. I think one of the greatest
problems that we have in this Nation is a
distrust of government and its ability to
administer programs of great benefit to
our people in an honest and efficient way.
Perhaps one of the most sensitive issues
is in health care. We have seen the cost of
a day's stay in the hospital increase since
1950 more than 1,000 percent. The cost
of hospital care is going up a hundred per-
cent, doubling every 5 years.
At the same time, we see highly pub-
licized instances when the Medicaid and
Medicare programs in recent years have
been shot through with fraud. This was
one of my frequent campaign comments.
And I'm very proud today to sign into law
a bill that has been evolved with close
cooperation between the executive branch
of Government, particularly HEW, and
the House and Senate.
This bill will go a long way to eliminat-
ing fraud in the administration of the
health care programs of our country. It
will shift to heavier penalties for those
who are convicted of false claims, kick-
backs-changing these from misdemean-
ors to felonies-and also prohibiting those
who are convicted of this crime from de-
livering any services in the future.
This legislation also permits-in fact,
requires the Department of HEW to set
up both simplified and also standardized
forms for reporting the delivery of serv-
ices in the health care field and also the
charging for those services.
In the past it's been quite difficult, as
you know who have watched the evening
news, to determine exactly who owns the
health provider entities that deliver
health care and quite often conceal who
is responsible when a violation of the law
does exist. This legislation requires that
anyone who owns as much as 5 percent in
a health provider company or hospital or
health care center must reveal their iden-
tity to the public.
We have included also in this bill an
allocation of aid funds to establish among
the States, or within each individual
1902
