Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 6
system, putting in more auditors, working
closer with the State governments, you
get a tenfold return on that expenditure,
at least. Perhaps Secretary Califano has
a better estimate.
Do you? Would you say-
SECRETARY CALIFANO. I think that's
right, Mr. President. We'll actually both
be saving money and eliminating fraud
and error.
WELFARE COSTS
Q. Mr. President, you indicated ini-
tially that you were very concerned about
keeping the cost of welfare reform at the
current cost. But now it is going to cost
$2.8 billion more. What changed your
mind that it couldn't be done?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in order to exer-
cise tight discipline on the whole subject
and to make sure that people just didn't
add on new programs that were attrac-
tive, I required the Departments in-
volved-Treasury, Labor, and HEW-to
devise a complete program for me with
absolutely no cost, which they did. And
this was presented to the American pub-
lic in outline form the first part of May.
Since May, for about 4 months, the
Secretaries involved have been consulting
with Governors, with mayors, with Mem-
bers of Congress, and with private inter-
est groups and analyzing in the computer
programs how additional costs could be
mirrored in improved benefits to the
Nation.
As I said, we will now have about $2
billion in tax relief for local and State
taxpayers. That is part of the advantages.
In addition, we have provided about
300,000 jobs that we did not anticipate at
the beginning in May which would per-
mit single-parent families, a mother or a
father with small children, say 6 to 14
years old, to go to work part-time and to
guarantee that they would have an op-
portunity to go work part-time or, if fam-
ily day care centers are available, to work
full-time. That obviously did cost more.
So, in the additional costs that we are
putting forward, we are providing a much
stronger incentive to work, providing
more jobs for people and providing tax
relief for local and State governments.
Q. What about your dream of balanc-
ing the budget, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. This program will not
be incompatible with that dream to bal-
ance the budget.
CONSULTATION WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, you had considerable
advice, strong advice from key Members
of Congress to delay this package.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. In your interests of working well
with the Congress and establishing that
good working relationship, why did you
decide not to accept their advice?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say that
neither one of the Members of Congress
with whom I consulted this past week
urged me personally not to go ahead with
the program. In their interviews with the
press later, they said it might be better to
wait.
There are obviously some differences
that still exist between myself and Chair-
man Al Ullman in the House and Chair-
man Russell Long in the Senate. But I
think that compared to the overall pro-
gram those differences are quite minor in
nature.
I think that what Chairman Ullman
objected to was the supplementing of in-
come for families who work being based
on the number of children in a family.
Obviously, this is already done, because
when you file your income tax return, you
get a credit for each child so that you can
pay for that child's life.
The second thing is obviously the food
stamp program that we presently have.
1447
