Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
treaties. Through direct negotiations with
Cuba, we have concluded a fisheries
agreement and established an interest
section in each country. We have ratified
an exchange of prisoners treaty with Mex-
ico and negotiated one with Bolivia. We
have adopted a comprehensive policy for
the Caribbean and have been joined by
28 nations and 16 international institu-
tions to establish a Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development.
We have dramatically improved our re-
lations with a number of countries, in-
cluding Venezuela, Jamaica, Peru, and
Mexico.
LONDON SUMMIT
With the leaders of major industrial
democracies, the President reached
agree-
ment at the London Summit on a com-
mon program for international economic
cooperation.
MULTILATERAL TRADE NEGOTIATIONS
The administration has reached agree-
ment with the European Economic Com-
munity on a timetable for negotiations,
breaking a long stalemate.
DEFENSE AND SECURITY
The administration has formulated a
comprehensive, national defense strategy
which includes an overall American pos-
ture toward the Soviet Union. The Pres-
ident reached a decision not to produce
the B-1 bomber but to proceed with
cruise missiles.
INTELLIGENCE
The administration has reorganized
the intelligence agencies and has taken
comprehensive steps to protect telecom-
munications.
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
The administration has established a
new International Communication
Agency to replace the United States In-
formation Agency and the Bureau of Ed-
ucational and Cultural Affairs in the De-
partment of State.
DEFENSE BUDGET REDUCTION
The President met his campaign
pledge to cut military spending by $5 to
$7 billion. The Ford budget for fiscal year
1978 was $123 billion. The Carter budget
is $117 billion, as approved by Congress.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel
White House Statement Issued Following the
Second Meeting. December 17, 1977
The President and Prime Minister
Begin and their advisers tonight continued
the round of discussions begun yesterday
morning. They explored further Prime
Minister Begin's latest proposals for prog-
ress toward comprehensive peace in the
Middle East and the next steps to be taken
to advance the peace negotiations. The
President expressed his appreciation for
the Prime Minister's constructive ap-
proach and his conviction that Prime
Minister Begin and President Sadat, to-
gether, are taking important steps down
the road to a just and comprehensive
peace.
President Carter welcomed the direct
talks which will soon be held between
Prime Minister Begin and President
Sadat. President Carter told the Prime
Minister that he believes the current dis-
cussions between Israel and Egypt, based
on the good will and dedication to peace
both have manifested, now more than
ever hold out promise of real progress.
The United States considers that the un-
derstanding and statesmanship which the
Prime Minister is demonstrating make a
notable contribution.
2152
