Dec. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
In recent years, important joint state-
ments, agreements, and contracts were
signed between our two countries. They
do provide a good basis for further mu-
tually beneficial cooperation. Our eco-
nomic relations have dynamically ex-
panded. As you know, we attach special
significance to them and wish to continue
expanding them. Our scientific and tech-
nical exchanges have grown, constantly
enriching is our cultural cooperation, as
is the growing tourist traffic, more fre-
quent, our contact serving to get our re-
spective nations to know better and bring
them closer together.
It gives me satisfaction to expect that
your visit will effect in a further growth of
Polish-American cooperation.
Mr. President, we are sorry you are
visiting us for such a short time. We would
certainly wish that you could get to know
our country better, a country of great
progress and, at the same time, still over-
coming century-old underdevelopment.
Following the gravest tragedy in its
own history, our nation has made a choice
which offers it lasting safeguards of inde-
pendence, sovereignty, and security, which
provides for the best premises for develop-
ment. These premises comprise its own
ever more growing potential of present-
day Poland, its alliances with the Soviet
Union and other friends.
Today Poland belongs to the group of
countries of the world which are having
the greatest development scale as far as
production in industry is concerned. And
for the last 7 years, we are maintaining
very high indices of further growth.
There has been a tremendous revival,
biological revival, of our people. In the
current decade, the age of maturity is be-
ing reached by 7 million of young Polish
girls and boys. We ensure to all of them
education and work. We have created
just, democratic, socio-political condi-
tions. We are implementing the fullest
possible code of socio-economic and polit-
ical rights.
In maintaining and cultivating all what
has been most precious in our national
tradition, we are enriching contemporary
life of Poles by new, profoundly human-
istic contents.
Our greatest achievement is the moral
and political unity of our people, in which
we perceive the paramount safeguard for
successful implementation of all noble
aspirations of Poles and also a dignified
place of our country among other states
of Europe and the world.
Mr. President, tomorrow you will be
leaving Poland, departing for other coun-
tries. May I be permitted to express my
conviction that the impressions you will
be taking with you from the first leg of
your trip and, first of all, the friendly feel-
ings of the Polish people to the American
people and our strivings to peace and co-
operation will stay in your good memory
for long.
wish to propose a toast and ask all
those present to join me to drink to you,
Mr. President, and Mrs. Carter, to the
successes of the great American people,
to the further expansion of friendly Pol-
ish-American relations.
THE PRESIDENT. First Secretary and
Mrs. Gierek, distinguished leaders in poli-
tics, the military, music, drama, art,
poetry, education, science, engineering:
We are very proud to be here in Poland
and to have had a chance to meet with
and to learn from First Secretary Gierek.
We have already become close personal
friends. He has taught me things that I
can use in my own Nation. He has this
afternoon discussed with me and to-
night-how he proposes to have a bal-
ance of trade in Poland. He sells hare
or rabbits to adjacent countries for a lease
2214
