Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 19
me and about me today, which I do not
deserve. But your appreciation is very
dear to my wife and myself. We thank
you.
You mentioned the decision by the
Cabinet and myself in Israel to give
refuge and haven to the Vietnamese
refugees saved by an Israeli boat from
the depths of the Pacific Ocean, threat-
ened with drowning and exposure.
It was a natural act to us, Mr. Presi-
dent. We remembered, we have never
forgotten that boat with 900 Jews, having
left Germany in the last weeks before the
Second World War for Cuba. When
they reached the Cuban shores, their
visas were declared nonvalid, and then
they were 9 months at sea, traveling from
harbor to harbor, from country to coun-
ty, crying out for refuge. They were
refused.
Eventually they went back to Europe.
Some of them saved their lives. The ma-
jority of them went to the gas chambers.
We have never forgotten the lot of our
people, persecuted, humiliated, ultimately
physically destroyed. And therefore, it
was natural that my first act as Prime
Minister was to give those people a haven
in the land of Israel.
Mr. President, now we shall have
Hebrews speaking Vietnamese in our
country.
I share your view that we stand to-
gether for human liberty and dignity. And
we may have difference of opinion, but
we shall never disagree; we may only
agree to differ.
Mr. President, my wife and I are deep-
ly grateful to you and Mrs. Carter for the
gracious hospitality you have bestowed
upon us. We do hope that not in too dis-
tant a future we may reciprocate in
Jerusalem. The people of Israel will re-
ceive you with an open and warm heart
and with the traditional hospitality all
of us inherited from old Abraham.
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 a.m.
on the South Lawn of the White House.
Visit of Prime Minister Begin
of Israel
White House Statement Issued Following the
First Meeting Between the President and the
Prime Minister. July 19, 1977
President Carter and Israeli Prime
Minister Menahem Begin met in the
Cabinet Room for 2 hours. The meeting
was also attended by the Vice President,
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, Assistant
to the President for National Security Af-
fairs Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant Secre-
tary of State Alfred L. Atherton, Jr.,
United States Ambassador to Israel
Samuel Lewis, and William Quandt of the
National Security Council staff on the
American side; and Israeli Ambassador
to the United States Simcha Dinitz, Ad-
visor to the Prime Minister Shmuel Katz,
Minister of the Embassy of Israel Hanan
Bar-On, Director of the Prime Minister's
Bureau Yechiel Kadishai, Political Ad-
visor to the Prime Minister Eli Mizrachi,
Military Secretary to the Prime Minister
Brigadier General Ephraim Poran, and
Advisor to the Prime Minister Yehuda
Avner on the Israeli side.
The President began by repeating his
personal pleasure at welcoming Prime
Minister Begin to the White House so
soon after his taking office last month. The
President congratulated Mr. Begin once
again on his accession to national lead-
ership and expressed confidence that this
1283
