Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 5
along with the city and State for recrea-
tion areas and park areas in regions
where buildings need to be destroyed.
And our CETA funds, training pro-
grams can provide employment for peo-
ple to rebuild their own neighborhoods
and, of course, with the public works
programs that we put through the Con-
gress now, we have a good chance to
renovate that area.
We'll put together a comprehensive
plan, working with Mayor Beame both
while he's mayor and, I hope, after he's
no longer mayor-and the new mayor of
New York. I think we will have a good
prospect-
REPORTER. You once said you thought
New York City has changed for the bet-
ter in the last few years under Mayor
Beame. Have-
THE PRESIDENT. It has.
Q. Did you change your mind after
your tour-[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. No, I haven't
changed my mind. I think even among
the people who live in the South Bronx
and who are very disturbed about their
own neighborhoods, that there's a spirit
of hope, and I think that there's a spirit
of determination to take what they still
have-there is a friendly attitude toward
me, toward Mayor Beame-[inaudible].
I believe that in the last 2 years there
has been a substantial transformation for
the better in the general attitude of New
Yorkers, and I think they are confident—
[inaudible].
Q. Sir, could you tell us what job you
might consider Mayor Beame for in
Washington?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I particularly
need him in government, tying together
in a more forceful way the different
levels of government, because the Fed-
eral Government can't deal with these
problems alone.
Of course, almost all of the South Bronx
property, outside of government hous-
ing [inaudible]-are owned by private
citizens. So, that's a resource that we
haven't adequately tapped. And with his
superb experience and background and
knowledge, that's one area that I see a
possibility of—[inaudible]—but I won't
expect him to make a decision all alone.
If he is willing to help me I'd like to work
closely with him on a nationwide basis,
for making sure that the different levels
of government can work in harmony.
Q. Would there be an official appoint-
ment for Mr. Beame, or would this be in
an unofficial capacity?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would prefer
an official capacity, but that would be-
[inaudible].
Q. Can you make a suggestion about
what type of office?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think that's
something that ought to be announced
later on.
Q. Mr. President, were you upset at all
by Mr. Koch's giving you that letter yes-
terday, objecting to your position?
THE PRESIDENT. No, not at all. No, I
was glad to see Mr. Koch. I think it's a
completely logical thing for him to ex-
press his concern to me, and I was not
disturbed at all.
Q. Will the letter, sir, in any way jeop-
ardize your relationship with New York
City through Mr. Koch?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course not. Ed
Koch expressed some of the concerns in
his letter that I feel myself. We've ob-
viously got a very difficult job as a nego-
tiator, a mediator, and an interested party
in the Middle East. We have ties with
Israel that are absolutely unshakable. The
security of Israel is vital to the security of
our own country.
We had meetings last night for 4, 5, 6
hours-I don't know exactly how long-
with Foreign Minister Dayan. I met with
the Foreign Minister of Egypt, Mr.
Fahmy, yesterday. Cy Vance is meeting
this morning with the Foreign Minister
1729
