Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:55 p.m., December 27, 1977]
Democratic National Committee
Telegram to Members on Recommendation
of John C. White To Be Chairman.
December 27, 1977
I want to inform you, prior to official
release to the press, of my recommenda-
tion of John White of Texas, to you as
Chairman of the DNC. White, currently
the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture has a
long and outstanding public and party
record, serving as Commissioner of Agri-
culture of Texas for 26 years, and serving
in a leadership capacity in every Demo-
cratic Presidential campaign in Texas
from 1952 to 1976. He served for two
years as a member of the National Demo-
cratic Charter Commission. Through
thick and thin, John White has been a
loyal and dedicated Democrat-a talented
organizer, an articulate spokesman, a
tough and fair leader. He has the attri-
butes that will make him an outstanding
Chairman of our Party. He has my fullest
support, and I hope he will have yours
as well.
I am sending you a follow up letter
to this telegram, to detail more specifically
the reasons I am recommending John
White to you. Chairman Curtis will no-
tify you shortly about the time, date and
place of the special meeting of the DNC
that will handle the election.
I would like to thank Ken Curtis for all
he has done for our party during his term
as Chairman.
Best wishes for a healthy and happy and
successful 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the telegram was released
on December 28.
On the same day, the President met at the
White House with Chairman Curtis and Deputy
Secretary White.
Clean Water Act of 1977
Statement on Signing H.R. 3199 Into Law.
December 28, 1977
I am pleased to sign the Clean Water
Act of 1977, which amends the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act of 1972. This
act reaffirms our national commitment to
protect the quality of our waters and the
health of our people.
I particularly want to thank Senators
Randolph and Muskie and Congressmen
Johnson and Roberts for their outstanding
leadership in resolving the many difficult
issues embodied in this act. I am also
grateful for the consistent cooperation of
Senator Stafford and Congressman
Harsha and the other conferees and for
the dedication of the staff and EPA Ad-
ministrator Costle in this effort.
This act culminates 3 years of hard
work by the Congress to make the neces-
sary
midcourse corrections in our national
water pollution control program. This is a
fine example of how close cooperation be-
tween the administration and the Con-
gress can produce major legislation of na-
tional significance.
The Clean Water Act of 1977 embraces
many of the principles and proposals put
forward by my administration. The Con-
gress has agreed to long-term funding for
the municipal sewage treatment construc-
tion grant program which I urged in my
environmental message earlier this year.
This will help States and communities
plan and implement effectively programs
2179
