Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 1
a continuity in this great legislation. And
I thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. Senator Javits.
SENATOR JAVITS. Mr. President, this
legislation is, as have been many things
and as I hope will be many more, a tri-
umph of bipartisanship and executive-
congressional cooperation. We did it all
together, and it's a magnificent job for the
American people.
There are those who would express lack
of confidence in our country, Mr. Presi-
dent. If we can afford to go from 25 cents
to $2.90, for openers, there's no reason for
lack of confidence in America. And the
votes of our colleagues demonstrated that
they, too, have that confidence.
And finally, Mr. President, those who
would seek differentials for youth or
others are begging the question. It means
about 10 percent of those who will bene-
fit from the minimum wage. We have to
do very much more for American youth
to get it employed. That would just be
confession and avoidance.
And so, Mr. President, I congratulate
you, my colleagues in the Congress. And
I feel very deeply moved and honored to
have played a small part in this great
event.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
I'm not going to get myself any more
deeply involved in deciding who should
speak, but anyone else who'd like to say
a word—[laughter]—
MR. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I'm
Clarence Mitchell, the head of a coalition
of American citizens of all races and
faiths who got together for the purpose
of trying to get this legislation passed.
You were gracious enough to receive
Mr. Meany, who is here, and others of
us in the early stages of this, when we
talked about the knotty problems that
were ahead of us. I want to say to you,
Mr. President, and to your staff people,
we had the most wonderful cooperation.
I want to say, too, that this was a bi-
partisan effort, as these constructive mat-
ters usually are in our country. We could
not get along without the constructive
people in both parties.
One of the footnotes in this legislation
is that there are some half million blacks
in this Nation who will today, when this
law becomes effective, receive a higher
and more meaningful wage. They are al-
ready working for $2.30 an hour, but they
had to get relief in order to come up to
the lowest standard of living. This will
help to bring them up there. And on their
behalf, Mr. President, I want to thank
you and Mr. Meany and the Vice Presi-
dent and the members of the committee
for this step forward.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
President Meany, would you say a
word?
MR. MEANY. Thank you. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to express to you and to the
Members of the Congress who are here,
who were involved in this legislation, a
word of thanks from a group of people
that I have no right to officially speak
for, because the recipients of the mini-
mum wage are not, by and large, mem-
bers of our organization. But I'm sure
that I can speak for them and express
their deep appreciation for your action,
for the action of the Congress in raising
the minimum wage.
To me it's not only the question of
these people individually, which is a hu-
mane question in a way, but if our econ-
omy is to have any base, it must have a
base in the mass purchasing power in the
hands of the great mass of the people. In
other words, it's not enough for the peo-
ple in the upper brackets to be prosper-
1949
