Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 28
National Newspaper Association
Question-and-Answer Session by Telephone
With Members Attending the Association's
Annual Convention. October 28, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm very glad to
be able to talk to you all, and I want to
say first that I've been pleased at the
administration's progress so far. We've
addressed a lot of very difficult and con-
troversial, long overdue issues.
I think the Senate is now hard at work
on energy legislation. The House has taken
its stand on it, and also social security.
They're beginning to debate over the wel-
fare proposals. We're making some prog-
ress on SALT. And I think that, in gen-
eral, we've repaired the relationship that
was fairly weak between ourselves and the
developing nations of the world, particu-
larly Africa.
I think we've strengthened our ties of
friendship with the Latin American coun-
tries, made good progress on the nonpro-
liferation of nuclear weapons, and I'm
very pleased so far.
We have a heavy agenda, but I par-
ticularly wanted to get most of the con-
troversial and very important items on the
table for debate and congressional action
this first year.
I would guess that the pace of introduc-
tion of major items would drop off sub-
stantially next year, and I would like to
say that I want to express my appreciation
to the National Newspaper Association
for letting me have a chance to open with
this brief comment. But I would like to
spend most of my time answering ques-
tions, and I'm prepared to answer those
now if you're prepared to ask them.
AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS
GEORGE JOPLIN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. We also appreciate your taking the
time to be with us this morning.
Mr. President, our first question is, it
has been suggested the economy of our
country could be boosted by resuming pro-
motion of our agricultural products in
world trade. Why do you not advocate
such a program, or what do you propose
to boost our farm produce for export?
THE PRESIDENT. We've just gotten the
figures for the last 12 months, and we've
had the highest sale of agricultural prod-
ucts in the history of our Nation, a little
more than $24 billion. In addition to that,
in spite of fairly good crops around the
world and, as you know, high reserve sup-
plies of the basic feed grains and food
grains on hand, we're mounting a major
effort to increase sales this year over what
we had anticipated earlier. We've just ap-
proved in the last few weeks, for instance,
an increase from 8 million tons to 13 mil-
lion tons of the grain that the Soviet Un-
ion can buy, before they have to go and
start reporting individual purchases from
us.
We've not been very successful in sell-
ing wheat to China this past few years.
Most of their purchases have been from
Argentina, Australia, and Canada, but we
hope to improve this in the future. We're
increasing the allotment of time of the
Secretary of Agriculture who, as you
know, made a trip throughout the world
during the summer, particularly in the
southeastern part of the Pacific area.
So, we are mounting an all-out effort
to hold up foreign sales as much as we pos-
sibly can, and I think we've had remark-
able success so far with the highest sales
on record.
STATE OF TEXAS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Harold Hudson,
with the Perryton Texas Herald. You said
in Denver last week that the United
States bought and paid for Texas. Was
this a misstatement, or is it indeed a fact
1921
