Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 23
no pressure, encouragement from me,
unanimously believe that this treaty is in
the best interests of our own Nation's se-
curity. President Ford supports the treaty
strongly, Secretary Kissinger supports it
strongly, and so do many others.
But my belief is that as the American
people become acquainted with the very
good terms of the treaty, they will shift
their support to the treaty itself.
Q. Would you say, then, that those who
are criticizing it are not fully informed on
it yet?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously there are
some who are fully informed who just
don't want to make any change in the
present terms concerning the operation of
the treaty. I wouldn't want to say that
anyone who disagrees with me is ignorant,
but I believe that the way to arouse pub-
lic support for the treaty is to let the
American people know the advantages to
our country of its terms.
I'm convinced that it's advantageous.
I was not convinced of this fact, say, a
year ago. But I think that the terms that
we hope to achieve in our negotiations for
the benefit of our country have all been
achieved.
ISRAEL
Q. Mr. President, twice in recent weeks
the United States has said that Israel is
in violation of international law in terms
of the West Bank settlements, which some
view as an annexation plan. My question
is: What does the United States plan to
do to protect the rights of the people in
the occupied lands?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's been the po-
sition of our own Government, long be-
fore I was elected President, that the West
Bank territory, the Gaza Strip, areas of the
Golan Heights, Sinai region, the occupied
territories, in other words, were not a part
of Israel. Our Government has expressed
on several occasions--the President, our
Ambassadors to the United Nations and
otherwise that the settlement of Israeli
citizens in some of these areas was in vio-
lation of the Geneva Convention and that,
therefore, the settlements were illegal.
We have private assurances and there
have been public statements made by Mr.
Begin that these settlements were not in-
tended to show that Israel was to occupy
these territories permanently, that the
final boundaries to be established through
mutual agreement between Israel and the
Arab countries was to be decided without
prior
commitment, and negotiations
would include these areas.
So, at this time, our pointing out to Is-
rael that these three settlements that were
just established are illegal because they
were made on occupied territory, is the
extent of our intention.
I concur with the statement that was
made by Secretary Vance, the State De-
partment, that this kind of action on the
part of Israel, when we are trying to put
together a Middle Eastern conference
leading to a permanent peace, creates an
unnecessary obstacle to peace. I believe
that our opinion is shared by the over-
whelming number of nations in the world,
but we don't intend to go further than
our caution to Israel, our open expression
of our own concern, and the identification
of these settlements as being illegal.
Q. But you don't feel that you have any
leverage at all to move in any direction in
terms of military aid to Israel to keep her
from violating-
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, we could
exert pressure on Israel in other ways, but
I have no intention to do so.
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, 2 weeks ago you
said in an interview that you had faith
that Bert Lance would resign if the Comp-
1489
