Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 7
administration. It treats with respect and
dignity and compassion those who are un-
able to work, but it gives those members
of families who are able to work a chance
to work.
The cost of the program is completely
compatible with present expenditures,
slightly increased, but primarily because
of the provision of job opportunities. This
is an excellent investment in the present
and future of our country. And next year
I believe that the Congress will accept at
least the major provisions of our welfare
package, hopefully all.
But I know how difficult it is, how con-
troversial it is. But this question has to be
openly debated so that the American
people can understand the challenges that
have been presented and the solutions that
have been proposed.
It's a well-balanced program. It ties in
very well with the tax reform package that
will be presented to the Congress before
they adjourn this fall. And I'll be spend-
ing all this weekend putting my own final
judgment on the options that have been
presented to me. Then early next week,
I'll meet with my key advisers to discuss
my choice of options, and the package will
then be put into a proposal that will go
to the Congress.
Nothing could be more controversial
than tax reform. But, as I've said many
times last year and before, our present
income tax structure is a disgrace. It needs
to be simple, equitable, and progressive;
and that those who are able to pay the
taxes ought to pay their fair share for a
change. And the working families of this
country, the middle-income families of
this country, ought to be helped by re-
moving the unnecessary and unfair bur-
dens that have rested on their shoulders.
And along with the reform that I've
described I predict will come a substantial
reduction in the overall tax burden on the
American people.
We've begun now a 3-year program to
reorganize the executive branch of Gov-
ernment. Our first reform package, re-
organization package is before the Con-
gress this coming week. This is going to
be a long, tedious, sometimes unpleasant
process, but it's necessary. We committed
ourselves to do it as a party, and I believe
that our success will bring credit to all of
you.
We are dealing with international
matters that have escaped a solution
again, for hundreds of years in some
instances.
I think we're making good progress in
the Middle East. We're treating fairly all
parties. There's no way that I can act as
a trusted negotiator-not just an idle by-
stander, but the leader of a nation that
has crucial interest in the Middle East-
unless I have the complete confidence of
the leaders of the nations involved in the
upcoming Geneva conference.
I've got to be fair and I will be fair. I'll
never tell one leader one thing and a
different leader something else. And so
far we've made substantial progress.
There's now evolving with a growing
trust in our character and good will and
fairness and truthfulness a much more
flexible and accommodating attitude on
the part of all nations.
The key element in American policy in
the Middle East, in the negotiations that
are going on literally day and night now,
and which will be a crucial element when
we go to Geneva, is a strength, inde-
pendence, freedom, and peace of the
people of Israel.
This is not a simple issue. It's probably
the most complex international question
that's ever been addressed in a compre-
hensive way. There's a crucial interest
1747
