Dec. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
-maintain production of California
crude at a high level;
-work with appropriate governmental
and private interests in expediting pro-
vision of adequate pipeline capacity for
transport of Alaskan and Californian oil
east of the Rocky Mountains.
Combined with conservation measures,
these efforts offer good promise.
The new measures will take effect in
the period immediately ahead and serve
as a bridge until the implementation of
the more comprehensive legislative pro-
gram begins to exert fundamental
changes in our energy balance in the
years ahead.
I have also instituted measures to ex-
pand U.S. exports:
-We have doubled Commodity Cred-
it Corporation credits to support agri-
cultural exports.
-In 1978, we will increase sharply
lending activity by the Export-Import
Bank to support exports generally.
We will not engage in unfair compe-
tition for export markets; we will fully
respect our understandings with other
Governments regarding export credit
terms. But within these understandings,
there is room for a more active effort to
expand our exports. Through such an ef-
fort, I believe we can achieve substantial
increases in exports in 1978, as well as in
subsequent years.
With these measures, the prospects for
an improvement in our trade position will
be good. Some of these measures will be-
gin to take effect in 1978. When fully im-
plemented, these measures, energy and
non-energy, should produce an annual
improvement in our trade position of sev-
eral billion dollars and will improve the
U.S. balance of payments.
There has been a great deal of public
discussion in recent weeks about the large
U.S. trade and payments deficits and the
movement of rates in the exchange mar-
kets, mainly between the dollar and the
German mark and Japanese yen. The
American economy and the dollar are
fundamentally sound; U.S. products on
the whole are competitive. While some
exchange rate adjustment has been
understandable in light of economic de-
velopments in Germany, Japan, and the
United States, recent exchange market
disorders are not justified.
The new energy measures strike di-
rectly at a key part of the balance of trade
problem. The export measures will en-
able us to respond effectively to expand-
ing export opportunities. Together, the
energy and export measures represent
action to strengthen our balance of pay-
ments and deal with our trade deficit in a
substantive way, by improving the under-
lying conditions upon which the value of
the dollar fundamentally depends.
Furthermore, next month I shall be
presenting to the Congress a compre-
hensive economic program designed to
ensure a healthy and growing economy, to
increase business capital investment, to
expand industrial capacity and produc-
tivity, and to maintain prudent budgetary
policies while counteracting inflationary
pressures. These and related measures will
promote economic progress and under-
score our commitment to a strong and
sound U.S. economy.
In the discharge of our responsibilities,
we will, in close consultation with our
friends abroad, intervene to the extent
necessary to counter disorderly conditions
in the exchange markets. The measures I
have enumerated will deal with the root
causes of these market disturbances in a
more direct and fundamental way.
2160
