July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Greece from human rights commitments
and also, have you made an affirmative
action plan to implement some long-range
goals in this area?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a difficult ques-
tion to answer, but I will do the best I
can.
Obviously, throughout the world, I
think in every country without exception
in the heart and mind of every person,
there's a desire to be free, to make one's
own decision, to speak without fear, to
have a chance to express one's political
beliefs, to seek different kinds of employ-
ment without interference by government,
not to be dominated by officials who have
power, not to be imprisoned without ade-
quate charge, and not to be tortured when
one is arrested, whether or not a convic-
tion has been carried out or not.
So, what we began to speak for 6
months ago is nothing new. It doesn't
exist just in democracies or free coun-
tries like ours. It exists in the nations that
are most dominated by totalitarian gov-
ernments.
I think that my voice and others like
mine all over the world, including, I hope,
yours, when raised for liberty, for human
dignity, for freedom, have a cumulative
effect. We don't have any desire to go into
a country with force and try to change
their form of government. But I think it's
accurate to say now that when an open
spokesman for a minority group anywhere
in the world is arrested, that it is a very
newsworthy item.
We have seen recently in Argentina 342
political prisoners, who had been there
for a long time, released. In Korea now,
just this week, political prisoners who had
been in prison for a long time are being
released. And I think it's accurate to say
that the trend is toward an enhancement
of human rights.
In Belgrade, Yugoslavia, this October,
there will be a very open and wide debate,
I would say for at least a couple of
months, part of which will be devoted to
human rights, whether or not families can
be joined together, whether people who
want to leave a country can do so without
being punished. And the Soviet Union
signed the Helsinki treaty, and it will be
debated-so did Poland, Yugoslavia,
Czechoslovakia, the United States, the
Western allies of ours. And all of us,
including us, the United States, are trying
to look good in the eyes of the world.
I think the progress is going to be quite
slow. But I believe in the long run our
efforts will be successful. But I am afraid
if the United States does not take a strong
position, that the cause of human rights
is going to be damaged very severely.
And I also believe we've ignored this ques-
tion too long.
I think it was time this year, following
our own 200th anniversary, to raise again
a beacon light that will make our people
proud and say we stand for something.
We stand for the same thing that inspired
Thomas Jefferson and George Washing-
ton, Benjamin Franklin, and others to
offer their lives, if necessary, to found a
country based on freedom. And I think
this is a good move.
I've been criticized a good bit for being
so outspoken about it, because it might
make some leaders of other nations angry.
I'm not trying to make anybody angry.
I'm not trying to interfere in the internal
affairs of other nations. I'm not trying to
bring back the Cold War, but I'll say this:
As long as the American people back me
on the subject, we will never stay quiet on
the subject of human rights.
ABORTION
Q. Mr. President, I am Dr. Will
Thompson, a local family physician. I'm
1324
