Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 5
Government could not compel Mr. Park
to go to the United States.
On September 21, Secretary of State
Vance and Korean Foreign Minister Park
met in Washington. The Secretary ex-
pressed strong disappointment at the fail-
ure of the Korean Government to respond
to the U.S. request. In view of the evi-
dence which was available to the United
States Government, the Secretary noted
that Mr. Park's situation was different
from that of purely a private citizen. The
Korean Government's failure therefore
to persuade Mr. Park to return to the
United States to testify was not the re-
sponse expected of a close ally. His ab-
sence was impeding the course of justice in
the United States.
Several further high-level meetings oc-
curred in the days following the Foreign
Minister's meeting with the Secretary of
State, in the course of which the Korean
Government proposed that United States
Justice Department officials go to Seoul
to discuss the problem with Korean Jus-
tice Ministry officials. On September 30,
following a second meeting in New York
between the Secretary of State and For-
eign Minister Park, the two governments
simultaneously announced agreement
that: "... representatives of the U.S. De-
partment of Justice will go to Seoul and
meet with Korean Ministry of Justice
officials to discuss satisfactory terms and
conditions for communicating with Mr.
Park Tong-son."
Assistant United States Attorney Gen-
eral Benjamin Civiletti and two other of-
ficials of the Department of Justice pro-
ceeded to Korea under this agreement and
met in more than 30 hours of direct dis-
cussions with Korean Ministry of Justice
officials from October 17 through Octo-
ber 20, 1977. The Korean side in the talks
was headed by Vice Minister of Justice
Chong Won Lee.
During these discussions, the United
States proposed interrogation of Tongsun
Park in a third country under conditions
which would provide verification of the
truthfulness of his testimony. If sufficient
evidence were thereby gained of indictable
offenses by United States officials, Mr.
Park's later appearance would be re-
quired in the United States for trial testi-
mony. The United States proposed that,
if Mr. Park faithfully completed these
steps, the Justice Department would seek
dismissal of the indictment against him.
The basis of these U.S. proposals was the
need to secure truthful and effective testi-
mony for successful prosecutions at trials
in the United States.
The United States proposals were re-
jected by the Korean side, which advised
that Mr. Park was determined not to go to
a third country or return to the United
States.
The Korean representatives proposed
that questions be submitted to Mr. Park
through a Korean prosecutor or court,
with U.S. prosecutors present only as ob-
servers. In making this proposal, the
Korean representatives cited their under-
standing of the arrangements which had
been made in the United States at the
request of the Japanese Government in
the case of the Lockheed Aircraft Cor-
poration. The United States representa-
tives stressed that these Korean proposals
were inadequate to the requirements of
the present case.
In view of the absence of any agree-
ment on either the fundamental issue of
direct examination of Mr. Park under cir-
cumstances of trustworthiness, or on his
eventual availability to testify at trials in
the United States, these negotiations were
terminated on October 20 and the U.S.
representatives returned to Washington.
Following its analysis of the negotiations
between Justice officials in Seoul, the Gov-
1971
