Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
which will require Congressional approval
for the necessary additional resources:
• Enforcement resources at the border
will be increased substantially and will be
reorganized to ensure greater effective-
ness. The exact nature of the reorganiza-
tion, as well as the amount of additional
enforcement personnel, will be determined
after the completion in September of our
ongoing border enforcement studies. It is
very likely, though, that a minimum of
2000 additional enforcement personnel
will be placed on the Mexican border.
• INS will shift a significant number of
enforcement personnel to border areas
having the highest reported rates of un-
documented alien entry.
• An anti-smuggling Task Force will
be established in order to seek ways to
reduce the number and effectiveness of
the smuggling rings which, by obtaining
forged documents and providing trans-
portation, systematically smuggle a sub-
stantial percentage of the undocumented
aliens entering the country. The U.S. At-
torneys will be instructed to give high
priority to prosecuting individuals in-
volved in alien smuggling.
• The State Department will increase
its visa issuance resources abroad to en-
sure that foreign citizens attempting to
enter this country will be doing so within
the requirements of the immigration laws.
Passage will be sought of pending
legislation to impose criminal sanctions
on those who knowingly use false informa-
tion to obtain identifiers issued by our
Government, or who knowingly use fraud-
ulent Government documents to obtain
legitimate Government documents.
• The State Department will consult
with countries which are the sources of
significant numbers of undocumented
aliens about cooperative border enforce-
ment and anti-smuggling efforts.
COOPERATION WITH SOURCE COUNTRIES
The proposed employer sanctions and
border enforcement will clearly discour-
age a significant percentage of those who
would otherwise attempt to enter or re-
main in the U.S. illegally. However, as
long as jobs are available here but not
easily available in countries which have
been the source of most undocumented
aliens, many citizens of those countries
will ignore whatever barriers to entry and
employment we erect. An effective policy
to control illegal immigration must in-
clude the development of a strong econ-
omy in each source country.
Unfortunately, this objective may be
difficult to achieve within the near fu-
ture. The economies of most of the source
countries are still not sufficiently devel-
oped to produce, even with significant
U.S. aid, enough jobs over the short-term
to match their rapidly growing workforce.
Over the longer-term, however, I be-
lieve that marked improvements in source
countries' economies are achieveable by
their own efforts with support from the
United States. I welcome the economic
development efforts now being made by
the dynamic and competent leaders of
Mexico. To further efforts such as those,
the United States is committed to helping
source countries obtain assistance appro-
priate to their own economic needs. I will
explore with source countries means of
providing such assistance. In some cases
this will mean bilateral or multilateral
economic assistance. In others, it will in-
volve technical assistance, encouragement
of private financing and enhanced trade,
or population programs.
ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS
The fact that there are millions of un-
documented aliens already residing in this
country presents one of the most difficult
questions surrounding the aliens phe-
1419
