Oct. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
markable. With a strong faith in the Lord,
with the best doctors, with the loving care
of a family, with the friendship and the—
indeed, the devoted friendship of people
all over this country, I really have felt the
healing strength that comes from all of
this.
I want to thank you for coming out.
Mrs. Humphrey is here with me. My
grandchildren are here, my three sons and
daughter, my sister, nephew; all the family
are here.
I'm sure my doctor is over there, Dr.
Najarian, and Dr. Levitt, possibly Dr.
Kennedy. I hope they are. They have been
helping me so much.
Yesterday, I was a little tired because I
gave a good deal of my strength to the
Gophers. [Laughter] I'm going to let you
in now on a high state secret. On Friday
night, the former President of the United
States, Mr. Ford, called me. And he said,
"Hubert, I understand that the University
of Michigan is coming to Minnesota." I
said, "Yes." I said, "Please, just don't
mention it," because Michigan, up to that
time, was unbeaten. He said, "Well, now,
Hubert, don't you think we ought to have
a little wager?" I said, "I think that's
proper." He said, "I'll give you 14 points."
I said, "That's Republican conservatism.”
[Laughter] I said, "I demand three touch-
downs-21." He said, "Well, how about
20?" I said, "That's a deal." He said,
"What's the amount?" I said, "Five dol-
lars." Now, I hope that's legal. I'm not
sure. If it isn't, I ask for forgiveness.
THE PRESIDENT. I pardon you on that
one. [Laughter]
SENATOR HUMPHREY. You pardon me
on that, would you, Mr. President? Thank
you.
So yesterday, after the game, as soon as
I could get the White House switchboard
to help me, which they did readily, I got
دو
ahold of my old friend, President Ford. I
said, "Mr. President, send the check.'
[Laughter] And I gave him two or three
addresses so that he couldn't possibly miss.
So if the IRS is here, we'll include it.
I just wanted you to know that great
developments have taken place within the
last 24 hours. Thank you, and God bless
you today. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. at
the Hubert H. Humphrey Charter Terminal.
Following their remarks, Senator Humphrey
returned to Washington with the President.
Upon arrival at Andrews Air Force Base, they
were joined on Air Force One by Vice President
Walter F. Mondale, and the President signed
S. 2160, designating the South Portal Federal
Office Building of the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare as the Hubert H.
Humphrey Building.
As enacted, S. 2169 is Public Law 95-141,
approved October 23.
Veterans Day
Remarks at Ceremonies at Arlington
National Cemetery. October 24, 1977
As I stand here this morning represent-
ing the greatest nation on Earth, and as
I've heard the prayer of Captain James
Carter and joined in the Pledge of Alle-
giance with General Rogers, and then in-
troduced by my own close, personal
friend, Max Cleland, I've been over-
whelmed, as I have many times in the
past in my life, with a sense of love and
gratitude for those who have offered, and
sometimes who have offered and given
their lives in service to our country. Our
hearts are filled with love and apprecia-
tion and gratitude and closeness and
brotherhood. And at the same time, we
think about the horrors of war, when
those attributes are missing from the
hearts and lives of people who have to
fight.
1900
