Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 29
I would also like to reiterate that the
United States remains categorically com-
mitted to NATO's strategy of forward
defense and flexible response. This is my
own firm conviction, and it will remain
the policy of the United States as long as
I am President. Since this is also the firm
conviction of the Congress and the Amer-
ican people, there is absolutely no doubt
my successors in office will continue
this commitment.
that
We continue to be convinced that this
strategy, kept credible through timely
force improvements, can preserve the ter-
ritorial integrity of all Alliance members.
My nation's commitment to the defense
of Western Europe is at the center of our
foreign and security policies. The security
of the North Atlantic community con-
tinues to be vital to that of the United
States itself.
JIMMY CARTER
[Mr. Karl Mommer, President, Atlantic Treaty
Association]
National Hispanic Heritage
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4516. August 29, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Hispanic heritage of over sixteen
million Americans, representing a broad
diversity of cultures, has enriched our Na-
tion by contributing to the advancement
of art and science and by affirming the im-
the United States and in our efforts to
achieve understanding, mutual respect
and common purpose with the Spanish-
speaking nations of this hemisphere.
In recognition of our Hispanic heritage,
the Congress, by joint resolution approved
September 17, 1968 (36 U.S.C. 169f),
has requested the President to issue an-
nually a proclamation designating the
week including September 15 and 16 as
National Hispanic Heritage Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the week beginning
September 11, 1977, as National Hispanic
Heritage Week and call upon the people
of the United States, especially the educa-
tional community, to observe it with ap-
propriate ceremonies and activities; to re-
flect on the influence of Hispanic culture
in our land; and to encourage the full par-
ticipation of Hispanic Americans in every
phase of American life.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
August, in the year of our Lord Nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:02 p.m., August 29, 1977]
Citizenship Day and Constitution
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4517. August 29, 1977
portance of family bonds and community By the President of the United States
spirit.
Today, Americans have come to rec-
ognize the important role of the Hispanic
community both in the life and work of
of America
A Proclamation
On July 4, 1976, we joyfully celebrated
the 200th anniversary of our Nation's in-
1521
