Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 6
-Every State will be assured that it
will save at least ten percent of its current
welfare expenses in the first year of the
program, with substantially increased fis-
cal relief thereafter.
-Every State is required to pay ten
percent of the basic Federal income ben-
efits provided to its residents except where
it will exceed 90 percent of its prior wel-
fare expenditures.
-Every State is free to supplement the
basic benefits, and is eligible for Federal
matching payments for supplements struc-
tured to complement and maintain the
incentives of the Federal program. The
Federal government will pay 75% of the
first $500 supplement and 25% of any
additional supplement up to the poverty
line. These State supplements will be re-
quired to follow Federal eligibility cri-
teria to help achieve nation-wide uni-
formity.
-Where States supplement the income
support they must also proportionally
supplement the work benefit and the pub-
lic service wage.
-There will be a three-year period
during which states will be required to
maintain a share of their current effort
in order to ease the transition of those
now receiving benefits. These resources
must be directed to payment of the State's
10% share of the basic benefit, to supple-
ments complementary to the basic pro-
gram, and to grandfathering of existing
SSI and partially grandfathering AFDC
beneficiaries. The Federal government
will guarantee a State that its total cost
for these expenditures will not exceed
90% of current welfare costs. States can
retain any amounts under the 90% re-
quirement not actually needed for the
mandated expenditures. In the second
year of the program states will be required
to maintain only 60% of current expendi-
tures, in the third year, only 30%. In the
fourth year, they will only be required to
spend enough to meet their 10% share
of the basic benefit.
-States will have the option to assist
in the administration of the program.
They will be able to operate the crucial
intake function serving applicants, making
possible effective coordination with social
service programs. The Federal govern-
ment will operate the data processing sys-
tem, calculate benefits, and issue pay-
ments.
-The Federal government will provide
a $600 million block grant to the states to
provide for emergency needs. These
grants will assist the states in responding
to sudden and drastic changes in family
circumstances.
-The Federal government will provide
30% above the basic wage for fringe ben-
efits and administrative costs of the jobs
program, and will reimburse the states
for costs of administration of the work
benefit and income support program.
In the first year of this program, states
and localities would receive $2 billion in
fiscal relief, while at the same time en-
suring that no current SSI beneficiary re-
ceives a reduced benefit and that over
90 percent of current AFDC beneficiaries
receive similar protection.
In subsequent years as current recip-
ients leave the rolls and as the mainte-
nance of State effort requirement declines
from 90 percent to zero within 3 years,
the opportunities for increased fiscal re-
lief will grow.
Under our program for fiscal relief,
states will be required to pass through
their fiscal relief to municipal and county
governments in full proportion to their
contributions. Thus, for example, in New
York State, where New York City pays
33% of the State's share, New York City
would receive 33% of the State's fiscal
relief or $174 million.
1457
