Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 12
that I've given you, I would like to pre-
vent the Federal Government financing
abortions.
I think it's accurate to say that Secre-
tary of HEW Califano agrees with me
completely. And we are trying to make it
possible for the people of this Nation to
understand how to prevent unwanted
pregnancies with education programs and
with the availability of contraceptives and
other devices, when they believe in their
use, as an alternative to abortion. But I
don't believe that either States or the
Federal Government should be required
to finance abortions.
Q. Mr. President, how fair do you
believe it is then, that women who can
afford to get an abortion can go ahead
and have one, and women who cannot af-
ford to are precluded?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
there are many things in life that are not
fair, that wealthy people can afford and
poor people can't. But I don't believe that
the Federal Government should take ac-
tion to try to make these opportunities
exactly equal, particularly when there is a
moral factor involved.
I know as well as anyone in the coun-
try, having faced this issue during the
long campaign, about the intense feelings
on both sides of the abortion issue. But
my own personal feeling is that the Su-
preme Court rulings now are adequate,
and they are reasonably fair, and that the
Federal Government should not be re-
quired or encouraged to finance abortions
other than I've spelled out.
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, with the passage
of time, your working relationships with
Members of Congress seem to be improv-
ing. What accounts for the truce?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't know
that it's a truce, exactly. I think the Con-
gress now understands much more clearly
what I am, what I stand for, what pro-
posals we put forward, and the priorities
accruing to those proposals. I think we've
had good success with the Congress al-
ready.
The passage of the economic stimulus
package that we proposed was done ex-
peditiously and is working well already.
The authorization for me to reorganize
the Government is doing well. The au-
thorization for the new Department of
Energy will be completed, I think, within
the next few days.
The Congress has made good progress
on strict ethics legislation. I think we
have made good progress, also, in the ef-
fectuation of the energy policy which is
very controversial, very difficult, and re-
quires a great deal of courage on the part
of Congress.
They've still got some hard questions to
answer. One, of course, is how to finance
the social security system, and then we
will be proposing to them in the future
a comprehensive welfare plan and a com-
prehensive tax reform proposal.
But I think in general it's just been a
matter of getting to know one another,
and we've been very forceful in our posi-
tions. There are some things on which
the Congress and I still disagree. I
thought the Senate made an improper
decision yesterday on the Clinch River
breeder reactor. I think there are exces-
sive amounts of allocation of funds for
water projects. I'm concerned about the
Senate level of prospective expenditure on
the farm bill. So we do have some differ-
ences. But I think in general there's been
a good and mature working relationship
between us.
FBI DIRECTOR
Q. Mr. President, are you going to go
outside the list of FBI Director nominees
1237
