Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 28
the impetus to get all countries in our
hemisphere to sign this treaty.
Just before Rosalynn left for her trip,
I signed the treaty. And as she visited the
seven nations—some, early signatories
like Venezuela--we tried to identify the
problems. But one of the nations, again
not coincidentally, who took the leader-
ship in trying to spell out the principle
that nuclear weapons should be kept at
a zero level was Venezuela.
We in the United States sometimes
think that we are the first in everything,
that we take the first good action and that
we are the strongest nation for commit-
ment to the finest principles of life. But I
just wanted, in my brief remarks tonight,
in genuine admiration of our visitor and
his great nation, to point out to you that
there are many things in this hemisphere
that we can learn from our neighbors, and
there are many things that warrant genu-
ine admiration on our part that they have
already done. They have set standards that
we are still trying to reach. So, we have
great admiration for you and for your
people and for your great nation.
And in a spirit of that admiration and
expression of mutual friendship, I would
like to propose a toast to President and
Mrs. Perez and to the people of the great
and free democratic nation, our friends,
the people of Venezuela.
ances. Peace is not only the absence of
war. The true problem of peace is that of
the incorporation of the Third World to
an international order in whose construc-
tion may participate all the nations that
comprise it. The order imposed by the vic-
tors of the Second World War no longer
exists.
Human rights cannot be spoken about,
referred to only as respect for physical in-
tegrity and political liberties. The essen-
tial human right is the right to life, to well-
being, to the integral dignity of each being,
and this supreme right is flagrantly vio-
lated by those responsible for world eco-
nomic order.
Venezuela looks with well-founded ex-
pectancy upon the orientation that the
policies of the United States are taken in
your hands and your forthright defense of
human rights. We Venezuelans and all of
the peoples of Latin America hope that
this decorous, courageous, and firm posi-
tion is going to help break the chains in
the homelands that suffer oppression.
But we also believe that the Latin
American dictatorships have as an essen-
tial cause and an efficient reason the eco-
nomic instability generated by the unjust
economic world order.
I may reiterate, Mr. President, that the
validity of human rights in their noble and
full meaning are summed up in the re-
PRESIDENT PEREZ. Mr. President of spect for the right of economic develop-
the United States and Mrs. Carter:
You said at the University of Notre
Dame that the United States can no
longer separate the traditional issues of
war and peace from the new global ques-
tions of justice, equity, and human rights.
You also said a peaceful world cannot long
exist one-third rich and two-thirds
hungry.
The problem of world peace can no
longer be defined within terms of strategic
balance of power equilibrium, of areas of
influence, of blocs, and of military alli-
ment for our peoples, giving them just
value to our basic commodities and to the
labor of our men and women and secure
and proper access to the transference of
technologies and capital.
The validity of democracy and human
rights will be impossible with the social
tensions that are experienced by a great
number of nations and the dramatic eco-
nomic differences that separate the na-
tions today.
It is illusory to expect democratic de-
velopment and implementation of human
1185
