Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 25
I'm very proud of this program. We here today will insure the success of this
will have about 250 men and women effort.
brought into the Government under it
every year. They will serve for 2 years.
We'll have a maximum of 500 at any
one time, and they will be offered a job
at a good salary. At the conclusion of the
2-year period, they can decide to stay
permanently in the Government or not-
we hope that many of them will-and
they will have the advantage of knowing
Government at its finest.
I think that in the future, it's likely that
we will expand this program. Alan Camp-
bell is already working on some possible
improvements to it. One might be a co-
operative program for graduate students
who are still in college, whereby they
might work part-time in Government and
receive credit from the Government and
from the university, both, for this experi-
mental work.
We have high hopes that this will meet
all of our objectives and that it will be
successful in every way. I think one other
ancillary benefit will be that we can more
directly tap the tremendous reservoir of
innovation, education, experiment, ad-
vice, and counsel that exist within our
higher educational institutions that are
not often used by Government. And I
think the intern program itself, because it
has to be a shared program, will help to
tie together much more closely our educa-
tional institutions and the Government on
a continuing basis.
I think at the same time, the benefits
would flow to the universities, because as
a common assessment of the experiences
of these interns is examined by Govern-
ment and the universities, I think the
teaching institutions will then see some of
the latest problems and achievements and
challenges of the Government itself.
So for many reasons, I think this is one
of the finest programs that I've had a part
in, and I believe that all those assembled
I'd particularly like to express my
thanks to Alan Campbell who heads our
Civil Service Commission and who has
been instrumental in bringing together
these ideas. And it's with the greatest
pleasure that I, as President of our coun-
try, sign an Executive order to implement
the President's Management Intern Pro-
gram for the first time in the United
States Government. It will also be nice
to have 250 other interns to join us new-
comers to Government. [Laughter]
[At this point, the President signed the Execu-
tive order.]
MR. CAMPBELL. I believe the President
has said it all. Those of us gathered here
today are the ones who can make this pro-
of us will make every effort to do that. I
gram a success. I hope very much that all
can assure you that you will have the full
cooperation of the Civil Service Commis-
sion, both the Chairman and the other
commissioners who are here with us to-
day. It is, I believe, the first step-small,
nonetheless significant-in our effort to
totally revitalize the personnel system of
the Federal Government.
Mr. President, you have the apprecia-
tion of all of us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 a.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at the
White House. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Elmer B. Staats, Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States.
Presidential Management
Intern Program
Executive Order 12008. August 25, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Sections 3301 and 3302 of Title 5 of
the United States Code, Section 301 of
Title 3 of the United States Code, and as
1499
