Nov. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
versial. Perhaps the most wide disparity
between the House and Senate is on tax-
ation itself. They are dealing with one
that's of crucial importance to consumers,
and that is electric rate structures, to
eliminate the great advantage that has
been going, in the past, to those that waste
electricity.
So, I think the Congress is making good
progress. But I don't think there's any
doubt I know there's no doubt in my
mind that I did the right thing to stay
here while the Congress is in its crucial
weeks of the conferees' work.
Q. Mr. President, do you expect to meet
with members of the House-Senate con-
ference committee personally during their
deliberations?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
Q. Have you done so this week, and
will be doing so in the immediate
future?
you
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. As a matter of
influence you in your decision on Hum-
phrey-Hawkins?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it does. We also,
I think, have proposed to the Congress a
move in that direction in the Program for
Better Jobs and Income, the welfare re-
form proposals.
Included within that proposal is an
additional 1.2 million jobs, most of which
would be in the private sector. This is
above and beyond the programs that
we've already initiated this year. We have
a heavy emphasis in almost everything we
do to cut down unemployment in our
country. It's multi-faceted in nature. And
I believe that every person in our country
that's able to work ought to have an op-
portunity for a job.
IRBY TURNER, JR.
Q. Are you aware, Mr. President, that
one of your nominees, your most recent
nominee to the Corporation for Public
fact, tomorrow I have another meeting Broadcasting, was a very active member
scheduled with the House chairman,
Congressman Staggers. I have met with
him previously and with Senator Long.
Senator Jackson and I had a long meeting
Sunday afternoon, and I've met with Sen-
ator Byrd Saturday afternoon for a couple
of hours. I meet with the House and Sen-
ate leadership weekly at a breakfast.
In the past, I've called in the entire
subcommittees that relate to particular
aspects of the energy package. I consider
this to be my overriding responsibility at
this time. And between now and the time
that the conferees conclude their work
and the House and Senate vote on the
conference reports, I'll put this as a top
priority for myself.
EMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, do you share the
philosophy of those who say that every
American has a right to a job? Does that
of the White Citizens Council in Missis-
sippi and worked very hard to keep
schools from being integrated down there?
If that is true, would that make any differ-
ence to you in making that nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I was not aware
of it, and I'd have to know more about
the circumstances before I would consider
withdrawing a nomination.
There have been in the past, in the
South and in other places, alignments with
white citizens council groups and groups
even more radical in nature.
I always think it's good to give people
a chance to change if they will. But I have
not known about that allegation, but I'll
look into it.
TAX REFORM
Q. Mr. President, now that you've
given yourself more time on tax reform,
are you rethinking or changing your mind
2000
