Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
ture, I am afraid, is going to have to pay
the price. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Mil-
ler. One thing that I know will relieve
your mind and I hope that's one of the
results of my visit out here is that this
water policy will not be developed in
secret. It's going to be thoroughly and
openly debated, and you and others will
have a complete knowledge of what we
are doing. We are not going to spring any-
thing on anyone. I have already met with
every Member of Congress from the
Rocky Mountain and Western States,
both in the House in one meeting and
also in the Senate. And this is just a series
of discussions we will have. The Gov-
ernors will all be in Washington for their
annual meeting in February. I am not
going to firm up any aspects of the water
policy without consulting with the Gov-
ernors, during your winter meeting,
Governors.
I would like to call on Mr. Alvey and
then shift and let one part of our energy
industry respond right after Mr. Alvey.
Mr. Bill Alvey.
MR. ALVEY. Thank you, Mr. President.
I would like to touch on farm prices. I
know that's a touchy subject right now.
I want to thank you for signing the
farm bill. It wasn't exactly what the farm-
ers wanted. And they still want more, and
you can't blame them. But it is a step up
the hill.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
MR. ALVEY. As I say, I am not going
to criticize you about that. However,
when you were campaigning in Wiscon-
sin, you said the farmer should have cost
of production plus a reasonable profit.
Now, we are getting close to the cost of
production. But I'm still looking for that
reasonable profit. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Alvey, let me say
I know you are my friend, but I very
specifically said in Wisconsin that I
thought we ought to have a farm bill that
would guarantee the cost of production,
but not guarantee the farmers necessarily
a profit.
MR. ALVEY. The news media misquoted
you, then.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's the first
time the news media have ever done that,
then. [Laughter]
MR. ALVEY. Anyway, I was your dele-
gate from Colorado and probably the only
farmer outside of Georgia that was a dele-
gate to the national convention.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir. [Laughter]
MR. ALVEY. But anyway, we are going
to leave that. But I did want to bring that
out.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have a
good farm bill, by the way, and as you
say, it's a step in the right direction.
MR. ALVEY. Yes, but I think with the
help of our western Congressmen, Sen-
ators and Representatives alike, that
maybe in the next few months we can get
over that hill so the farmers can-because
they are getting in a bind, and we just
can't go on with the farm economy slip-
ping. Its impact on even the city of Denver
will be felt sooner or later. But what I
wanted to bring out as, of course, a
farmer in eastern Colorado, which is
mostly pump irrigation where there is any
irrigation-and, believe me, there is a lot
of acres under irrigation there-but we
have had some squabbles along the State
line about whether Colorado should take
all the water before it slips across the line,
because it does flow southeast into Kansas.
But what I am wanting to mention
more specifically, and I want to thank
Governor Lamm for his wonderful effort
on this, is weather modification. Now,
Governor Lamm has instigated $960,000
for weather modification in Colorado. As
I say, you can have all the dams in the
1871
