Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
increased since January from $179 to
$195; housing starts have increased 27
percent over the past 12 months; corpo-
rate dividends have risen 18 percent over
the past 12 months; and consumer sav-
ings have increased 14 percent over the
past 12 months.
III. The President initiated a number
of efforts to make the Federal Govern-
ment more efficient and effective. Among
the more significant of those steps are the
following:
1. Reorganization Authority-proposed
and signed into law legislation authoriz-
ing the President to reorganize executive
agencies and departments, subject to
congressional veto.
2. Reorganizations-completed three
individual reorganizations requiring con-
gressional assent:
Department of Energy (legislation
combining and streamlining 11 Gov-
ernment entities into one new major
department);
• Executive Office of the President
(reorganization plan reducing size of
Executive Office of the President by
seven entities and reducing the White
House staff by 28 percent, compared
to the size of the staff inherited from
the previous administration);
• International Communication Agen-
cy (reorganization plan combining
and streamlining United States In-
formation Agency and cultural func-
tions of the State Department);
• also completed numerous major in-
tradepartmental and other reorgani-
zations not requiring congressional
assent, especially regarding HEW,
USDA, DOT, and the intelligence
functions of CIA and DOD.
3. Advisory Committees-eliminated
or proposed to Congress the elimination
of over 40 percent of the 1,200 advisory
committees extant at the beginning of the
administration.
4. Paperwork Reduction-initiated a
Government-wide paperwork reduction
program which, by September 30, re-
duced the gross paperwork burden im-
posed by the Federal Government on the
private sector by 10 percent and resulted
in numerous individual paperwork re-
forms.
IV. The President initiated several ef-
forts toward making the Government
more open and honest:
1. Accessibility by the President. The
President made himself more accessible
to the American people than any Presi-
dent in modern history and set a tone for
the rest of his administration by the fol-
lowing:
holding a regular news conference
every 2 weeks;
meeting regularly for interviews with
non-Washington editors;
• holding town hall meetings in Clin-
ton, Mass., and Yazoo City, Miss.
visiting each Cabinet department
and answering questions from its
employees;
• holding a radio call-in show at the
White House and a television call-
in show in Los Angeles;
•
providing complete financial disclo-
sure of his income and assets;
making three trips to different parts
of the country, stayed in the homes
of citizens and met with a broad
range of citizens and officials;
holding public policy conferences on
energy, water policy, and the prob-
lems of the poor.
2. Financial Disclosure. The President
required, for the first time, that all Cab-
inet, sub-Cabinet, and White House staff
members agree to disclose publicly their
income and assets. This has been fully
implemented.
3. Ethics Legislation. The President
proposed ethics legislation requiring pub-
lic financial disclosure by all public offi-
2138
