Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 17
very bad about that. If you had better
rapid transit systems, better insulation of
homes, more research and development,
for instance, for new energy sources, that
would be one thing. But the constant
threat is that because of political pres-
sures, that money is going to be returned
to the oil companies under the guise of
enhancing production.
I think the oil companies have enough
cash flow right now-certainly the majors
do—to have an adequate degree of explo-
ration. In fact, that exploration, in my
opinion, is adequate at this point. And
I'm just as afraid that there is a threat
that the wellhead tax is going to be given
to the oil companies to reward them finan-
cially.
I think that our package has a gracious
plenty of incentives for enhanced explo-
ration and enhanced production of oil in
this country. We have by far the highest
price for newly discovered oil in this en-
ergy package of anywhere on Earth, and I
don't think the oil companies deserve to
get this money taken out of the consu-
mers' pockets and put in the pockets of
the oil companies.
TAX CREDIT FOR HOMEOWNERS
Q. Sir, in light of the fact that many
people are having a hard time affording
a home these days and some are depend-
ing, apparently, on the mortgage tax
deduction which you have proposed to
eliminate or reduce, do you have any idea
what the impact is going to be? Have you
done any studies on whether this is going
to be preventing many people from buy-
ing homes?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I
have not decided on any specifics of a tax
reform package at all. I've certainly not
decided on eliminating credits for interest
paid on homes or property taxes paid for
homes.
During the political campaign, I prom-
ised that there would not be a reduction
in the stimulus for American families to
own their own homes, and if there should
be any change it would be compatible with
that commitment of mine.
Now, I have some doubt about whether
this same level of interest rate deduction
should be applicable to a $500,000 home
or a second or third or fourth home for
very wealthy families, as contrasted with
the average American working family
who's trying to pay for one home in which
they live.
Also, you have to remember that if the
credit is on a percentage basis, then a
family that has a $15,000 income, if given
a certain amount of credit for interest,
only gets, say, 20 percent of that interest
payment credited on their tax. But if
you're in the 70-percent bracket, you get
70 percent of any interest that you pay on
your home.
So, equalizing those homeownership
credit incentives is part of the package.
But it will not hurt the average family in
trying to purchase or pay for their own
dwelling place.
Q. What limit do you propose, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know the
specifics yet.
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, do you think Bert
Lance has strengthened or weakened his
position since yesterday morning?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not had a chance
to watch the television programs, except
that my staff puts together an 18- or 20-
minute recap on some of the highlights.
And I see those on occasion. I spent all
yesterday and today in my regular busi-
ness and meeting with Prime Minister
Barre.
But my assessment from the brief time
I've watched it, and also from my own
1619
