Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
by Congress this year, and I think we'll
have additional success next year. So, I
feel good about it.
Q. Do you think the people will hold
that against you?
THE PRESIDENT. The Georgians don't
hold it against me. [Laughter] No, I don't
think being from Georgia is something
that is of genuine concern to people. That
might be a contrived additional reason
not to want me to be in office.
SOUTH AFRICA
Q. Sir, in addition to the mandatory
arms embargo which you mentioned,
what other unilateral steps do you think
the United States will be taking outside
the boundaries of a resolution, such as the
Ex-Import Bank, commercial sales guar-
antees, things of this kind? And are you
ruling out for now any trade embargo of
a general nature or investment embargo?
THE PRESIDENT. We are not deciding
at this point on any sort of general trade
embargo or investment embargo.
The additional steps that might be
taken beyond an arms embargo that
would be mandatory have not yet been
decided.
G. GORDON LIDDY
Q. Mr. President, when he got out of
jail recently, Gordon Liddy expressed
gratitude for his early release, and he
said that he felt himself bound to carry
out any orders from the Commander in
Chief. Given that situation, and in order
to put the record straight at long last, do
you think it would be proper for you to
instruct him to say what he was doing in
the Watergate, what he was looking for,
who authorized the burglary, and any
other information he might have?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've not had
any contact with Mr. Liddy at all, either
before or after he was released from pris-
on. And my remote assessment of Mr.
Liddy is that he will not voluntarily re-
lease the information that he has about
the Watergate situation.
ASSESSMENT OF ADMINISTRATION
POLICIES
Q. Mr. President, if I could follow up
on Sam Donaldson's [ABC News] ques-
tion, Pat Caddell and Jerry Rafshoon
were in to see you a couple of weeks ago—
they're supposed to have spent about 2
hours with you. There's speculation that
they may have asked to see you to express
some sort of reservations they had about
the way things were going in general
around the Carter administration and
perhaps even to make some recommen-
dations about changes.
Could you tell us a little bit more about
that meeting and whether, as a result of
that or anything else, there are any or-
ganizational or personal changes in the
wind here at the White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the meeting re-
sulted from my own initiative. I invited
them to have lunch with me, along with
my wife, and we did discuss some of the
poll results which, the way I look at them,
are fairly good. They varied greatly from
one pollster to another. I think the Roper
poll shows that I was below 50 percent,
the Gallup poll about 60 percent. Of
course, I would like to have higher than
either one of those. But I think that the
controversial nature of some of the things
that we've put forward inherently cause
concern about me and reduce my stand-
ing in the polls.
Although I didn't want the prediction
to come true, when I announced that I
would put forth an energy package, I
predicted that my poll rating would drop
15 percent. There is a general feeling in
this country of optimism about the future,
1914
