Sept. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
unique position as Finance Minister and
Prime Minister, with a long-standing
history of experience in the European
Community, makes him a very good
source of information and advice for me
in the field of international finance. And
it's obvious that what his policies have
done in his own country, France, has been
very successful.
We've watched with great interest his
economic policy being put into effect in
the last 12 months. Obviously, we wish
him good success with it. All of the coun-
tries of the world are faced with the prob-
lems of a sluggish growth, and we have a
fairly rapid growth in our country com-
pared to most others. The German and
French and most European countries are
not growing quite so rapidly as are we;
the Japanese, a little bit more rapidly.
But Prime Minister Barre has made a
study of this as his life's work and, as a
student of international economics, I wel-
come him as one of my professors.
Q. Do you think it will be very difficult
for you, the President of the United
States, to go into France before the
French election?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would not
want to interfere at all in the French
elections, which will be held next spring.
And if I should find it possible to go to
France, it would be with that complete
commitment, because I think that the
French people are so independent and so
proud of their own right to make their
own decisions that any sort of insinua-
tion that I might interfere would be coun-
terproductive. I have no intention of ever
doing anything to try to influence the out-
come of the French elections.
Q. Would it affect our relationship
with France at all, however, if Commu-
nists should gain a participation in that
government?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, the
ties between the French people and the
American people are so strong histori-
cally that I doubt that anything could
shake that friendship. Our own position
is that we hope that democratic forces
will always prevail in Europe; that we
trust the Europeans to make their own
decisions; and that the strength of the
governments that are democratic now is
the best factor in preventing the Com-
munists from playing a more major role.
So I think the French will make a good
judgment.
Q. But you seem to be saying, sir, that
if the Communists come to power through
democratic methods, that we can have
no objection.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our preference
is that the democratic parties prevail.
There's no question about that. But we
trust the judgment of the French people
to make their choice in the election, and
any interference from us, from the out-
side, I think, would be counterproductive.
Q. Are you aware that the CIA alleg-
edly taped, bugged the Panama negoti-
ators? And, if so, what do you think about
it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I say, I'd
rather restrict my answers at this moment
to the French-
Q. Did you discuss the nuclear facility
that the French are planning to sell to
Pakistan?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that was one of
the items on the agenda.
Q. Did you and Mr. Barre discuss how
Bert Lance was doing up on the Hill?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
1608
