Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 15
every 7 years, in retroactivity, you say that
those that came in before 1970 or before
1962, you know, do have the right to stay
here and ultimately apply for citizenship.
SELECTION OF FEDERAL JUDICIAL OFFICERS
Q. Mr. President, two U.S. attorneys,
Philip Van Dam of Detroit and Jonathan
Goldstein of New Jersey, criticized you for
not fulfilling your campaign pledge to
select Federal prosecutors on a merit
basis. Mr. Goldstein has a nationwide
reputation as a tough and honest prose-
cutor and, in fact, was cited by Federal
authorities as having done an outstand-
ing job.
You had said before your election that
topflight prosecutors would be retained.
And Mr. Goldstein now says that he is a
victim of the political spoils system which
you have decried.
Can you tell me if there were other
than political reasons for Mr. Goldstein's
reluctant departure, or would you other-
wise comment on that question?
THE PRESIDENT. Quite often, I've ob-
served in a case like this that the incum-
bent officeholder considers himself or
herself to be superior to the one who re-
places that person. [Laughter] And I'm
sure that Mr. Goldstein's predecessor felt
that he was better qualified than Mr.
Goldstein when he came in. In both these
instances, the case was decided on the
basis of merit. I don't think anyone has
alleged, other than Mr. Goldstein or Van
Dam and their own close friends, that
they are decidedly better qualified than
their replacements. And all of our ap-
pointments have been made on the basis
of merit.
We have turned down literally hun-
dreds of recommendations from many
sources because we did not consider them
at least as well qualified or better quali-
fied than the incumbents. I cannot say
that we have never made a mistake.
These two have been highly publicized,
primarily because Mr. Goldstein feels
very strongly that he is better qualified
than anyone we could choose as his
replacement.
But historically this has been the case,
and I don't think anyone has ever gone as
far as we have, myself and the Attorney
General, to make these appointments on
the basis of merit. In all circuit judge-
ships, we have selection panels-first time
in the history of our country-where a
group of distinguished people, both legal
and nonlawyers, meet and give me a
recommendation, through the Attorney
General, of the five best qualified people
in that area to fill vacancies, and then we
choose from those five who ought to be
appointed.
As you know, the Senate plays a major
role in the selection of district judges and
also U.S. attorneys. A number of the
Senators have already set up similar selec-
tion committees in an individual State, I
think 14 to 16-I have forgotten exactly
the latest figure. But we've tried to do it
on the basis of merit. And I don't know
of any case where there's been a demon-
strable lowering of standards.
I don't deny that Mr. Goldstein and
Van Dam are well qualified. In my judg-
ment, as assessed by people on the scene,
those who know them both, by the Attor-
ney General, their replacements are at
least as well qualified as their predecessors.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. How do you deal, Mr. President,
with Israel's fears that if they come to
some sort of settlement on the West Bank,
any kind of settlement on the West Bank,
first they'll be subjected to ongoing ter-
rorism from irreconcilable Arabs over a
long period of time or the new govern-
ment, having gained a new position, de-
clares itself to be hostile towards the State
of Israel? How do you deal with those
1803
