Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And we have made progress, also, in
trying to stop a military buildup in the
Indian Ocean. My guess is that President
Brezhnev would be likely to want to come
here to visit after those three negotiations
have made some substantial progress and
when there is a prospect of immediate
resolution of the remaining differences.
I would never approve a SALT agree-
ment nor present one to the Congress that
didn't have an adequate degree of verifi-
cation of compliance and which didn't
protect the right of our own country to
defend itself and to carry out our domes-
tic and foreign policy. Whatever I put
forward to the Congress will be good for
our Nation.
We've had a maximum degree of in-
volvement by the Congress. We've even
had Senators in Europe at the negotiating
table. And we've kept them informed as
the progress is made.
So, my guess is that 1978 will see us
successful, and my guess is that when we
present it to the Congress, the SALT
agreement will be approved.
ARTHUR F. BURNS
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, there are
so many questions I think we all have on
foreign policy, but we are aware of the
time. So, perhaps we might slide into the
domestic issues.
Shortly before we went on the air you
made news yourself about Arthur Burns
and his replacement. Mr. Burns still has 2
years to go before he would retire from
being on the Board itself of the Federal
Reserve. Are you or have you specifi-
cally asked him to stay? Obviously, some
words from you might make the differ-
ence. Or do you have any other plans for
him in government?
THE PRESIDENT. When I met with
Chairman Burns, I told him that I under-
stood he wanted to stay on the Board and
that that would please me very much. He
said that he had not yet made a decision.
I then responded that if he decided not
to stay on the Board, after a new Chair-
man is sworn in, that I would like very
much to have him serve in some capacity.
He is so wise, he has so much experience,
his record is so superb, his integrity is per-
fect, almost, that I think he would still
have good service to offer to our country.
He said that he would not want to make
any decisions within the next period just
ahead, but that he would like to hear
from me in the future. And I think the
first decision that he would make is
whether or not he would stay on the
Board. My hope is that he will.
MS. WALTERS. But did you give him
any possibilities so that he would have
some choices perhaps to make of what
some of these governmental positions
might be?
THE PRESIDENT. Not yet. I think either
in economic affairs or foreign affairs, the
field of human rights, the enhanced in-
volvement of American citizens in taking
initiative outside of government in the
private sector these are four areas where
he and I have had discussions during this
preceding year. He's shown an intense
interest in them. He's been very excited
about our progress in human rights. He's
never seen me a single time this year that
he didn't initiate a discussion about hu-
man rights, how profound he thought it
was and how it exemplified what our
Nation stands for. But what he would
choose to do would have to be up to him.
I would cooperate in every way to encour-
age him to continue to serve in some
capacity.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, you
sound like a man describing someone
you've just reappointed. Why did you re-
place him? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Chairman
Burns I think he served longer than any-
2192
