Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sons receive housing subsidies to cover
rent, utilities, taxes, insurance, and main-
tenance. The unlucky ones remain in
their own home and try somehow to pay
taxes, utilities, insurance, and mainte-
nance. If they cannot cover their costs,
they often find themselves in nursing
homes.
For community development, Mr. Pres-
ident, it would be better for the older
person and cheaper for the taxpayer to
provide a subsidy to the older persons who
own their own home to assist them with
taxes, insurance, utilities, and mainte-
nance. What I am suggesting, Mr. Presi-
dent, is that the Federal Government put
more of the resources into full-range sup-
port service to assist the elderly to remain
independent in their own home with dig-
nity. This will also help maintain the
stability of our Presidential community.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Ms. Evelyn Chappell.
INCREASING COST OF ENERGY
Ms. CHAPPELL. Mr. President, my
name is Evelyn Chappell. I am a Head
Start parent coordinator from Oak Park,
Michigan.
My concerns mostly have been an-
swered as you went around the table-
about low-income housing, the lack of
low-income housing, adequate low-
income housing, high utility bills for ADC
and low-income families.
Also, there seems to be a conflict be-
tween Housing and Urban Develop-
ment and the Department of Social Serv-
ices regarding utilities. For instance, util-
ity allowances: Department of Social
Services has one, and HUD has one. The
difference in those allowances are sub-
tracted and added onto ADC recipients'
rents. I am an ADC recipient. I live in
public housing. I know. Your rent goes
up, and they add these charges onto your
rent. They only allow you "x" amount
of dollars for gas, "x" amount of dollars
for lights, when your one bill-your light
bill-is higher than both that they allow
you.
The winterization program is very, very
good for the senior citizens. Okay, but
what about the ADC and the low-in-
come mothers who own their own home,
who cannot afford to get roof leaks fixed,
basements repaired, and windows re-
paired? What do we do?
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
MS. OLIVAREZ. I would just like to
point out to you, Loretta, that the Presi-
ing to make every effort to be sure that
dent has already indicated that we're go-
we do have a supplemental amount of
money to help people with their high
utility bills, so they don't go into the win-
ter without that kind of assistance. Sec-
ondly, I would also advise that you con-
tinue to work on weatherization. And
then, the third phase, which we must get
involved in-that is looking at alternative
sources of energy. I think we've been
dragging our feet too long on this.
I come from a State-New Mexico-
where we've already experimented with
solar energy units that cost us $300, that
were very effective in reducing heating
costs by 30 percent-and then discovered
that we could grow vegetables and flow-
ers in them. So, we have an added di-
mension to it.
I guess what I'm saying is that there
are hopes and plans and even some suc-
cesses on alternative energy sources, par-
ticularly for people on fixed income, be-
cause I'm sure we're not going to be able
to get supplemental appropriations every
year for this type of problem. So, we must
work on the alternative sources and on
education, on the real issues surrounding
energy.
As far as Mr. Fox is concerned-Mr.
Fox, you know our agency gets a total of
$10 million a year to work with senior
1846
