Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
That is above and beyond anything that
I've described here to you so far.
We recognize that almost every person
who is on welfare that's able to work
would rather work if they are given an
opportunity. And that will be the thrust
of the welfare reform proposal that Con-
gress will be working on and, hopefully,
will pass next year. They already have the
legislation on their desk. They have al-
ready started hearings on the subject.
So, to put people back to work that are
able and want to work will be a major
new thrust of the welfare proposals that
Congress has now.
I'd like to call on Ms. Franckowiak first.
UTILITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
LORETTA FRANCKOWIAK. Most of what
I was going to speak of about the utilities
and the fuel shortage and so on has been
very well put, but I would like to add to
that. I think we need to continue the
utility assistance program for poor people
and the aged on a low-income basis with
as much money as possible that can reach
them.
In addition, we need programs to edu-
cate our youth. In the energy conserva-
tion our youth must get involved in the
energy crisis, and I think employing low-
income youth in helping out with energy
problems is possibly a way to do it. It's
very brief, but I want to thank you for
your time.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good, too.
Mr. Carl Fox.
SENIOR CITIZENS
MR. Fox. Mr. President, this is my sixth
year working for the senior citizens. I'm
a volunteer man, from the area agencies.
The area agencies on aging and other
States and Federal organizations who
serve the elderly need to coordinate their
programs of the Community Service Ad-
ministration and local community action
agency.
I'll skip along, Mr. President. The time
lags between increases in social security
benefits and increases in the Community
Services Administration-poverty guide-
lines makes many needy clients ineligible
for important service. If these increases
took place at the same time, this would
resolve the problem. The difference be-
tween the State and the Federal poverty
guidelines should be eliminated to remove
the roadblocks to service to the
poor.
Now, Mr. President, I will go on. I
know your time is limited. More lead time
is needed between requests for our pro-
posals and the due dates of our applica-
tions to allow seniors input and proper
planning. More elderly low-income hous-
ing-well, I will skip that. Laws must be
designated to remove certain zoning re-
strictions which have been used as a tool
to prevent senior citizens low-income
housing in many communities. More gov-
ernment grants should be geared to estab-
lish employment opportunity for low-in-
come.
Okay, Mr. President, for a long time
it has been recognized that it is less ex-
pensive for the taxpayer to provide sup-
port service for the elderly than it is to
place the elderly in a nursing home. Cer-
tainly, almost all older persons are hap-
pier in their own home than they are in
nursing homes. Therefore, it is important
for this country to spend more of its re-
sources on providing support service for
the elderly. The existing support service
programs, such as chore service, visiting
nurses, home-bound meals, and so forth,
have waiting lists of people who need the
service but cannot get it because the pro-
grams are not sufficiently funded to han-
dle the needs in their communities. Some
of our elderly are lucky enough to get into
elderly housing projects. These lucky per-
1845
