Dec. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Let me wait for Helen [Helen Thomas,
United Press International]. Helen, I
wanted to wait for you. [Laughter]
I just told them that I talked to Prime
Minister Begin just before I left home.
He called me to give me a report. He says
their visit to Ismailia was very successful,
that he was pleased. They set up military
and political committees to continue their
work. And they'll meet for the first time
January 15, one in Egypt and one in
Jerusalem.
He's a professional in every sense of the
word, a dedicated career public servant.
He's had long experience in establishing
policy, in long-range planning, in prepa-
ration of budgets, in the management of
government, in reorganization, in zero-
base budgeting, and, as you know, he has
served here as the Deputy Director of
OMB for a while and now in the last few
months as the Acting Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget.
He has been successful in putting to-
Q. Is Secretary Vance going to be join- gether the fiscal year 1979 budget, leading
ing the talks at all?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet.
Q. Have there been any discussions of
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Prime Minister Begin
said that they would like for Secretary
Vance to join them, but I don't know if
he will or not.
Q. There are some reports now that
perhaps the meetings did not come out
as well as was anticipated. Are you go-
ing to try to do anything to keep the mo-
mentum going?
THE PRESIDENT. We'll do all we can.
Q. Are you still optimistic?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Prime Minister
Begin was very pleased.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:55 a.m.
Office of Management and
Budget
Remarks Announcing the Nomination of
James T. McIntyre, Jr. To Be Director.
December 27, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I hope all of you had a
merry Christmas.
It's a great pleasure for me to announce
that I've asked Jim McIntyre, James Mc-
Intyre, to serve as permanent Director of
the Office of Management and Budget. I
have known Jim McIntyre for 7 years.
a very able and professional staff, I think,
in a superlative way. He's worked harmo-
niously with me and he's worked well
with the Members of Congress and with
the Cabinet members as well.
I am very proud of Jim McIntyre. This
is a thankless job, but it's one that he has
undertaken in a very dedicated fashion,
and I have complete confidence in him.
Jim, I want to congratulate you on the
1979 budget. We will be printing it up
after our last meeting tomorrow. Our
goal is to have the Federal budget be
adequate, but to reduce the percentage
of the gross national product of our coun-
try that goes into the Federal Govern-
ment from the taxpayers and which is dis-
pensed by the Government itself. And we
have made a good start in that direction.
I think when the fiscal year '79 budget
is analyzed, there will be many well-de-
served accolades coming to Jim McIntyre.
Jim, I thank you and congratulate you
on this appointment.
MR. MCINTYRE. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Mr. President, I want to thank you for
the confidence and the trust that you
have shown in me.
In recent weeks, we at OMB have
pulled together the President's budget. As
we've worked on his and other proposed
programs and initiatives, my respect and
admiration for President Carter's leader-
2176
