Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Department, and in 1965 and 1966 he
was political officer in Saigon. He was
principal officer, then consul general, in
Hué in 1966 and 1967.
Corcoran attended the National War
College in 1967-68. He was country di-
rector for Laos-Cambodia at the State
Department from 1968 to 1972. In 1972
and 1973, he was a personnel officer at
the State Department, and in 1973 and
1974 he was Deputy Chief of Mission in
Port-au-Prince.
In 1974 and 1975, Corcoran was prin-
cipal officer in Quebec. Since 1975 he has
been Deputy Chief of Mission in Vien-
tiane.
Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation System
Remarks at the Bill Signing
Ceremony. November 8, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This joint resolution to
approve the construction of the major
natural gas pipeline from Alaska down
through Canada to our country is a very
important demonstration of our Nation's
commitment to provide adequate energy
supplies in the future, to protect the qual-
ity of the environment in our two nations,
to work harmoniously in one of the most
complicated and most expensive engineer-
ing projects ever undertaken by human
beings.
I'm very proud that the House and
Senate have approved the route that was
chosen by ourselves and the Canadians
for this major project. This will provide,
when it's fully in operation, about 3.6
billion cubic feet of natural gas per day.
It's the largest single project ever under-
taken for the provision of energy and,
perhaps, the largest single engineering
project ever undertaken of any kind.
Over a period of 25 years, which is the
estimated life of this pipeline-it will
probably be longer—it would save the
American people more than $6 billion,
compared to the alternative route
assessed.
But this is just the first very minor step
in what's going to be a long journey in
engineering, planning, financing, design-
ing and construction and operation of this
tremendous pipeline project.
Tonight I will talk to the American
people about the energy problem and the
enormity of it now and in the future. This
is roughly a $14 billion project. Natural
gas makes up about 25 percent of our
energy needs. This project, in spite of its
enormous size, will provide about 5 per-
cent of our Nation's natural gas. So, what
we are talking about here, to show you
the size of the energy problem and the
energy industry, is about 1 percent of the
energy supplies of just one nation.
I'm particularly glad that the Ambas-
sador for Canada is here. I hope that he
will relay directly to Prime Minister Tru-
deau my deep gratitude at the coopera-
tive attitude that has been taken by the
Canadians in working with us on this
project.
I particularly want to thank the Alas-
kan delegation who are here, the Con-
gress Members who have been so instru-
mental in the passage of this resolution.
Many of them are the same Members
of Congress who are now working on the
energy conference committee-Senator
Jackson, Congressman Udall,
Udall, John
Dingell, Congressmen Staggers, Roncalio,
and others. I want to thank them again for
their timely and very effective approval of
this project.
Dr. Schlesinger, the Secretary of En-
ergy, will now begin his detailed work
along with Cecil Andrus, the administra-
tor of the Interior Department-the Sec-
1978
