Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 31
during the whole course of its activities.
Our people carry such good memories of
its beloved principal, Dr. Samuel Jordan,
that one of the highways of Tehran has
been named after him.
Now that we are reminiscing on our
meritorious American friends, it is per-
haps suitable to cherish the memory of
Howard Baskerville, a young American
who, upon completion of his studies at
Princeton, was assigned as a teacher in the
Memorial School at Tabriz and, during
the constitutional revolution of Iran,
heroically and bravely lost his life in the
fight for freedom.
This feeling towards Iran has always
been evidenced in the literary works of
your nation. For instance, the poetry of
Ralph Waldo Emerson, in glorifying
Iran, is one of the most beautiful exam-
ples of its kind in the world of literature.
The basic and comprehensive work of
Arthur Upham Pope regarding the art of
Iran is the best research work that has ever
been prepared in this field. Likewise, the
extensive studies of William Jackson re-
garding the culture and civilization of
Iran are among the most valuable re-
searches in the history of Iranology.
Numerous universities in the United
States have expanded activities in the
fields of Iranian studies and its language.
Also valuable treasures of the culture and
art of Iran are preserved in various li-
braries and museums of your country.
Moreover, American archeologists have
played an eminent role in archeological
discoveries in Iran.
In the political field, our nation carries
unforgettable memories of the role of
America in our crisis and times of stress,
from the beginning of the present century.
For instance, we will never forget that in
the great political and economic adversity
of our country, in the second decade of
this century, William Morgan Shuster,
upon the invitation of the government of
Iran, sincerely endeavored to bring order
into the finances of Iran. Moreover, when,
following the 1919 agreement, Iran was
in danger of losing its independence,
America raised its voice to the world in
support of the sovereignty of Iran, as also
in the years after the Second World War,
America provided us with vital economic
and political assistance.
During World War II, I personally had
the pleasure of meeting President
Franklin Roosevelt in our capital city.
Since then I had the opportunity of wel-
coming in Iran several Presidents of the
United States. And I personally have also
traveled repeatedly to your great country.
I am glad to state that all these visits
have been accompanied with the spirit of
friendship and cooperation, which is the
distinct quality of our relationship.
An example of this cooperation is the
long-term economic exchange agreement
between Iran and the United States,
which was recently signed and, in its
scope, is the largest agreement ever signed
between us and any other country.
Almost 100 years ago the first American
Ambassador, Samuel G. W. Benjamin,
who had been assigned by President
Chester Alan Arthur, came to Iran. In
his book, "Persia and the Persians," he
wrote, "Iran today is a weak and un-
known country, but certainly this country
will step into the path of progress and
in the not too distant future will again
play an important role in the world."
Now with this prediction coming true,
our country has started its role within its
potentialities and possibilities. Perhaps it
need not be mentioned, but this is a posi-
tive and constructive role and in con-
formity with the principles that your great
country has always supported independ-
ent and of which you, Mr. President, are
the most notable advocate.
From the early days of your election
campaign you indicated how much you
will attach to high ideals of right and
2219
