Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
couldn't help because the funds ran out.
So, we're asking you to consider giving
us some more money.
THE PRESIDENT. We will do that.
MS. SHAW. Thank you. CAP's need, I
guess-more money to run to really help
the people. It seems like we have one pro-
gram at a time. Like right now we have a
food shelf and a little bit of money to buy
food stamps for people who we're trying
to help get on assistance. Well, we'll have
it for awhile, and then all the money runs
out, and we can't help any more. We're
kind of in-between all the time. So, you
know, it's really a great need.
As for myself, I guess I'd like to also
talk on health problems. Like I said, I'm
a mother of five, and I don't qualify to get
medical assistance, and yet I don't make
enough money to pay the dental care of
my own children who need it badly.
So, I'm asking you to really be con-
cerned about the low-income, who feel
that the poor get poorer and the rich get
richer, and help us, too. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Well, you have been very active, I un-
derstand, in representing consumers in a
strong and very effective fashion, and I
want to congratulate you on it. We are
now facing a major decision by the Con-
gress and by the Nation on energy legisla-
tion. And one of the toughest battles that
I have to fight is to protect the consumers
and to make sure that the Congress doesn't
give the oil companies all the financial
breaks as we put into effect an energy
package. I might say that I have had
superb support from the Vice President,
from the Members of Congress from your
own State in the House and Senate, and
I'm going to go by Sunday afternoon and
pick up the finest American that I have
ever known-Senator Hubert Hum-
phrey and he's going to go back to
Washington with me.
The Michigan delegation came with
me. They are helping me, too, with this
very difficult energy legislation. But it
could mean, if we make a serious mistake,
a devastating blow to the people who are
not sometimes adequately represented by
the lobbyists in Washington. And I hope
that you all will look on me as your prime
lobbyist in Washington for those who
don't have strong representation at times.
We have done a few things, just to an-
swer your specific questions, on food. This
year already the Congress has very wisely
removed the purchase requirement for
food stamps, which, I think, will make the
program much easier to administer in the
future, and it will prevent poor people
from having to put cash money into food
stamps. They'll get the food stamp them-
selves now in the future without having to
put money into it.
We also have done the best we could to
provide some help for fuel costs during the
rough winter we had last year. We'll have
the same program, I don't have any doubt,
this winter to take care of families who
might have their energy cut off.
We have put forward, in addition, some
programs that will be of great help to the
poorer-built homes, with direct aid for
those who want to insulate their homes.
Quite often the poorer a family is, the
more inefficient their home is in preserv-
ing heat and energy, and we want to be
sure that that's corrected in this bill so
that it will be a protection for you in the
future.
We want to make sure that the money
collected on oil price increases goes back
to the consumers directly. And as you
know, there's a great deal of pressure to
give a large part of this money to the oil
companies.
We are trying to have electricity rate
reform. At this time the electric power
companies charge the highest electric
1839
