July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Within the last number of years, be-
cause of the radio transmission of tele-
phone conversations, the intercept on a
passive basis of these kinds of transmis-
sions has become a common ability for
nations to pursue. It's not an act of ag-
gression or war; it's completely passive.
I don't know the full circumstances
involved. When I became President, I
asked to have a multidepartmental assess-
ment of the threat to our own security.
We have been embarked since I've been
in office-and I think before-in an ef-
fort to make impervious to intercept those
telephone lines that were involved di-
rectly in national security.
For instance, the lines going into and
out of the Defense Department and my
own office-we try to make sure that they
are cables; they are buried underground;
they are not subject to this electronics
type of being overheard.
Some of the major commercial com-
panies in our Nation who want to prevent
any eavesdropping on their transactions,
commercial transactions, not involving
national security, also make an attempt
to prevent intercepts by those who listen
in on the free air waves.
But I would not interpret this use by
the Soviet Union or by other embassies to
be an act of aggression. And although it
may be an intrusion into our security, I
think we are taking adequate steps now
to prevent its creating a threat to our
country.
STOCK MARKET INVESTMENTS
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Sperling [God-
frey Sperling, Jr., Christian Science Moni-
tor].
Q. You obviously are doing well in the
popularity polls, but how do you explain
the uncertainty that investors in the stock
market seem to have in you?
THE PRESIDENT. That was a very dif-
ficult thing for me to understand during
the campaign. I thought that they should
have given me their overwhelming sup-
port. [Laughter] The leading investors on
Wall Street and others only gave me a 5-
percent support compared to my op-
ponent, President Ford.
I think that there's a general uncer-
tainty in the world about future economic
circumstances. We also, of course, are in-
volved in a reassessment of some very con-
troversial issues concerning energy, tax
reform, welfare reform, that causes some
governmental contribution to the uncer-
tainty. We have an increasing depend-
ence in the consuming nations on oil im-
ports, which means that the OPEC na-
tions have about a $40 billion trade sur-
plus and the rest of the world has to ab-
sorb a $40 billion deficit.
So, I think there are many areas of un-
certainty. I've been impressed with the
long-range trend projections that have
been given to me. We've had about a 1-
percent reduction already in the unem-
ployment rate since I became President,
and the results last month on inflation
were encouraging. But monthly figures
fluctuate fairly widely. Since last Novem-
ber, we've had about a 3 million net in-
crease in the number of jobs available in
our country.
I feel very good about our economy.
And I can't assess that feeling of mine as
compared to investors in the stock market
prices. But I think since the first of the
year, the stock market prices, although
they've fluctuated somewhat, have been
relatively stable.
NATURAL GAS
Q. Mr. President, yesterday a congres-
sional Republican group released a study
showing that your natural gas plan, pric-
ing plan, would cost American consumers
1234
