Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ductive session since the first term of
Franklin Roosevelt. I'll let him be the
judge of that.
The energy legislation, I think, will be
the first item on the agenda when the
Congress reconvenes in January. And
there's no doubt that wherever I go on
this trip to Eastern Europe, to Western
Europe, to the Mideast, to India-what
our Nation does about energy will be a
prime question.
We are the leader of the world. We are
one of the major oil producers. We are
the greatest consumer. And until Con-
gress does take action on the energy pro-
posal that I put forward last April, and
which the House of Representatives
passed in August, that cloud will hang
over the determination and leadership
qualities of our country.
So, I am disappointed about that. As
far as the trip is concerned, it's carefully
planned. We began working on this trip
last March, and the nations that we will
visit are important to us both domesti-
cally and in our foreign relations.
Poland-in Eastern Europe, a Com-
munist government with close ties to the
Soviet Union but also friendships with
us, heavy trade with the Western nations,
relatively willing to give people their re-
ligious freedom and other freedoms. We
will have a good meeting, I think, in
Poland.
We go from there to Iran, very close
military ally of ours, a strong trade part-
ner of ours with whom we share many
political responsibilities.
And then we go to India, the biggest
democracy in the world, one that in re-
cent years has turned perhaps excessively
toward the Soviet Union, but under the
new leadership of Prime Minister Desai
is moving back toward us and assuming
a good role of, I would say, neutrality.
And we have a strong friendship with
India. It's a strong country. They are al-
most self-sufficient now. They have food
surpluses.
We come back from there to Saudi
Arabia, our major supplier of imported
oil, a nation that's worked closely with us
in foreign affairs in many parts of the
world.
From there back to France, our his-
toric ally, keystone in Europe. I'll have
long discussions with President Giscard
there and then go back to Brussels to
strengthen our relationships with the
European Community and with NATO.
So, every stop will be productive for
us. I'll be taking the word and the good
will and the sense of importance of the
American people toward them in learn-
ing about those countries in the process.
But energy will be the tie that will bind
us together on this trip, and I hope that
this will demonstrate to the American
people and to the Congress the necessity
for rapid action on one of the most con-
troversial and divisive issues that the
Congress has ever faced, and that is to
give our country for the first time a com-
prehensive energy policy.
THE MIDDLE EAST
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, I know
we'll all want to get back to just how you
plan to go about getting that energy pol-
icy. But while we are on foreign policy, I'd
like to ask you about the Middle East.
President Sadat, I think everyone agrees,
made a spectacular gesture that opened
up a whole new era here. Do you feel that
the Israelis have as yet made a compara-
ble gesture? Have they been flexible
enough in your view?
THE PRESIDENT. Both President Sadat
and Prime Minister Begin have been bold
and courageous. We've been dealing with
the Mideast question as a nation for dec-
ades, in a leadership role at least within
the last two administrations. And we see
2188
