Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ondly, to make sure that the environmen-
tal laws of our Nation are carried out.
That not only applies to water quality but
also to air quality, the life of marine ani-
mals and fish, and also, of course, to guar-
antee the safety of dam projects and so
forth. So, the Federal Government has a
very clear responsibility in some ways.
I'd like to call now on Mr. Ken Wright.
INTERSTATE COMPACTS
MR. WRIGHT. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I would like to comment further on the
point made by Carlos Lucero regarding
the Rio Grande compact and the com-
petition for water between regions as it
affects the policy. The valley that he re-
ferred to, the San Luis Valley, sits on
roughly perhaps one billion acre-feet of
water in ground water storage. And in
our administration of the Rio Grande
compact within Colorado, there are water
shortages, in spite of this huge under-
ground water reservoir. And within the
basin you could say there are two re-
gions-the Conejos River Basin and the
Rio Grande River Basin. There is tre-
mendous competition between those two
basins within the San Luis Basin. And
there just isn't enough water. And we see,
in effect, the water chaos in the San Luis
Valley. The people with the earliest water
rights on the Conejos, we see as being the
shortest in water supply.
THE PRESIDENT. Shortest on water
supply?
MR. WRIGHT. Shortage-yes, because of
the interstate commitment to New Mex-
ico and Texas. And what it's gotten down
to is that we don't know how to resolve
this particular dispute within the State
courts for a number of reasons. But we
felt that one of the solutions would be a
nonstructural, integrated water manage-
ment investigation and plan to show us the
way to solve this problem.
We feel there are good opportunities for
economic benefits from this water, for fair
distribution of the benefits to the people
in the southern part of the valley, and also
for environmental enhancement. We
think it's a good opportunity for the Geo-
logical Survey and the Bureau of Recla-
mation to help us here in Colorado on a
nonstructural, integrated water manage-
ment plan.
THE PRESIDENT. What about agricul-
tural water problems? Does anybody want
to comment on that? Mary, did you want
to say something else? Ms. Taylor.
CONSERVATION
MS. TAYLOR. I did want to say some-
thing on water policy-Mary Taylor,
president of the Colorado Open Space
Council, which is a statewide environ-
mental coordinating council composed of
conservation, recreational, and service
organizations.
There are two or three points I would
like to make regarding Federal water pol-
icy. The first thing we would like for you
to know is that you have very broad grass-
roots support for your efforts to reform, to
reevaluate Federal water policy. There
are a great many citizens in Colorado who
support you in that. Not everyone believes
that water storage-large Federal water
storage projects are the way to go.
There is a very vocal and a very well-
funded water development lobby that
would like you to think so, but this is
simply not so. We feel that there is a great
need for a Federal water policy with con-
servation as its cornerstone, as you have
proposed. We feel that conservation-the
primary reason for conservation should be
to protect in-stream environmental uses
which now seem to be ignored or they cer-
tainly are not the primary concern.
1868
