Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
nomenon. These aliens entered the U.S.
illegally and have willfully remained here
in violation of the immigration laws. On
the other hand, many of them have been
law-abiding residents who are looking for
a new life and are productive members of
their communities.
I have concluded that an adjustment
of status is necessary to avoid having a
permanent "underclass" of millions of per-
sons who have not been and cannot
practicably be deported, and who would
continue living here in perpetual fear of
immigration authorities, the local police,
employers and neighbors. Their entire
existence would continue to be predicated
on staying outside the reach of govern-
ment authorities and the law's protections.
I therefore recommend the following
adjustments of status:
First, I propose that permanent resi-
dent alien status be granted to all undocu-
mented aliens who have resided continu-
ously in the U.S. from before January 1,
1970 to the present. These aliens would
have to apply for this status and provide
normal documentary proof of continuous
residency. If residency is maintained, U.S.
citizenship could be sought five years after
the granting of permanent status, as pro-
vided in existing immigration laws.
The permanent resident alien status
would be granted through an update of
the registry provisions of the Immigration
and Nationality Act. The registry statute
has been updated three times since 1929,
with the last update in 1965, when perma-
nent resident alien status was granted to
those who had resided here prior to 1948.
Second, all undocumented aliens, in-
cluding those (other than exchange and
student visitors) with expired visas, who
were residing in the United States on or
before January 1, 1977 will be eligible for
a temporary resident alien status for five
years.
Those eligible would be granted the
temporary status only after registering
with INS; registration would be permitted
solely during a one-year period. Aliens
granted temporary status would be en-
titled to reside legally in the United States
for a five-year period.
The purpose of granting a temporary
status is to preserve a decision on the final
status of these undocumented aliens, un-
til much more precise information about
their number, location, family size and
economic situation can be collected and
reviewed. That information would be ob-
tained through the registration process.
A decision on their final status would be
made sometime after the completion of
the registration process and before the
expiration of the five-year period.
Temporary resident aliens would not
have the right to vote, to run for public
office or to serve on juries; nor would they
be entitled to bring members of their
families into the U.S. But they could leave
and re-enter this country, and they could
seek employment, under the same rules
as permanent resident aliens.
Unlike permanent resident aliens, tem-
porary resident aliens would be ineligible
to receive such Federal social services as
Medicaid, Food Stamps, Aid to Families
with Dependent Children, and Supple-
mental Security Income. However, the
allocation formulas for Revenue Sharing,
which are based on population, would be
adjusted to reflect the presence of tem-
porary resident aliens. The adjustment
would compensate states and local com-
munities for the fact that some of
these residents undocumented aliens-
are currently not included in the Census
Bureau's population counts. That under-
count deprives certain states and commu-
nities of Revenue Sharing funds which,
if Census figures were completely accu-
rate, would be received and used to de-
1420
