Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 9
country of origin, his wealth, or his fam-
ily background. That remains true today
for both of us.
New Zealanders and Americans, then,
are very much the same sort of people.
The taproots of our relationship are bed-
ded deep in our common experience, and
they continue to nourish the growth of its
various branches.
In two World Wars New Zealanders
and Americans fought side by side and
died side by side to preserve the individual
freedoms and democratic ideals to which
we are committed. From the second of
those great conflicts, we both learned that
distance offered little defense and that
even the vast reaches of the Pacific Ocean
were no barrier to a resourceful and de-
termined enemy. That experience led to
the establishment of the ANZUS Treaty,
the collective defense arrangement that
draws us together with Australia in a
common commitment to help keep free
from threat the region of which all of us
are a part and the environment in which
our three peoples live and trade and
travel.
The preservation of peace, Mr. Presi-
dent, demands more of us than that we
should be prepared for war. Legitimate
aspirations too long denied can be as real
a threat to security and stability as the
rattling saber or the sounding bugle.
Together, we are playing our part in
the Pacific and elsewhere to help those
who want to help themselves attain for
their people the chance to live decent,
satisfying, and useful lives. Life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness are words,
Mr. President, over the meaning of which
philosophers may squabble. But to those
of common sense-our ordinary bloke,
your honest Joe-their meaning is plain.
Like the United States, New Zealand
not only believes in democracy but prac-
tices it. There are all too few in the world
who do. But that's no reason why we
should not be prepared to stand up and
be counted, and, indeed, it's the very
reason why we should.
New Zealand and the United States,
Mr. President, are two countries that have
long heard the beat of the same drummer.
I have every confidence that over the
coming years we shall continue to step out
together along the same path.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:55 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Visit of Prime Minister
Muldoon of New Zealand
Joint Statement Issued Following the
Meetings Between the President and the
Prime Minister. November 9, 1977
At the invitation of President Carter,
the Prime Minister of New Zealand, Rt.
Hon. R. D. Muldoon, is paying an official
visit to Washington DC, November 9-
10, 1977. The President held discussions
with the Prime Minister on 9 November,
followed by a luncheon at the White
House. The talks between the two leaders
covered a wide range of political, security,
economic and other subjects of common
concern.
The President and Prime Minister
Muldoon reviewed bilateral relations be-
tween the two countries. They agreed that
these were exceptionally warm and close,
and securely based on a common commit-
ment to human rights, democracy and the
rule of law. They agreed that cooperation
in traditional fields including foreign
policy, trade and defense should be sus-
tained, and welcomed the recent growth
of cooperation in energy and other scien-
tific and technical subjects.
In their discussions on international
affairs the President and the Prime Minis-
ter paid special attention to Asian and
South Pacific affairs. President Carter
reiterated the intention of the United
1991
