Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
them. We've been honest and as a person,
as a country that carried messages from
one to another. And I think that this puts
us in a position to exert legitimate influ-
ence. But what we've always hoped for is
direct negotiations or discussions, com-
munications among the leaders involved
with our offering good offices when we are
requested to do it.
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, the chief
stumbling block right now does seem to
be what we might call the right of return
of the Palestinians to the West Bank and
the Gaza. You have in the past come out
against an independent nation per se on
the West Bank, but you have also talked
of the legitimate rights of the Palestinians,
and you have been in favor of some kind
of an entity—although people are still a
little obscure about what that means-an
entity perhaps linked to Jordan.
Would you, in the light of the develop-
ments now, clarify your views for us today,
tell us if they have changed, and if they
have not, is it because the United States
has decided to be neutral on this subject?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you've described
my position very well. We do favor a
homeland or an entity wherein the
Palestinians can live in peace. I think
Prime Minister Begin has taken a long
step forward in offering to President
Sadat, and indirectly to the Palestinians,
self-rule.
President Sadat so far is insisting that
the so-called Palestinian entity be an in-
dependent nation. My own preference is
that they not be an independent nation
but be tied in some way with the sur-
rounding countries, making a choice, for
instance, between Israel and Jordan.
President Sadat has not yet agreed to
that position of ours. Prime Minister
Begin has offered that the citizens who
live in the West Bank area or the Gaza
Strip be given an option to be either
Israeli citizens or Jordanian citizens, to
actually run for the Knesset as candi-
dates and to vote in elections, both na-
tional, Israeli and Jordan, or local elec-
tions in the occupied territories once they
are released.
But we don't have any real choice. I've
expressed an opinion. But if Israel should
negotiate with the surrounding countries
a different solution, we would certainly
support it.
But my own personal opinion is that
permanent peace can best be maintained
if there's not a fairly radical, new inde-
pendent nation in the heart of the Mid-
dle Eastern area.
MS. WALTERS. In view of the deadlock
now, however, have you tried to convince
either side of your opinion? You've had
conversations with both.
THE PRESIDENT. I've expressed this
opinion to President Asad, to King Hus-
sein, to President Sadat, to Crown Prince
Fahd, and also to Prime Minister Begin,
privately. And, of course, they have
heard my statements publicly. Our pref-
erence is not to have an independent na-
tion there, but we are perfectly willing to
accept any reasonable solution that the
parties themselves might evolve.
MR. SCHIEFFER. If I could just get
back to the question I asked you, do I
take it that you would not pass judgment
in public, at least at this point, on
whether the Israelis have been flexible
enough in the negotiating so far? Do you
think that the position that they put for-
ward-Mr. Begin said today that there
would always be Israeli troops on the
West Bank and that all who wanted
peace would have to know that is that a
realistic negotiating position?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. It's certainly a
realistic negotiating position.
MR. SCHIEFFER. But would Mr. Sadat
ever accept that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. There
is a great deal of flexibility there-the
2190
