June 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We believe that a special responsibil-
ity falls on those nations that, like your
great country, have a determining weight
in the international context and in the
definition of the political and economic
rules of conduct. That is why I have
tried to convey to you and to your great
people a sincere and friendly message,
with the irrevocable conviction that the
true way for peace must be that of under-
standing between all countries with in-
ternational justice.
As you have said with profound sense
of justice, peace can only be affirmed on
the basis of faithful observance of hu-
man rights, which give authentic and
transcendental sense to man's life on
Earth.
Venezuela joins the United States and
will join you, Mr. President, so that you
may achieve your noble purposes of uni-
versal justice, defense and promotion of
human rights, and rigid action against
proliferation of nuclear weapons. We
identify in democracy and in the will,
so that politics will serve high ethical
purposes and humanistic principles.
With that trust, Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, I want to toast for the success
of just and noble policy and for the great
nation of the United States and for de-
mocracy in the Western Hemisphere.
NOTE. The President spoke at 9:40 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Presi-
dent Perez spoke in Spanish, and his remarks
were translated by an interpreter.
Visit of President Perez of
Venezuela
Remarks at the Entertainment Honoring
President Perez. June 28, 1977
First of all, I'd like to welcome all the
guests who've come here to be with us to-
night with great faith in the weather,
which I hope will be justified.
I would like to express my thanks at
the beginning for the combined choirs of
Wheaton College and Union College.
They've just returned from a long tour in
Venezuela, which they said did not seem
long. They had made 11 performances in
11 days. They went there to honor a
young choir group of 54 Venezuelans who
were killed in the terrible airplane acci-
dent in the Azores. And this to us is a very
good additional demonstration of the
sharing of culture and beauty between
our country and that of Venezuela.
The choir director has just informed
me that they were received with open
arms and deep appreciation and a mu-
tual expression of the love for music
which can
can cross national boundaries
without detecting any impediment what-
soever. So, I do want to thank you both
for being here and for this wonderful
choir. And they will stay to see the ballet
which will follow.
I would also like to introduce the two
performers who will now entertain us,
accompanied by the Marine Band, Cyn-
thia Gregory and Ted Kivitt, who will
begin by dancing "Giselle.”
I've tried to think of some parallels be-
tween the performance tonight and our
public servants, like myself and President
Perez and the Members of Congress. The
dance is obviously strong, forceful. People
watch it with great interest, as is the case
in politics. It's sometimes unpredictable,
sometimes with a great deal of enthusi-
asm.
I think I'll abandon the parallel at this
point-[laughter]—and talk about almost
unanimous admiration of the observers.
I think I'll talk about grace and beauty,
and I think all of you will be inspired by
the performance of these fine two inter-
nationally known dancers.
Following that, they will dance another
selection, "Grand Pas Classique," and I
think that you will be very pleased at this
performance.
1188
