Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 10
There is a characteristic about politi-
cians that's important, and Brendan Byrne
has these characteristics. One is courage.
Now, I know that one of the most un-
popular things that a Governor can do
is to change the tax program of a State.
This change was made because of the
courage of Brendan Byrne.
I think this is becoming recognized, as
the months go by, as an unpopular step at
the beginning, but as people get more and
more acquainted with the consequences
and results of the income tax, they begin
to like it more and more.
Mayor Holland just told me that it
had been possible for him to lower prop-
erty taxes in Trenton more than 40 per-
cent. Another thing that I've learned is
that retired families have an average
property tax rebate of $240 a year.
This kind of tax change is good for both
the poor people, the retired people, but
primarily for the working people of New
Jersey. Eighty-five percent of the retired
citizens of New Jersey pay zero State taxes,
and at the same time, you've been able
to add to better schools for your
your children
more than $500 million. So, what turned
out at first to be an unpopular and a
courageous decision is now beginning to
be known as the proper thing to do.
I'd like to make one other comment
about that. When you come down to a
choice between high property taxes on
the one hand, high sales taxes on the one
hand, and the richer people in the State
begin to pay their share of taxes, the
choice for working families is very clear.
And that choice is that Brendan Byrne,
with the help of many of you, did the right
thing last year.
I'm also glad to see this community
restore I believe last year—your celebra-
tion of the Festival of Lights. It's im-
portant for us to preserve not only our
family heritage in countries in Europe and
other places but, also, the commitment
that we have to our own religions.
This is a festival that started more than
150
years ago. But I want to be sure that
100 years from now we still preserve these
fine attributes that remind us of our
backgrounds, our present and, also, our
future. It ties us together, it's an enlight-
ening thing, and also, I have understand-
ing, at least in the "burg" it's a very
enjoyable thing, because you have a
festival every night for a week.
I'd like to comment on a couple of
other things quite frankly with you. The
first time I came to New Jersey to cam-
paign, I have to tell you in complete
frankness, that there was not a very good,
hopeful spirit about the future. We have
seen in the last 4 years some very quiet
but very significant changes take place in
your own life.
When Brendan Byrne became Gover-
nor of New Jersey, New Jersey ranked
49th in the amount of
49th in the amount of your Federal tax
money that came back to your State for
better education, better housing, better
transportation, better law enforcement,
and other programs that help your fam-
ilies 49th. Even when we had a Repub-
lican administration, there was great
progress made with Frank Thompson,
other members of the congressional dele-
gation working with Brendan Byrne.
And now, New Jersey ranks 34th in
getting back your tax money that you
paid that formerly went to other States.
Well, I don't want him to go too far with
this, but I wanted to point out that he's
gone a long way already in making sure
that you are treated fairly.
I want to make another point, too.
There have been some great new changes
made that pay rich dividends and are go-
ing to pay more in the future. In many
parts of the country, even including my
own capital city in Georgia of Atlanta,
we have not been very successful in bring-
1577
