Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 26, 1977
Daniel "Chappie” James, Jr.,
Airmen and Industrial Museum
Message for the Groundbreaking in
Tuskeegee, Alabama. August 19, 1977
A museum on the grounds of old Tus-
keegee Airbase, where black airmen and
support troops trained in World War II,
is a useful and long overdue tribute to
the sacrifice of these brave men. It is
highly appropriate that the Air and In-
dustrial Museum is being named for Gen.
Daniel "Chappie" James Jr., who has
served his country with such distinction.
Despite segregation at the time, the black
troops who trained here compiled an
honorable record. Wallace and Wallace
Chemical and Oil Corp. is to be com-
mended for setting aside this museum
area in their honor and for its plan to
restore planes and equipment of the era
so that future generations will better
understand the contribution of black serv-
icemen who fought and died for their
country, and black industrialists and
others who have contributed to the na-
tion's economic well-being.
JIMMY CARTER
International Pacific Salmon
Fisheries Commission
Appointment of Gordon Sandison as a
Member. August 22, 1977
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Gordon Sandison, of Olym-
pia, Wash., as a member on the part of
the United States of the International
Pacific Salmon Fisheries Commission. He
replaces Donald W. Moos, who has re-
signed. Sandison is director of the Wash-
ington Department of Fisheries.
He was born February 20, 1919, in
Auburn, Wash. He received a B.S. from
Seattle University and an LL.D. from St.
Martins College.
Sandison served in the U.S. Marine
Corps from 1942 to 1945. From 1947 to
1958, he was a member of the Washing-
ton State House of Representatives, and
from 1958 to 1977 he was a Washington
State senator.
Since 1977 Sandison has been director
of the Washington Department of
Fisheries.
NOTE: The message was sent by telegram to Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
Charles Wallace, president of Wallace and Wal-
lace Enterprises, Inc., who read it at the cere-
mony in Tuskeegee on August 19.
The text of the message was made available
by the White House Press Office. It was not
issued in the form of a White House press
release.
Nomination of Frank H. Perez for the Rank of
Minister While Serving as State Department
Representative. August 22, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Frank H. Perez, of Vir-
1485
