Sept. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
friendly spirit of relations between our two
countries which permits differences to be
discussed candidly and in the knowledge
that both the United States and Israel
have a heavy stake in achieving their
shared goal of peace in the Middle East.
In this connection, the President re-
affirmed the commitment of the United
States to the security of Israel.
Consumer Protection Act
Amendments
Remarks on Signing H.R. 5294 Into Law.
September 20, 1977
I'm glad to see there's a lot of interest
in this legislation. It's a great pleasure for
me to meet with all of you this morning
to sign H.R. 5294, which is a fair debt
collection bill.
And before I sign this legislation, I
would particularly like to thank Senator
Proxmire and Senator Riegle, who did so
much hard work on this, and Congress-
men Reuss, Annunzio, Wylie, and others
behind me, who fought a very difficult
fight-very close in the House, very over-
whelming in the Senate-to get this leg-
islation into law.
This is the first consumer bill that I've
had the opportunity to sign, and it's one of
the first times, I think, in the history of our
country when a consumer bill has been
signed here at the White House. [Laugh-
ter] But I believe it's important for me
as President to indicate my strong interest
in this legislation.
It's not a minor matter to treat con-
sumers fairly in this country. And if there's
one major gap in what has been accom-
plished by my predecessors in the White
House and by previous Congresses, it is
in the protection of consumers. I hope
that this is the first of a series of bills
that I'll be able to sign here on the White
House lawn.
I believe that we need to pursue the
opportunity for consumers to be repre-
sented before the agencies of the Federal
Government which determine their right
to a fair opportunity in our economic
structure. I hope that we'll have a chance
to enhance the use of responsible class
action suits. And above all, I hope that
I'll have a chance to sign into law an act
creating the consumer protection agency,
which I believe is of very great importance
to our country.
The deliberate misinformation that's
been promulgated about this legislation is
disheartening to me. And I hope that the
Members of Congress who have already
shown their courage in protecting con-
sumers against what is often very strong
pressure will again renew their effort to
pass this law which will create the agency
that I've described.
We now have consumer protection
scattered so diversely throughout the Fed-
eral Government that it's impossible to
make it effective. And it would be a great
saving in taxpayers' money; it would be a
great saving in the wasted efforts of pub-
lic employees; and it would also be a
great step forward in letting American
people know that our free enterprise
system can be fair to implement this
agency in the future.
This bill assures that collection proce-
dures are fair. Testimony that was given
during the hearings on this bill showed
that quite often innocent consumers-
some of whom had even been misidenti-
fied as debtors-were harassed by profane
language, by false statements made to
them directly or by telephone, by calls
after midnight to disturb a family, by
threats which were contrary to the law,
by alleging that consumers were violating
the law when in fact they weren't. And
1628
