Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
resolve differences between the bills that they've passed. There, in the next
few weeks, the strength and courage of our political system will be proven.
The choices facing the Members of Congress are not easy. For them
to pass an effective and fair plan, they will need your support and your
understanding—your support to resist pressures from a few for special
favors at the expense of the rest of us and your understanding that there
can be no effective plan without some sacrifice from all of us.
Tonight, at this crucial time, I want to emphasize why it is so impor-
tant that we have an energy plan and what we will risk, as a nation, if
we are timid or reluctant to face this challenge. It's crucial that you under-
stand how serious this challenge is.
With every passing month, our energy problems have grown worse.
This summer we used more oil and gasoline than ever before in our
history. More of our oil is coming from foreign countries. Just since April,
our oil imports have cost us $23 billion-about $350 worth of foreign
oil for the average American family.
A few weeks ago, in Detroit, an unemployed steelworker told me
something that may reflect the feelings of many of you. "Mr. President,”
he said, “I don't feel much like talking about energy and foreign policy.
I'm concerned about how I'm going to live. . . . I can't be too concerned
about other things when I have a 10-year-old daughter to raise and I
don't have a job and I'm 56 years old."
Well, I understand how he felt, but I must tell you the truth. And
the truth is that you cannot talk about economic problems now or in the
future without talking about energy.
Let me try to describe the size and the effect of the problem. Our
farmers are the greatest agricultural exporters the world has ever known,
but it now takes all the food and fiber that we export in 2 years just
to pay for 1 year of imported oil-about $45 billion.
This excessive importing of foreign oil is a tremendous and rapidly
increasing drain on our national economy. It hurts every American fam-
ily. It causes unemployment. Every $5 billion increase in oil imports costs
us 200,000 American jobs. It costs us business investments. Vast amounts
of American wealth no longer stay in the United States to build our
factories and to give us a better life.
It makes it harder for us to balance our Federal budget and to finance
needed programs for our people. It unbalances our Nation's trade with
other countries. This year, primarily because of oil, our imports will be
at least $25 billion more than all the American goods the we sell overseas.
1982
