Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 29
So, I think, in closing, I should say that
he is a relatively modest man. It embar-
rasses him when the authority and influ-
ence that he has is publicly described. But
I think it is great, and it's because of his
own leadership qualities that he has this
influence.
I don't think he's ever abused it. I
think he's been a very good man. He has
a strong interest in Louisiana. And when-
ever there's a conflict between the na-
tional interest and Louisiana, more
parochial interest-as I would be in the
Senate-he's inclined to go with Louisi-
ana. But that doesn't always happen.
Although I was not here, I think when
the question of the oil depletion allow
ance faced the Senate for the major oil
companies, he voted to do away with the
oil depletion allowance, which was a very
courageous thing to do.
He and his wife were over at the White
House not too long ago for supper with
just me and Rosalynn. And we reaffirmed
our friendship.
But I think if the truth were known,
not only with Senator Long but with
Senator Sparkman and with Senator
Eastland and others, we have a very good
relationship. And the controversies and
the hot debates and the differences of
opinion are the things that attract the
news media, which is understandable and
predictable, and I don't particularly de-
plore it. But the good working relation-
ship that I have developed with people
like Senator Long--and with whom we
disagree on occasion-is one that pro-
vides a basis for continuity and a sense
of partnership. And I believe that when
this Congress goes home, there will be a
general inventory of accomplishments
that will be a credit to our country.
So, he represents, in my opinion, one of
the fine qualities of leadership that the
Congress has provided. When I've been
asked in the past what's been the biggest
surprise that I've found, I have often said
it's the quality of the individual Members
of Congress and the depth with which
they understand complicated issues, be-
cause after they've been here a few years,
they start concentrating or specializing in
a certain aspect of America's life, ei-
ther domestic or foreign.
And I've found that a quiet conver-
sation with a chairman of a committee
or subcommittee about a specific, highly
technical issue is one of the best sources
of information and advice that I can get.
Let me say in closing that I'm very
grateful to have a chance to talk to you.
wish I could have answered more ques-
tions, but the breadth of your own ques-
tions indicates the breadth of my re-
sponsibilities. I've enjoyed being Presi-
dent very much, and I was well prepared
for the controversy, having served as Gov-
ernor for 4 years and having campaigned
for 2 years. And I think that many of the
controversial issues that have to be faced
are a credit to our Government and not a
cause for apology.
When I do have a difficult decision to
make on the Mideast or on energy or on
tax reform, on illegal aliens, I feel much
surer that I'll make the right decision,
ultimately, if the American public had
been involved in the discussion. I think
in the past, there's been too much done
secretly and privately and at the last min-
ute revealed to the American people.
And although it does create confusion and
a sense of lack of discipline and control
when these matters are opened up for free
and open debate and controversy, I think
it's healthy because ultimately the Ameri-
can people have sound judgment, and
the more they have a role to play with
their government decisions, the less
chance we have of making a serious error.
1943
