Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
when he becomes Governor of Virginia.
There's no doubt that I'll treat Vir-
ginia fair no matter how the campaign
comes out. But there won't be any prob-
lem in constant communication between
Henry Howell and me in the years ahead
because he's promised me that if there's
ever a need for Virginia people to have the
services of a President, that he will not
keep me waiting outside the door of the
Governor's office in Virginia.
There are some basic changes that need
to be made in your State. I started my
married life here in Norfolk-1009 Buck-
ingham-as a young Navy ensign. And
the greatness of our military forces, the
greatness of your shipyard capabilities, the
constant expansion of job opportunities,
the closeness between your unique com-
munity and our Central Government in
Washington are all a very precious pos-
session that you have. It would be hard
to hope to see a major improvement.
But I think that if Virginia has one
failing, it's that the interests of consumers
have not been given adequate attention
in the years gone by. Now, I believe that
every family has got to have the services
of a good telephone system and a good
power distribution system. But in your
State and mine, too, I don't want to see
an uncontrolled monopoly.
Henry Howell understands this. And
when the price of energy goes up, in most
States increases in your power rates have
to be approved by a regulatory agency
answering to you. But in Virginia the
charges are passed on to you automati-
cally. That ought to be changed. And I
believe Henry Howell can change it.
I understand that one year the rates
went up 15 percent-decided only by the
power company. I think that if there was
a constraint on them that reasonable cost
increases could be passed along. But
they'd be a lot more careful not to waste
money, and they would begin to realize
that it's their money they were wasting in-
stead of your money that they were wast-
ing. This is important to you and to all
of us.
We have the same problem in Wash-
ington about powerful companies having
too much influence. I put forward to the
Congress a comprehensive energy pack-
age. Part of it calls for deregulation, over
a period of time, of natural gas. And
it has, in the proposal, enough incentive
to encourage increased exploration and
a shifting of natural gas into the inter-
state pipelines so it comes to States like
your own and to Georgia, away from the
States where the gas is produced. I'm in
favor of that.
But the gas companies-very powerful
in Washington, as you well know-want
to deregulate immediately and add tre-
mendous cost to the American public, not
only for new gas to be discovered in the
future but for gas that already has been
discovered and that will be coming to you
in any case.
This latest proposal in the Senate would
add about $20 billion to the price of nat-
ural gas already discovered in Alaska
alone and scheduled to be brought down
here. I hate to veto a bill that a Demo-
cratic Congress passes, but you can depend
upon it; I'll protect your interests when
the bill comes to my desk.
for
So, I've come here in a spirit of friend-
ship, appreciation to you for your confi-
dence in me as President, to ask you
your help now and in the future on be-
half of a longtime personal friend in whom
I have complete confidence, and to ask
your strong, active, dedicated, sacrificial
support in these next few weeks for a
Democratic ticket that will serve you well.
And it'll make a lot of difference to you
who is elected attorney general, who is
1658
