June 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
8th of October—that is our goal-we'll
have a tax reform package to them as well.
In addition, we've proposed social secu-
rity reform and other major issues that I
need not outline to you now.
In foreign affairs, we've got an equally
ambitious program underway. We are
working very closely with some of our
allies, Germany, France, England, Can-
ada, in trying to resolve the Namibian
question in formerly Southwest Africa,
Southwest Africa,
working with Mr. Vorster in South Africa.
And I think we've made good progress on
that recently. It's still a difficult thing.
We are working closely with the British
on trying to resolve the Rhodesian
ques-
tion, leading there toward majority rule.
We are in the process now of bringing the
parties to agree to accept the broad out-
lines of a constitution under which free
elections might be conducted.
In the Middle East, I've met with all
the leaders there now except Mr. Begin. I
met with Mr. Rabin when he was Prime
Minister. And Mr. Begin will be coming
over here on the 19th of next month to
spend 2 or 3 days in our country, and I'm
getting prepared for his visit.
We hope that this year we might make
some progress in the Middle East. It's
a very difficult question. It's one on which
I've spent a great deal of time. At the
same time, we are negotiating with the
Soviets, trying to reach for the first time
a comprehensive test ban on nuclear
explosives.
We are prepared to accept the test ban
with adequate safeguards that would
apply both to military and peaceful ex-
plosive devices.
The British have asked to join this
discussion, and both the Soviets and we
have welcomed them in those talks, and
they are being conducted in Moscow this
minute.
We are also talking to them about
reducing the military presence or restrain-
ing it in the future in the Indian Ocean,
prior notification of missile test firing, a
prohibition against the capability of at-
tacking observation satellites or others in
space, and working as best we can to bring
about a comprehensive, permanent agree-
ment on SALT.
I feel at this point we've got a good
framework for an agreement, but no
specific agreement on the SALT negotia-
tions. We are in a strong position on
strategic weapons, and I think that strong
position can be maintained for the fore-
seeable future, but we don't want a su-
periority there.
We'd like to reach an agreement with
the Soviets where we can have a drastic
reduction in total commitments with
atomic weapons, but retaining an equiva-
lent position with them so that either side
will be strong enough to prevent-to per-
mit a retaliatory attack, but not be subject
to devastation that's overwhelming in an
original attack—at least that we could
still retaliate.
The other thing that we are trying to
do is and I'll just mention two more be-
fore I answer questions-is to prevent
the spread of the capability for atomic ex-
plosions. I think it's accurate to say that
8 months ago there was a general feeling
in the world that there was no way to
restrain any more additional nations join-
ing the nuclear explosive-I guess you
would call it fraternity. After India ex-
ploded a device, there was a general sense
that with the spread of atomic power
to produce electricity, that the develop-
ment of explosives was inevitable.
I think that time has changed. And
I believe there's a general hope now that
with strict control over reprocessing plants
and a long delay in shifting toward
a plutonium society, that we might indeed
prevent an expansion of the nuclear club.
The other thing that's been highly pub-
licized is our commitment to human
rights. We have addressed a subject that
is very important to me and to the Amer-
1166
