Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 17
never mentioned the western leg of the
pipeline to me. If he corresponded with
some of my staff members and I'm not
familiar with it, then, of course, that
would be understandable.
I've been with him several times this
year, both in California, and he spent a
night with me at the mansion. We've had
long discussions, but I did not know he
was dissatisfied with the arrangement at
all.
One of the problems, however, with
the El Paso route, which was the alter-
native, was the reluctance of California
to provide some means by which oil or
natural gas could come into the State to
be used there and also to be transported
to other parts of the country. I don't say
that in a spirit of criticism, because I'm
concerned about environmental questions
and possible oil spills and, also, the deteri-
oration in the quality of air, because of
heavy shipping transport, as well.
But I would expect that Governor
Brown and I and other State and Federal
officials would eagerly search for a basis
on which we could assure California ade-
quate energy supplies in the future.
My decision to go with the Alcan route
was one of great importance to our coun-
try. But certainly none of the factors in-
volved was to damage California people
whom I care about very much.
BUSINESS TAXES
Q. Mr. President, I appreciate the
honor of being here and meeting you. I've
been an admirer of yours. The one thing
that concerns me and, I think, concerns
you and the country, is the tax reforms
that are getting into the magazines, et
cetera.
You see what's happening to the stock
market. I, like you, was a poor boy in
Washington that became affluent. Now, I
don't like to see small business—which, I
believe I read in Fortune, contributes 90
percent of the gross national product--
now, where you make statements that
capital gains might go to 50 percent, more
social security taxes to a small business-
man, it's killing the American incentive.
And I do hope that you will give it serious
thought to keep venture capital going, not
for the big corporations. We support the
big corporation.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of the
major considerations in evolving the tax
reform package is obviously to provide
adequate incentive for business expansion.
And I believe that when the tax reform
package is made public, that there will be
a sigh of relief and also a removal of the
inevitable uncertainty about what the
terms of the tax proposal might encom-
pass.
Also, of course, through long weeks of
House and Senate hearings, any possible
improvements on the tax reform package
would be explored.
We have met with many leaders—I
have personally-representing small busi-
nesses, large businesses, the professions,
labor, consumers, tax experts, in trying to
evolve a good package. And I think it
will be good. We hope that there will be
equity. We hope that there will be a re-
duction in tax rates. We hope that there
will be simplicity, and we hope that we
can provide an adequate assurance of im-
proved venture capital in the future. And
we hope that there will be substantial tax
reductions.
Those are about five factors that I hope
will be in the tax reform package and
which I can predict to you with great as-
surance will be in the tax package.
Q. With the 15-percent tax investment
credit, you cut the unemployment rate to
4 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. That sounds very
good.
1621
