Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 12
RAUL A. LOPEZ, curator of New World Col-
lections and Communication Publication
Program at UCLA's Museum of Cultural
History;
E. LELAND WEBBER, director of the Field Mu-
seum of Natural History in Chicago;
For 3-year terms:
GARY K. CLARKE, director of the Topeka,
Kans., Zoological Park;
GEORGE HORSE CAPTURE, an Indian curricu-
lum researcher and instructor at the College
of Great Falls in Montana;
CHARLOTTE FERST, member of the executive
committee and chairman of the endowment
committee of the High Museum of Art in
Atlanta;
For 2-year terms:
MAMIE P. CLARK, executive director of the
Northside Center for Child Development in
New York;
BENJAMIN W. HAZARD, curator of special ex-
hibits in education at the Oakland (Cali-
fornia) Museum;
NANCY NEGLEY, president of the San Antonio
Conservation Society;
For 1-year terms:
DOUGLAS DILLON, president of the Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art in New York;
NEIL HARRIS, professor of history at the Uni-
versity of Chicago;
JOAN MONDALE, former director of the As-
sociated Council of the Arts and author of
"Politics in Art."
Visit of Lieutenant General
Obasanjo of Nigeria
Remarks to Reporters Following the Nigerian
Head of State's Departure. October 12, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, did you solve
all the problems with them or only half?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we made a great
stride forward. I think the recognition of
Nigeria as an enlightened and very in-
fluential nation has been a long time com-
ing in our own country.
The respect with which the Nigerian
Government and people are held in
Africa is obvious to us now. A year ago,
we had nothing but animosity between
our own country and the Nigerian Gov-
ernment. Now we have nothing but
friendship. And I'm very grateful that
this exchange has taken place and the
change in our relationships have taken
place.
In almost every trouble spot in Africa,
the Nigerians are looked upon as a major
factor for peace and for the resolution of
differences. They comprise about a third
of the population of Africa, about half
of the gross national product of all the
black African nations.
The key to success in resolving the
problems in Rhodesia, Namibia, between
Somalia and Ethiopia, between Chad and
Libya-I think that this is because of
their complete commitment to democ-
racy. The fact that the military leaders
have healed the wounds of the civil war,
the fact that they have an absolute com-
mitment to a democratic means of writ-
ing a new constitution with complete
civilian rule, these things are admirable,
as measured by American standards.
The compatibility between us is very
profound. And I think this new develop-
ment in the relationships between our
countries will be very helpful to us, to
Africa, and, I think, to the entire world.
Q. Are you pleased with the Israeli
Cabinet action?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry?
Q. On the peace plan, so-called, the
procedures for going to Geneva, are you
pleased with that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'm pleased with
that. And it's not a final decision, obvious-
ly, because we don't yet know the private
concerns on the part of the Israelis I
don't.
1781
