July 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
about this case. And I think that we will
prevent a reversion to the previous dis-
crimination that did exist; at the same
time, we want to respect the need for an
adequate level of education for minority
groups in our country, and we also want
to preserve the heritage and background
and history that is part of the lives of
minority families.
I think that it is accurate to say that
I, the Vice President, the Secretary of
HEW, and the Attorney General are all
committed to making sure that these con-
cerns that I have just outlined to you are
met and that the discrimination that has
been a part of our national life in the
past is ended.
MR. SANDERS. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. I have enjoyed it very
much.
NOTE: The radio interview began at 2:02 p.m.
in the Oval Office at the White House. Partici-
pating in the interview were: Vince Sanders,
vice president and national news director of
the network, Joe Brown, editor, and Don
Agurs, White House correspondent.
As printed above, this item follows the text
of the White House press release which was
issued on July 22.
United States-United Kingdom
Air Services Agreement
Statement on the Signing of the
Agreement. July 23, 1977
The agreement governing civil air
services between the United States and
the United Kingdom was negotiated over
a period of several months and signed in
Bermuda on July 23, 1977. It replaces
and updates the predecessor agreement
reached in 1946 and last amended in
1966.
The new agreement provides for con-
tinuing the basic principle of a fair and
equal opportunity for the airlines of both
countries to compete and dedicates both
Governments to the provision of safe,
adequate, and efficient international air
transportation responsive to the present
and future needs of the public and to the
continued development of international
air commerce. It emphasizes that both
scheduled and charter air transportation
are important to the consumer interest
and are essential elements of a healthy
international air transport system.
The United States seeks an interna-
tional economic environment and air
transportation structure founded on
healthy economic competition among all
air carriers. The new agreement is con-
sistent with this objective. We shall con-
tinue to rely on competitive market forces
as much as possible in our international
air transportation agreements so that the
public may receive the improved service
at costs that reflect efficient operations.
The agreement is one that reflects well
on our two great nations. Its quality, its
fairness, and its benefits to the consumer
and to airlines should make it last as long
as the original 1946 Bermuda Agreement.
It continues our long and historic rela-
tionship with the United Kingdom.
Generalized System of Preferences
for Developing Countries
Executive Order 12005. July 23, 1977
AMENDING THE GENERALIZED SYSTEM
OF PREFERENCES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, including Title
V and Section 604 of the Trade Act of
1974 (88 Stat. 2066, 19 U.S.C. 2461 et
1346
