Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
billion more if natural gas is completely
deregulated, as proposed by the industry.
There comes a time when we must ask
how much is enough. Fair treatment and
equal sacrifice by every member and seg-
ment of our society are fundamental prin-
ciples of the National Energy Plan sub-
mitted by my administration and already
passed by the House.
Our proposed price under this plan
would give producers strong incentives to
explore and to develop new supplies of
natural gas through a price which will be
six times higher than the price was 5 years
ago. That is enough. It's time for the pub-
lic interest to prevail over special interest
lobbyists.
I appreciate very much the leadership
which the Senate majority leader, Senator
Byrd, is providing on this particular and
because this is a major domestic issue that
we're faced with this year, that I and the
American people can continue to have
confidence that the outcome of these pro-
posals will be acceptable to me as Presi-
dent and will be a source of gratitude to
the House and Senate by the American
people when adjournment day comes.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:40 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. In his remarks, he referred
to Sam Donaldson of ABC News.
National Employ the
Handicapped Week, 1977
Proclamation 4526. September 27, 1977
very important question. And I call on By the President of the United States
the Senate to act responsibly in the inter-
est of the great majority of Americans to
reject narrow, special interest attacks on
all segments of the National Energy Plan.
This Nation faces a serious and a grow-
ing energy problem. Our balance of trade
is very disturbing; it's so high, primarily,
because of excessive oil imports. We need
to discourage the waste of energy. But the
lobbying efforts of oil and gas industries
on deregulation itself show how the spe-
cial interests are trying to block the en-
actment of the entire energy program.
As we depend more and more on en-
ergy imports, the special interests must not
be allowed to jeopardize our energy fu-
ture. We need adequate supplies. We need
reasonable prices.
I realize that there have been some pre-
liminary votes in the Senate which cause
concern. But I have confidence in the
judgment of the Senate and the entire
Congress. And I believe that because of
the great interest of the American people
in this broad question of energy policy and
of America
A Proclamation
America needs the talents and energies
of all her citizens, including the physically
and mentally handicapped. But many
handicapped people have been kept from
full participation in our society. To the
handicaps they must overcome have been
added the barriers of an environment con-
structed without them in mind, a lack of
equal education, and exclusion from re-
warding and useful employment.
In recent months, however, progress
has been dramatic. New laws are promot-
ing equality for handicapped people. The
recent White House Conference on Hand-
icapped Individuals stimulated plans for
the future. New ideas in education, hous-
ing, jobs, and transportation are adding
to the opportunities for handicapped peo-
ple to be independent, to lead fuller lives
and to contribute to society. In support of
these goals, I have asked the heads of Ex-
ecutive departments and agencies to set
1672
