Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Meeting With Brigadier General
Juan Alberto Melgar Castro
of Honduras
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting
With the Chief of State of Honduras.
September 8, 1977
REPORTER. How did these talks go, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they have all
been very good. One of the most difficult
threats to peace in our entire hemisphere
has been the breakdown in relations be-
tween El Salvador and Honduras because
of a border dispute that has been long-
standing and which was aggravated by
a conflict following a soccer game 7 or 8
years ago. And because of this, the Pan-
American Highway has been severed for
use and there have been no relations there
and a constant threat of war.
Today, however, the El Salvadorian
Congress voted unanimously to approve
a pending agreement for mediation of the
border disputes, and on the other hand,
Honduras has reaffirmed its commitment
to peace with El Salvador, and the two
Presidents have been meeting at length
while they have been in Washington.
We've also received good news from
El Salvador, that they asked the Orga-
nization of American States to send their
commission on human rights into El Sal-
vador to witness the great progress that
has been made in the last 2 months since
the new administration took effect.
I've just met with President Melgar of
Honduras, who has shown a great inter-
est in multinational cooperation between
Honduras and Guatemala and El Salva-
dor and other countries in that region,
like Nicaragua, in the development of
energy resources. These are relatively poor
countries as far as per capita income is
concerned. And of course, this poverty
has been aggravated by an absence of
trade and commerce and cooperation
with their neighbors.
And so, I think that many of these
leaders have come here to Washington not
only to participate in the ceremonies re-
lated to the Panama Canal Treaty but
also to use the occasion as a chance to
meet privately with one another and to
try to resolve differences that have been
in existence for decades, as an exhibition
of their hope for peace and friendship
which we showed, along with Panama,
with our treaty.
So, I think the discussions have been
good. It also gives me a chance to learn
about their special needs.
There is a hydroelectric project, for in-
stance, in Honduras, El Cajon, and of
course, our attitude on the Board of Di-
rectors of the World Bank and the Inter-
American Bank, the allocation of funds
from some of the European countries and
some of the Arab countries, Iran, for
this project might very well make it pos-
sible now to be completed. It's been
pending for years and years. And I think
a common interest in this kind of proj-
ect, whether or not this particular one is
successful, is a constructive opportunity.
Q. I wonder if I could ask, Mr. Presi-
dent, if you've been told that your Harris
approval rating has dropped from 69 to,
today, 52 percent?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. And to what extent you think that
is related to the Lance affair?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard to say, you
know, what causes the ups and downs of
a public official's approval rating. I think,
though, that if I continue to make a judg-
ment on each individual decision that
confronts me on the basis of its merits,
that ultimately I'll survive and will retain
an adequate support from our people.
This, combined with the Panama Canal
problem, the adverse report recently on
unemployment, the chronic inflation rate,
1554
