Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 8
We weren't trying to hide things from
each other in order to get maximum ad-
vantage from the other, but we were
trying to make a project which would be
to the advantage of the American people
and to the Canadian people.
From our side, we are very happy with
the cooperation that you, Mr. President,
and your people have shown. It remains,
as you say, to sign the fine print next
week. But I am certain that with the
agreed upon principles that there will be
no difficulty there.
We will have to, apart from going to
our legislature—we'll want to make sure
that transmission of the energy itself is in
keeping with the high principles as we
have set for ourselves in terms of protect-
ing the environment, making sure that
the interests of the native peoples will be
guarded in every way, and that, of course,
our Provinces and our Yukon Council
will be involved in the execution of this.
But that is for us to follow up on. And so
far as our bilateral negotiations are con-
cerned, I am very happy with the spirit
that pervaded them.
[At this point, Prime Minister Trudeau sum-
marized his remarks in French.]
The President. Thank you, Pierre.
I might say that I congratulated Prime
Minister Trudeau on the tough negotia-
tors that the Canadians have proven
themselves to be. And I am now in the
process of asking him to help us negotiate
agreements with other nations; they've
done so well in this particular project.
[Laughter]
But we are proud of this. There has
never been a larger project in the history
of the world. And for two nations who
have intense domestic political problems
involving environment, involving cost to
consumers, involving assured supplies of
energy in the future, to look 20 or 40
ahead and to undertake this project with
years
friendship and mutual trust is a major
step forward.
And I think, again, it demonstrates
vividly the longstanding friendship that
exists between ourselves and the Cana-
dians. We've had many other potential
disagreements in recent months concern-
ing the oceans, fisheries, and in every in-
stance we've been able to work these
potential problems out harmoniously.
And we still have some problems con-
cerning United States and Canadian tax
laws, extraterritorial questions concerning
antitrust enforcements. But, again, we are
trying and I am sure with assured even-
tual success--to resolve these very impor-
tant matters for our people in harmony
and a spirit of cooperation.
But I want to reemphasize my thanks
to you, Pierre, for your friendship and
cooperation.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Well, Jimmy, I
am very grateful for these final words. If
I can help you with your elections at any
point, I would like to [laughter]———
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Meeting With Vice Admiral
Alfredo Poveda Burbano
of Ecuador
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting
With the President of the Supreme Council
of the Government of Ecuador.
September 8, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, would you like
to make any comment on your meeting
with President Poveda?
THE PRESIDENT. I would be glad to.
We had a very thorough discussion about
matters that are of mutual importance to
us, the common commitment that we
have with the people and leaders of Ecua-
1549
