Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of the American people was very much
different from his.
I think it's also good to point out that
Thomas Jefferson, as an Ambassador to
France, absorbed the best elements of the
French commitment to freedom and the
worth of the individual human being, and
this was part of his own contribution to
our Nation's history, to our Nation's laws,
to our Constitution. So, in those ancient
days for us, recent days for an ancient
nation like France, we derived our char-
acter from them and our freedom with
their help.
And I've always felt an obligation to
France, even as a schoolboy, because of
this tremendous contribution in time of
crisis and challenge.
As you well know, in this century we've
stood side by side with France when free-
dom again was challenged and fought as
brothers for liberty. And now I have
learned more and more as a President the
somewhat unique nature of France, to
honor the friendship that ties them with
us as an ally, which is crucial to us and
to world peace and to the preservation of
our democratic principles throughout the
world, but also to retain a unique aloof-
ness and independence which is, I think,
admirable.
France has never been dominated by
anyone else as long as they had control
of their government. And they've retained
even now a sense of autonomy and inde-
pendence of action that can't be per-
suaded against their best judgment, even
by the closest of allies. And that's an ad-
mirable trait in my opinion.
We have the closest relationship with
France in matters that concern our own
economy. We share common problems
and common goals. And when we have
a qualified economist who is both the
Finance Minister and the Prime Minister
come to our country, we were very eager
to be students and to learn from him.
We've admired what they've done in
the field of controlling energy consump-
tion. I think we have a lot to learn from
them, and I would like for the Prime
Minister to repeat to you the comment
that he made earlier to me today about
our own efforts to conserve energy in this
country.
When our White House was burned,
Monroe-later President Monroe-was
in France. And when he came back, he
brought this particular gilded center-
piece, Mr. Prime Minister, from France
back to our country. He delivered this
here, I think, in 1818. And Rosalynn, in
particular, wanted to put it on the table
tonight to show that when the White
House was rebuilt after being burned in
1812, that part of France's beauty was
delivered here by our President.
So, those ties of history and those ties
of the current day are very important to
us. We seek France's advice and counsel
as we deal with the problems of the
world, in the Middle East, with their
unique relationship with the European
Community, as an adviser in Africa, as a
generous nation. And we have a lot to
admire there.
Of all the developed nations in the
world, France devotes a larger portion
of their gross national product to foreign
aid than any other. And this sense of
pride, independence, freedom, and also
generosity is admirable, indeed.
We are honored to have the Prime
Minister come here to be with us. We've
not had a Prime Minister of France come
here in the last 20 years. He did come
here last year, but not as a Prime Min-
ister. And we are very grateful that he
would honor us in this way.
This is an opportunity for us to share
our defense plans, to share military se-
crets with them, to nurture one another
in times of trial, and to share common
successes. And I believe that it's accurate
1604
