Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Howell in 1973. And then a couple of
weeks later, I took another Wednesday
afternoon off, and I came to Virginia and
got in Henry Howell's bus-he was not
with me then; he was campaigning in
another place and I campaigned
through the small towns and livestock
sale barns and tractor dealerships of Vir-
ginia on behalf of Henry Howell. And he
lost that Governor's race by less than 1
percent. It was a great disappointment
to me, because a lot of those who believed
in him so deeply and knew he would do
a good job and knew he cared about him
didn't get out and work hard enough in
the last few days. And the distorted news
reports about him, in my opinion, cost
him the Governorship. But now is the
year to correct that mistake and put him
in the office.
He's a man who believes in home rule.
And if he were to live in Roanoke, people
who live in Boones Mill, and those others
of you who believe in local government
and who believe that a citizen ought to
have as many decisions as possible made
in the city hall and the county courthouse
and not in the State capitol and not in
Washington, ought to support Henry
Howell, because he is fighting for a home
rule provision that'll let every decision
possible be made as close as possible to
you. That's my kind of government. I be-
lieve it's your kind of government.
There was one other reason that I
wanted to come to Virginia. I had seen
some little pins that were even circulat-
ing through Georgia with five or six
initials on them. And the secret of that
slogan was "Keep the big boys honest."
I believe in the free enterprise system.
I'm part of it. And I know there's a very
important place for telephone companies
and power companies to fill in our lives.
But most other States have had a tight
control over the step-by-step increase in
charges that are levied against consumers
and a very tight control over waste that
sometimes exists when there is no regu-
lation of increased prices.
And I understand-it's hard to believe,
but I understand in Virginia that every
time energy costs go up that the utility
companies automatically raise your rates,
and the regulatory agencies don't have a
thing in the world to say about it. That
ought to be changed. It's just a matter
of fairness. It's just a matter of justice.
And I would guess that in the long run,
even the utility companies themselves
would not be hurt if they knew that any
increase in their costs would be carefully
examined by public representatives and a
reasonable profit allowed. But in your
neighboring States they cannot raise rates
15 percent in 1 year without a utility reg-
ulatory body saying this is fair to the con-
sumers. That ought to be changed. I un-
derstand Henry Howell is the one that
can change it.
I tried to look at some poll results be-
fore I came to Virginia to see what advice
I could give Henry Howell. You know
how easy it is to give Henry Howell ad-
vice. He's so close to the people himself
that he doesn't get his counsel and his ad-
vice from other politicians. And I'm not
going to go in a posture of getting be-
tween you and him, because he listens to
you, and that's the way it ought to be.
But one of the main concerns about
Henry Howell is that he's sometimes in-
discreet. He brings up subjects that, when
examined by the news media, create con-
troversy. But as far as I can see as a politi-
cian, that's not anything to be ashamed
of; that's something to be proud of. Issues
need to be discussed openly and contro-
versial issues ought especially to be dis-
cussed openly.
The last time that I was in Virginia,
before the general election, I was in Wil-
1654
