Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 28
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, for some days now
some of your constituencies have been
publicly expressing concern that your in-
terest in balancing the budget, your in-
terest in working against inflation might
cause you to ease up on your campaign
commitments to the cities, to the poor,
for employment programs, for national
health insurance. One of those critics,
Vernon Jordan, had a private meeting
with you, and we were told that you told
Mr. Jordan that you felt his public ex-
pression of these doubts would work
against the interests of the poor and of
black people.
forth to the areas that in the past have
not been treated fairly.
The third part of your question about
my private conversation with Vernon
Jordan: I did point out to him that when
erroneous or demagogic statements were
made inaccurately reporting that neither
I nor my own administration nor the
Congress cared about those poor people—
that since we are the last hope of those
who are poor, that the Government would
help them in some way, that this removed
from them that prospect of a better life.
Accurate criticisms, fine. But I think to
prey upon those who are poor or deprived
or who are alienated from society and er-
I would like to know what you meant roneously report that neither I nor my
by that.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. I think many
of the expressions of concern are certainly
legitimate. I want to be sure that the pub-
lic and I and the Congress are always
aware of deprivations, because quite of-
ten, those who are deprived most are not
articulate enough or well-educated
enough or influential enough to speak
with a strong voice that can be heard. And
I think it's completely legitimate for some-
one like the head of the Urban League
or the head of the NAACP or other
groups to speak out if they think that in-
adequate attention has been paid.
The second part of your question is, I
think, that we've had a very good record
so far, both my own administration and
the Democratic Congress. We've initiated
programs now, which are just beginning
to be felt, that will greatly reduce the
problems of those poor people in down-
town urban areas, in particular, with pub-
lic service jobs, public works jobs, CETA
training programs, and the allocation of
all Federal moneys on housing and so
Cabinet members nor the Congress cares
about them, does hurt the poor. That was
the essence of the conversation.
Q. Mr. President, could I follow up
on that question?
THE PRESIDENT. I was trying to recog-
nize-yes, go ahead.
Q. I wanted to be sure I understood
you correctly. Are you saying that Mr.
Jordan's criticism of you was demagogic
or that he was preying upon the fears of
the poor people of this country?
THE PRESIDENT. No. As I said earlier,
I think that Mr. Jordan's statements are
certainly legitimate. He has a right to
express his own opinion. But I will say
this: To the extent that he alleged that
neither I nor my administration nor the
Congress was concerned about the poor,
those statements were erroneous. But I
think in his statements both before and
after his speech, he presented to some de-
gree both sides: that we had made prog-
ress that was not adequate, that our cam-
paign promises had not been kept they
are being kept-and so forth.
1373
