Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 15
the Community Hospital Association
which would, in effect, self-regulate it-
self, limit capital expenditures and freeze
employee ratios for a 2-year period to
study the long-range aspects. And they
approached Representative Rostenkowski
and were told that his mind's made up,
doesn't want to hear anything else about
it.
Is your cost containment bill pretty
much—are you very firm on this, or are
we open to other suggestions for more
long-range planning so that we can talk
about freezing or controlling other costs
to hospital suppliers; namely, doctors,
others, other medical suppliers to the hos-
pitals rather than just putting a freeze on
the hospitals?
THE PRESIDENT. I think our mind is
pretty well made up, except within the
bounds of the congressional deliberations
when I presume that adequate opportu-
nity is given those who want to testify to
do so. But I would not be willing to accept
a 12-month or a 24-month or a 36-month
study before we come back and make a
recommendation to Congress.
We are faced now with an almost im-
possible proposition of having the cost of
hospital care double every 5 years. And
until we get some sort of constraint on
hospital cost increases, I don't think
there's any hope that we'll ever have a
better health system for the money that
is available. As you know, the cost of hos-
pital care has gone up exorbitantly, in
my opinion, compared to other inflation-
ary costs.
So, to summarize, I would not be in
favor of any delay other than that that
would be part of the normal congressional
process.
Q. Let me follow that up just a second.
Has any thought been put to controlling
other suppliers to the hospitals, such as
doctors' fees, their regular, normal sup-
plies that they have? As I understand it,
under the cost containment bill, these
costs are not frozen or limited to a 90-
percent increase or are they? Are they
taken into account?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think adjust-
ments in wages have at least a partial
exemption, and, of course, the fees that
doctors charge to patients is not included
in the hospital cost containment legisla-
tion. But we are pursuing independently
of the cost containment bills some at-
tempts to constrain the unnecessary pur-
chase of very expensive machinery and
equipment, where several hospitals in one
area will spend an enormous amount of
money on duplicative equipment which
has got to be paid for.
I served 14 years on a hospital au-
thority at home-and my mother is a reg-
istered nurse—and my uncle before me,
my brother after me. And we've been
able to see firsthand that many of the
increases in hospital costs can be reduced
without any deterioration, in my opinion,
on the quality of the care given to the
patients.
But I think this is just a first step in a
move toward more preventive care, a
heavier emphasis on outpatient care,
without having to have the patient admit-
ted to the hospital to receive treatment
and insurance payments, and some con-
straint on expenditures for the very ex-
pensive equipment, and, also, increasing
use of paramedical personnel. But this is
a very complicated overall subject. This
is the first of many steps.
UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. I am Chester Washington from Los
Angeles. On the job picture, the National
Urban League has just reported a dra-
matic increase in the unemployment of
black citizens, and they say now it's down
to the level during the recession period
of the fourth quarter of 1975 and that
1271
