Sept. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
President Carter and Prime Minister
Barre discussed current and projected dis-
armament talks, including SALT and the
U.N. General Assembly's Special Session
on Disarmament scheduled for 1978. Pres-
ident Carter said he is convinced that
France, as a major power, can make a
positive contribution both to the mainte-
nance of allied security and to the search
for a more secure and stable international
order. He was most interested in Prime
Minister Barre's comment on these issues
and the indications given on the views that
France intends to put forward in the field
of disarmament.
President Carter stated his appreciation
for France's expressed willingness to par-
ticipate in the International Fuel Cycle
Evaluation, the opening conference of
which is to occur next month, and noted
that France's technological leadership in
the field of nuclear energy makes its con-
tribution particularly important. The
President and the Prime Minister agreed
that vigorous and imaginative measures
are needed to develop nuclear energy
while preventing any proliferation of
nuclear weapons.
Prime Minister Barre explained the
main features of the French energy con-
servation policy and stressed the vital im-
portance of a rapid implementation of
President Carter's energy program.
President Carter outlined U.S. policies
on human rights. Prime Minister Barre
emphasized that the concept of liberty and
British effort to bring about a peaceful
transition to majority rule in Rhodesia and
expressed appreciation for French sup-
port. The two leaders agreed on the im-
portance of progress toward social justice
and majority rule in southern Africa.
President Carter praised France's vital
role in promoting economic development
and political stability in Africa.
The two leaders also reviewed the situa-
tion in the Middle East and agreed on the
importance of convening the Middle East
Peace Conference.
Prime Minister Barre raised the subject
of Concorde landing rights in the United
States, emphasizing the importance of this
issue to France. President Carter reiter-
ated his support for a 16-month trial
period for Concorde at Kennedy Airport
and expressed the hope that this could be
soon initiated. He also said that he would
decide the future of landing rights at
Dulles Airport in the very near future.
President Carter emphasized the vital
importance of close cooperation between
the United States and Europe. He ex-
pressed admiration for French leadership
in resolving many international economic,
social, political, and technological prob-
lems. Prime Minister Barre reiterated
President Giscard d'Estaing's invitation to
President Carter to visit France, and Pres-
ident Carter expressed the hope that he
would soon be in a position to reply.
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
September 16, 1977
Departments and Agencies.
the rights of man will continue to inspire Part-time Federal Employment
French foreign policy. The President and
the Prime Minister discussed the Belgrade
CSCE Review Conference. They agreed
on the need for a thorough review of im-
plementation of all aspects of the Hel-
sinki Final Act, designed to promote fur-
ther progress in each of these areas.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed the situation in Africa. President
Carter described U.S. steps to support the
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Part-time Employment
Part-time workers are an important,
but relatively untapped national re-
1610
