Aug. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
certainly make it easier for them to
go-
Q. Have we had any contact with the
Palestinians formally-informally to in-
dicate their position?
THE PRESIDENT. I think a better word
would be "indirectly." We've not had any
direct conversations with them. But, of
course, they are sending us messages
through the Syrians and the Saudi Ara-
bians, the Jordanians and the Egyptians.
So, we have a means to contact them
and to exchange ideas with them indirect-
ly. But we are not going to meet with the
Palestinian leaders as long as they are
committed to the destruction of Israel.
Q. What were they saying, indirectly?
THE PRESIDENT. That they may adopt
U.N. Resolution 242, which does recognize
Israel's right to exist permanently and in
peace with secure borders.
The thing that has made the Palestin-
ians reluctant to do this is, at the time 242
was passed, it only referred to Palestinians
as refugees. And if the Palestinians should
say, "We recognize U.N. Resolution 242
in its entirety, but we think the Palestin-
ians have additional status other than just
refugees," that would suit us okay.
Q. Anything on your schedule today
softball again, maybe?
THE PRESIDENT. Maybe. I don't know
yet.
Q. I don't know if we're up to it or not.
Q. How are you feeling?
THE PRESIDENT. I feel fine. Billy is in
pretty bad shape this morning. [Laughter]
Q. You're not stiff?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I'm not stiff.
Q. We could tell you privately, perhaps,
how he said he feels. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I'll probably go to the
farm later on today.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:10 a.m.
Clean Air Act Amendments
of 1977
Statement on Signing H.R. 6161
Into Law. August 8, 1977
I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 6161,
the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977.
This act is the culmination of a 3-year ef-
fort by the Congress to develop legislation
which will continue our progress toward
meeting our national clean air goals in all
parts of the country. The issues involved
in amending the Clean Air Act have been
difficult and the debate lengthy. However,
I believe that the Congress, under the
leadership of Senator Muskie and Repre-
sentative Rogers, has adopted a sound and
comprehensive program for achieving and
preserving healthy air in our Nation.
The automobile industry now has a firm
timetable for meeting strict, but achiev-
able emission reductions. That industry
now knows with certainty what is required
and can devote its full-time energies to
designing cars which will further our clean
air goals while continuing to improve fuel
efficiency.
This timetable will be enforced.
With this legislation, we can continue
to protect our national parks and our
major national wilderness areas and na-
tional monuments from the degradation
of air pollution. Other clean air areas of
the country will also be protected, at the
same time permitting economic growth in
an environmentally sound manner.
The act provides us with a new tool to
help abate industrial sources of pollution
to reduce noncompliance. By directing the
by authorizing use of economic incentives
Environmental Protection Agency to es-
tablish monetary penalties equal to the
cost of cleanup, those industries which de-
lay installing abatement equipment will
no longer be rewarded in the marketplace.
1460
