Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 17
posed Executive order to reform the Gov-
ernment's regulatory procedures. For the
first time, an order will not be final until
the public response has been received and
analyzed. Executive orders have always
been published in final form in the FED-
ERAL REGISTER with no opportunity for
the public to suggest changes in the text.
This order will be published in draft form
with a notice inviting public suggestions
and comments.
The President's regulatory reform pro-
gram aims to simplify and improve Gov-
ernment regulations which are often un-
necessarily complex, confusing, and bur-
densome. Federal regulation is often cited
as a source of frustration by consumers,
businessmen, State and local govern-
ments, and nonprofit institutions. Diffi-
culty in making private views known to
Federal regulatory agencies is another
source of frustration.
The proposed Executive order ad-
dresses some of these problems by requir-
ing agencies to take the following actions:
-Publish a semiannual agenda of up-
coming regulatory actions in order to al-
low all interested parties an early oppor-
tunity to provide their views on the regu-
lation. This includes consumers, business,
Congress, State and local governments,
and other public groups.
-Develop a plan for all significant reg-
ulations which assures that the public's
views are considered in the agency's
decisions; that the regulation does not
conflict with those of other agencies; that
the regulation is written clearly; and that
there is a specific official accountable for
the regulation.
-Increase oversight by policy officials
of the regulation development process to
assure that regulations are in the best
interest of the public.
-Prepare a regulatory analysis for all
major regulations to assure that feasible
alternatives have been analyzed and that
the most effective and least burdensome
approach has been chosen.
Undertake a review of existing reg-
ulations.
Agencies will be allowed some flexi-
bility to adapt these requirements to meet
their unique needs.
The draft Executive order has been re-
viewed by all departments and agencies
and many Members of Congress. The
FEDERAL REGISTER notice is scheduled to
appear on Friday, November 18, 1977,
and solicits public comments on several
specific questions related to the order. The
public has until December 18 to provide
comments.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
November 12
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
The President and Mrs. Carter at-
tended the Navy-Georgia Tech football
game in Annapolis, Md.
The President declared a major disas-
ter for the State of Virginia as a result of
severe storms and flooding, beginning
about October 31, which caused extensive
public and private property damage.
The President declared a major disas-
ter for the State of Tennessee as a result
of severe storms and flooding, beginning
about November 4, which caused exten-
sive public and private property damage.
2035
