Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 23
Minnesota to join with the greatest Amer-
ican that I know, the number one Demo-
crat in our country, and a man who has
been admired and is admired throughout
the world.
I was in Los Angeles last night, Senator
Humphrey, and hundreds of Democrats
who came to help finance our party all
send you their personal love.
But I came to express my thanks to
Senator Humphrey. I've missed him in
Washington, and I'm looking forward to
getting him back to the U.S. Senate where
he's been needed so badly.
He's got renewed strength. He's feeling
very well, and he's eager to get back to
Washington and join his fellow Senators
and bringing this congressional session to
a successful close.
On the plane, after we take off, I'm
going to sign a bill that will name the
newest building of the Health, Education,
and Welfare Department after Senator
Humphrey.
As a mayor of Minneapolis, as a Sen-
ator from Minnesota, and a Vice Presi-
dent, as a Presidential nominee, and a
great candidate and, now, as a U.S. Sen-
ator, I know no one who exemplifies what
our Nation stands for better than he.
If there's a retarded child in our coun-
try who hasn't been helped by Senator
Humphrey, I don't know about it. Every
elderly person in our Nation, every poor
person in our Nation, every black
person
in our Nation, everyone who has come
here from overseas who doesn't speak Eng-
lish well, everyone who lives in something
of despair knows that they have one
staunch and undying friend in Senator
Hubert Humphrey.
This naming of the building for him
would be just a small gesture on the part
of the House and the Senate to make sure
that everyone in our country, for this year
and for many years to come, will connect
this building and the great work that he's
done with the humanitarian efforts that
have been typical of him.
He's a friend of mine. He has been
down to Georgia to help me. He's given
me advice when I was Governor. I met
him when I was a Georgia senator. He's
been a man who has been an idol of
farmers throughout the country, and I'm
really looking forward to having him back
in his workclothes, back in Washington as
a staunch ally for me as President and
as a leader of our Congress. It's going to
mean a great deal to our country to have
him back where he belongs, again serving
the American people.
Senator Humphrey, I'm glad you're
going back to work, and I'm glad you've
let me provide the taxi service to get you
back where you belong. Congratulations
to you, and congratulations to the Minne-
sota football team yesterday. That was
great.
SENATOR HUMPHREY. Mr. President, I
know I speak on behalf of the almost 4
million people in this State when I say
thank you for stopping by on this Sunday
to pay us a visit, to share with us your
optimism, your confidence, your friendly
smile, and above all, your love of people
and country. It's these things that I find
so much of meaning to me. And it's in
these ideals and these attitudes that I
share so much with the President—a great
faith in the Nation, in our people, a faith
in our institutions of government, and a
knowing that we've got to work at it and
never give in and never give up.
I am happy to report to you that I do
feel so much better. Everything, of course,
is relative. I'm not quite as good as I was
when I was 50, but I'm doing mighty
good, considering what we've gone
through. Getting back to Washington is
going to be good therapy. That's what my
doctors told me.
They've done about as much for me
here as they think they can. It's been re-
1899
