Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 21
duced 134 million bushels of corn. This
year only 24 million bushels.
There is a word for that situation and
others like it across the country-"dis-
aster"—and the disaster programs we in-
herited were sadly inadequate to deal
with so widespread a problem.
Farmers have had to pay higher and
higher prices for machinery, fuel, ferti-
lizer, land and everything else needed to
produce crops. When production ex-
penses are going up and prices are going
down, I know firsthand how impossible
that situation can seem.
In the 11 months since I took office,
I've tried to face up to those problems
with the best interests of both farmers
and consumers in mind. I'd like to tell
you about some of the steps we have
taken since January, both through ad-
ministrative action and by working with
the Congress, that will ease the problems
that now affect farmers.
We passed a new farm bill this year—
in record time-because both I and the
Congress were aware that existing poli-
cies and programs were inadequate. That
bill went into effect this October and will
be of great help to farmers next year.
The new farm bill has several impor-
tant features. It raises both loan levels
and target prices. Target prices were in-
creased 17 percent and will continue to
increase each year as production costs go
up. As I promised during the campaign,
the bill links income support levels to cost
of production. Also, the bill authorized
formation of a farmer-held grain reserve
to help stabilize farm markets in a way
that will avoid a repeat of the mistakes of
the early 1970's.
The new Food and Agriculture Act of
1977 also authorized $1.2 billion in wheat
deficiency payments, more than $800 mil-
lion above the amount authorized under
the old act. By December 1, checks were
on their way to about 1.8 million farmers
under this program.
In April, even before the farm bill was
passed, we reduced the interest rates on
commodity and storage loans, boosted
feed grain loan prices, and established a
farmer-owned wheat and rice reserve. We
later expanded this program, and an-
nounced a feed grain reserve. To keep ex-
cess grain from being turned over to the
government, we liberalized the farm stor-
age loan program.
In May, the administration provided
$479 million in emergency loans to help
producers who had been hurt by the
drought. Three months later I authorized
another $50 million in loans. Later I
signed legislation authorizing disaster
payments based upon acreage planted in-
stead of upon outdated allotments.
On August 31, we increased the loan
rates for feed grains again.
During these last 11 months, we have
also made progress in international nego-
tiations that affect our farmers. The re-
sults here were good: An international
sugar agreement has been formulated,
an international wheat reserve is under
discussion, and the multilateral trade ne-
gotiations are again underway.
Farm exports this year will be the high-
est in the history of our country, and we
will be making an even greater effort to
sell American farm products abroad next
year.
We have not solved our farm prob-
lems, but these efforts-along with record
loan activity and stronger demand for our
farm products-have pulled farm prices
up. By the end of this year agricultural
exports will be at their highest level in
our Nation's history. The price of wheat
climbed from a season low of $2.03 a
bushel in June to $2.48 in November.
2167
