Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
quality education, all the way down from
child care, all around the clock, that's
bilingual and bicultural, education for
our children, education for the women
who have to go back so we'd have real
skills, skills that would benefit us and our
families and would build up our com-
munities, not just being dumped from
one public sector job to another.
So, we're asking people to really work
on the causes. It seems very simple. And
if you talked to poor women and the
Latino women of the barrios, we would
tell you that that's what we need. We
need programs that would just help us be
self-sufficient.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Mr. Oscar Webb.
JOB PROGRAMS
MR. WEBB. Yes. Mr. President, my
name is Oscar Webb and I represent
Target Area I, which is part of the pov-
erty program. And I imagine everything
that I want to say has been hit on slightly,
because it would take a multitude of
things for me to explain to you some of
the things that we need.
I would like to give you a good ex-
ample. One of the things is that a father
look at his child and say, "I'm on a fixed
income. I can't work, can't find work,
don't know where to go." You know, it's
agony in a child's face, the father's face,
the mother's face for this person to have
to look and say that my family looks at me
as a failure. There's no way for me to go.
What am I going to do, you know? But
now we are asking, you know, that maybe
we can put someone up there in Wash-
ington who understands what's going on
down here in these areas. And the only
way that you can really find an answer is
to ask the hungry man what it feels like.
You know? We cannot ask a person that
doesn't understand what he's going
through.
Other than that, education, you
know we have dropouts. It's many a rea-
sons for these dropouts. We never had a
committee to go out and find out why
these dropouts are out of high school. We
need people that's in the community to
get into these programs.
We ask that when these guidelines are
written, is it possible that maybe 40 per-
cent or 60 percent of these jobs, paying
jobs, go to the people who are in poverty,
since it's poverty money? We would like
to see these people's response. And that
money that we're getting for welfare, that
money can be used for other people who
are on the waiting list. Do you under-
stand?
I want to thank you for coming to
Detroit to hear our complaints, and we
hope that you will have this session again.
I'm sorry that I didn't have enough time
to give you all of the information on sub-
jects that was on my mind.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to introduce
Grace or Graciela Olivarez, who heads
up our program in the Government-
Community Services Agency-that deals
directly and specifically and quickly with
programs that have been outlined in this
panel already.
I might point out that Mr. Webb is not
only unemployed but he's disabled be-
cause of an accident. And this adds a spe-
cial problem to a father who wants to be
proud before his children. And when you
talk about the problems of hungry people,
I think that makes a great impression on
me and on Ms. Olivarez and on the news
media and on the rest of the people of the
country who have heard or will hear to-
night on the evening news what you've
had to say, Mr. Webb.
1843
