Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 11
Maine Indian Land Claims
Dispute
Appointment of Three-Member
Working Group. October 8, 1977
The White House announced today
the appointment of a three-member
working group to discuss with the parties
certain aspects of Judge William Gunter's
proposal for resolving the Maine Indian
land dispute. The group will consist of
A. Stephens Clay, Judge Gunter's law
partner; Eliot Cutler, Associate Director
for Natural Resources, Energy and Sci-
ence at the Office of Management and
Budget; and Leo M. Krulitz, Solicitor of
Interior.
The purpose of the working group is
to attempt to reach a consensual agree-
ment for resolution of this dispute within
the framework recommended by Judge
Gunter.
The President wishes to express his per-
sonal gratitude to all parties for the good
faith they have demonstrated in approach-
ing this difficult problem.
Statistical Policy Functions
Announcement of Signing of Executive Order
12013. October 11, 1977
The President has signed an Executive
order transferring certain statistical policy
functions previously centered in the Office
of Management and Budget to the Com-
merce Department. The order imple-
ments a section of the Reorganization
Plan for the Executive Office of the
President.
-authority to develop programs and
issue regulations for the gathering of
statistics by Government agencies;
-authority to determine, with the ap-
proval of the Secretary of State, what
statistical information to provide in
response to requests from interna-
tional organizations;
-functions relating to study of inter-
national investment statistics and
access to information collected under
the Investment Survey Act of 1976.
The Executive order also establishes the
Statistical Policy Coordination Commit-
tee, headed by the Secretary of Com-
merce. It will advise the President on
development and coordination of statis-
tical services.
OMB will retain a general oversight
role in statistical collection through its
responsibilities for reviewing collection
and use of statistical information under
the Federal Reports Act. In other words,
the Executive order assigns to the Com-
merce Department primary responsibility
for interagency coordination of statistical
policy programs but retains in OMB suf-
ficient authority to resolve any differ-
ences between agencies which cannot be
handled by Commerce.
Statistical Policy Functions
Executive Order 12013. October 7, 1977
RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF CERTAIN
STATISTICAL POLICY FUNCTIONS
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, including Re-
organization Plan No. 2 of 1970 (5 U.S.C.
Functions transferred as a result of the App. II), Section 202 of the Budget and
Executive order include:
Accounting Procedures Act of 1950 (31
1759
