Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 26
Transatlantic Air Fares
Letter to the Chairman of the Civil
Aeronautics Board. September 26, 1977
Dear Mr. Chairman:
I have reviewed your proposed order
(Docket 31363) dated September 16,
1977, which suspends passenger fares filed
by Pan American World Airways, Inc.,
Trans World Airlines, Inc., British Air-
ways, Air-India, Iran National Airlines
Corporation, and Aerlinte Eireann Teo-
ranta for foreign air transportation.
Under my authority pursuant to section
801(b) of the Federal Aviation Act of
1958, as amended, I have decided to re-
ject the Board's order as inconsistent with
this Administration's foreign economic
policy. I must emphasize that my inter-
national aviation policy carries with it a
commitment to low fare, competitive in-
ternational air service for the benefit of
American consumers. I am not convinced
that these innovative, carrier-initiated,
low fares would damage the international
aviation system. If the Board obtains new
evidence after these fares are in effect that
they are indeed predatory, I will consider
a suspension of the rates at that time
under the terms of the ad hoc agreement
negotiated on September 19, 1977, with
the United Kingdom.
I would also take this opportunity to
suggest that the Board give serious atten-
tion to reforming present rules covering
charter flights to permit those services to
be more competitive with the new low
fare scheduled flights and more respon-
sive to the foreign economic policy reasons
for encouraging low fare passenger serv-
ice. Liberalizing charter rules will assist in
the expansion of air travel markets and
should provide real benefits to consumers
and carriers alike.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Honorable Alfred E. Kahn, Chairman, Civil
Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C. 20428]
World Bank Group and
International Monetary Fund
Remarks at the Opening Session of the Annual
Meetings of the Boards of Governors.
September 26, 1977
Mr. Colley, Mr. Witteveen, Mr. Bob
McNamara, and my own Secretary of
Treasury, Mike Blumenthal, distin-
guished visitors to our country from all
over the world:
I'm very glad to welcome you to Wash-
ington, as you begin your annual meeting.
After being President for a few months,
after dealing with the Congress, after
facing many difficult questions, it's a great
pleasure to meet with a group where
there's an absence of disagreement, where
complete harmony prevails-[laughter-
and where you have discovered the an-
swers to all the difficult questions.
This meeting is important to all of us
because the partnership that exists among
nations and among people is so evident
in this room. These meetings provide an
opportunity for the leaders of the world's
financial institutions, both public and
private, to consider the economic prob-
lems and also the economic opportunities
that our nations share. And through the
Bank and the Fund, we are able to meet
the challenges to our shared well-being.
The two greatest challenges we face are
to restore and to maintain steady, non-
inflationary expansion of the world econ-
1669
