July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ginning to regain our sense of confidence
and our purpose and unity as a nation.
In this situation, I decided that it was
time for honest discussions about interna-
tional issues with the American people. I
felt that it was urgent to restore the moral
bearings of American foreign policy. And
I felt that it was important to put the
U.S. and Soviet relationship, in particular,
on a more reciprocal, realistic, and, ulti-
mately, more productive basis for both
nations.
It's not a question of a "hard" policy or
of a "soft" policy, but of a clear-eyed rec-
ognition of how most effectively to protect
our own security and to create the kind of
international order that I've just de-
scribed. This is our goal.
We've looked at the problems in Soviet-
American relations in a fresh way, and
we've sought to deal with them boldly and
constructively with proposals intended to
produce concrete results. I'd like to point
out just a few of them.
In the talks on strategic arms limita-
tions, the SALT talks, we advanced a
comprehensive proposal for genuine re-
ductions, limitations, and a freeze on new
technology which would maintain bal-
anced strategic strength.
We have urged a complete end to all
nuclear tests, and these negotiations are
now underway. Agreement here could be
a milestone in U.S.-Soviet relations.
We're working together toward a ban
on chemical and biological warfare and
the elimination of inventories of these
destructive materials. We have proposed
to curb the sales and transfers of conven-
tional weapons to other countries, and
we've asked France, Britain, and other
countries to join with us in this effort.
We are attempting to halt the threaten-
ing proliferation of nuclear weapons
among the nations of the world which
don't yet have the ability to set off nu-
clear explosives.
We've undertaken serious negotiations
on arms limitations in the Indian Ocean.
We've encouraged the Soviets to sign,
along with us, the Treaty of Tlatelolco,
which would ban the introduction of nu-
clear weapons into the southern part of
the Western Hemisphere.
We have begun regular consultations
with the Soviet leaders as cochairmen of
the prospective Geneva conference to
promote peace in the Middle East.
We and our allies are negotiating to-
gether with the Soviet Union and their
allies in the Warsaw Pact nations to re-
duce the level of military forces in Europe.
We've renewed the 1972 agreement for
cooperation in science and technology,
and a similar agreement for cooperation
in outer space.
We're seeking ways to cooperate in im-
proving world health and in relieving
world hunger.
In the strategic arms limitation talks,
confirming and then building on Vladi-
vostok accords, we need to make steady
progress toward our long-term goals of
genuine reductions and strict limitations,
while maintaining the basic strategic bal-
ance.
We've outlined proposals incorporat-
ing significant new elements of arms con-
trol, deep reductions in the arsenals of
both sides, freezing of deployment and
technology, and restraining certain ele-
ments in the strategic posture of both
sides that threaten to destabilize the bal-
ance which now exists.
The Vladivostok negotiations of 1974
left some issues unresolved and subject
to honest differences of interpretation.
Meanwhile, new developments in tech-
nology have created new concerns-the
cruise missile, the very large interconti-
nental ballistic missiles of the Soviets.
1312
