Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 18
Labor Law Reform
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. July 18, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting to Congress pro-
posals to make the laws which govern
labor-management relations work more
efficiently, quickly and equitably.
I have pledged to make Federal regu-
latory agencies more responsive to the
people they serve. Government regulation
only works well if it is fair, prompt and
predictable. Too often this has not been
the case with the regulatory process that
governs collective bargaining and labor-
management relations. Our labor laws
guarantee employees the right to choose
freely their representatives, and to bar-
gain collectively with employers over
wages, fringe benefits and working con-
ditions. But legal rights have limited val-
if
them.
many years are required to enforce
The National Labor Relations Board
(NLRB) administers our labor laws. In
recent years there has been growing agree-
ment that those laws should be amended
to ensure that the Board can function
more effectively to protect employees
rights. While the great majority of em-
ployers and unions have abided by the
labor laws, a few have unfairly abused the
procedures and practices under which the
Board must operate.
As a result, the American Bar Associ-
ation, many Federal courts, and the
NLRB's own Task Force each recently
suggested ways to improve the Board's
procedures. The NLRB's internal report,
which proposed a number of administra-
tive changes, has already produced some
beneficial changes. But it seems clear that
legislation is actually needed to enable the
Board to administer the labor laws prop-
erly.
Unnecessary delays are the most seri-
ous problem. In even the simpler cases,
the NLRB typically takes almost two
months to hold an election to determine
whether workers want union representa-
tion. The enforcement of Board decisions
is also subject to unnecessary delay:
lengthy proceedings before the Board and
extended litigation can sometimes delay
final action for years.
The problem of delay has been com-
pounded by the weakness of the Board's
remedies. One of the reasons the regula-
tory process has worked so slowly is that
a few employers have learned that, be-
cause of the problems the Board has in
enforcing its decisions, delay can be less
costly than initial compliance with the
law. In one case, for instance, workers
who were illegally fired for their union
activities in 1962 are still awaiting pay-
ment for lost wages.
Because of these problems, workers
are often denied a fair chance to decide,
in an NLRB election, whether they want
union representation. The same prob-
lems often deny employers the predict-
ability they too need from the labor laws.
To help reduce the problems of delay,
and to cure a number of related problems
with our labor laws, I am today recom-
mending to the Congress a set of reforms
for the National Labor Relations Act.
These reforms are designed to accom-
plish three important goals:
-To make the NLRB procedures
fairer, prompter, and more predict-
able.
-To protect the rights of labor and
management by strengthening
NLRB sanctions against those who
break the law.
-To preserve the integrity of the Fed-
eral contracting process by with-
holding federal contracts from firms
that willfully violate orders from the
NLRB and the courts.
1277
