Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 29
cause some alleviation of the problem. But
some of the problems are chronic.
The worldwide economic structure is
not growing as rapidly as it has in the
past. Ours is better off than most of the
other nations'. And when the growth rate
in our country drops down to 6 percent
this year and many other major nations'
drop to 4 percent or less, there is just not
as many orders for steel. It's complicated.
We are moving on it. And when I receive
this report and decide what to do, I will
make it public.
Charlie [Charles Mohr, New York
Times].
RICHARD HELMS
Q. Mr. President, Admiral Turner of
the CIA did a speech this week at An-
napolis in which he said that the Attor-
ney General would have to make a deci-
sion as to whether it would further the
national interests to prosecute the case
of Mr. Richard Helms, or whether it
would be better to waive the case in
order to save the secrets. But the At-
torney General said that he was going
to consult you on this.
I wonder if you can tell us your views
on how you are reaching this decision
as to whether certain material should be
declassified for a possible trial in this
case?
THE PRESIDENT. He has not consult-
ed with me, nor given me any advice on
the Helms question. I am familiar with
it through reading in the press. I have
no way to know yet the strength of the
possible indictment or charges. I have
no way to know yet the seriousness of the
offense with which he will be charged
(instead of "he will be charged.", the
President meant "he may be charged.")ยน
And I have no way to know yet the
seriousness of possible damage to our own
1 Printed in the White House Press Office
transcript.
national security if massive revelations of
intelligence techniques and documents are
made either to ourselves or to our friends
and allies.
When I get all this information, then I
would certainly consult with the Attorney
General as to what action should be
taken. I think it's a very serious thing for
anyone to commit perjury (instead of
"commit perjury" the President meant
"commit alleged perjury")ยน before a con-
gressional committee or anywhere else.
And the matter would not in any case be
treated lightly.
My understanding is that the Attorney
General is now going over the data that
have been presented to him. I think he
will make a report to me and possibly a
recommendation fairly soon. But until
this moment, he has not yet done so.
I promised Marty [Martin J. Schram,
Newsday].
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, pardon me, I would
like to
back to the subject of last week's
go
press conference. You told us twice that
you'd learned on December 1, which was
just 2 days before you appointed Mr.
Lance-nominated him-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. -that aspects of the Lance case
had been referred to the Justice Depart-
ment. Jody Powell has told us that you
didn't know at that time, you didn't learn
until much later. Who is right? Is Jody
right, or are you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't recall I did
say that in the last press conference. And
when Jody asked me about it afterwards,
I told him I was mistaken. I don't recall
at all ever knowing that the Justice De-
partment itself was involved in the Bert
Lance overdraft or other problems last
year. Bert Lance told me that he did not
1691
