Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 11
United Negro College Fund
Remarks at a Meeting With Officials of the
Fund. November 11, 1977
Well, first of all, let me say how grateful
I am to you, the leaders of our Nation
who have joined together to promote the
$50 million capital fund for the United
Negro College Func.
When I was elected President, I de-
cided that I would not endorse nor partic-
ipate in any fundraising effort unless I felt
that it was uniquely committed to the best
interests of our Nation as a whole. And it's
been just a rare occasion when I have let
my own name as President be used. The
International Red Cross and the Boy
Scouts would be two examples. But I feel
that the United Negro College Fund is an-
other effort that has the same connota-
tion and the same broad-based benefit to
influence the future of our country.
Having been Governor of Georgia and,
as Tom has said, participated in this very
beneficial effort in the past as a private
citizen and as a public official, I know the
impact of the courageous private colleges
who have predominantly black student
bodies on the course of our Nation. They
have acted in times of great difficulty, and
although their financial status is quite
weak and quite uncertain, even today,
their academic contributions and their so-
cial contributions have been superb.
They've never been weak. They've
never been uncertain. They've never been
doubtful. Their accomplishments have
been recognized by all those who have
observed them.
One of the most beneficial entities in
the Southland in the crucial years of
searching for civil rights have been the
black colleges there who, with a staunch-
ness and a commitment that was indeed
inspirational even to those who opposed
their
success.
purposes at that time, ensured
This is an effort that you are under-
taking which will help them in the uncer-
tain years ahead, because now that some
major civil rights accomplishments have
been given, we still have the necessity to
recognize that society continues to change.
And when change comes, that's extraor-
dinarily expensive for those who are on
the cutting edge of beneficial change.
Fifty million dollars is an awfully small
amount for 41 colleges to share, but it's a
very difficult thing to raise this amount
of money. And only by the involvement
of the President and the Vice President
and the Governors of States and very in-
fluential corporate, business, and profes-
sional leaders like yourselves can the ef-
fort be successful.
I have confidence in the future of these
negro colleges. They have come through
a testing period where their strength and
commitment and quality have already
been proven. And we should not ever les-
sen our commitment to them simply be-
cause they are becoming more acceptable
in the broad-based American societal life
as a probing point for quality, for change,
for the benefits derived to all our people
regardless of race.
One of the obvious purposes is to give
a superb education to those students in
our Nation who could not otherwise af-
ford it. Another one is to preserve the
uniqueness of a curriculum and a stu-
dent body commitment that mirror quite
often the yearnings and the frustrations
and the desires and the hopes and the
dreams and aspirations of families of those
students who, because of racial prejudice
and discrimination, did not have a chance
for a good education or to broaden their
hearts and their minds. And in many ways
these modern-day students of minority
2003
