Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
ing of ideals and hopes and a mutual
declaration of frustration about the hatred
and racial discrimination and depriva-
tion of the poor prevalent throughout the
world. It was an honór for our country
to have this new leader come to see us
when his own country was only 2 years
old.
He's a man who has come from a small
village, with a father who shaped his
concepts about caring for those who need
help and public service, a mother who
kept the family close together in times of
trial and tribulation when it was dan-
gerous to express one's views about politi-
cal change; a man who has deep religious
convictions and who's been successful in
his own country in translating those con-
victions into demonstrable concern about
freedom, justice, equality, the alleviation
of hunger, poverty, and disease.
Now, this same man, President Nyerere
from Tanzania, comes back to our Na-
tion still a strong leader who in his own
country is known as "Teacher." He epito-
mizes what his country is, what it stands
for. But now he's much more than a
national leader; he's a wise man, experi-
enced, a superb politician who recognizes
that the structure of government can be
used for beneficial purposes. He is ad-
mired in every council of world leaders
throughout this globe-a senior states-
man whose integrity is unquestioned and
which never has been questioned; a man
who has forgone material wealth and
ease in a sacrificial way for his own
people.
In the troubled continent of Africa,
he's recognized as preeminent in his com-
mitment to the hopes and purposes of
free people. He's a well-educated man, a
scholar, a philosopher, a great writer, one
who probes for new ideas and who ex-
presses them succinctly and clearly to
shape the minds of other people in a
beneficent and constructive way.
Our own Nation is deeply concerned
about and with Africa. As a new Presi-
dent myself, I need his advice and his
counsel and his friendship and his guid-
ance as we try to act in a responsible and
constructive fashion to bring about peace
with justice in the 30 or more nations in
Africa in the years ahead.
He can help me and others take the
right stand as we bring about proper
change toward majority rule in Rhodesia
or Zimbabwe, in Namibia, and in the al-
leviation of racial discrimination through-
out the continent of Africa and the rest of
the world. I value his friendship and look
forward today and tomorrow in having
a chance to learn from him.
It is with a great sense of appreciation
of what he is and a clear recognition of
the honor bestowed upon our country by
the visit of President Nyerere, I would
like to say, on behalf of the American peo-
ple, Mr. President, welcome, or in your
language, Karibu.
Thank you very much.
PRESIDENT NYERERE. Mr. President,
you have been very kind and very gen-
erous in your remarks about myself. If I
had not jotted down my remarks, I would
have found it extremely difficult to say a
few words, but I do thank you with great
sincerity for the warmth of your welcome
to me and to my colleagues. I can assure
you that I have very great pleasure in
coming to your country at your invitation.
We in Tanzania, Mr. President, and
in Africa generally, follow American poli-
tics with close attention. There is the in-
trinsic interest of the affairs of the most
powerful nation the world has ever
known. But more to the point, your poli-
tics do affect us. Indeed, we in Tanzania
sometimes think that the world should
1413
