Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I think
that as best I could from one hour to an-
other, one day to another, and as best
Bert could from one hour and one day to
another, we've done what was right, as
judged by what we knew at that time.
We've been partners in every sense of
the word since he's been here, and you,
having covered the government of Geor-
gia, know that we were equally close
partners in Georgia.
I have never known the head of a State
or Federal agency who is more compe-
tent and has better judgment and who
understands me better and can work in
closer harmony with me. But whether my
own credibility has been damaged, I can't
say. I would guess to some degree an un-
pleasant situation like this would be dam-
aging somewhat, but I just have to accept
that if it comes.
Q. How will you replace the kind of
close relationship that you've had with
him, and how much does that concern
you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there's
any way that I could find anyone to re-
place Bert Lance that would be, in my
judgment, as competent, as strong, as
decent, and as close to me as a friend and
adviser as he has been. And obviously, the
Government will continue, and I hope to
do a good job as President, and I'm sure
a successor will be adequate.
But there has been a special relationship
between me and Bert Lance that tran-
scended official responsibilities or duties or
even governmental service over the last 6
or years. So, he has occupied a special
place in my governmental career, in my
political career, and in my personal life,
and I don't think there's any way anyone
could replace him now.
Q. Mr. President, apart from Mr.
Lance's reasons for resigning, can you
share more of your thoughts for accepting
his resignation? You said that your belief
in his integrity has not been shaken.
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct.
Q. Just recently, House Speaker O'Neill
said he can be an effective Budget Direc-
tor in the future. Why do you feel, sir,
that Mr. Lance did have to go?
THE PRESIDENT. I've described to you
my assessment of Bert Lance's reasons,
and I have read his letter, which I'm sure
was very carefully prepared by Bert to
emphasize the most important reasons for
his resignation. I don't have any way to
know anything further beyond that
answer.
Q. Mr. President, you referred to the
high standards you set for your people
during the campaign. You said often that
you would not tolerate impropriety or
even the appearance of impropriety.
Sir, I think now a lot of people are
looking at your standards against the Bert
Lance case. You now know what the
charges and allegations were. I'd like to
ask you whether you, today, still feel that
Mr. Lance has avoided the appearance of
impropriety or whether a new standard is
now in operation?
THE PRESIDENT. The standards were
high at the beginning, the standards are
still high, and the standards have been
high in the service of Bert Lance. There
has been not even one allegation that I
have ever heard of that Bert Lance did not
perform his duties as Director of OMB in
a superlative way.
There's not been one allegation that he
violated his responsibility or his oath when
he was sworn in, that he's done anything
improper at all, that he's violated any law.
And even those allegations that were made
about his life several years ago, in my
opinion, have been proven false and with-
out foundation.
I think there has been an adequate
opportunity for Bert, after some unfortu-
1640
