Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 4
4297, which will control the dumping of
municipal and other wastes into the
oceans, which destroy our national sea-
shores.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 4297
into law.]
I think the importance of this legisla-
tion is indicated by the degree of commit-
ment and the intense interest that's shown
in it, particularly along the eastern sea-
board, where population explosions have
put special pressure on the beauty of our
surroundings. And I again want to thank
all of you for being here and for making it
possible, through this ceremony, to dram-
atize this tremendous step forward.
Thank you again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:32 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Indian Treaty
Room of the Old Executive Office Building.
As enacted, H.R. 2817 is Public Law 95-
152, and H.R. 4297 is Public Law 95-153,
approved November 4.
JOYCE H. LOWINSON, director of the Drug
Abuse Service and associate clinical profes-
sor of psychiatry at the Albert Einstein Col-
lege of Medicine, Bronx, N.Y.;
DAVID F. MUSTO, associate professor of psy-
chiatry and history, Yale University;
CHARLES B. O'KEEFFE, JR., White House
adviser on health issues and drug abuse;
DONALD D. POMERLEAU, police commissioner
of Baltimore, Md.;
HARVEY I. SLOANE, M.D., mayor of Louisville,
Ky.
The President has designated Peter
Bourne, his Special Assistant for Health
Issues, as Executive Director of the Coun-
cil. Other members are Secretary of State
Cyrus Vance, Secretary of the Treasury
Michael Blumenthal, Secretary of De-
fense Harold Brown, Attorney General
Griffin Bell, Secretary of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare Joseph Califano,
Acting OMB Director James McIntyre,
and Veterans Affairs Administrator Max
Cleland.
Strategy Council
Appointment of Seven Members and
Designation of Executive Director.
November 4, 1977
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of seven persons to the Strat-
egy Council. The Strategy Council was
created by the Drug Abuse Office and
Treatment Act of 1972, but members
have not previously been appointed. The
Council is charged with the responsibility
of developing a comprehensive, coordi-
nated, long-term strategy for all drug
abuse prevention and drug traffic preven-
tion functions of the Federal Govern-
ment.
The seven persons appointed are:
MILTON F. BRYANT, an Atlanta surgeon and
medical researcher and associate professor
of surgery at Emory University;
VERNON JORDAN, JR., executive director of the
National Urban League;
International Communication
Agency
Message to the Congress Transmitting Amend-
ments to Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977.
November 1, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit amendments to Re-
organization Plan No. 2 of 1977, which I
transmitted to you on October 11, 1977.
Reorganization Plan No. 2 remains un-
Except as specifically amended hereby,
modified.
The White House,
November 1, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
AMENDMENTS TO
REORGANIZATION PLAN NO. 2 of 1977
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representa-
1963
