Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Special legislation providing temporary
Federal assistance for these services was
enacted in 1976. It was intended to help
assist in an orderly transition to locally
supported service. I am disappointed that
the affected cities have not arranged to
live within these original Federal emer-
gency payments.
The administration is looking at more
equitable ways to deal with urban trans-
portation, including commuter rail serv-
ice, on a long-term basis. Early next year,
I will submit legislation providing a more
flexible program of transit and highway
assistance to urban areas. This expanded
program would supplant funds made
available by this bill for commuter train
services and allow resources to be used
for various kinds of transit, including
commuter trains where local communi-
ties decide they are appropriate.
We should move away from the estab-
lishment of a new categorical grant pro-
gram affecting only a few cities to a com-
prehensive surface transportation pro-
gram.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8346 is Public Law
95-187, approved November 16.
Federal Employment of
Women
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies. November 17, 1977
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies
Executive Order 11375, signed by
President Johnson on October 13, 1967,
prohibited discrimination on the basis of
sex in Federal employment. Ten years
later, it is an appropriate time to reaffirm
the Executive Order, assess the progress
we have made, and evaluate our current
efforts to be a truly equal opportunity
employer.
In recent months we have made sub-
stantial progress in appointing women to
responsible non-career positions; I would
like to carry this commitment and effort
into the career service as well.
Special efforts will be required from all
of us to achieve our goal. I have already
asked each of you to cooperate in elim-
inating sex discrimination from our laws
and policies. Today I ask that
you work,
aggressively and creatively, to provide
maximum employment opportunities for
women in the Federal career service. This
means developing, within merit prin-
ciples, innovative programs to recruit and
hire qualified women and to be sure they
have the opportunity for satisfying career
development.
As part of the President's Reorganiza-
tion Project, the Personnel Management
Project will soon propose program and
policy changes for the civil service system.
These proposals will have an impact on
the employment and advancement of
women, and that impact will receive
thoughtful consideration.
I will also be receiving reports from the
Chairman of the Civil Service Commis-
sion on the progress that you are making
in increasing the numbers of women in
the mid- and senior levels of your organi-
zations. I expect to see significant im-
provements made in your department or
agency as a result of your personal initia-
tives, and I hope you will be especially
sensitive to the concerns of older women
and women from minority groups.
Regulatory Reform
JIMMY CARTER
Announcement of Proposed Executive Order
To Reform the Government's Regulatory
Procedures. November 17, 1977
The President today announced that
he will seek public comment on a pro-
2034
