Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
National Highway Safety
Advisory Committee
Appointment of 12 Members to the Committee.
November 15, 1977
The President has appointed 12 per-
sons as members of the National High-
way Safety Advisory Committee for terms
expiring March 15, 1980. They are:
OSCAR H. EDMONDS, JR., 53, of Memphis,
Tenn., president of Edmonds Material and
Equipment Co. and Mid-South Equipment
and Supply Co.
HAROLD A. FENNER, JR., M.D., 53, of Hobbs,
N. Mex., an orthopedic surgeon and con-
sultant on medical aspects of automotive
safety.
CARLTON FISHER, 42, of Decatur, Ga., Georgia
Governor's highway safety representative
and a former Georgia state trooper.
CHARLES H. HARTMAN, 44, of Delta, Pa.,
president of the Motorcycle Safety Founda-
tion and a former Deputy Administrator of
the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration.
DEBORAH KAPLAN, 27, of Washington, D.C.,
director of the Disability Rights Center and
chairperson of the National Disabled Wom-
en's Caucus.
WILLIAM O. MAYS, M.D., 42, of Bloomfield
Hills, Mich., a practitioner of internal medi-
cine and former Wayne County (Michigan)
medical examiner.
BETSY F. RAHN, 65, of Walnut Creek, Calif.,
judge of the municipal court of the Walnut
Creek-Danville Judicial District.
J. PHILLIP RICHLEY, 51, of Youngstown, Ohio,
recently elected mayor of Youngstown and
former director of the Ohio Department of
Highways.
KALISTE J. SALOOM, JR., 59, judge of the
city and juvenile courts of Lafayette, La.
BASIL Y. SCOTT, 52, of East Greenbush, N.Y.,
administrative director of the New York
State Department of Motor Vehicles and
Chairman of the National Motor Vehicle
Safety Advisory Council.
LYNNE SMITH, 33, of Washington, D.C., an
analyst and writer for the Insurance Insti-
tute for Highway Safety and former director
of the Center for Auto Safety's highway
safety project.
REBECCA C. YOUNG, 43, of Madison, Wis.,
deputy secretary of the Wisconsin Depart-
ment of Administration and former com-
missioner of the Wisconsin Highway
Commission.
Visit of the Shah of Iran
White House Statement Issued Following the
First Meeting Between the President and the
Shah. November 15, 1977
President Carter and His Imperial
Majesty the Shahanshah of Iran met in
the Cabinet Room for 90 minutes. The
President was accompanied by Vice Pres-
ident Mondale; Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance; Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant
to the President for National Security Af-
fairs; Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., Assistant
Secretary of State for Near Eastern and
South Asian Affairs; U.S. Ambassador to
Iran William Sullivan; and Gary Sick,
National Security Council staff member;
and His Majesty, by Foreign Minister,
His Excellency A. A. Khalatbary; and
Iranian Ambassador to the United States
Ardeshir Zahedi.
The President began by expressing his
personal pleasure at meeting His Impe-
rial Majesty for the first time, noting that
this visit will enable them to establish
close personal ties of friendship. The
President expressed his appreciation for
His Majesty's message of condolence to
the families of those who lost their lives
in the recent disaster in Georgia.
The President reaffirmed to His Maj-
esty that he fully supports the special
relationship which the two countries
have developed over the last 30 years
and gave his personal commitment to
strengthen further our ties. The Presi-
dent emphasized the broad mutuality of
our interests in the region and globally,
2028
