Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
because that involves people, and people
need the water. Whether it's a matter of
the foothills treatment facility, a matter
of high-mountain storage, the water must
be made available to meet that, as I see
it, a charge.
As you are probably aware, this sum-
mer the drought has severely limited the
growth of housing and other important
industries to accommodate those people.
I am also interested, Mr. President-I
can't help but comment when in over 20
years of trying to deal with urban prob-
lems, I become a little pessimistic when
the Federal Government says, "We'd like
to help."
THE PRESIDENT. You could turn all
your Federal funds back in. We could
distribute them somewhere else. [Laugh-
ter]
MR. WELLS. Well, that sort of is the
answer today, when we encounter the
States rights question, that withdrawal of
funds always seems to be the way around
it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we want to be
helpful.
MR. WELLS. Yes, sir. [Laughter] That's
like when the auditor walks in to the
manager and he says, "I am glad to see
you,” and the auditor says, "I am just
here to help." [Laughter] As a member
of the State Water Quality Commission,
Mr. President, I am also interested par-
ticularly in the Clean Water Act, which
is the other end of the water cycle, as I
see it.
I am particularly interested in in-
creased funding for that act. I have some
agreement with my peers across the table.
However, I believe in the accomplish-
ment of those goals as set forth and, in
particular, the recycling and reuse of
water, Mr. President.
If somehow we could reach some type
of funding which would encourage re-
cycling, reuse, and, especially, land treat-
ment of our waste water, I think it would
be of particular benefit to the urban areas
of this country.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Mr. Wells.
I would like to call now on Ms. Beverly
Haddon, who is the vice president for
marketing operations of United Banks,
Incorporated.
WATER POLICY PRIORITIES
Ms. HADDON. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Actually, I won't take up too much
time, because most of the points have
been made. And as you know, in the bank-
ing industry we are a service industry,
and we attempt to support all of the peo-
ple that you have been talking to today.
So, we are very interested in all of the
industries, in two of the key industries,
agriculture; we think it has been very im-
portant to this State, and we hope to pro-
tect that in the future.
We also think that an orderly approach
to the development of energy can take
place, and I guess our most important
concern would be what the final priorities
are and how you do approach those. We
need the input back from you so that we,
too, can plan. I might be interested, if
you have a moment, what your sense of
those priorities are today, in terms of those
industries.
You've referred to the most important
projects first. In terms of the tradeoffs
which are tough decisions on energy and
agriculture, do you have a sense of those
priorities?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's ob-
vious that the priorities have already been
established basically for our country.
Obviously, drinking water for human be-
ings would come first, then agricultural
production for food. I think obviously
1875
