Aug. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
troller's report showed any illegality or
impropriety. And the report has confirmed
that, indeed, he had lingering or was in-
volved in lingering overdrafts, that there
were large advances to bank officials, there
were advances to his campaign for
Governor.
Could you tell us what in the Comp-
troller's report-what words in that report
convinced you that Bert Lance should not
resign?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know the de-
tails of Bert's relationship with the Cal-
houn National Bank where the overdrafts
did occur. But my information, as derived
from the Comptroller's report, is that in
his own private accounts-that of him-
self and the other members of his family,
plus a certificate of deposit which I think
was in excess of $100,000-there was al-
most always a surplus amount of money
on hand; in other words, that the over-
draft in his campaign account was less
than the amount of money he had on de-
posit at the bank; also that there was an
agreement between not only Bert Lance
but the customers of the bank, as a gen-
eral policy, that if you had more than one
bank account and you were overdrawn in
one, but had more than enough money to
cover that overdraft in other accounts,
that this was accepted by the bank and the
checks were honored. This is a common
practice in a small or country bank. That's
no excuse for an overdrawn account.
I think it is accurate to say that on one
occasion, when this did not apply, that the
money was paid back very quickly, that
interest was paid on the overdraft, and it
was handled in a completely normal way
as it would have had I been the person
who had the overdrawn account.
I've spent a great deal of time trying to
become acquainted with the charges or
allegations against Bert Lance. It means
a lot to him. It means a lot to me person-
ally as a friend of his. It means a lot to me
as a President, responsible for the integrity
and reputation not only of my Cabinet
officers but myself. I don't know of any
allegation that has been made or proven
that Bert Lance did anything illegal or
even unethical.
Now, I think that there are some pos-
sibilities that have been revealed in the
practices of personal loans by bank offi-
cials from correspondent banks that might
be changed in the future. But at the time
these personal loans were made with cor-
respondent banks-and I understand from
one of the periodicals this is done with 93
percent of the correspondent banks and
bank officials throughout the country-it
may have been advisable for Bert and all
others like him several years ago to make
those loans public. That was not required.
At the time that Mr. Lance ran for Gov-
ernor in 1974, at the time Bert Lance sub-
mitted his name for approval by the
Senate committee for OMB Director, he
made a public statement of his debts owed
and his net worth and how the debts were
secured. I think it's obvious that he com-
plied with not only the law and the ethics
required but common loan practices
among bank officers.
Now, it may be, as I say, that as a result
of these investigations that stricter re-
quirements should be implemented by law
and also by the Comptroller in his stand-
ard operating procedures, but I don't
know of anything either illegal or unethi-
cal even that Bert Lance has ever done.
Q. Mr. President, how can the Lance
case be closed, as you seem to see it, as
long as these investigations go on, the
Comptroller's and the probes in the
Senate?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not want to
hasten their conclusion, using my own
influence. I've never met the Comptroller,
so far as I know. I've never had any con-
1490
