Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But as you well know, I have a respon-
sibility as President, working with the
working with the
Congress, to make sure that we have an
effective program in carrying out the re-
sponsibilities, the legal responsibilities, of
the Federal Government. We must make
sure that Federal water programs are ef-
fective, that they meet the needs of the
American people. We have got to be sure
also that we don't waste money in some
Federal programs and projects that are
not needed or are of a very low priority
and at the same time rob projects that
are needed in other parts of the country.
It's a very important concept to me to
have the direct input of people like those
on the panel today-Governors, mayors,
farmers, those who develop energy
sources, those who are interested. in envi-
ronmental quality and the preservation of
wildlife—to work together. It's also very
important for people in Colorado to un-
derstand the problems of people in Cali-
fornia and Utah as well as Arizona and
Oregon and the northeastern part of our
country. And as we evolve a national en-
ergy policy, a national water policy, we'll
be sure that the two are tied together, be-
cause this is an encroaching demand for
water that wasn't present in your region
in years gone by.
We've seen a rapidly rising demand on
the part of urban areas, as contrasted
with longstanding use of water in the
rural areas. We've seen increasing conflicts
develop between States as water supplies
that were formerly adequate now become
inadequate.
We've got an increasing problem in in-
ternational matters, particularly between
the United States and Mexico. And we've
got an increasing demand for water sup-
plies by energy producers, coal, shale, also
electric power producers, on the one
hand, compared to longstanding users in
agriculture and other needs of water.
We have not adequately addressed con-
servation matters. And in the past when
water has been assumed to be of unlim-
ited quantity, conservation was not an
ever-present consideration in our minds.
Now conservation has got to be addressed,
not only by me as President and others in
Washington but by the average family
here in Denver and other parts where it
hasn't been an ever-present consideration
in the past.
Just a couple of other points very
quickly and we'll start around the panel,
after Governor Lamm makes a brief
statement. There are some questions that
have not yet been assessed.
The question of Indian rights to
water-no one knows what future years
might bring in court decisions interpret-
ing longstanding ancient treaty rights be-
tween the Indians and the white popula-
tion. And no one has adequately explored
yet the responsibilities of the Federal Gov-
ernment in lands under Federal Govern-
ment control. So, I believe that this year's
work with an open, free, unbiased, and,
hopefully, complete discussion of the
water problem will make sure that in the
future our needs are met.
But I can assure you again that I'm
here as a student to learn as best I can
from you the facts about your special
needs, to answer your questions when I
know the answer, to get help from Cecil
Andrus and others when I don't know the
answers. And then I'll go back to Wash-
ington with a much clearer concept of
how to carry out my responsibilities to
you.
Again, let me thank you for letting me
be here. I'd like to ask Governor Dick
Lamm now to make a few remarks and
then we'll call on the panel to discuss the
1862
