July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and I have been criticized for this stand.
But I'll never back down, as long as you
stick with me.
We've also seen in our country a re-
newed faith, not because of me but be-
cause of you. Since last November, we've
had 3 million additional people go to
work. The unemployment rate since De-
cember has dropped one full percentage
point. We've got a long way to go, but I
think there's a general recognition now
that the Congress-the Senate and the
House and the President in the White
House are working closely with one an-
other, not trying to blame each other for
mistakes, but trying to share responsi-
bility.
And we work very closely also with the
Governors and mayors and county officials
back home to be sure that when decisions
are made about controversial questions,
that your voice is heard by us and that our
decisions are shaped by the sound judg-
ment and the basic intelligence and the
widely varying experience that you can
bring to political decisions.
Another thing that I want to say before
I close is I'm very glad that I was able
to help bring the rain to Mississippi. I just
hope it's raining in Plains, Georgia, as
well as it is in Jackson.
We have a lot of characteristics as
farmers in the agricultural region that
I've described already. As I said a few
minutes ago in Charleston, South Caro-
lina, I'm proud to be an American, and
I'm also proud to be a southerner.
For long weeks, long months, 2 years
ago, people just didn't believe that a
southerner could be elected President. But
you and I together showed them they were
wrong. And for the last 6 months, strange-
ly enough, I haven't seen much in the
newspapers or magazines about my being
a southerner. Now I, like you, am an
American.
And I think we have helped break down
those barriers that used to separate us
from the rest of the country. And now we
see that, as is the case with our neighbors
next door, we also share our hopes and
our dreams with people throughout this
great country. And I'm proud of that
change that has taken place to a great
measure because of your confidence in
me.
In closing, let me say that I am very
deeply grateful to you, and I pray God
that, with your help, you'll never be dis-
appointed that I am in the White House.
I need your help, your encouragement,
your advice, your sound judgment, and
your prayers. And I hope you'll give me all
those things as I fill the job which you
have given to me.
Thank you very much. God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m.
Yazoo City, Mississippi
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Public Meeting. July 21, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. It's a great pleasure for
me to come to the dedication ceremony
of the Yazoo City new high school. I was
told before I came that the new building
was air-conditioned. [Laughter]
I think it's time for the rest of the
country to see the southern self-propelled
air-conditioner we have here tonight. It
reminds me of going to church at home,
and I appreciate you letting me come and
the great welcome that I've received
already.
I want to say just a word about the
school itself, because I think it typifies the
South, Mississippi, Yazoo City attitudes.
In a lot of places in our country you
couldn't get a school bond issue passed,
particularly if the school classrooms were
1316
