Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This Reorganization Plan shall be-
come effective at such time or times on
or before April 1, 1978, as the President
shall specify, but not sooner than the
earliest time allowable under Section
906 of Title 5 of the United States
Code."
NOTE: The White House Press Office an-
nounced the message on September 15. It was
not issued in the form of a White House press
release.
Radio-Television News Directors
Association
Question-and-Answer Session by Telephone
With Members Attending the Association's
Annual Convention. September 15, 1977
MR. VRIESMAN. Good day, Mr. President.
I am Wayne Vriesman, president of the
Radio-Television News Directors Asso-
ciation and news director at WGN in
Chicago.
Welcome to our RTNDA San Francisco
convention. We thank you for taking time
from your busy day to speak with us.
THE PRESIDENT. President Vriesman,
it's a great honor for me to speak to the
members of the Radio and Television
News Directors Association. There have
been so many developments recently that
relate to the jobs of all of you that I'm
very thankful for a chance to make a
brief opening statement and then to
answer your questions on matters that you
consider to be important enough for
emphasis.
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS
I've just finished the morning meeting
with the Prime Minister of France, Mr.
Barre. This is the first time a French
Prime Minister has been to our country
in more than 20 years. Then from now on
in the coming months, I'll be meeting, be-
ginning next week, with Foreign Minister
Dayan from Israel and then with all the
foreign ministers of the Arabian countries
around Israel, searching for a settlement
in the Middle East.
I've spent last week, as you know, with
the Panama Canal Treaty, which I con-
sider to be crucial to our country's future,
unimpeded use of the Panama Canal and
a very important aspect in the mutual
friendship and support that we can ex-
pect from Latin America.
We have constant negotiations going
on with the Soviet Union on things con-
cerning demilitarization of the Indian
Ocean. The SALT negotiations are pres-
ently underway.
We have meetings with the Soviets and
also with the British on the comprehensive
test ban to do away with the testing of
nuclear explosives.
I've met with several national leaders
on reducing the opportunity for countries
to go into the nuclear explosive field.
One of the recent concerns, of course,
was South Africa's prospective test.
We are dealing with the United Nations
and specific countries involved in trying
to resolve the Namibian question down
near South Africa and also the Rhodesian
question.
We're working closely with the British,
the French, the Germans, and the Cana-
dians on these questions.
Of course, here in the Congress many of
these matters spill over into joint decisions
by me and the leaders in Congress.
In addition, the social security program
is in danger of going bankrupt. We have
guaranteed, of course, that this will not
happen, but the Congress will have to take
action on this matter this year. I've pre-
sented a comprehensive welfare reform
proposal this week. We are dealing with
the most important group of bills of all on
energy this year, trying to come forward
1594
