Aug. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
propriations will come up this fall. I be-
lieve you will present your-or Bert Lance
will present the administration's views on
it in about 2 weeks. Since newspapers
are quite concerned with the Postal Serv-
ice in several ways, both in rates and also
in the lack of service that we are receiving,
I was wondering what position the ad-
ministration would take on that.
THE PRESIDENT. We have not yet de-
cided on an administration position, and I
have to say that I haven't put much time
in on that yet. I have met with the direc-
tor of the Postal Service. I've met with the
representatives of both mail carriers and
the postmasters. I've had some prelimi-
nary papers presented to me for study. But
as far as our position on the actual or-
ganizational framework or the role to be
played by the President in the future op-
eration of the Postal Service, I haven't
decided yet, but this will be done before
our testimony is required on Capitol Hill.
It's not that we've ignored the subject,
but I generally start becoming personally
involved after all my department heads
and other staff members have done their
work, and then before the testimony is
given, I do it myself.
Of course, what I want to see done is
to have a maximum service to all peo-
ple, and I would always put a heavy
emphasis on the need for the Postal
Service to provide to our readers of
periodicals of all kinds that information
without unnecessary financial burden.
So, I favor the encouragement of a
dissemination of news with beneficial
postal rates, as we've always had as part
of our Postal Service since I've known
it.
Q. Are you familiar with H.R. 7700,
the bill to provide appropriations for the
Postal Service, for public service within
the Postal Service?
THE PRESIDENT. Not in detail.
PANAMA CANAL
Q. Mr. President, to get back to
Panama for a moment, would you hazard
your assessment of what would be the
immediate impact and the future im-
pact of the rejection of the treaty, if it
is rejected the impact in Panama and
Latin America generally?
THE PRESIDENT. I think if the treaty
was rejected that our Nation would
have the military capability to defend
it in spite of a threat of sabotage or
other similar threats. I believe that the
cooperative arrangement that has been
spelled out in the treaty between our-
selves and Panama would greatly lessen
the chance of violence and the need to
defend the Panama Canal with force.
We have made an agreement with
Panama that we would have access to
the lands and waters, the military
defense establishments in the Canal
Zone as necessary to guarantee its safety
and defense. The Joint Chiefs of Staff
have been a party to the negotiations
since I've been in office. They unani-
mously think that this is in the best in-
terest of our country. And on their own
initiative, without any orders or encour-
agement from me, they have said this
publicly, even to the VFW and the
American Legion.
We will have a signing ceremony in
Washington the 7th of September. We
have invited each of the Latin American
countries who are supportive to send a
high government official to represent
their country. In some instances, the
Presidents or the Prime Ministers them-
selves will come. In others, they might
send the foreign minister, or some might
choose not to support the treaty.
In all my travels in Latin America—
and I've met with representatives, I think,
1512
