Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 24
and the Congress. I don't know how to
answer your question any better. I'm con-
cerned about it, too.
some means by which, with two relatively
small transmission line emplacements, we
could get an adequate transmission to
Q. Can you take a question from the submarines submerged.
peanut gallery?
THE PRESIDENT. I will get you next.
Let me get this gentleman.
FEDERAL PROJECTS IN MICHIGAN
Q. Two local instances of a general
problem: In the upper peninsula of Mich-
igan, the Navy Department wants to in-
stall something called Project Seafarer, a
method of communicating with subma-
rines when submerged, and the Govern-
ment is talking about nuclear disposal on
a site around the city of Alpena.
In both cases citizens in the areas af-
fected by one method or another have
indicated they don't want those projects
to go forward.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q. I'd appreciate both your response,
if
you may, to the specific questions, and
also the general question of the interrela-
tionship between what the Federal Gov-
ernment wants to do and the views of
people in local communities who may be
impacted by this.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with
any desire to bury nuclear wastes in that
region. Most of our nuclear wastes now
are retained within the control of the
power companies who use the atomic
fuel. But it's a matter that I could look
into if you would like for me to do it.
Alpena, you say?
As far as the Seafarer program is con-
cerned, the plans for a massive burying
of the transmission wires in broad areas
of that region, I think, are ill advised.
We do need some way to communicate
with our submerged submarines. We do
have a way now, but we need some better
ways.
The Defense Department is now
assessing under the leadership of the Sec-
retary of Defense, Harold Brown-who is
a noted physicist-among other things,
These would not be placed on private
lands at all. And there is, I understand,
absolutely no danger to people who would
get anywhere near the transmission lines.
This is just an exploratory thing.
But I am quite concerned about it, too.
When I was campaigning there, the
enormous placement of the transmission
lines did concern me, and I spoke out
against it. But as these alternative plans
evolve, we'll be sure that the States would
be thoroughly informed. But I think the
essence of it is that it would likely be on
public land, away from where anybody
lives, and with a complete elimination of
any possibility that any human being
could be affected.
CONGRESSIONAL RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, a few minutes ago
you said working relationships with the
Congress have been good. This is con-
trary to the analysis in some other quar-
ters. And I just wondered what you based
that conclusion on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the other quar-
ters are the news media. [Laughter] And
I really feel that this is a reporting job
that hasn't been done well. It's inherent in
the system, and I certainly recognize it
and don't particularly deplore it, that
altercations and debates and disharmonies
and modifications in my proposals are the
things that get the headlines.
But when I was at Blair House before I
was inaugurated, I had meetings with al-
most all the Members of the Congress in
groups of about 75 or so. And there were
five goals that I had set for this year. One
was the creation of the Department of
Energy; one was reorganization author-
ity; one was the establishment of ethics
legislation in the House and Senate; one
was the establishment of a comprehensive
1171
