Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
future will have the highest price on
Earth. But still the oil companies want
more. And unless we stand firm, they may
get it. And if they do, it will come out of
the pockets of those who need it, who
need the money and who need adequate
energy supplies most.
As a farmer, I know that we, just a
small part of the American population,
use $6 billion worth of oil and gas every
year. About 75 percent of all the energy
we use is oil and natural This means
that we have got to have a supply in the
future, because it takes natural gas and
propane to dry our crops.
gas.
It takes oil to drive our tractors and
our trucks and our other machinery. We
can't very easily shift to coal. So, as we
conserve and shift to other supplies of
energy, in the production of electric
power, for instance, it makes that much
more available to farmers in the future
when energy supplies become even more
scarce.
There are some myths that are ex-
ploited on your television set several times
a day, sometimes several times an hour.
The first myth is that the oil and gas in-
dustry is controlled by free market forces.
All of us believe in the free enterprise
system, but there is no free enterprise
system in the oil and gas market. The
prices are not established by competition.
The prices are established arbitrarily
when the OPEC nation leaders meet in
secret and say, next year this is what we
will charge for oil. And, as you well know,
immediately that oil price prevails in new
oil discoveries in our country.
We have a need, at least for our Gov-
ernment, to play a stronger role, as is
played in other countries. But we ought to
get away from the proposition or the
thought that free market forces control
oil or natural gas prices.
Another myth is that there's an inher-
ent conflict between conservation and
production. This is not true. We are mak-
ing good progress in exploration for oil.
There's about an 8-month waiting period
right now for new oil drilling rigs. If we
triple the price of oil and natural gas,
there could be no substantial increase in
the rate of exploration. It would be just
an enormous windfall of profits. The
cheapest oil is what we save, and the
cheapest natural gas is what we save.
Quite often it costs nothing to save the
equivalent of one barrel of oil per day.
When we add expensive conservation
measures, it costs maybe from zero to
$3,500 to provide the saving of one barrel
of oil per day. The oil that we are now
going to bring down from Alaska costs
about $20,000 in capital investment for
one barrel of oil per day, used at its final
place to heat a home. For the production
of electricity, the capital investment re-
quired is much greater, maybe $50,000 to
$100,000 for the equivalent of one barrel
of oil used in your home in electricity. For
nuclear powerplants, the investment is
$200,000 to $300,000 per barrel of oil per
day, when it's actually delivered to your
home for use.
So, to conserve a barrel of oil is much
better than producing that barrel of oil in
investment alone. And at the same time
it reserves for future use these extremely
scarce supplies.
I wanted to mention tonight especially
those two among many subjects that fall
on my shoulders-agriculture and energy.
The tests of political strength are severe;
the responsibilities are great; the com-
plexities are very difficult; the questions
are hard to answer. But what gives me a
sense of assurance and confidence is the
degree with which I am close to you.
When I base my opinion and my decision
and my efforts on what I know you feel
1859
