Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
because it's easier to detect. I think you
would have a hundred percent capability
of a 150,000-ton weapon. But if you
tested, say, a 20-ton weapon, it would be
very difficult to detect if you wanted to
conceal it.
I think you also ought to remember,
though I don't want to overemphasize
this-both we and the Soviets recognize
that if we ever cheat and get caught, that
the consequences are very severe. And
there's a mutual trust that has to be main-
tained, based on maximum verification-
not just word, but confirmation.
But if we ever detected specifically that
the Soviets had deliberately violated a
written agreement, it would destroy the
tenuous, mutual confidence that's so im-
perative. And the Soviets recognize this,
and so do we.
When I met with Secretary Kissinger
about a year ago, after I was elected and
before I was inaugurated, I asked him if
he knew of any instance where the specific
agreement between us and the Soviets had
ever been violated. He said no, that he
had never known of an instance of that
kind, that in some cases the SALT negoti-
ations had not been as specifically worded
as they should have been and new tech-
nologies had come along later that were
not covered in the original agreements,
but both sides had taken advantage of
those so-called loopholes. But it was so im-
portant that we not cheat and get caught
because of the catastrophic consequences
of that, that he thought except when you
actually were going to attack, that that
would be highly unlikely.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll take one other
question. Then I'll go, Walt,² thank you.
This will be the last one.
2 Walter W. Wurfel, Deputy Press Secretary.
ADMINISTRATION'S PRIORITY PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, you referred again to
a very ambitious program, a lot of which
you say is urgent. There is, as you know,
some criticisms-too much too soon. Do
you have, in light of your congressional
experience since inauguration, developed
a priority program? Is there anything you
want to get out of the way first and,
particularly, before
before next November's
elections?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've had a prior-
ity program already, and some of it has
been put into effect. When I first came
into office, I wanted to see ethics legisla-
tion passed; that has been done. I wanted
to get authority to reorganize the Govern-
ment; that has been done. I wanted to
get an economic stimulus package in
effect; that's been done. I wanted to en-
hance employment opportunities among
young people and others through public
works project and so forth; that's been
done. I wanted to get a bill on the books
that would permit me to deal with urban
blight. The housing and urban develop-
ment bill was signed last week. And I
wanted to get an energy package through
this year; that has not yet been done.
Over a longer period of time—and I
announced this at the time-we want to
have welfare reform, and that bill has now
been introduced, as you know, after a
great deal of work. And then next year,
we intend to address the tax reform
question.
That's on the domestic scene, and that
encompasses the major items that I've de-
scribed. We don't expect the welfare pro-
gram to be completely implemented until
1981. We may or may not try to imple-
ment some portions of the tax reform
package next year, or they may be delayed
until 1979. That will depend on the need
for additional stimulus. But so far, the
1808
