Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 23
SOUTH AFRICA
First of all, in response to our own
direct inquiry and that of other nations,
South Africa has informed us that they
do not have and do not intend to develop
nuclear explosive devices for any purpose,
either peaceful or as a weapon, that the
Kalahari test site which has been in ques-
tion is not designed for use to test nu-
clear explosives, and that no nuclear ex-
plosive test will be taken in South Africa
now or in the future.
We appreciate this commitment from
South Africa and this information. We
will, of course, continue to monitor the
situation there very closely. We'll also
renew our efforts to encourage South
Africa to place all their nuclear power
production capabilities under interna-
tional safeguards and inspections and en-
courage them along with other nations to
sign the nuclear nonproliferation treaty.
PANAMA CANAL
Another item is that, as relates to the
Panama Canal treaty, we have become
interested, after the original discussions
were concluded, in assuring that some
definite commitment be made about a
possible future development of a sea-level
canal. As you know, the existing canal
facilities cannot be used for large war-
ships or cargo ships. And if it becomes
necessary in the future for a sea-level
canal to be constructed, we want to be
sure that we have an opportunity to be
involved directly in this construction and
not have some possible hostile nation
supplant us with our influence in the
canal area.
We have asked Panama for this assur-
ance, and this will be part of the treaties
that we will sign-that if any sea-level
canal or modification of the present canal
is concluded, that we will be part of it if we
choose and also, in return, that any sea-
level canal to be built during the terms of
the treaty will be built in Panama.
RHODESIA
A third item that I have to report to
you is that in our effort to bring about a
peaceful solution to the Rhodesian or
Zimbabwe crisis, we have been trying to
evolve, along with the British, a fair pro-
posal that would be acceptable to the
frontline nations, to the nationalist forces
in Rhodesia, to the present Government
of Rhodesia, to the South Africans, and
others. And there will be a meeting of the
frontline presidents in Lusaka, which is
Zambia, beginning Friday.
And Ambassador Young, representing
us, and Foreign Minister David Owen,
representing the British, will be meeting
with the frontline presidents in Lusaka
on Saturday, the 27th of August. There
they will go over our proposals on the
Rhodesian question. And I believe this is
a possible step toward a peaceful resolu-
tion of that question. We still have a lot
of issues to resolve, but it is an encourag-
ing thing.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
The other I'd like to report is that
Secretary Vance is continuing his discus-
sions in China, primarily with Foreign
Minister Huang Hua, and this evening he
has been having a banquet sponsored by
and hosted by Teng Hsiao-ping, who is
the Vice Chairman of the Communist
Party in China and who is also the Deputy
Prime Minister.
We don't know what the results of
these in-depth discussions might be yet. I
won't be prepared to give you any de-
tailed information until I hear from Sec-
1487
