Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 1
not always agree with what the people
are thinking at home-I have a much
surer sense of what our country ought to
do. And I think that foreign countries
feel, for instance, that when I speak or
Cy Vance speaks or the Vice President,
that we speak for the country.
We also do the same thing with the
Congress. I've met with every single
Member of the Congress, Democrat and
Republican, unless they just didn't come
when they were invited. And if they
missed one meeting, they've been invited
to subsequent meetings. You know, very
recently, I've had breakfast with all the
Democratic Members of the Senate, and
now we're starting to have breakfast with
all the Republican Members. We've
spent an hour and a half just sitting
around a small table, and let them bring
up any subject they want to me and I
answer any question they ask me.
Q. [Inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. So, it's kind of an
open administration, sir.
RUSSELL DAM
Q. You going to veto Russell Dam?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think Russell
Dam ought ever to be built, and I'll do
what I can to stop it. Whether I veto it
this year, I can't tell you. But if I don't,
I'll be trying to prevent it being built
I think it's a waste of money.
next year.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. The trans-
cript of the interview was released on July 30.
Federal Oil and Gas
Leases in Wyoming
Statement on Signing H. R. 2502 Into Law.
August 1, 1977
I have signed H.R. 2502, which ex-
tends for 4 years, 17 Federal oil and gas
leases in Wyoming. The purpose of the
extension is to permit the lessees the ad-
ditional time needed to drill an ultradeep
well. Technological problems have pre-
vented the lessees from drilling that well
to date.
I want to make clear that my signing
this bill is not part of an overall policy
favoring the extension of such leases, nor
is my signing intended to affect in any
way pending litigation on drilling exten-
sions for certain Federal oil and gas leases.
By signing H.R. 2502, I am only ac-
cepting Congress judgment that the spe-
cial circumstances surrounding these
leases require a 4-year extension.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 2502 is Public Law
95-77, approved July 30.
Securities and Exchange
Commission
Nomination of Roberta S. Karmel To Be a
Member. August 1, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Roberta S. Karmel, of
New York, to be a member of the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission. She
would replace A. A. Sommer, Jr. Karmel
is a partner in the New York law firm of
Rogers & Wells and an adjunct professor
at Brooklyn Law School.
She was born May 4, 1937, in Chicago,
Ill. She received a B.A. from Radcliffe
College in 1959 and an LL.B. from New
York University School of Law in 1962.
From 1962 to 1969, Karmel worked for
the Securities and Exchange Commission,
as an attorney, then attorney branch
chief, then Assistant Regional Administra-
tor. From 1969 to 1972, she was an asso-
ciate with Willkie, Farr & Gallagher in
New York.
Karmel has been a partner with Rogers
& Wells since 1972, and an adjunct pro-
1395
