Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 16, 1977
Newark, New Jersey
Remarks at a Fundraising Breakfast for
Governor Brendan Byrne.
September 10, 1977
Senator Pete Williams, and my good
friend, Brendan Byrne, Congressman Ro-
dino and Congressman Thompson, Con-
gressman Joe Minish, and to Mayor Gib-
son and to other friends who have formed
a relationship with me during the last 4
years which is very valuable to me:
I'm always interested in coming to New
Jersey to try to comprehend New Jersey
politics. [Laughter] In completely arriving
at a comprehension, I would guess that I
will be back in New Jersey again, even
after this meeting.
I tried to prepare myself this week with
a crash course on politics. I invited the
leaders of 27 Latin American nations to
come to Washington. [Laughter] I spent
about an hour with each one of them, and
I learned a great deal. But the thing that
I have learned most of all in New Jersey is
the value of leadership.
One of the news people yesterday said,
"You are probably going to New Jersey
because you're a Democratic President,
you're the titular head of the party, and
you feel an obligation to go." That's not
the case at all.
When I first heard about Brendan
Byrne in 1973, I had no obligations to
New Jersey. But I had heard about a man
who couldn't be bought. I heard about a
man who had never run in an election
campaign, a man whose quiet assurance
came from principles and beliefs that do
not change. I've come to know a man
with a quiet courage who didn't use his
office just to ingratiate himself with the
electorate, looking to the next election,
but who made one of the most difficult
decisions that I guess a Governor ever
makes, and that is to raise taxes when
they are needed, but to try to do it in such
a way that in the long run the people who
are affected will appreciate his courage.
The passage of the New Jersey income
tax was unpopular. As I campaigned
here last year, I could see that at first
hand. But in the process now, with prop-
erty taxes going down, rebates, about a
quarter of a billion dollars to property tax
payers, lower property taxes, over $500
million extra money going into better
education for your children, and the
soundness of New Jersey's fiscal integrity
giving you a legitimate source of pride-
his courage and his good judgment and
that of many of you has begun to pay off.
I saw a public opinion poll in prepa-
ration for my visit here. As contrasted be-
tween the no-loophole income tax and an
increase in either sales tax or property
taxes, an overwhelming portion of the
1571
