Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
around the world and is already begin-
ning to help overcome the crisis of spirit
which recently has afflicted the nations of
the West.
We are also trying to build a more
cooperative international system. We are
consulting more closely with our own
allies, and we place special emphasis on
better relations with people in South
America and in Asia and in Africa. And
we are searching for new areas of co-
operation with the Soviet Union, espe-
cially in the area where we and the Soviets
now most intensely compete in the race
for nuclear weapons.
We must halt that race. In the last few
months, we've tried to work closely with
the Soviets to eliminate the testing of
peaceful nuclear explosives. And just in
thet last 24 hours, Mr. Brezhnev, President
Brezhnev, has announced that the Soviets
are finally coming to agree with us. And
we have good hopes that we might, with-
out too much delay, realize a comprehen-
sive test ban that would eliminate this
threat from the Earth. We hope so.
But at the same time we seek coopera-
tion, we recognize that competition is also
part of international life, and we will
always remain capable of defending the
legitimate interests of our people. We are
addressing other global problems which
threaten the well-being and the security
of people everywhere. They include nu-
clear proliferation, the excessive sales of
conventional arms, food supplies and
energy, and the quality of the environ-
ment. These things affect all nations of
the world. And we are also seeking solu-
tions to regional conflicts that could do
incalculable damage, if not resolved.
Our efforts toward a new treaty with
Panama are one example. Bringing about
peaceful change in southern Africa is
another. But none is more important than
finding peace in the Middle East.
Sixty years ago today, November 2,
1917, the British Foreign Secretary, Lord
Balfour-
[At this point, the President was interrupted
by demonstrators. After making the follow-
ing comment on the interruption, he continued
his remarks.]
One of the basic human rights that we
cherish in our country is the right to
speak, and I have no objection to it.
As I was saying, exactly 60 years ago
today, November 2, 1917, the British
Foreign Secretary, Lord Balfour, informed
Lord Rothschild of his government's sup-
port for the establishment of a national
home for the Jewish people in Palestine.
At that time, the idea seemed visionary
and few dared to believe that it could
actually be translated into reality. But to-
day Israel is a vital force, an independent
and democratic Jewish state whose na-
tional existence is accepted and whose
security is stronger today than ever before.
We are proud to be Israel's firm friend
and closest partner, and we shall stand by
Israel always.
I doubt that anyone in the history of
our country has traveled more than I have
in my campaign for President, nor talked
to more groups, nor listened to more ques-
tions, nor heard more comments. And
when I say that we will always stand with
Israel, I speak not only for myself as
President, not only for our Government,
all three of its branches, but I speak not
just for American Jews but for all Ameri-
cans. This is one of our deepest felt com-
mitments, and I have no doubt that I
speak accurately for the overwhelming
portion of the American people, now and
forever.
Despite its great accomplishments,
however, Israel has yet to realize the
cherished goal of living in peace with its
neighbors. Some would say that peace
cannot be achieved because of the accu-
1954
