Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 10
border villages
villages without retaliation,
whether the retaliation was excessive.
Those are questions that I think both
answers would be, perhaps, yes. There
ought not to be any attacks. If there are
continued attacks, some retaliation is
required.
I don't know the details of it, but I
think the overriding consideration is not
to condemn Israel at this point for retalia-
tion, but just to say that if the provoca-
tions were absent that the retaliation
would have been unnecessary. And the
best way to resolve it is for Lebanon,
Syria, and Israel, relating to that region
of the Mideast, for Jordan and Egypt and
Israel to start direct negotiations. The
whole thing is just sitting and teetering on
another outbreak of even more major
violence. And I think that at this time, a
condemnation of people is probably inap-
propriate, but an urge for all nations now
to stop this present, recent outbreak and
to move toward major consultations is the
only answer that I can give.
DAM SAFETY INSPECTIONS
Q. Mr. President, I'm asking you, sir,
about the question of safety of the 50,000
dams in the United States. It's 5 years
since Congress authorized an inspection
program, but money has never been put
up for it. Last weekend, Mrs. Carter went
down to Florida [Georgia] to inspect the
latest disaster and, presumably, reported
back to you, and presumably you have
some ideas on what to do next about it.
Could you tell us, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Again, this has
been, as you know, a historic question in
that it lasts from one year to another,
from one decade to another, even genera-
tions.
There are now about 50,000 dams in
this country that need to be inspected
without delay. We've allocated $15 mil-
lion to the Corps of Engineers to com-
mence this examination procedure.
The priorities for inspection of dams
will be established depending upon the
number of people who are endangered by
these potentially unsafe dams. Only about
2,000, I believe, out of the 50,000 are
Federal dams. The rest of them are pri-
vately owned or, in some instances, owned
by the State or local governments—water
reservoirs and so forth.
This is a project that requires a broad
range of participation. State governments
and local governments ought to partici-
pate as well. And private owners of dams
ought to reassess both the need for the
reservoir to continue in existence, or filled
with water, or the repair or examination
of the dam by letting the water down, or
by other means.
I think that these tragedies that occur
restimulate interest which has, in the past,
died down after a few weeks. I don't in-
tend to let this interest die down. The
tragedy in Toccoa, Georgia, was one that
was very narrowly defined. This was a
small, privately owned dam just above a
200-foot waterfall. Below that waterfall
was a very small college, and 37 people
have been found dead; 2 more are missing.
We acted immediately there. We've got
even more extensive flooding with a num-
ber of people's lives being lost in North
Carolina. But I intend to pursue this dam
safety inspection now without surcease. It
will not be postponed any further.
ABORTION
Q. Mr. President, with the Senate and
House conferees deadlocked over federally
funded abortions, a young woman in
Texas recently was unable to obtain an
abortion, went across the border into
Mexico, obtained a cheap, botched-up
operation, and died.
My question is, sir, does this prompt
you to any second thoughts about your
recent comments that life is unfair when
1997
