Dec. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
SEC. 7. This Order shall be effective
December 4, 1977.
The White House,
December 5, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
mentation of these policies. The Civil
Service Commission shall be responsible
for the day-to-day policy guidance under
that program. The Civil Service Com-
mission also shall continuously review the
operation of the Federal labor-manage-
ment relations program to assist in assur-
ing adherence to its provisions and merit
system requirements; implement tech-
nical advice and information programs
for the agencies; assist in the development Commissioner on Aging
of programs for training agency person-
nel and management officials in labor-
management relations; and, from time to
time, report to the Council on the state of
the program with any recommendations
for its improvement.".
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:59 p.m., December 5, 1977]
SEC. 4. Section 5(a) of Executive Order
No. 11636 of December 17, 1971, estab-
lishing an Employee-Management Rela-
tions Commission as a committee of the
Board of the Foreign Service, is amended
by deleting: "The representative of the
Office of Management and Budget shall
be the Chairman of the Commission" and
substituting therefor "The representative
of the Civil Service Commission shall be
the Chairman of the Commission".
SEC. 5. The records, property, person-
nel, and unexpended balances of appro-
priations, available or to be made availa-
ble, which relate to the functions trans-
ferred or reassigned by this Order from
the Office of Management and Budget to
the United States Civil Service Commis-
sion, are hereby transferred to the United
States Civil Service Commission.
SEC. 6. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall make such
determinations, issue such orders, and
take all actions necessary or appropriate
to effectuate the transfers or reassign-
ments provided by this Order, including
the transfer of funds, records, property,
and personnel.
Nomination of Robert C. Benedict.
December 5, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert C. Benedict, of
Mechanicsburg, Pa., to be Commissioner
on Aging. He would replace Arthur S.
Flemming.
Benedict was born November 29, 1940.
He received a B.S. in history and political
science from Eastern Michigan University
in 1965 and an M.P.A. from the Univer-
sity of Michigan in 1969. He also attended
the University of Michigan Institute of
Gerontology and was certified as a spe-
cialist in aging.
From 1965 to 1967, Benedict was a staff
associate for human services with the
State Human Resources Council of the
Executive Office of the Governor of
Michigan. From 1969 to 1972, he was on
the faculty of the University of Michigan's
Institute of Gerontology and also served
as director of short-term training and di-
rector of the Residential Institute on Ag-
ing program.
Since 1972 Benedict has been director
of the Bureau for the Aging and commis-
sioner of the Office for the Aging at the
Pennsylvania Department of Public Wel-
fare. He has served as a consultant on
2082
