Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 5
would imperil the Administration's policy
to curb proliferation of nuclear weapons
technology. Further, completion of the
Clinch River facility would cost Ameri-
can taxpayers an additional $1.4 billion
on a facility that is technically and eco-
nomically unnecessary.
In 1970, when the Clinch River facility
was first authorized it was estimated to
cost $450 million. Its total cost estimate
now exceeds $2.2 billion. The Federal
government's share of the cost of the proj-
ect has risen from $250 million to $2 bil-
lion. Yet current projections of the in-
crease in the need for nuclear-generated
electric power in the year 2000 are only
one-third of estimates made in 1970. The
breeder reactor will, therefore, not be
needed in the early 1990's, as had been
projected when the Clinch River facility
was first authorized.
The Administration is committed to a
strong research and development pro-
gram for advanced nuclear technologies,
including base program research on the
liquid metal fast breeder, research into
alternative breeder cycles, and an accel-
erated research and development pro-
gram for advanced non-breeder technol-
ogies. These programs are vital to ensure
that energy is available to make the trans-
ition over the decades ahead from oil and
natural gas to other energy sources. All
of these programs will be maintained in
the absence of S. 1811. Construction of
the Clinch River facility in no way is nec-
essary to ensure continued development
of nuclear technologies, including liquid
metal fast breeder technology.
In vetoing S. 1811, I intend to pursue
the authority at my disposal to terminate
construction of the Clinch River facility.
Further expenditure on the Clinch River
facility should be ended in an orderly
fashion, and I intend to analyze all avail-
able options, including those under the
Congressional Budget and Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, to ensure that no
further unnecessary expenditures on this
facility are made.
In addition to those features relating to
the Clinch River Breeder Reactor, S.
1811 also contains additional provisions
which are not consistent with Adminis-
tration policies and the national interest.
The bill would further impede our non-
proliferation goals by imposing limita-
tions on the ability of the United States
to provide for the storage of spent fuel
from foreign reactors in those instances
where such an action would serve those
goals.
It permits a one-House veto over the
criteria and prices which the Adminis-
tration can adopt, infringing on the Ad-
ministration's ability to recover the full
cost of those enrichment services.
S. 1811 would impede the ability of the
Secretary of Energy to organize effec-
tively the research and development ac-
tivities of the new Department of Energy,
in contravention of legislation passed in
August establishing the Department.
Finally, it would impose a variety of
specific and unnecessary technical restric-
tions on energy research and development
programs, establish one-House veto pro-
visions relating to geothermal facility loan
guarantees, and impose a six-month re-
quirement for a recommendation on the
purchase and/or operation of the Barn-
well reprocessing facility.
I am committed to a vigorous energy re-
search and development strategy to ensure
maximum progress on shifting the energy
base of the United States away from oil
and natural gas. However, I am also con-
cerned about the risk of introducing the
plutonium economy through an unneces-
sary commercial demonstration facility. I
believe that we should continue our re-
search and development program without
1973
