Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Africa. Are you prepared to support those
efforts?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that
that decision would have to depend on
the degree of good faith which we detect
among the South African leaders, in try-
ing to bring about the purposes of the
United Nations, and the citizens of Rho-
desia and Namibia. We have lately been
encouraged by constructive moves in
South Africa concerning Namibia. There
are still some difficult questions to be re-
solved. But I think at this point, the best
thing to do is to encourage South Africa
to continue their cooperative attitude and
to join in under United Nations Resolu-
tion 385 in bringing about a free Nami-
bia. If so, I think the threat of additional
sanctions would be inappropriate.
Now, if the South Africans become an
obstacle to further progress, then some
sort of additional influence on our part
against South Africa would probably be
advisable.
Q. The reason we were asking about
President Asad, we wonder if in turning
down the working group concept, he
wasn't, however, leaving the door open to
some other way of making a preparation
for Geneva?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be a
mistake to attach too much importance to
news reports and press conference state-
ments at the conclusion of the meetings,
because there are literally hundreds of
options being discussed with each one
of these leaders. Almost all of them are
reluctant to make a unilateral statement
until we know what the attitude of the
other leaders might be.
And following the visit of Secretary
Vance to Egypt, to Lebanon, to Syria and,
now, to Jordan and Saudi Arabia, he'll go
back to Israel and that will conclude his
first interviews. If necessary, he will then
consult with some of the Arab leaders
about the reaction of Israel to their pro-
posals.
Q. He might go back to Mr. Asad?
THE PRESIDENT. Either go back physi-
cally or communicate with him directly.
But I think it's such a fluid thing, and
there are so many conflicting options, that
we are trying to find some formula by
which those conflicting options might be
harmonized, at least for a next step to-
ward a peaceful resolution.
But it's an extremely difficult question,
and I think to emphasize the few nega-
tive aspects of disagreements at this point
possibly distorts the progress or minimizes
progress that is being made.
I still believe that all the leaders in the
Middle East genuinely want to have
peace, obviously on their own terms. But
I also believe that they are willing to
negotiate and depart from their own pre-
vious terms if they feel that they can have
their own security guaranteed and an end
to the constant threat of war.
Q. Do you think Geneva is still a prob-
ability?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so, yes.
Q. With Palestinian representation?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll have to wait until
later to answer that.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
Visit of President Nyerere
of Tanzania
White House Statement Issued Following the
Conclusion of the Meetings Between
the President and President
Nyerere. August 5, 1977
President Julius K. Nyerere of the
United Republic of Tanzania met yester-
day and today with the President. They
reviewed political and economic develop-
ment in Africa and their relationship to
global issues, as well as to subjects di-
rectly bearing on United States and Tan-
zanian relations.
1434
