Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But I think you'll remember there was
a slight difference. When we went into
South Korea, we did not have the con-
demnation of the rest of the world be-
cause we went in with a legitimate
position. The United Nations voted, the
Security Council, that South Korea should
be defended. And we went in as part of
the United Nations forces-the strongest
force of all, of course, legally.
We went into Vietnam with the same
good intentions and with the same com-
mitment of forces, but we were looked on
as being an illegal entity in South
Vietnam.
With the passing of these two treaties,
if we later have to go into Panama—and
I don't believe we will-but if we should
later have to go into Panama, it will be
with the endorsement of the Panamanian
Government, the Panamanian people. It
will be with the endorsement of 30 or 40
or 50 other nations who will sign the neu-
trality treaty going into effect after the
year 2000, saying, we think that the treaty
with Panama and the United States is a
good one. We support it and we endorse
the principle of either the United States
or Panama having the right-not just the
right but the duty-to defend the canal
against any attack and to keep it open.
So, it gives us a legitimacy and an en-
dorsement of the rest of the world to do
what we want in the first place to keep
the canal open, well managed, and to
meet the security needs, the trade needs
of our own country.
So, in every aspect of controversy,
there's a good and responsible and truth-
ful answer. But the distortions and the in-
correct information that has been put out
about these treaties is very, very damaging
to the truth.
I'm very proud to have a chance to
come here, and I think for the few min-
utes we have remaining I'd like to answer
any questions that you might have on the
treaties themselves. I've tried to cover as
quickly as I could some of the questions
that I thought you might ask in the future.
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, Roger McDaniel
from Wyoming. I'd like to ask that with
the reasonable assumption that tomor-
row's plebiscite in Panama will show the
anticipated overwhelming support for the
enactment of the treaty, what kind of a
timetable do you see as necessary for the
ratification by the United States Senate?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there's a gen-
eral feeling in Washington, I think, the
rest of the Nation, that the most impor-
tant single thing that the Congress can
address this year is a comprehensive ener-
gy policy. And following that, I think the
Congress will be ready to turn its attention
to the ratification of the Panama Canal
Treaty. I was hoping we could do it this
year. But the obstacles that have been
placed in the way of rapid Senate con-
sideration of the energy package, I think,
has delayed it.
I have talked privately with Senator
Robert Byrd, the majority leader, and
his response is, "Whenever you get an as-
sured vote of 67 votes in the Senate, why,
I'll be willing to call it up." [Laughter]
And that's why I need your help. I'm not
asking you in particular to call your U.S.
Senator and say please support the treaty.
But I do hope that when you go back
home, if you are convinced that the
treaties are in the best interest of our coun-
try that you will let your own voice be
heard.
It takes a great deal of courage on the
part of a U.S. Senator to vote for the
canal treaties if he has any doubts what-
soever if the people in his home State are
overwhelmingly opposed to the treaties
based upon incorrect information.
I think you've had a very good oppor-
tunity this afternoon to learn the facts
1888
