Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 27
Long Island City, N.Y., to be alternate
Federal member of the Susquehanna
River Basin Commission. He would re-
place Thomas C. H. Webster, resigned.
Delaney was born December 15, 1940,
in New York City. He received a B.S. from
Providence College in 1963.
From 1965 to 1973, Delaney was a
stockbroker in New York. From 1973 to
1975, he was special assistant to the chair-
man of the New York State Racing and
Wagering Board. He served as Assistant
Director of the White House Domestic
Council from 1975 to 1976, and as Asso-
ciate Director for Intergovernmental Re-
lations from 1976 to 1977.
Upper Mississippi River Basin
Commission
Appointment of Neil S. Haugerud as
Chairman. October 27, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of Neil S. Haugerud, of
Preston, Minn., to be Chairman of the
Upper Mississippi River Basin Commis-
sion. He replaces George W. Griebenow,
resigned.
Haugerud was born July 3, 1930, in
Canton Township, Minn. He served in
the U.S. Marine Corps from 1948 to 1952.
Haugerud was sheriff of Fillmore
County, Minn., from 1961 to 1969. Since
1969 he has been a member of the Minne-
sota House of Representatives. He has
served as chairman of the State Depart-
ment's Division of the Appropriations
Committee, and as a member of the Leg-
islative Commission on Minnesota Re-
sources, a joint House-Senate committee.
He was chairman of the Joint Senate-
House Commission for the Review of Ad-
ministrative Rules.
In addition to his legislative duties,
Haugerud is owner and operator of a
family farm. Previously, he owned and
managed a real estate and insurance
agency.
Social Security Financing Bill
White House Statement on House Action on
the Bill. October 27, 1977
We commend the action of the House
of Representatives today in passing the
social security financing bill [H.R. 9346].
The President requested such legislation
on May 9, 1977, and it now appears pos-
sible that a bill can be enacted this year.
The House bill contains many provi-
sions requested by the administration, in-
cluding the correction of the inflation
adjustment mechanism, maintenance of
benefit levels in the future, and the use of
general revenues as an insurance policy
to protect the trust funds against a future
economic downturn. We would like to
see more moderate increases in the tax
rate for workers. In particular, we are
concerned that the removal of the earn-
ings limitation passed by the House will
require too great a tax increase. We ex-
pect that the tax levels will be moderated
in the final measure passed by Congress.
The American people deserve a social
security system which is financially sound.
The response of the House to the Presi-
dent's initiative is an important first step
toward that goal. We are confident that
the Senate will soon take action on the
bill to be reported from the Finance Com-
mittee.
We look forward to working with the
Members of the House and Senate in the
coming weeks in a joint effort to ensure
the financial integrity of the social secu-
rity system into the middle of the next
century.
1917
