Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
suant to the provisions of Section 4 of this
Order and decide which of them, if any,
warrant presentation to the President.
The Chairman shall thereupon transmit
to the President the names of those per-
sons who, in the opinion of the Chair-
man, merit the award, together with a
statement of the reasons therefor. Recipi-
ents for the award shall be selected by
the President.
“Sec. 4. The form and procedures for
making nominations for this award shall
be prescribed by the Chairman of the
United States Civil Service Commission,
in accord with the following principles:
"(a) The Chairman shall be guided in
the performance of this function by the
provisions of Section 4504 and 4505 of
Title 5 of the United States Code, and by
additional criteria which the Chairman
may prescribe.
"(b) The Chairman shall not recom-
mend any person for the award without
the concurrence of the head of the
agency
in which that person was employed at the
time of the achievement for which the
award is recommended.
"(c) Persons appointed by the Presi-
dent are not eligible for this award unless,
in the opinion of the Commission, they
are currently serving in a career posi-
tion.".
The White House,
October 19, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5:13 p.m., October 19, 1977]
United States Sinai Support
Mission
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. October 19, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit herewith the
Fourth Report of the United States Sinai
Support Mission. It highlights the Mis-
sion's operation of the United States early
warning system in the Sinai and the re-
lationship of the system to the overall dis-
engagement arrangements of the Agree-
ment signed by Egypt and Israel on Sep-
tember 4, 1975—the Sinai II Agreement.
This report is provided to the Congress
in conformity with Section 4 of Public
Law 94-110 of October 13, 1975.
Since the beginning of operations on
February 22, 1976, there have been no
serious intrusions into the area of the
early warning system by either party.
Some 40 minor or accidental intrusions
have been detected and reported to both
sides and to the United Nations, but none
of them appears to have had any hostile
purpose.
The Director of the Sinai Support
Mission raised with senior Egyptian and
Israeli officials the Congressional interest
in the feasibility of substituting nationals
of other countries for some of the Ameri-
cans working in the Sinai. They expressed
strong opposition to this proposal as, in
their view, such a change would create
difficult problems for their governments
and risk upsetting arrangements which
are now working to their complete satis-
faction. Both parties continue to make
clear their full support for the role of
the United States in maintaining the dis-
NOTE: The Executive order was announced by engagement arrangements in the Sinai.
the White House Press Office on October 19.
It was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
At a time when we are engaged in in-
tensive discussions to help Israel and the
1
1820
