Aug. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
President of the United States of America,
it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established
the Presidential Management Intern Pro-
gram, hereafter referred to as the Pro-
gram, the purpose of which is to attract
to Federal service men and women of ex-
ceptional management potential who have
received special training in planning and
managing public programs and policies.
SEC. 2. Outstanding individuals who
have pursued a course of study oriented
toward public management at a graduate-
level educational institution and who, at
the time of application, have recently re-
ceived or will shortly receive an appro-
priate advanced degree, are eligible to ap-
ply for participation in the Program.
SEC. 3. The United States Civil Service
Commission, hereafter referred to as the
Commission, shall develop appropriate
procedures for the recruitment, screen-
ing, and selection of applicants possessing
the qualifications described in Section 2
of this order. In developing these proce-
dures, the Commission shall be guided by
the following principles and policies:
(a) The number of interns participat-
ing in the Program shall at no time exceed
five hundred.
(b) Final selection of interns shall be
made by the head of the department,
agency, or component within the Execu-
tive Office of the President in which the
intern is to be employed, or by the desig-
nee thereof.
(c) The procedures so developed shall
and screening of candidates for the Pro-
gram.
SEC. 4. Upon selection, candidates shall
be appointed as interns to positions in
Schedule A of the excepted service for a
period not to exceed two years. Their
tenure shall be governed by the following
principles and policies:
(a) Interns shall be assigned responsi-
bilities consistent with their public man-
agement backgrounds and the purposes of
this Program.
(b) Continuation in the Program shall
be contingent upon satisfactory perform-
ance by the interns throughout the intern-
ship period.
(c) Except as provided in subsection
(d) of this Section, service as interns shall
confer no rights to further Federal em-
ployment in either the competitive or ex-
cepted service upon expiration of the two-
year internship period.
(d) Interns may be granted competitive
civil service status if they satisfactorily
complete their two-year internships and
meet all other requirements prescribed by
the Commission.
SEC. 5. The Commission shall prescribe
such regulations as may be necessary to
carry out the purposes of this order.
The White House,
August 25, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:27 p.m., August 25, 1977]
provide for such affirmative action as the The Cyprus Conflict
Commission deems appropriate to assure
equal employment opportunity.
(d) To the extent permitted by law,
the Commission is authorized to enter into
appropriate cooperative arrangements
with State and local officials and appro-
priate private institutions for recruitment
Message to the Congress Reporting on
Progress Toward a Negotiated Settlement.
August 25, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Public Law 94-104,
this report describes our efforts over the
1500
