Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
a question about the direction of foreign
aid. Given the example of South Africa,
your administration has moved away from
backing the developed group there, which
is the whites, to moving behind the under-
developed group, which is the blacks.
What I would like to know is if this is
some kind of an across-the-board policy
change, that we are going to start giving
foreign aid more directly to those people
who are in need of it?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. As you know, the
Congress has just completed its action on
the foreign aid bill, and I believe the em-
phasis has been more and more toward
getting the foreign aid directly into the
hands of those who need it and not into
the hands of those in poor countries who
don't need it.
As I said several times in the campaign,
I don't think it's right to tax the poor
people in our rich country and give the
money to the rich people in the poor
countries. And this is something that we
have tried to do this year.
We also have the prospect-since I just
had a question on agriculture-to in-
crease substantially the benefits from Pub-
lic Law 480, which will take our great
food and feed grain reserves of which we
are very proud and use them as an in-
tegral part and a growing part of our for-
eign aid program. But I hope that we can
measure up to what you have just de-
scribed, that we are now trying to make
sure that the aid programs of all kinds
are more efficiently administered and do
get the money and the aid and the food in
the hands of those who need them most.
Thank you very much, Mr. Sanders.
OIL AND GAS PRICES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Max El-
lison, and I am from Salt Lake City. I am
just completing a 2-year term as the
president of the Rocky Mountain Oil and
Gas Association, which covers an eight-
State area. Now, I am also a farm boy, as
you are, and as a farm boy I realize the
importance of having adequate supplies
of oil and natural gas.
All of this discussion about water and
so on will be moot unless we have the
energy to run our farms and our factories.
My question is this, and it relates to a
campaign letter which you wrote last year
to Governor Boren. And in that letter you
pointed out that it was necessary and im-
portant for us to have adequate supplies
of oil and gas in order to have full employ-
ment and so on in this country and to
have a growing economy.
And in there you outlined three steps
which you said were necessary for us to
increase domestic supplies, and the first
one that I would like to read is this. You
said, "I will work with the Congress, as the
Ford administration has been unable to
do, to deregulate new natural gas. The de-
control of producers' prices for new nat-
ural gas would provide an incentive for
new exploration and would help our Na-
tion's oil and gas operators attract needed
capital."
Now, we agree 100 percent with that
justification, and we believe that it's crit-
ical that oil and natural gas prices be
decontrolled.
Now, I have two related questions for
you. The first is, why did you change your
position on deregulation of natural gas
prices and also proposed that regulation
be extended to the intrastate market? And
related to that is, where is the fairness in
an energy program which includes price
controls by which the value of a product,
oil or natural gas, is taken from the owner
of that product and distributed to other
people through taxation?
THE PRESIDENT. I will be glad to an-
swer your question. As I also said in my
speech to the Congress in April-it's the
1880
