Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 15
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
DECEMBER 15, 1977
HUMAN RIGHTS
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body. I have a statement to make first
about a subject of great importance to
us. This is Human Rights Week around
the world. I've worked day and night to
make sure that a concern for human
rights is woven through everything our
Government does, both at home and
abroad.
This policy has produced some contro-
versy, but it's very much in keeping with
the character and the history of our own
country. We became an independent na-
tion in a struggle for human rights. And
there have been many such struggles
since then, for the abolition of slavery, for
universal suffrage, for racial equality, for
the rights of workers, for women's rights.
Not all of these struggles have yet been
won. But the freedom and the vigor of
our own national public life is evidence
of the rights and the liberties that we
have achieved. I believe that public life
everywhere, in all nations, should have
that same freedom and vigor.
We have no wish to tell other nations
what political or social systems they
should have, but we want our own world-
wide influence to reduce human suffering
and not to increase it. This is equally true
whether the cause of suffering be hunger
on the one hand or tyranny on the other.
We are therefore working to advance a
full range of human rights, economic and
social, as well as civil and political.
The universal declaration and other
international human rights covenants
mean that one nation may criticize an-
other's treatment of its citizens without
regarding each other as enemies. We will
continue to do this, just as we welcome
scrutiny and criticism of ourselves as part
of the normal dealings between nations.
We have strengthened our foreign policy
on human rights, and we are letting it be
known clearly that the United States
stands for the victims of repression. We
stand with the tortured and the unjustly
imprisoned and with those who have been
silenced.
Other governments and the dissidents
in Eastern Europe and the political pris-
oners in Latin America and Asia know
where we stand. We've spoken out against
gross violations of human rights in coun-
tries like Cambodia and South Africa and
Uganda. We've received exiles from many
other countries, exiles who represent those
who are unable to speak freely in their
own lands.
We've encouraged several countries to
permit inspection of human rights situa-
tions by the International Committee of
the Red Cross. We've reduced military
relationships which in some countries in
the past have seemed to support repressive
regimes.
Our foreign assistance programs will
now reflect more clearly our concern
about human rights. We will continue to
lead the fight in the United Nations, spon-
sored by Costa Rica, to establish an Office
of the High Commissioner on Human
Rights. We support the private and the
independent human rights organizations
which gather information and support ac-
tivities in the human rights field.
In the past year, human rights has be-
come an issue that no government on
Earth can now afford to ignore. There
have been numerous instances of improve-
ment. Some represent genuine change,
some are only cosmetic in nature. But we
2115
