Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment) making as many as 2 million per-
sons eligible for food stamps for the first
time.
2. Grain Reserve-initiated plan to
place 30-35 million metric tons of food
and feed grains in reserve during the next
year.
3. International Grain Agreement—
initiated negotiations with major grain
exporting and importing nations to reach
an international agreement stabilizing
world grain prices.
4. Sugar-negotiated an international
sugar agreement which will protect do-
mestic sugar producers while stabilizing
world sugar prices (congressional ratifi-
cation pending).
5. Emergency Drought Assistance—
proposed and signed into law legislation
designed to help farmers hit by the severe
droughts of the past spring and summer;
provided over $800 million in emergency
drought assistance.
Civil Rights and Equal Opportunity
1. Bakke-Filed an amicus brief in the
Bakke case supporting affirmative action
in college admissions programs, provided
they use flexible targets or goals instead
of inflexible quotas.
2. Sex Discrimination-reaffirmed the
validity of and importance of compliance
with Executive Order 11375, which pro-
hibits discrimination on the basis of sex in
Federal employment.
3. Title VII-placed the White House
Office under Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act, which prohibits discrimination in em-
ployment on the basis of sex, race, na-
tional origin, or religion.
4. Equal Employment-filed the first
statewide Federal suit to force employ-
ment of women and blacks by police and
fire departments (affecting 54 cities and
parishes in Louisiana).
5. Handicapped-issued Section 504
regulations to guarantee equal access to
programs receiving Federal financial as-
sistance.
6. Minority Business-took several ac-
tions to aid businesses owned by members
of minority groups:
-placed $100 million in Federal de-
posits into minority-owned banks;
-supported and signed a public works
act requiring that 10 percent of the
$4 billion in public works contracts
let during 1977-78 be "set aside" for
minority-owned programs;
-approved 15 percent "set-aside" for
minority businesses in construction
on the Northeast Corridor railroad;
-directed Federal agencies to double
their purchases of services and goods
from minority-owned firms during
the next 2 years, reaching a total of
$2 billion.
High-Level
7.
Appointments-ap-
pointed more blacks, women, and mem-
bers of ethnic minorities to executive-level
positions than any other administration
in history.
Civil Service
1. Pay Raise-approved a 7.05 per-
cent cost-of-living pay raise for Federal
employees.
2. Hatch Act Reform-supported re-
form of the Hatch Act to permit most
civil service employees to participate more
fully in the political process, without
politicizing the civil service. This has
passed the House.
3. Civil Service Reorganization and
Reform initiated, under the Federal Per-
sonnel Management Project, a review of
the Civil Service Commission and the
civil service employment and promotion
laws and regulations. Announcement of
proposed reforms will come next year.
4. Part-time Employment-directed
Cabinet members and agency heads to in-
crease the number of part-time jobs, so
that the elderly, the handicapped, and
2140
