July 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
that I would want to change if I had the
whole choice to do over again. They've
worked well together.
We have, for the first time in years-I
don't know how long-we've got a week-
ly Cabinet meeting. And any defects that
are carrying over in the governmental
structure are partially overcome by the
close-knit working relationship between
the White House staff and the members
of the Cabinet.
We have established now-almost com-
pleted the Department of Energy, which
is to some degree a replacement for about
40 other Federal agencies. And our plan
for reorganizing the entire structure of
the Government is well in place. I've
been through this before, for 4 years in
Georgia, and I think there's a good
parallel there to serve as a guide for me.
So to answer your question, I'm not
disappointed nor unpleasantly surprised.
And what defects are here, we are over-
coming them by close relationship among
the officials involved.
INNER CITIES
Q. Mr. President, you've been accused
of, possibly unfairly, of not doing enough
for the inner cities in this country. In view
of the fact that many of the problems of
the inner cities can be traced to the fact
that crime and high taxes are chasing in-
dustry and jobs out of the cities, what ex-
actly can the Federal Government do ex-
cept to put all these people on welfare
forever?
THE PRESIDENT. We obviously didn't
cause the problem; it's an inherited prob-
lem that's been built up for long years. I
think in the past there's been too much of
an emphasis on major Federal programs
when billions of dollars have been spent
on helping people that didn't need the
help very badly.
I'm from the Sun Belt States. I think
there's been too much of a channeling of
Federal moneys into Sun Belt areas. I
think between the downtown ghetto areas
on crime control, housing development,
and so forth, the funds have quite often
been channeled off into the suburbs be-
cause of more highly educated people, bet-
ter organized people, more able to speak
loudly and who understood the complexi-
ties of Federal programs. We're trying to
change that and focus the attention of the
Government, whatever it is, on the down-
town, urban, deteriorating neighborhoods.
Another thing that we're trying to do is
to concentrate on the rehabilitation of
homes. I've seen this happen in Baltimore.
I've seen it happen in Savannah, Georgia,
and other places around the country,
where with a small effort on the part of
a chamber of commerce or the local offi-
cials, the banks, working with the Federal
Government-that instead of seeing a
neighborhood deteriorate, that existing
structures can be rebuilt or renovated to
make very attractive homes near the core
area for executive and professional work
without abandoning the central cities and
moving out into the suburbs. We're trying
to do that, too, with our general HUD
programs.
And on crime, I think the major cause
of crime in those downtown areas is unem-
ployment, and we're trying to focus on this
question. We've got now about 1.1 million
jobs allotted during the summertime for
young people, much more than ever has
been before.
We are putting into realization at this
moment 20,000 public service jobs per
week, even a greater rate than Franklin
Roosevelt put people in the CCC camps
when you had the Army to do it and when
the Nation was devastated by depression.
We are now approving 1,000 public
works projects every week, with at least
1392
