Nov. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
leaders have only been separated by a
30-minute plane ride, have responded
well.
I think this is proof in itself that had
we leaders of the world been more aggres-
sive in taking bold steps that the people
would have responded.
Q. How much difference does the
opposition of the Syrians make?
Q. We understand that even now
President Sadat is entering the Knesset
in Jerusalem.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to get home
to watch the speeches. I promised both
men on the telephone this week that I
would be watching and listening to every
word.
I think the Syrians have perhaps
been the most difficult and because they
are in the most difficult position. They
are a nation that's relatively small in size
and not nearly so great as Israel or Egypt
in military strength. But they are the tie
between the more moderate Arab world
and the Arab world that still is perhaps
most radical, and in a strange way they
have become the spokesmen for others
who don't want to see such immediate
steps made to recognize Israel.
President Asad, with whom I met in
Geneva this past year this year, this past
spring, I think, genuinely wants peace,
but he has become kind of a spokesman
in a strange way for some of the more
radical Arab leaders who don't yet want
to move.
And I think that this might very well
break down the barrier to peace that has
existed for so long.
Also, I think it's obvious that Presi-
dent Asad doesn't want to see Syria left
out of the future negotiations. They fear
that Egypt and Israel will negotiate a bi-
lateral peace agreement to the exclusion
of other Arabs. And this is something that
neither Sadat wants, nor I, nor Prime
Minister Begin. And I think that once
this meeting is over, if it is successful-
and I pray that it will be-then this
threat that the rest of the Arabs see in
being abandoned by the strong nation of
Egypt will be removed.
Q. And you think it will make Geneva
more possible?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 8:54 a.m.
The transcript of the exchange was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
National Medal of Science
Remarks at the Presentation
Ceremony. November 22, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. In 1959 the Congress es-
tablished this program, the Medal of
Science Awards, to recognize outstanding
achievement in the sciences and in
engineering.
The first awards were given in 1962 by
President Kennedy-I think just one
award—and since that time every Presi-
dent each year has recognized the out-
standing scientists in the physical sciences,
the social sciences, biological sciences, and
in engineering for the previous year.
I'm particularly grateful, having had
some engineering background, some scien-
tific background, in business, agriculture,
politics, to come here as President this
morning to express the appreciation of our
Nation for the tremendous present and
past and future contribution that you dis-
tinguished Americans have earned.
Most of you have performed so superbly
because of a dedication to your own
profession-probably most without any
thought that you might ultimately be
honored for it, except in a contribution
2044
