Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
only speech that I have made to the Con-
gress since I was President-our goal is to
deregulate new natural gas. We proposed
to the Congress an adequate step, in my
opinion, a first step, toward that ultimate
goal. And that is to increase the value of
natural gas, the market price, to $1.75.
Of course, the oil and gas industry want
immediate deregulation, and they want to
define new natural gas to include gas that
already has been discovered, that has not
yet been produced. There is a limit to
how much we can take out of the pockets
of consumers and give to the oil and
companies.
gas
I want to be sure, as President, that
there are adequate incentives to explore
for and to discover new sources of natural
gas. And I believe that the proposal that
we made to the Congress is very liberal
and provides adequate incentives and
would ensure that the capital required
would be there.
As you know, we have had a rapid in-
crease in exploration in the natural gas
field and the oil field in recent years.
There is an 8-month waiting list now for
new drilling rigs. And I think if we quad-
ruple again the price of oil and natural
gas, there would be no substantial increase
in the rate of exploration or production.
So, I believe that the package that we
put together is adequate. It does take a
major step toward deregulation. But I
think that the oil and gas companies have
shown that they are not only satisfied with
this, but they want to define old gas as
new gas, and in the acquisition of imme-
diate complete deregulation, it would just
be too expensive for the rest of the coun-
try and I think would result in very little
increase in production itself.
I know that the oil and gas companies
disagree substantially with the rate of
moving toward deregulation, but I think
the proposal we made is compatible with
my statement during the campaign and
is certainly adequate.
Q. May I give you this copy of a talk
which I presented here in Denver about
a month ago?
THE PRESIDENT. I would very much
like to have it.
Q. May I just make one other com-
ment, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly.
Q. I also own a mineral interest in two
oil wells out in Duchesne County, Utah.
That oil is being sold for $10 a barrel
because of price controls. Some of our
neighbors are selling their oil, or being
forced to sell their oil, for $5 a barrel.
Now, the value of oil is about $15 per
barrel in this country. Now, that means
that under price control, every month
about one-third of the value of my oil is
being taken from me and given to some-
one else. I am a landowner. Now, I just
cannot understand how in this country
that type of thing can continue. I con-
sider that confiscation of my property.
In other words, I get about $500 a
month income from those two wells. If
the true value was given to me as a land-
owner, I would be getting $750 a month.
In other words, I feel like someone is
stealing $250 a month from me, and I
speak not just for myself but for the own-
ers of oil and gas production throughout
this country. And that's part of the prob-
lem with this energy program and part
of the reason why unless adequate profits
are given to the oil and gas industry, any
energy program which is developed will
be a failure.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Ellison, can I ask
you a question?
Q. Certainly.
THE PRESIDENT. What was the price
of that oil when it was first discovered on
your place?
1881
