Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 8
from the North Slope of Alaska at a
United States-Canada
significantly lower cost-of-service price Agreement on a
than could have been achieved through
an all-U.S. route.
This agreement serves the mutual in-
terest of both countries and the national
interest of each. Its underlying rationale
is that both countries working together
can move more energy more efficiently
than either country working by itself. Un-
der the expected cost estimates, this agree-
ment improves the 20-year cost-of-service
average price in 1975 dollars to the Amer-
ican consumer by at least $.08 per thou-
sand cubic feet over the price that would
have resulted from the route through
Dawson and $.12 per thousand cubic feet
for the Canadian consumer. At the ex-
pected volumes, the project will result
in a $6 billion savings for American con-
sumers over the life of the project when
compared to the proposal to liquify and
ship the gas from Alaska.
While providing Canada the opportu-
nity to accelerate development of its gas
reserves and providing for billions of dol-
lars of additional investment in the Ca-
nadian economy, this pipeline will stimu-
late the gas industry in Canada, and to-
gether with the early prospect of connect-
ing new sources of supply, will generally
enhance the availability of gas to meet
market needs.
The potential to secure increased Ca-
nadian, as well as Alaskan supplies, and
the magnitude of consumer savings that
can be achieved by an all-pipeline route
guarantee the superiority of this proposal.
We have decided to embark together
on this historic project which holds the
promise of great benefits to both coun-
tries, and which confirms anew the
strength of the ties that link us.
Natural Gas Pipeline
Remarks of the President and Prime Minister
Trudeau Announcing the Agreement.
September 8, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body.
I think a joint statement has already
been issued to you just recently, concern-
ing a very important agreement that Pres-
ident Trudeau and I have approved this
morning in principle, that our countries
will undertake the largest single private-
ly financed energy project in history, an
Alcan Highway pipeline to carry Alaskan
natural gas through Canada to the lower
48 States.
This joint United States and Canadian
system could deliver more than 3½ bil-
lion cubic feet per day of Alaskan and,
later on, Canadian gas to both our
countries.
The cost of this transportation system
will be significantly lower than under the
alternative pipeline, the El Paso line
down due south through Alaska and then
by ship into California.
The savings to the American consumers
over the first 20 years of the project could
total about $5 billion. The Alcan route is
preferable to the El Paso route, which
was the other one that we were consider-
ing, because it is more economical, it's
safer, and has less damage to the environ-
ment, and because it will deliver gas more
directly to the American markets where
the gas is needed, in the northern mid-
western part of our country, with perhaps
a spur later on over to the California
region.
The project will benefit Canada by fa-
cilitating development of its own gas
1547
