Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 5
To complement these internal changes
at OSHA, I have asked Ray Marshall and
Bert Lance to head an interagency task
force that will consider ways to strengthen
the Federal role in protecting workplace
safety and health. This task force will re-
port to me with its first recommendations
for action by April 30, 1978.
In addition to the Secretary of Labor
and the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, this interagency
group on worker safety and health protec-
tion will include the Departments of
Commerce, Health, Education and Wel-
fare and the Council of Economic Advis-
ers, the Domestic Policy Staff, and the
Small Business Administration. From
time to time, I expect other departments
and agencies to participate actively.
I want to be sure that federal programs
actually do reduce threats to the health
and safety of American workers, and that
they help employers make the necessary
adjustments. The inquiry will concentrate
upon:
Exploration of incentives that might
supplement workplace safety regulations.
These might include improved education
and information services, economic aid
and tax incentives to help employers im-
prove workplace safety, changes in work-
ers' compensation and liability laws and
deterrent penalty structures.
• Evaluation of the government-wide
administration of Federal workplace safe-
ty and health activities. This will include
investigation of duplication, overlap and
gaps in Federal agency jurisdiction.
• Review of other ways to improve the
safety and health efforts of all Federal
agencies, including those programs that
affect Federal employees, and the re-
sources devoted to them.
As you know, improvement of Federal
health and safety protection measures is
a matter of intense concern to the Ameri-
can people. This effort will be part of our
larger program of looking at innovative
approaches to many regulatory issues. It
will help shape our reform program in
other regulatory areas and will, I am con-
fident, be one of this Administration's
most valuable accomplishments.
You may be asked to contribute time,
resources, and staff to this effort. I know
I can count on your assistance.
In order to inform all affected parties
that this review is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
International Security Assistance
Act of 1977
Statement on Signing H.R. 6884 Into Law.
August 5, 1977
I am signing into law H.R. 6884, the
International Security Assistance Act of
1977. The programs made possible by
this law include military assistance, in-
ternational military education and train-
ing, and foreign military sales. The bill
gives the United States an important tool
1431
