Aug. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
about China which, if we make one of
recognition, it's undoubtedly going to be
well into the future and it'll be based on
what I consider to be in the best interests
of our country and one which I think the
American people will support.
I want to say again how much I thank
you for coming here. I'm sure that all of
you on occasion watch the press confer-
ences that I have with the national White
House press corps. There's a different tone
and a different kind of interest and a dif-
ferent kind of question. I personally favor
strongly the attitude and the interests that
are exhibited in these exchanges. Every
one of these questions was substantive and
of importance to your listeners and your
viewers and your readers. And quite often
in the national press conferences here, the
major emphasis, almost exclusive interest,
is on a transient question. But I want to
express my thanks to you for coming to
Washington. I hope you get a chance to
be acquainted with not only Jody Powell
and his staff but my other leaders.
I hope that you'll use this day's visit as
a conviction that we need your constant
input and that we are always eager to
have you call us directly for the answer to
a question that comes up about your own
region of the country.
Yes. I don't want to see you.
BALANCING THE BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, I have a double-bar-
reled question. The first part-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't know if
I have a chance for another question. I've
got to go. [Laughter]
Q. The first part is: There is a restau-
rant right across the road from where the
B-1's might have been built. It has a great
big sign up that says, "Peanut butter sand-
wiches no longer for sale here." And down
the street about two blocks is one which
said, "We sell big peanut butter sand-
wiches cut on the bias." Now, is this the
way it is being done in Georgia, on the
bias? [Laughter]
A serious question, please. I know
you're intent on balancing the budget at
the earliest possible date, with inflation
and unemployment, and so forth, and I
know what your target date is. How do
you expect to do this, through a combina-
tion of reduced expenditures and income
from revenues, and about when do you
think you might actually get started to-
ward some reductions on the deficit? How
much importance do you place on that?
THE PRESIDENT. We spend a great deal
of time on the concept of the balanced
budget every day of my life. We'll prepare
my first budget for fiscal year '79. I'll
probably spend
probably spend about 25 more actual
hours in this room going over the budget
figures in detail on all the Federal agen-
cies with Bert Lance and others from the
Office of Management and Budget. Any
head of a department who disagrees with
those decisions can appeal directly to me
and I'll sit down and talk to him. But we
hope the budget itself will be very tight,
and the zero-base budgeting technique
has been pleasantly a surprise to those who
were not familiar with it before. I hap-
pened to have been familiar; so was Bert
Lance.
The second thing is that we are trying
through the reorganization effort to elim-
inate waste and inefficiency, unnecessary
agencies. This will help in the long run.
Another thing is that we've put a lid
on Federal employees. Our goal is that at
the beginning of October, a year from
now, that the total Federal employment
will be at the same level, no higher than
it was last October. In other words, for
a 2-year period, because of efficiency and
better assignment of responsibility, we
won't have any further growth in person-
nel in the Federal Government.
1518
