Oct. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We will be considering how we can
salvage the flood damage insurance pro-
gram and also restrict the building of
homes in areas that are very likely to be
flooded in the future. With this provision
it's been estimated that we might have
$42 billion of flood damage to homes
that are built in areas where the rivers
and streams are going to flood. And
whether or not to come back with cor-
rective legislation next year or whether to
try to deal with this administratively is
something we haven't decided.
But I would like to congratulate the
distinguished Members of the House and
Senate for the very fine work they've done
with this legislation-it's a controversial
piece of legislation-in devising the for-
mulae to channel funds into areas that
are most in need. But I think they have
done a superb job. And with a great deal
of appreciation to the Congress and, I
think, congratulations to the people who
seek better housing in the United States,
I'm very glad to sign this House of Rep-
resentatives bill 6655, which is the Hous-
ing and Community Development Act of
1977.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:18 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 6655 is Public Law 95-128,
approved October 12.
Hospital Cost Containment
Legislation
Letter to the Chairmen of Three Congressional
Subcommittees. October 12, 1977
One of my most important priorities is
to secure strong legislation to restrain the
skyrocketing increase in health care costs.
As subcommittees in both the House and
Senate prepare to resume their work in
this area, I wish to reaffirm my strong
personal commitment to the Administra-
tion's Hospital Cost Containment legisla-
tion.
Last month, HEW announced that it
was required to increase the deductible
for hospital coverage under Medicare
from $124 to $144, reflecting rising hos-
pital costs. These rising costs affect not
only the elderly, but all Americans. Today,
95,000 Americans will enter community
hospitals. By the time they leave the hos-
pital, their care will have cost $124 mil-
lion. Our people already spend more for
health care than the people of any other
nation-yet the cost of that care doubles
every five years. The American people
simply cannot afford yearly increases in
their hospital bills of 15% and more.
The Administration's Hospital Cost
Containment bill will restrain this escala-
tion in hospital costs. It will save billions
of dollars-not only in Federal and State
budgets, but in the budgets of American
families as well. This legislation is impor-
tant in our twin efforts to restrain infla-
tion and improve the quality of health
care for all Americans.
I deeply appreciate your leadership to
this date.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to the Honorable Herman E.
Talmadge, chairman of the Subcommittee on
Health of the Senate Finance Committee, the
Honorable Paul G. Rogers, chairman of the
Subcommittee on Health and the Environ-
ment of the House Committee on Interstate
and Foreign Commerce, and the Honorable
Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the Subcom-
mittee on Health of the House Ways and
Means Committee.
1778
