Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 8
ton, Va., to be Assistant Director for Legal
Affairs and General Counsel of the Com-
munity Services Administration. The po-
sition is a new one.
Jones is currently executive director of
the National Legal Aid and Defender
Association in Washington.
He was born in Clarksdale, Miss., on
January 30, 1933, and holds degrees from
Chicago State University, DePaul Uni-
versity, and the New York University Law
Center.
He taught in the Chicago public schools
from 1958 to 1964, then served with the
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, Inc., in Jackson, Miss., and the
Chicago Legal Aid Bureau. In 1969-70
he was Deputy Associate Director of
Legal Services with the Office of Econom-
ic Opportunity in Washington.
He became executive director of the
National Legal Aid and Defender Asso-
ciation in 1971 and served in that position
until 1973, when he was named vice dean
of the University of Pennsylvania Law
School. He rejoined the NLADA in 1976.
Plains, Georgia
Exchange With Reporters at Carters
Warehouse. August 8, 1977
REPORTER. There's encouraging news
out of the Middle East this morning. Any
comment on the reports of the PLO?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We don't know
yet what's going to happen until I get a
complete report from Cy Vance-I get a
message from him every night and then
a briefing every morning. If the Palestin-
ians will recognize the applicability of the
United Nations Resolution 242, then it
would open up a new opportunity for us
to start discussions with them and also
open up an avenue that they might par-
ticipate in the Geneva conference. But
whether they'll do that, we don't know
yet.
Q. If indeed they do recognize 242,
wouldn't that more or less assure that the
Geneva conference will indeed begin?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question because there might be other ob-
stacles to it. But I think I can be able to
answer that question when Secretary
Vance gets back. He's now decided, I
think, to double back and have a second
conversation with some of the leaders in
the Middle East. So, this might be an en-
couraging sign.
Q. He would go back to the other Arab
countries again?
THE PRESIDENT. Either go back or have
additional conversations with them before
he leaves the Middle East. And he's going
to stay over in London an extra day to
talk to President Nyerere about Rhodesia
and Namibia. So, I think things look bet-
ter than they did. I hope we can work
something out on the Palestinians. That
is the biggest obstacle right now.
Q. We always ask you about the adverse
developments. We give you a chance to
talk about a positive development for a
change. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Q. What about prospects for a Geneva
conference in October? Still good?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'd say they are
about the same as they were. The biggest
obstacle that we've detected, of course, is
whether or not the Palestinians would
participate in the discussions. And our
position has been that until the Palestin-
ians and their leaders recognize Israel's
right to exist that we would not have con-
versations with them ourselves.
So, if the Palestinians do adopt as a basis
for the discussions the United Nations
Resolutions 242 and 338, then that would
1459
