Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 14
as an assistant county prosecutor in Essex
County, coordinator of the Community
Action Workshop in Newark, and deputy
attorney general for the State of New
Jersey.
Visit of Chancellor Schmidt of the
Federal Republic of Germany
White House Statement Issued at the
Conclusion of the Chancellor's Visit.
July 14, 1977
President Carter and the Chancellor of
the Federal Republic of Germany, Hel-
mut Schmidt, held three lengthy conver-
sations during the Chancellor's official
visit to Washington, July 13-15. The
Chancellor came to Washington at the
President's invitation, and the President
hosted a White House dinner for the
Chancellor and his party on July 13. The
three meetings between the President and
the Chancellor covered a wide range of
economic, political, and security issues in
which the two nations share an interest.
Those discussions followed on the meet-
ings the President and Chancellor had in
May at the London Summit. In addi-
tion to the two scheduled meetings on
Wednesday and Thursday mornings, the
President met privately with the Chan-
cellor for about 1 hour Wednesday night
following the state dinner.
The President and the Chancellor em-
phasized the closeness of the consultation
between their two governments and their
basic agreement on major issues. They
expressed the belief that the small differ-
ences between their governments in re-
cent months have often become exagger-
ated in public accounts, and they com-
mitted themselves to be in direct touch
with one another in the future to make
sure that exaggeration does not recur.
In their first meeting, the President and
the Chancellor discussed the spectrum of
relations between East and West, focus-
ing on SALT, other arms control negotia-
tions, and the upcoming fall meeting in
Belgrade of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. They also
exchanged views on the situation in the
Middle East and on how to move forward
with international efforts to reduce the
risk of nuclear proliferation, while still
assuring all nations access to the nuclear
energy they need. The President and the
Chancellor also discussed the importance
of basic human rights and its role in in-
ternational affairs.
The second formal meeting between
the two was devoted largely to MBFR
and economic issues. The Germans pre-
sented some thoughts on MBFR, and the
two sides exchanged views on how to
move the negotiations forward. With
regard to economic issues,
there was
broad agreement. The Chancellor met on
July 13 with Secretary Blumenthal, and
the President emphasized satisfaction, in
his second formal meeting with the
Chancellor, at the Federal Republic's ef-
forts to assure domestic economic growth
and deal with current accounts surpluses.
The two men agreed on the importance
of economic stability to the political
cohesion of the developed countries and
to the prospects for progress in the
dialog between the North and South.
The President and the Chancellor also
agreed on the need to move forward this
year with international trade negotia-
tions-expressing pleasure at the results
of recent meetings between the President's
Special Trade Representative, Robert
Strauss, and the European Communi-
ties to assure adequate international
financing and to implement the commit-
ments their countries and others under-
took at the London Summit in May.
1251
