July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
without substantial increase in the total
cost and in a way emphasizing the pri-
vate sector as much as possible, but with-
out fear of having the Federal Govern-
ment participate to the extent that I and
the Congress think it's necessary.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Betty
Rainey. I'm a housewife and mother of
three. Welcome to Yazoo City.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. What aspects of what you consider
to be your southern heritage have led to
your concern with human rights in this
Nation and abroad?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. When I answer
this, I don't want you to feel that all the
characteristics that I'd ascribe to south-
erners are not also shared by people who
live in other parts of the country. But I
think that we have always been a deeply
religious people in the South. When I was
in a submarine, they used to tease me
about being from the Bible Belt, and I am.
And I think that our lives in this part of
the country, perhaps more than most parts
of our Nation, are built around the
church. And, of course, our religious
beliefs emphasize compassion, love, con-
cern about downtrodden people, equality
in the eyes of God, basic human freedoms,
courage to stand up to one's convictions,
and so forth.
The second thing that I believe that we
admire, being basically a rural area, is not
only the right but the duty of people to
stand on their own feet, to make their
own decisions, to manage their own af-
fairs, to support themselves if they are
able, kind of an independence of spirit
which also, of course, persists in a lot of
other parts of our Nation. Here again the
value of individual human beings is very
important.
We in the South, in the War Between
the States, seceded from the Union as an
expression of independence from the Fed-
eral Government. When the war was over,
we came back into the Union. But I think
there was engendered in our own hearts
and minds an emphasis in the importance
of local governments, ones close to us that
we could see and control more directly,
and somewhat of a distrust of the Federal
Government.
I hope that that distrust is being les-
sened now as the days go by. But it's there.
And I think the last thing is that, like all
other people in this great country, we've
been filled with the words of Thomas
Paine and Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin
Franklin and George Washington, and
others that all men are created equal,
that we are endowed with certain inal-
ienable rights, and that we have a govern-
ment designed not to control us but to
guarantee our rights.
So, human rights is a part of the Amer-
ican consciousness. These kinds of com-
mitments that I share with all other
Americans make it almost inevitable that
our country will be a leader in the world
in standing up for the same principles on
which our Nation was founded.
The last thing I would like to say about
it is this: In the South we were guilty
for many years of the deprivation of hu-
man rights to a large portion of our citi-
zens. Now, to look back 20 years, when
black people didn't have a right to vote,
didn't have a right to go to a decent
school, quite often did not have equal op-
portunity to seek or acquire a job, or to
get a decent home, is an indictment on us.
I think it was with a great deal of cour-
age that the South was able to face up to
that change. I personally believe it was
the best thing that ever happened to the
South in my lifetime. And we have seen
the benefits from it. Now we white people
and the black people who live near us can
work together on common problems and
1328
