Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 14
integrity. Against this background, what
are you going to do about the problem of
Bert Lance?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the inquiry
that's going on now by the Comptroller
of the Currency concerning Bert Lance's
banking practices before he came into the
Government, I think, is a healthy circum-
stance.
When allegations are made in the news
media or from private sources, it's incum-
bent on the Government to investigate
those. Bert Lance is cooperating with the
Comptroller. I have confidence in both
the Government officials in the Treasury
Department and also in Bert Lance. And
as I've said before, I don't know the de-
tails and don't want to become involved
in the details of what went on in 1975 or
prior to that time. But I have confidence
that both the Comptroller and Bert will
make the facts known to the public and
let the situation be judged accordingly.
MR. DONALDSON. But I think you have
a higher problem than perhaps past Presi-
dents because you had a higher standard.
The question is not illegality. As I under-
stand it, most of these investigations are
not dealing on the question of illegality,
but simply propriety of a man who might
have been able to do something that is
common practice in the banking field and
yet personally benefit, whereas, the ordi-
nary citizen-and you ran against people
who didn't pay their fair share—wouldn't
benefit. Don't you have to hold Mr. Lance
to that higher standard?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think so. And I
believe that Bert would agree that a high
standard has to be maintained. I'm not
aware of any improprieties that have been
proven against Bert Lance. Allegations or
accusations have been made against me,
Bert Lance, and many others. But I have
complete confidence that when all the
facts are known that the situation will be
judged by the American public to have
been handled properly.
MR. DONALDSON. You know, one more
question on this subject. Harry Truman,
whom you admire greatly, had one fail-
ing that many people found as a failing.
He stuck by his friends too long.
Now, at some point aren't you going to
have to make a hard decision as to the
good of
good of your administration, maintaining
the integrity that people have in your
administration, versus a friend?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any
qualms about that. I believe that if any-
thing should be proven concerning Bert
Lance that's either improper or illegal,
that Bert would immediately take the
initiative to either resign or step aside or
offer to.
I don't have any concern about Bert
Lance and his attitude toward me, my
administration, his responsibility to the
people. As I said before, though, it's
something that ought to be decided be-
tween the Comptroller and Bert with a
thorough investigation. All the facts
ought to be and will be made public, and
then a decision will be made accordingly.
But-
But
MR. DONALDSON. But the buck stops
there.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. Well, I
am ultimately responsible and don't hesi-
tate to accept that responsibility. But I
have enough confidence in Bert Lance to
know that if any improprieties do exist,
that he would take the initiative to step
aside. So far, no improprieties have been
proven.
ANDREW YOUNG
MR. REASONER. There are a lot of ways
that friends can get you glory or get you
in trouble besides improprieties. How do
you feel these days about Andrew Young?
THE PRESIDENT. The same as I've
always felt. I think that there is now and
1471
