Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
MR. MILLER. I think we should bring
about conditions where the dollar is
stronger, and that, of course, depends
upon fundamental economics and it
depends upon our balance of payments
and it depends upon the strength of our
domestic economy.
If we bring about the normal prog-
ress that we were speaking about a
moment ago, I think we will again see
a strong and favorable dollar and this
would, I think, be favorable to
Nation.
Q. Can we ask the President one more
question? Dr. Burns has the confidence
of the business community to such a
great extent that there is a lot of specu-
lation about if he wasn't reappointed
there'd be a loss of business confidence.
Do you think Mr. Miller has the same
reputation, widely, in the business com-
munity, or do you think there's a prob-
lem there?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think
there is a problem. I have consulted
either directly or indirectly with dozens
of leaders in the business and financial
community, and there's been a unani-
mous and an overwhelming expression
of confidence and approbation for Bill
Miller to be Chairman. Many of those
leaders have also, of course, expressed
their hope that the basic principles
espoused by Chairman Burns would be
continued.
I think the transition period will be
a time for Bill Miller to learn and for
Dr. Burns and others to teach, but I
don't think there's any doubt that the
leaders in the business community of our
country will respond very well to the
appointment of Bill Miller.
Thank you very much, everybody.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:07 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
The White House Press Office also released
the following biographical information on Mr.
Miller:
Mr. G. William Miller is chairman of Tex-
tron, Inc., a diversified company headquartered
in Providence, R.I., with 180 plants and facil-
ities in the United States and in several for-
eign countries. Textron employs 65,000 persons
and had sales in 1976 of $2.6 billion.
Mr. Miller is a Director of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Boston and chairman of the
Conference Board and chairman of the Na-
tional Alliance of Businessmen.
Mr. Miller is a native of Oklahoma, born
in Sapulpa in 1925, and was raised in the
Southwest. He graduated from the U.S. Coast
Guard Academy in 1945, serving as an officer
in the Far Pacific and China.
In 1952 Mr. Miller received his J.D. de-
gree from the University of California and
practiced law in New York with the firm of
Cravath, Swaine and Moore before joining
Textron in 1956 as assistant secretary.
In June of 1960, at age 35, Mr. Miller was
elected president of Textron, and in 1968 he
assumed the additional post of chief executive
officer. In 1974 he was elected chairman of
the board.
Mr. Miller is a director of the Allied Chem-
ical Corp., Con Rail, and Federated Depart-
ment Stores. He is a member of the Business
Council and the Business Roundtable. He is
also Chairman of the President's Committee
for HIRE (veterans employment).
He is cochairman of both the U.S.-U.S.S.R.
Trade and Economic Council and the Polish-
U.S. Economic Council. In 1977 Mr. Miller
was Chairman of the U.S. Industrial Payroll
Savings Bond Committee and has served as
the first Chairman of the Industry Advisory
Committee of the President's Committee on
Equal Employment Opportunity and as a
member of the National Council on the Hu-
manities.
Mr. Miller is married to the former Ariadna
Rogajarski.
Presidential War Powers Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 7738 Into Law.
December 28, 1977
I am today signing H.R. 7738, an act
"with respect to the powers of the Presi-
2186
