Dec. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The price of corn rose from $1.60 a
bushel in September to $1.91 in
November.
A hundred pounds of sorghum sold for
$2.52 in September, and $3.15 in Novem-
ber. The average price received by farm-
ers for soybeans moved from a season low
of $5.27 to a November average of $5.68
a bushel.
Farm prices and income are still too
low, but they have improved. Farm pro-
duction costs are rising but not as fast as
they did before. The prices of supplies,
interest, taxes and wage rates have been
essentially unchanged for the last three
months.
I hope farmers will continue to use the
farm programs. They are now redesigned
to help through periods, like the present
one, when supplies are abundant and
prices too low.
One other chronic problem is that even
when prices are high in the supermarket,
they're still too low on the farm. Farmers
know-but most consumers don't-how
little of the food dollar actually goes to
those who take the risks and produce the
food. I promised as a candidate to try to
hold down the "middleman" portion of
food costs. We have taken steps to deal
with this problem, too.
My Agriculture Secretary, Bob Berg-
land, a family farmer himself, has or-
dered the Agricultural Marketing Service
to conduct a full-scale investigation into
the pricing of meat between the farmer
and the consumer. The investigation is
focused on pricing at the wholesale level,
to see whether the current system blocks
competition.
We are spending $1.5 million this fiscal
year to set up direct farmer-to-consumer
marketing, a system which would elimi-
nate the substantial costs associated with
middleman mark-up.
The Agriculture and Transportation
Departments are jointly studying the food
transportation system, looking mainly at
inequities in the system that prevent more
efficient and less costly means for the
movement of food.
We have given our support to the idea
of a food marketing commission. That
commission would look into the whole
food marketing system, including pricing
at the middleman level. In commenting
publicly on this issue, officials of this ad-
ministration have focused particularly on
the costs associated with transportation,
advertising and packaging of food.
I hope this letter answers some of your
questions; I wish it were possible for gov-
ernment action to solve all the problems
that farmers face. But you know that the
combination of nature's chance and the
farmer's determination makes that im-
possible; that very challenge is what has
drawn so many of us to farming. I respect
that spirit, and I am glad for a chance to
explain my
explain my views to you.
I cannot promise that I will solve every
problem. I know that is not what you
want, and you know that no President
and no government can do that.
I cannot promise a guaranteed profit,
but I have never met a farmer who asked
for that.
What farmers want is a fair chance,
and I do believe we can and have begun
to change the policies of this government
so that the farm family gets a decent
break. If the changes we've made this
year
don't have the results we expect, they
will themselves be changed.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Mrs. Eston Luke, Route 6, Box 201, Baxley,
Georgia 31513]
Dear Sir:
December 14, 1977
Please help farmers in their efforts to
get better prices for their crops. We de-
serve a decent living for our hard work
2168
