Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
about what's going to happen when they
are ready to develop their water. Are
they, in fact, going to lose what they were
guaranteed in the compact that they will
have and legitimately so?
However, it does not justify really the
push that's being made by the Upper
Basin States to develop every drop of
water in the Upper Basin at any cost, by
building all the storage projects that they
can get their hands on, so that they can
have the water that they are entitled to
although the need for the use for this
water does not exist at the present time.
One major aspect of the water plan-
ning in that basin has been based on full
development of the available supply
without any concern for the water quality
implications of developing these supplies.
As a result, salinity has reached danger-
ous proportions, threatening productive
agriculture in the Lower Basin, costing
over $50 million per year in damages to
water users in the Lower Basin and re-
quiring hundreds of millions of dollars in
Federal expenditures to control it. Instead
of considering efficiency and conservation
of water use, it has been often assumed
that additional water supply is the only
means to further local and regional de-
velopment, and it is the lack of consider-
ation of alternatives in considering water
management in this basin where the avail-
able supply is not adequate to meet all
the demands that are placed upon it.
As a matter of fact, if all demands that
are being projected at the present time
go on line-water-related development
plans go on line as projected by 1990, it
is expected that the demands will exceed
the available supply. So, something is
needed to be done. And the major rea-
son for the problem is that there was tre-
mendous lack of basinwide planning; the
planning became focused on local, re-
gional, or State level-not on a basin-
wide planning.
An inescapable fact, also, Mr. Presi-
dent, is that there is not enough water in
the basin to meet all the demands that are
placed upon it, and the solution has got
to be in the form of reordering these de-
mands that are placed on the water sup-
ply, but again the reordering has to be
done on a basinwide basis. The Upper
Basin should not really suffer just because
they have not developed in time and
somebody else locked up all the water in
some other things.
So, it has got to be a fair and equitable
means of reordering the future needs for
water use in the basin. And I'll stop at this
moment. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I might point out that
Mr. el-Ashry is a geologist and a hydrol-
ogist. He's also the staff scientist for the
Environmental Defense Fund. In the
future there's no doubt in my mind that
the competition among the States and
between the United States and Mexico
is going to be even much more intense
than it has been in the past or present.
And this is going to require that Con-
gress look with a great deal of attention
at the relative priority of new construc-
tion projects and that everyone concen-
trate on a self-imposed conservation effort
so that we use every drop of water to a
maximum degree and don't waste it as
has been the case in the past.
Perhaps one other panelist would like
to comment on the competition aspect.
Mr. Carlos Lucero.
INTERSTATE COMPACTS
MR. LUCERO. Mr. President, water
rights in Colorado are popular. It seems
to me the discussion of interstate rights to
water really has to be based at a recogni-
tion that the water rights of Coloradans
1865
