Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
If we deregulate natural gas prices,
then the price will go to 15 times more
than natural gas prices were before the oil
embargo. These billions and billions of
dollars are at stake; whether that money
should be given partially to the oil com-
panies to encourage production and par-
tially to the American people in a fair way
or whether it should all be grabbed by the
oil companies at the expense of the Amer-
ican consumer.
There is one other point I want to make
very briefly. The international circum-
stances of the energy crisis are now being
recognized as being very, very serious. Dr.
Schlesinger just returned from a meeting
with the nations who comprise the Inter-
national Energy Agency, almost all the
developed nations in the world, the indus-
trialized nations in the world. We now
consume about 23 million barrels of oil a
day. The prospect is that we might go to
36 million by 1985, a demand that simply
cannot be met.
So, all the countries, including us, have
resolved to cut down our consumption,
not below what it is now, but below the
anticipated amount, to about 26 million
barrels a day.
We believe that production can meet
those demands. But the biggest single
question in international councils is the
will of the American people. Do we have
the will as a nation to cut down our enor-
mous oil imports?
I have confidence in the American peo-
ple, looking to the future, but past per-
formance has been very disappointing. We
were shocked in 1973 when the oil em-
bargo was imposed on us and prices went
up. We began to move to cut back on im-
ports. Imports this year will be about $45
billion in oil, 87 percent more than just
4 years ago. We import more oil than all
the European countries combined, in spite
of the fact that we have enormous produc-
tion in our own country, which they don't
have.
So, I cannot overemphasize the impor-
tance of this question to the present and
future security of our country, our inde-
pendence, our economic structure, and
also the fairness of a distribution of in-
creased prices, which are inevitable.
It is absolutely important that the leg-
islation be passed. The House has done a
good job. They have come forward with
legislation that I can accept.
It's up to the Senate. I have confidence
in the Senate. And I believe that we'll
come out of this legislative session with a
reasonable policy established for our
country.
It's the most important domestic issue
that we will face while I am in office. And
I attribute the highest possible importance
to it in my own administration.
I'm going to devote most of my time the
next few weeks while the Congress is in
session trying to make sure we have a fair
and adequate energy package. And I hope
that the American people will join in with
me to encourage the Congress to act
accordingly.
QUESTIONS
SENATE ACTION ON ENERGY
LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, you have struck out
against the oil lobbies, but not against the
Senators in your own party who may be
listening to them and who have decimated
your energy program. You say you have
confidence in them. Also, your adminis-
tration undercut a filibuster against the
natural gas deregulation, and one Sen-
ator called your credibility into question.
Who is to blame?
THE PRESIDENT. I think at this point
no one is to blame. With the encourage-
ment and cooperation between the White
House and the Congress, the House of
1784
