Nov. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The latest figures on inflation show
some progress on the consumer price in-
dex. But those monthly figures fluctuate
so wildly that they are not really de-
pendable. We think we have an under-
lying inflation rate of about 6 or 6½
percent.
The growth rate this year will prob-
ably reach our predicted level, an average
of about 5 percent. The likelihood now is
it will go down a little bit next year.
So, on the domestic scene, we've got a
broad range of issues that have been and
are being addressed.
On the foreign affairs and defense
scene, we are working with the Soviets
now on a comprehensive test ban. Last
week President Brezhnev adopted our po-
sition, that we've been pursuing for
months, to include the peaceful nuclear
explosions in with the military tests to be
prohibited. This was a pleasant develop-
ment, and I think might make it possible,
if we can work out the very difficult de-
tails on verification, that we can have a
comprehensive test ban concluded. No-
body can predict accurately what will
happen.
We are working with the Soviets, in ad-
dition to that, on a continuation of the
SALT talks that have been going on now
almost since the Soviets got into the nu-
clear field. I think we've got a good basic
package evolved. There are still some very
important differences that remain, but
we've achieved most of our own objec-
tives.
This will be SALT II. We will imme-
diately continue with a SALT III effort.
We've searched for equity, balanced
forces; we've searched for verification so
that any conclusions drawn, any agree-
ments reached could be verified on a reg-
ular basis and an acceptable basis. And we
are looking for reductions on both sides.
We have proposed to the Soviets that
we begin discussions on prohibiting anti-
satellite weapons. They are taking this
under advisement, and I would guess that
negotiations might commence on this sub-
ject before too many weeks go by.
We have, in addition, one of the most
difficult and complicated questions, and
that is a comprehensive settlement of the
Mideast disputes. I doubt that any foreign
negotiating effort has ever been attempted
that's more complicated, more thankless,
and sometimes more frustrating. But I be-
lieve that world peace is dependent upon
a resolution of those major differences.
We have evolved now a so-called nego-
tiating paper that has been accepted by
some of the parties involved, publicly by
Israel and by Egypt. We hope that Jor-
dan, Lebanon, and Syria will agree to go
to Geneva without too much more delay.
gotiations on how the Geneva conference
That's just the first step, but in the ne-
gotiations on how the Geneva conference
might take place, obviously many of the
issues have been raised. The three most
important ones, of course, are to achieve
real peace-this is something the Arabs
have never been willing to acknowledge
before is a need for open borders, free
trade, the exchange of tourism, student
exchange, ultimate diplomatic relations,
genuine peace to live in harmony. Anoth-
er thing that the Arabs have always
refused to do is to negotiate directly with
Israel. They have now agreed to that.
They have also agreed, as you know, to
conclude the discussions, if they are suc-
cessful, with actual signed peace treaties.
The second question is the territorial
boundaries and defense lines and the secu-
rity of the nations involved who, at the
present time, obviously don't trust each
other very much. And the third thing is
the Palestinian question, how it might be
resolved. This involves both refugees and
also those who live in the West Bank, the
2010
