Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
think 340 years ago, across the river from
Jamestown. He and I were both in the
Navy. We both were famous enough last
year to be interviewed by Playboy maga-
zine. [Laughter]
We both wrote a book. Mine was called
"Why Not The Best?"; his was. [Laughter]
Of course, all of you know how much I
depend on Andy Young. Andy is valuable
in more ways than one. Of course, he's a
great diplomat. But there was a time,
whenever things were going bad with me
and my administration and I didn't want
my name to be in the headlines-
[laughter]-Andy would always take
over, and he saved me from a lot of em-
barrassing attention. [Laughter] Unfortu-
nately, he taught Bert Lance the same
thing the last few weeks. [Laughter] I
guess Andy and I are back on our own,
beginning this week.
As a diplomat, however, Andrew
Young is always in there fighting and
pitching for our country, giving the world
and me new ideas. He's just told me to-
night about a brilliant political and dip-
lomatic achievement that we now have in
progress; I haven't announced it before.
As you know, we have a problem in the
Mideast. We have a difficult fight on our
hands with the Panama Canal Treaty.
I'd say we're lucky that 50 percent of the
people favor the treaty. And his proposal
is that we give the East Bank to Panama-
[laughter] that we keep the West Bank
and make it a Palestinian homeland.
[Laughter]
Andy and I have not yet decided who
would be the ruler of this new entity, but
Andy tells me that before long, Ian
Smith's going to be looking for a new job.
[Laughter]
One thing that I want to talk about to-
night is that we share, the Black Caucus,
all of its supporters, and I, a common,
ultimate dream for America. It's going
to be a long time coming because this
dream is so great.
We want a time to come when all
Americans will be well off enough to
afford the same tailor that Ron Dellums ¹
has. [Laughter]
Now, to be serious for a few minutes,
I'd like to say that I've had a very inter-
esting relationship with the Black Caucus
in this first part of my administration.
Sometimes we've been in complete har-
mony. Sometimes I haven't exactly sat-
isfied Parren Mitchell and the other
members of the Black Caucus.
I can tell the difference when I get
my mail. [Laughter] In the low times, the
mail that comes from Parren Mitchell to
the White House is just addressed to "Oc-
cupant." [Laughter] But I have to say
that in many ways the partnership that I
have formed with the Black Caucus has
been good for me, good for my adminis-
tration, good for the entire Government,
and good for our country.
We've got a long way to go. And ex-
pectations are high, and they ought to be
high. But because of that, quite often
achievements that a year ago or 5 years
ago would have been greeted with a great
sense of jubilation and a sigh of relief—
that an enormous achievement had been
accepted by the American people with
only a response, "It should have been
more."
The Congress and your President has
done a great deal already. The programs
that are in place now to improve the
economic conditions of our people who
need it most are beginning to bear fruit.
We are now completing a thousand pub-
lic works contracts every week, and be-
cause of the good work of the Black Cau-
cus members, of course joined by other
¹ Representative Ronald V. Dellums of Cali-
fornia.
1662
