Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
States to remain actively involved in Asian
and Pacific affairs, and in particular, re-
affirmed the strength of the United States'
ties to New Zealand and its commitment
to the ANZUS treaty.
The Prime Minister outlined recent
changes in the South Pacific, including
the rapid movement of many island
groups to political independence and the
progress towards regional cooperation rep-
resented by the South Pacific Forum. He
emphasized the importance of the immi-
nent declaration of maritime economic
zones, and of the optimum development
of the fish resoucres contained within
them. The President and the Prime Min-
ister confirmed the continuing importance
of efforts to promote the well-being of the
peoples of the South Pacific.
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed that the two countries should sus-
tain their close consultation on all these
matters.
The President and the Prime Minister
also exchanged views on other interna-
tional subjects such as Southern Africa,
the Middle East situation, the Antarctic,
arms control and disarmament, and the
Panama Canal treaties. The Prime Minis-
ter welcomed the initiatives that the Pres-
ident was taking to achieve solutions of
these important issues.
The President and the Prime Minister
discussed economic and trade issues in
depth. They noted the serious problem
raised by the balance of payments deficit
of the non-oil producing developing coun-
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed, within the context of the ANZUS
treaty, that the economic health of each
of the two partners was important to the
other, especially as it affected the positive
role each desired to play in their common
endeavors to contribute to the welfare of
the peoples of the Pacific and Asia and
to the stability of the area.
Attending the meeting in the Cabinet
room were:
American side:
The President
The Vice President
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance
Zbigniew Brzezinski-Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs
Richard Holbrooke-Assistant Secre-
tary of State
Armistead I. Selden Jr.-Ambassador
to New Zealand
Michael Armacost-National Security
Council
New Zealand side:
The Prime Minister
Mr. F. H. Corner-Secretary of Foreign
Affairs
Mr. W. N. Plummer-Head of the Aus-
tralian and Americas Division, Min-
istry of Foreign Affairs
Mr. B. V. Galvin-Permanent Head of
Prime Minister's Department
Ambassador Lloyd White-Ambassa-
dor to the United States
tries and the primary producers. They National Family Week, 1977
agreed on the need for the major indus-
trialized countries to continue their efforts
to stimulate world economic recovery. The
Proclamation 4536. November 9, 1977
two leaders particularly stressed the need By the President of the United States
to expand world markets and improve
trading opportunities for agricultural
products. They agreed to continue their
efforts to achieve this aim, especially at
the present time in the context of the cur-
rent multilateral trade negotiations.
of America
A Proclamation
Patterns of living and working have
changed during our two centuries as a
Nation, and the American family has
changed with them. Participation in fam-
1992
