Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 28
tions bills—this used to take place some-
times in November or December-they've
already completed this major work; the
establishment of a new Department of
Energy, which is now on the verge of
being concluded, and many other things.
I have learned to respect the Congress
more in an individual basis. I've been
favorably impressed at the high degree of
concentrated experience and knowledge
that individual Members of Congress can
bring on a specific subject, where they've
been the chairman of a subcommittee or
committee for many years and have fo-
cused their attention on this particular
aspect of government life which I will
never be able to do.
And I think I've learned, too, the sen-
sitivities of them, in trying to let them
know ahead of time before my own posi-
tions were pronounced publicly.
I've now completed meeting at the
White House with every Member of the
House of Representatives, all the Demo-
crats and then all the Republicans, to
give them a chance in groups to ask me
questions about parochial issues and to
get to know them personally.
And I've now completed having a
breakfast meeting with all the Democra-
tic Members of the Senate. We'll now
meet with the Republican Members of
the Senate.
I think that's a major thing that I've
learned, is the degree of respect that legit-
imately I ought to have for the Congress,
and I have built up a great admiration
for their individual competence and also
for their dedication. That's the major
thing-
WELFARE PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, how committed are
you to keeping the pledge that
you made
earlier this year to hold welfare spending
at its present level, in light of all the dif-
ficulties your advisers are having in com-
ing up with a welfare plan that is within
that limit?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's very diffi-
cult. I'm going to spend-I came over to
my office this morning at 5:30 and I spent
3 hours working on the welfare question
before my first appointments. And this
afternoon I have 2 more hours of study
and work with the Cabinet members on
the welfare question.
I talked to Senator Long on the phone
this morning when he called me to ex-
press his interest in it, and next week I'll
be meeting with him and Chairman Ull-
man on the same subject. By the end of
next week, we will have prepared for
presentation to the public and the Con-
gress my best assessment of what ought
to be done.
There are obviously options that have
to be exercised: the degree of fiscal relief
for local and State governments, the
amount of guarantees that even in a case
where the benefits have been very liberal,
that there will or will not be any reduc-
tions in those benefits for people who are
well above the poverty level. Some fami-
lies get welfare benefits that have an in-
come twice as high as the poverty level,
much greater than someone who works,
say, full time at the minimum wage. But
how to deal with these different ques-
tions, how to tie it in with a comprehen-
sive tax reform is something that I'm
spending a lot of time on.
I'm trying to hold down the cost of the
overall program, and I think if you will
look at the careful wording of my goals, it
said the initial cost would not exceed
present expenditures. We're trying now to
estimate also the ultimate cost of these
programs, what they will cost in 1980
and 1985.
But I can't respond any better to your
question. It's a complicated and difficult
subject. We're trying to make it fairer
and simpler, and we're trying to have a
1371
