Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
within 5 years, and in OSHA,
which has eliminated 1,100 unneces-
sary regulations and other practices
that annoy small businesses to no
good purpose;
-development of programs to find and
eliminate overlapping and duplica-
tive regulations, especially those af-
fecting equal employment opportu-
nity enforcement and toxic sub-
stances;
-establishment of policies to replace
regulation with competition, espe-
cially in the airline, motor carrier,
and communications industries.
6. Zero-Based Budgeting-ordered the
use of zero-based budgeting by OMB and
the executive departments in assessing the
merits of all Federal programs.
7. Written Regulations-took steps to
make Federal regulations shorter and
more nearly comprehensible.
Health
1. Hospital Cost Containment-pro-
posed legislation limiting increases in hos-
pital revenues; passed Senate Health Sub-
committee.
2. Mental Health Commission-estab-
lished a Mental Health Commission, with
Rosalynn Carter as honorary Chairman,
to review national efforts in mental
health services; final report due in April
1978.
3. Medicare and Medicaid Fraud-
supported and signed into law a bill de-
signed to halt Medicare and Medicaid
fraud.
4. Immunization Program-began an
immunization program for more than 20
million children unprotected against com-
municable childhood diseases.
5. CHAP-proposed legislation in-
creasing from 55 percent to 75 percent
the average Federal payment to the
States for health care for poor children.
CHAP is the proposed new Child Health
Assessment Program.
6. Physician Assistants-supported and
signed into law a bill making Medicare
and Medicaid reimbursement available
to physician assistants in rural clinics.
7. Medical Uses of Illegal Drugs-di-
rected the scientific reexamination of
marijuana and heroin for possible medi-
cal uses, particularly in the treatment of
cancer.
8. Public Health Service Hospitals-re-
stored money in FY '78 budget to keep
open eight public health service hospi-
tals; signed into law.
9. Health Professionals—proposed
$101-million increase for FY '78 budget
for health professionals training; signed
into law.
10. National Health Insurance-estab-
lished National Health Insurance Advi-
sory Group to help develop a comprehen-
sive national health insurance plan;
conducted hearings in all 50 States.
Housing and Community Development
1. Increased Funding-proposed and
signed into law the Housing and Com-
munity Development Act, which ensures
housing for an additional 344,000 low-
and moderate-income families; increases
FHA mortgage insurance limits for a sin-
gle family home from $45,000 to $60,000
and lowers downpayment requirements;
increases community development levels
by total of $12.5 billion over 3 years, giv-
ing a disproportionate share of the money
to the most distressed urban areas; and
creates the Urban Development Action
Grant program to provide an additional
$1.2 billion over 3 years to the most dis-
tressed urban areas.
2. Supplemental Housing Authoriza-
tion-proposed and signed into law a bill
increasing subsidies for housing construc-
2145
