Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:15 p.m. at
the Air National Guard Facility. During the
flight from Detroit to Des Moines, the Presi-
dent met on Air Force One with members of
the Iowa Democratic congressional delega-
tion-Senators Dick Clark and John C.
Culver and Representatives Berkley W. Bedell,
Michael T. Blouin, Tom Harkin, and Neal
Smith.
Des Moines, Iowa
Remarks at the Democratic Party Jefferson-
Jackson Day Dinner. October 21, 1977
When I think of Iowa, I think of peo-
ple, mostly. I think about Marie Jahn,
Soapy Owens, Harry Baxter, Floyd Gil-
lotti, and literally dozens of other people
who had confidence in me months and
months before I was able to convince the
rest of the world that I was a political fig-
ure who needed watching.
Two years ago, I came to speak to the
annual Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner in
Iowa at Ames. I was not the only main
speaker on the program. [Laughter] But
when the evening was over, we had won
what proved to be a great national vic-
tory. I have to admit that most of my
votes came from people who were sitting
in the balcony in the $5 seats. And even
now a lot of them are wondering whether
or not they got their money's worth.
[Laughter] But it formed a tie or a ce-
ment between myself and your State and
your people that will last until the last
day I live. I'm grateful to you, and since
then I've had a chance to learn more
about this country, more about its people.
My family have become the centers of
attention there has been 2 or 3 weeks of
publicity about whether Amy was playing
"Three Blind Mice" or "Twinkle, Twin-
kle, Little Star" on her violin. We've had
a chance to learn about the rest of the
world. We'll be making a long overseas
trip beginning the last of November.
We'll be going down to Brazil to pick up
the sweater that Rosalynn left there last
spring. We'll be making several stops on
the way-in Venezuela, Nigeria, Iran,
Saudi Arabia to refuel our plane and to
get special dealer's rates from the oil-pro-
ducing countries. [Laughter]
It's really kind of a pleasure trip for me
as President. You get to do things that
everyone wants to do but very seldom has
a chance to accomplish. How many of you
have ever had Thanksgiving Day in La-
gos? [Laughter] See what I mean? But I
hope to take to those countries an accu-
rate image of our Nation, representing
you.
My family has been affected in other
ways. My brother, Billy, has found an-
other way to make a living other than
growing peanuts. He can go to Canada
and do a bellybuster in the swimming
pool and make more money than he made
all year on the farm. [Laughter] When I
mentioned that to Billy, he said, "Well
you forgot, Jimmy, that I don't know how
to swim." [Laughter] But anyway, he is
doing his share for the Nation's economy.
He's put the beer industry back on its
feet-almost alone. [Laughter]
A lot of people criticize Billy, but his
standing in the public opinion polls is
substantially above my own. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, lately-you couldn't
tell it by tonight-but the polls have been
down a little. But I remind myself that
even in the worst of polls, I've only
dropped 3 percent since election night.
So, I'm pretty good there. And in the
more responsible and reliable polls, we're
still up pretty high, as you know, and I
have enjoyed it.
Tonight, I went to the hotel room for a
couple of hours before coming over here,
1855
