Dec. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the question of unemployment among
black youth in this country, very very high
percentages. Is that one of those issues
that at the moment just looks baffling and
intractable-how to deal with it, given the
other priorities?
THE PRESIDENT. The unemployment
rate in general is intractable and difficult.
The inflation rate seems to be frozen at
about 6 or 62 percent, and there are
pockets of unemployment among black
youth, in particular, that have been a
great challenge to me, that we have not
yet successfully resolved, either me or my
predecessors. We did add 425,000 new
jobs, and most of them were specifically
oriented toward people who have been
chronically unemployed.
In addition, we had about a $4 billion
public works program. Ten percent of
that money had to be spent with minority
contractors to help emphasize black
young employment.
We also contemplate in the 1979 fiscal
year budget emphasizing anew our in-
terest in solving high unemployment rate
among black young people. But this is
one of those problems that is difficult to
solve.
When I went to London in May for
the International Economic Summit, this
was the issue that every foreign leader
said was becoming their most difficult and
crucial issue. In England, in Germany, in
France, in Japan, in Canada, in Italy,
there was unanimous agreement among
us that this was one of the most intracta-
ble and difficult issues of all.
Just recently, in Rome, Secretary Mar-
shall from our Department of Labor went
on an international meeting concerning
youth unemployment.
We are making some progress in our
country. We had during the summer and
fall, as a result of a $21 billion economic
stimulus package, more people put to
work every week even than during the
New Deal days with the WPA and the
CCC. But it's a hard thing to solve.
We've added 4 million new jobs this
year and still have a high unemployment
rate. But I think we are making progress.
The basic thing is that government can't
provide all those jobs. They have to be
initiated through business investment
brought about by proper tax decisions
and proper economic decisions made by
Congress and by business themselves. But
I think the progress that we will make
in '78 will be even greater than this year.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, I wonder
about unemployment generally, whether
we don't have to, as a society, as a system
of government, redefine what is an ac-
ceptable level of unemployment.
It's now been running at about 7 per-
cent, and people talk about an unemploy-
ment rate of 4, 4½ percent as being ac-
ceptable. That's a long drop, to get to 4½
percent. Do you think that we have to re-
define what is acceptable at around 6 per-
cent-
THE PRESIDENT. No, I'd hate to do
that.
MR. BROKAW. -realistically?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I would hate to
do that.
MR. BROKAW. Well, politically, it's not
very attractive, but economically and
practically it's very hard to see how it can
be dropped that far that fast.
THE PRESIDENT. I believe we can get it
below that. We have, as you know, a dif-
ferent system economically than most,
even democratic democracies. We provide
welfare systems and unemployment com-
pensation for people who are out of work.
And habitually in our Nation when de-
mand drops off for a product, the com-
panies lay off even temporarily some of
their workers. In a nation like Japan, they
keep those workers on the job, they pay
them a lower salary, and the production
is held down by partial unemployment.
2198
