Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 30
ing out of violations of high standards of
human rights preservation. We have been
criticized at Belgrade, sometimes legiti-
mately; sometimes, I think, mistakenly.
The same applies to nations in Eastern
Europe and to the Soviet Union.
And I think this is the best thing that
we can do at this point, is to continue to
insist upon a rigid enforcement and inter-
pretation of the human rights section of
the Helsinki agreement.
ENERGY
Q [in Polish]. Mr. President, the Polish
Radio.
The United States is facing an energy
crisis which is also an international prob-
lem. How can you see the possibilities of
solving that crisis, like a multilateral con-
ference, a European conference or bilat-
eral agreements, and are you of the opin-
ion that the cooperation between the
United States and Poland in this respect
is possible?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the worst do-
mestic problems that we have is the over-
consumption and waste of energy. I have
no doubt that every country I visit on this
tour will be pressing us on the question
of what will the United States do to save
energy and not to import too much of
very scarce oil, in particular, which is
available on the world markets. We are
addressing this as a top priority among
domestic issues.
Poland is, as you know, self-sufficient
in both hard coal and also brown coal,
which is increasing in production in Po-
land itself. We call it lignite in our own
country. One of the things that we can do
is on a worldwide basis to try to hold
down unnecessary demand for oil and
natural gas, therefore providing stable
prices.
Another is to consume those energy
sources which we have most available in
our country and in yours, coal; shift to
permanent sources of energy, primarily
those derived from solar power; and share
research and development information
and commitments, a subject which I was
discussing early today with First Secre-
tary Gierek.
How to burn lignite coal so that it will
have minimum effect on the environment
and also have maximum heat derivation
is a question of importance to you and to
us. We are now shifting to the production
and consumption of lignite coal in our
own country, for instance, and so are you.
So, I think sharing, on an international
basis, of data and technological advan-
tages and progress in the energy field and
conservation of scarce energy sources for
all nations would be the two basic things
which we could do jointly.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir?
Q [in Polish]. I have got one question.
THE PRESIDENT. Go right ahead.
Q. Can I?
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
Q. May I?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
U.S.-POLISH RELATIONS
Q. What is involved in the entity of
Polish-American cooperation, so far, and
what is your opinion as far as this cooper-
ation, between Poland and the United
States is concerned, and how in the light
of today's talks can you see the prospects
for the development of such cooperation
as well as what the United States wants
to do to contribute to this development?
THE PRESIDENT. We already have a
good relationship with Poland in cultural
exchange, in technological and scientific
cooperation, and in rapidly growing level
of trade.
About 4 years ago we had a total trade
with Poland of only about $500 million.
In 1978, the level of trade will probably
exceed $1 billion.
2209
