Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 15
We, I think, have done a good job in
this respect. We have a series of reorga-
nization studies that will proceed from
this that have already been revealed. We
have a 3-year authorization from the Con-
gress to complete the reorganization ef-
fort before the bill, the legislation expires.
This gives me almost unlimited author-
ity to propose to the Congress modifica-
tions in existing structures. And when we
want to form a new department—for in-
stance, we're pulling together more than
a dozen different departments into the
Department of Energy-that has to be
done with separate legislation because it
requires an affirmative vote of both
Houses of the Congress.
As you know, with the reorganization
authority I can make modifications as
I see fit, and they go into effect unless the
Congress vetoes it, by a much easier
process.
In addition, we're cutting down on
paperwork. I was just notified Monday
morning by the Secretary of Labor, Ray
Marshall, that the number of forms that
are used by OSHA, for instance, would
be reduced 50 percent and that the re-
maining forms required would be greatly
simplified. This touches 1½ million busi-
nesses in the United States. We are trying
the same thing on all the other depart-
ments. We, in addition, are trying to
simplify reports required and eliminate
as many as we can.
And we have put a limit on the num-
ber of personnel who will be working in
the Federal Government. My goal is that
at the end of the following fiscal year, in
October, on October 1 of 1978, that we
would have no more employees in the
Federal Government than we had in Oc-
tober of 1976. We are being very strict
about that. This is in spite of the fact
that many new programs are being as-
sumed; that it is inevitable in any
government.
So, we're doing the best we can in this
early stage to bring about some restora-
tion of confidence in the governmental
process, and I enjoy it. It's a part of my
experience and responsibilities as Presi-
dent that appeals to me. I think you will
be pleased when you see the report this
afternoon on the Executive Office of the
President and the subsequent reports. But
I don't think it's hopeless at all.
TOBACCO PRICE SUPPORTS
Q. Mr. President, the Surgeon General
has ruled that cigarette smoking can kill
you,
and the Federal Government stepped
in and told people they can't advertise-
[inaudible]. I am from North Carolina.
[Laughter] My question is this: How then
can the Federal Government continue to
give price supports to tobacco farmers? Is
there any situation that you can envision
where those supports will stop?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, only if the Con-
gress votes that they would stop. I think
that this is one of the most difficult philo-
sophical questions to rationalize that I
can think of.
We have, obviously, other conflicts; one
that I addressed in my last press confer-
ence was on the abortion issue. Although
I am strongly opposed to the concept of
abortion on a morality basis, women in-
sist on having the right to make their own
decisions about their own body. The Su-
preme Court has ruled they can do this
under limited circumstances. And then
the next question is, should the Federal
Government finance abortions? I don't
think the Federal Government should.
The same thing applies to cigarette
smoking. The Federal Government, long
before I got here, decided it was a danger
to one's health and put a warning notice
1273
