Oct. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Of course, we are consulting constant-
ly with the Arab nations as well. But I
think every week now is bringing about
some progress toward a Geneva confer-
ence. And I think there's been a substan-
tial alleviation among the leaders of the
Middle Eastern nations of their concern
about the results of a Geneva conference.
I think they all are beginning to see
now that it's not something that they
need to fear, that it's a first step toward
a possible final peace settlement. But it's
extremely sensitive, extremely compli-
cated.
The national leaders, even those pres-
ently in office, have made very abusive
statements in the past. It's hard for them
to correct or to modify those statements
in a constructive fashion, but they're do-
ing their best. And I don't think there's
any nation now that I couldn't say is
genuinely striving for the convening of the
conference and also ultimate settlement
that brings about peace.
Q. Are the stories about the break-
through in SALT correct?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there has been
substantial progress, as I've already said,
on the SALT negotiations. We don't
know yet what the Soviet attitude is on
the very important remaining differences.
We are negotiating at Geneva. These
negotiations have just recommenced. And
we have nothing to indicate that there's
been an irresolvable difference. So, I can't
really comment specifically on SALT,
except to say that the results so far have
been encouraging. We don't know how
much progress will be made in the future.
Q. Mr. President, we understand you
are going to step up your public role in
behalf of the energy program to a large
extent in the next few weeks. What kinds
of things do you have in mind?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, back in April
and May, when we described very ac-
curately the threat to our country of the
energy crisis, there was a rapid growth
in public awareness. The oil companies,
through their advertising program and so
forth, on an almost hourly basis, present
their point of view about the energy prob-
lem. That's completely legitimate. I
don't criticize them because of it.
But I don't think that anything has
happened since April that's caused an al-
leviation of the problem. I think that it's
patently obvious that the problem is much
more severe now than it was 6 months ago
and that the inevitability of an energy
crisis that can be devastating to us and
to the rest of the world is becoming more
and more obvious.
The major effort of the entire Govern-
ment this year, the Congress and myself
together, has been the energy legislation.
A very large investment of time and effort
has gone into it. And it's predictably con-
troversial. What the Congress decides will
touch the lives of every person in this
country, not only in the immediate future
but even more severely in years to come.
The basic struggle is whether or not the
average family in this Nation is going to
be treated fairly, whether energy supplies
are going to be adequate, whether there
can be international stability where the
security of our country can be maintained
on the one hand, or whether special in-
terest groups can derive an unwarranted
advantage at the expense of most Ameri-
can people, and the conservation efforts
that we have proposed would be negated.
I consider it to be of crucial importance.
And as we approach the end of the con-
gressional session, I think it's important
for me again to go back to the country
and reaffirm the reasons, which have not
changed, for a comprehensive energy pol-
icy to be adopted.
Q. Are you now going over the heads
of Congress?
1782
