Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 2
a Ph.D. from Hartford Seminary Founda-
tion in 1969.
From 1960 to 1970, Duffey was an as-
sistant professor, then acting dean and
associate professor, at Hartford Seminary.
He was also founder and director of the
Center for Urban Studies there. In 1971
he was a fellow at the John F. Kennedy
School of Government at Harvard Uni-
versity.
Duffey was an adjunct professor at Yale
University and a fellow at Calhoon Col-
lege from 1971 to 1973. From 1974 to
1976, he was chief administrative officer
and spokesman for the American Associa-
tion of University Professors. He worked
on the Carter-Mondale transition team in
1976 and 1977 and has been Assistant
Secretary of State for Educational and
Cultural Affairs since early 1977.
Drug Abuse
Remarks on Transmitting a Message to the
Congress. August 2, 1977
This afternoon I have a statement to
make about the drug abuse problem fol-
lowing which, Dr. Peter Bourne will be
available to answer specific questions.
Today I'm sending Congress a message
which expresses my strong concern about
the crime and sickness and death caused
by the abuse of drugs, including barbitu-
rates and alcohol.
The estimated cost of drug abuse in
this country is more than $15 billion per
year. I'm ordering the Attorney General
to concentrate on breaking the links be-
tween organized crime and drug traffic,
to enhance cooperation among all law
enforcement agencies, and to ensure more
certain conviction and quick punishment
for those who traffic in drugs.
We will not have an effective and
united Federal effort against drugs unless
we reorganize the current Federal effort
now divided among more than 20 differ-
ent, often competing, noncooperative
agencies, on occasion.
Therefore, I'm directing my staff to
eliminate this duplication and overlap
and also to end the long-standing frag-
mentation among our international drug
enforcement programs and our treatment,
rehabilitation, and prevention efforts.
We must also have international co-
operation to control the production and
transport of dangerous drugs into our
country. We are making some progress on
this already, in part because of the very
good cooperation among the governments
of foreign countries.
The influx of heroin from Mexico has
been drastically reduced within this last
6-month period. In the Thailand-Burma
area, cooperating with us, they have now
mounted a very successful anti-drug cam-
paign. I think last week, we had the
largest confiscation of heroin on record,
about 400 pounds of heroin. And recently,
we formed a very good working relation-
ship with the Government of Colombia.
Heroin sold in our streets is now in such
short supply that it's only 4.9-percent
pure, the lowest quality detected since
records have been kept.
We will make further efforts to deal
with the problem on an international level
by cooperating with law enforcement offi-
cials abroad, by sharing treatment knowl-
edge, by backing drug efforts of the
United Nations, by helping to find alter-
nate crops for drug-producing coun-
tries-particularly in the mountainous
areas where heroin poppies are grown-
and by supporting the ratification of the
Convention on Psychotropic Substances.
In our own country, I'm ordering a
study of how we can best control the
abuse of barbiturates and other prescrip-
tion drugs, which cause many deaths,
1399
