Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 12
street. I asked Fritz specifically to move
over and occupy an office right down the
hall from me. And so, in effect, he is the
one who coordinates the staff work in the
White House. He's thoroughly familiar
with the Congress. He's been there for 12
years himself. He was on the Finance
Committee and also the Budget Commit-
tee. So he's familiar with that.
When I have budget hearings 21/2, 3
hours here in the afternoon-32 hours
yesterday on defense-Fritz is there at my
side. And I've incorporated him in this
strategic military chain of command. No
other Vice President has ever occupied
those positions. And if something should
happen to me, he would be thoroughly
familiar with all the controversies, all of
the foreign affairs considerations, all of the
defense considerations, and be ready to
act in a proper way.
So, there are some different ways of
management that I have brought into the
White House that quite often have not
been understood, but which I've very
carefully evolved and of which I'm quite
proud.
I have a note that I haven't read yet.
Thank you, Gene [Eugene Johnson, White
Bear Press, White Bear Lake, Minn.], very
much.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
CECILIA D. ESQUER, 35, of Tempe, Ariz.
Esquer is assistant attorney general of Ari-
zona. She is a 1976 graduate of Arizona
State University College of Law, where she
was on the Committee on Legal Education
Opportunity and the Chicano Law Students
Association. Her special areas of interest
are school law, poverty law, and civil
rights.
STEVEN L. ENGELBERG, 35, of Chevy Chase,
Md. Engelberg is a partner in the Washing-
ton law firm of Price, Grove, Engelberg &
Fried. From 1969 to 1973, he was legislative
counsel to then-Senator Walter Mondale.
HILLARY RODHAM, 30, of Little Rock, Ark.
Rodham practices law in Little Rock and
Fayetteville, Ark. She was an assistant pro-
fessor of law at the University of Arkansas
Law School from 1974 to 1977. Her special
area of interest is children under the law.
RICHARD A. TRUDELL, 34, of Oakland, Calif.
Trudell is the executive director of the
American Indian Lawyer Training Program.
In 1972 and 1973, he was director of the
Robert F. Kennedy Memorial's Fellowship
Program. He is a member of the American
Indian Bar Association.
JOSEPHINE WORTHY, 43, of Holyoke, Mass.
Worthy is youth director of Bethlehem
Baptist Church and president of the
TOETFERT Housing Project Tenants As-
sociation. She is on the advisory board of
the Office of Children's Services of the State
Department of Social Services. From 1974
to 1976, she was a family life counselor at
Holyoke Street School.
The transcript of the interview was released Harry S Truman
on December 10.
Legal Services Corporation
Nomination of Five Members of the Board
of Directors. December 12, 1977
The President today announced five
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Board of Directors of the
Legal Services Corporation for terms ex-
piring in 1980. They are:
Harry S Truman Scholarship
Foundation
Nomination of John W. Snyder To Be a
Member of the Board of Trustees.
December 12, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate John W. Snyder, of Wash-
ington, D.C., for reappointment as a
member of the Board of Trustees of the
Harry S Truman Scholarship Founda-
tion for a term expiring December 10,
1983.
2101
