June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And I might say that with the advent
of the cruise missile as a possible alter-
native, that the Secretary of Defense
agrees with me that this is a preferable
decision.
Q. Can I follow that up, sir? Mr. Presi-
dent, could I follow that up?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, if you insist.
Q. This openmindedness that you de-
scribe, does that apply to other campaign
commitments that you made in other
areas outside of defense?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll always try
to keep an open mind and make my de-
cision based on what I think is best for
our country.
Q. Mr. President, is this decision on
your part not to go ahead with the B-1
intended as any kind of a signal to the
Soviets that you are willing to that you
want to do something quickly in the stra-
tegic arms talks?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't deny that
that's a potential factor. But that has not
been a reason for my decision. I think if I
had looked upon the B-1 as simply a bar-
gaining chip for the Soviets, then my de-
cision would have been to go ahead with
the weapon. But I made my decision on
my analysis that, within a given budget-
ary limit for the defense of our country,
which I am sure will always be adequate,
that we should have the optimum capa-
bility to defend ourselves.
But this is a matter that's of very great
importance, and if at the end of a few
years the relations with the Soviets should
deteriorate drastically, which I don't an-
ticipate, then it may be necessary for me
to change my mind. But I don't expect
that to occur.
Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling,
[Godfrey Sperling,
Christian Science Monitor].
HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
Q. Mr. President, is this emphasis on
human rights now central to your foreign
policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. My emphasis on
human rights is central to our foreign
policy. As I've said since my first press
conference, I see no relationship between
the human rights decision, however, and
matters affecting our defense or SALT
negotiations. And I have doubts, based on
analyses in our own country and from
those who know the Soviet system very
well in other countries, that there's any
connection between the two in the minds
of the Soviets.
Q. To follow there, has this emphasis
helped or hurt those in the Soviet Union
whose rights were being impaired?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard for me to
say. I think that in the long run our em-
phasis on human rights, the high publicity
that has accrued to the human rights
question because of the Helsinki agree-
ment and the upcoming Belgrade confer-
ence in October-those two factors, com-
bined, I think, dramatize every violation
of human rights that is known.
And my guess is that the Soviets, like
ourselves, want to put a good image for-
ward for the world to observe, and I think
in the long run that this emphasis on
human rights will be beneficial to those
who desire free speech and an enhance-
ment of their own human freedoms.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, Senator Javits says
you are pushing Israel too far. And
other Americans sympathetic to the Is-
raeli position say worse, that you are
perhaps selling Israel down the river.
My question is, first, do you think you
are, and secondly, how difficult will it
be for you to continue your policy if the
American Jewish community sides with
Mr. Begin instead of Mr. Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. I might say, first of
all, that I look forward with great an-
ticipation to the visit of Prime Minister
Begin on the 19th of July. My determi-
nation is that the talks will be friendly
1200
