Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
we don't conserve energy.
Of course,
we're trying to the best of my own ability
to induce the Congress to pass a compre-
hensive energy package which balances,
on the one hand, adequate incentives for
the increased production in our own
country of oil and gas and coal and, on
the other hand, a decrease in consump-
tion just to eliminate waste.
We've done analyses that show if we
could just eliminate the waste that can
be prevented, then we can reduce our
imports almost to zero. In other words,
we are importing just about enough oil to
meet our waste of oil.
So, it's a serious problem. It's going to
get worse in the future. My guess is that
we will not have as serious a natural gas
shortage next winter as we had this past
winter. I think those were extraordinary
circumstances, particularly because of the
prevailing low temperatures that lasted
so long. But I think we'll go into this
winter with a higher reserve supply of
energy, just because we learned from sad
experience last winter about the need for
a kind of a buffer of supplies.
I'd like to say one other thing about this
whole matter. It's difficult to convince the
American people about the seriousness of
the energy crisis. We've had two or three
serious warning signs already, a quadrup-
ling of the price of oil by the OPEC na-
tions, extreme shortage of natural gas this
past winter that disrupted schools and
MR. VRIESMAN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to say in
closing, Mr. President, that I've enjoyed
this chance to answer your questions. The
multiplicity of responsibilities that I have
sometimes prevent my giving an adequate
accounting to the American people.
I'm very grateful that you've given
me this chance, through what I under-
stand is a live broadcast, to cover some
of the important issues. It's always a mat-
ter that I am concerned about-is how
to communicate accurately with the
American people. And I think even in
the most controversial matters, I feel
better about making the right decision
to know that the subjects have been de-
bated openly by the people of this coun-
try.
So, thank you again for letting me be
with you in this means, and I hope that
my answers have been adequate in the
limited time available to me.
Thank you again very much.
MR. VRIESMAN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. from the
Oval Office by telephone hookup to members
of the association meeting in San Francisco,
Calif. The question-and-answer session was
broadcast live on radio.
hospitals and private homes, and also National Hispanic Heritage Week
rapidly escalating imports. These warn-
ing signs are not going to go away. And
if we ignore them, they're going to get
worse.
So, if we have made an error in the
energy field, it's not because we have over-
emphasized our problems. It's because
we've not acted forcefully enough to pre-
vent increasing problems in the future.
Remarks at a Rose Garden Ceremony.
September 15, 1977
Last week I had a chance to practice
my Spanish by meeting with 19 leaders
of nations in Latin America-Central,
South America, and the Caribbean. I
think it's appropriate and also coinciden-
tal that this week is a week that we com-
1600
