Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 19
served in the President's Office on a
Government-wide basis. From 1971 to
1976, Freeman was a special energy and
resources consultant to the Senate Com-
merce Committee, serving also, from 1971
to 1974, as director of the Ford Founda-
tion's Energy Policy Project.
Last year, Freeman worked in the
Carter campaign and later in the Carter-
Mondale transition. Since January he
has been an assistant to Dr. James
Schlesinger in the Energy Policy and
Planning Office of the Executive Office
of the President,
Domestic Assistance Plans
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. July 19, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
annual basis. The requirement should re-
main in cases where 1) a compelling need
is demonstrated, and 2) where the re-
quirements reflect the wishes of top
elected officials.
I have designated OMB to help each
department carry out its review, with the
goal of submitting final recommendations
to me by November 30. I have also asked
the White House intergovernmental staff
to assist with the project.
As much as possible, each department
should open its review to public partici-
pation. I also urge you to confer with
Congress about eliminating any plan re-
quirements established by statute which
you do not believe are necessary.
I consider this an important part of
our effort to make the government more
efficient and productive. To ensure that
it is successful, I request that you desig-
nate a high-level staff person to co-
ordinate the review and to serve on an
interdepartmental task force. This com-
mittee will examine any possible overlap-
Subject: Review of Federal Plan Require- ping in the remaining plan requirements.
ments for Domestic Assistance
Planning is a vital part of making any
decision. State and local governments,
however, have become plagued by too
much of a good thing. The Federal re-
quirements for State, regional, and local
plans are unnecessarily numerous, and
often overlap each other or conflict with
local programs. The result is that every-
one is overburdened by paperwork, and
the original thrust of many of these plans
is lost in the shuffle.
OMB will be in charge.
I hope for prompt results from this
effort. Specifically, I expect the number
and complexity of planning requirements
for Federal aid to be sharply reduced.
Moreover, I want you to make a con-
tinuing effort to assure that no require-
ments are established unless they are
essential to meet the responsibilities of
government.
Accordingly, I am ordering a zero-
based review of all Federal requirements
that State and local governments submit Budget Rescissions
plans when asking for assistance. All re-
quirements, except for those established
by Federal statute, should be abolished,
combined with other plans or required
only on a multi-year, rather than an
JIMMY CARTER
Message to the Congress. July 19, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith propose
1285
