July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
order to make them permanent, the agree-
ments that are inherent in the attitudes of
our people.
We both feel that this year is a propi-
tious time to move toward real, perma-
nent peace in the Middle East, a recogni-
tion by all nations that Israel has a right
to exist, to exist as a proud and inde-
pendent nation, to exist permanently, and
to exist in peace. This is a basis on which
we approach the coming crucial months.
We also recognize the sharp differences
of opinion that exist between Israel and
her Arab neighbors, the historical dis-
trust that must be overcome. We also
recognize the intense interest and legiti-
mate concern and involvement of almost
all the developed nations in the world and
many of those who are still developing in
a peaceful settlement of Middle Eastern
differences.
We recognize that the basic security of
Israel must not only be guaranteed in
military terms and from the viewpoint of
leaders who are involved, but the security
of Israel must be guaranteed in the minds
and hearts of people who live in that
country and in the minds and hearts of
people who would disturb that security if
they thought there was hope for success.
There must be a reassurance of the
staunch friendship that binds our country
to Israel.
I have met with the Arab leaders
who've been here to see me and whom
I've met in Europe, and we've always
made clear to them in the early stages of
discussion that the basic premise on
which we approached a possible Middle
East discussion leading toward progress
and peace was our commitment to Israel.
We have also explored today some very
sensitive questions, some that can prove
'to be embarrassing because of past state-
ments made in the heat of anger or the
heat of challenge or the heat of despair
or the heat or depths of insecurity. And
with a new hope being generated, we see
a need for a frank discussion of all the
issues that in the past have appeared to
be insuperable obstacles toward peace.
I've been very proud of the attitude
taken by Prime Minister Begin, who has
said that all issues are negotiable and who
has already expressed publicly his hope
that he and President Sadat and King
Hussein and President Asad can meet
with others in Geneva in October.
We don't know yet that we can resolve
all the differences that might prevent
such a meeting. But following this week,
Secretary Vance will go to the Middle
East to have private conversations with
the leaders there and will also have a fol-
low-up meeting with the Israeli leaders
themselves.
The future, of course, is still in doubt.
The historical differences still exist. But I
am convinced, having spent hours and
hours talking and listening to the leaders
involved, that there is a unanimous hope
that peace might come and a realization
of the great benefits that can accrue to all
coming of security and peace.
the people in the Middle East with the
We are determined to do our share not
to try to impose our will on anyone but to
act as a trusted intermediary and, to de-
serve that trust, to give the same points of
view to all the parties who will be nego-
tiating-not to mislead anyone, not to
avoid a controversial issue-and, wher-
ever appropriate, to open those controver-
sial issues up to public scrutiny, public
analysis, public debate, even when at
times it creates some hopefully transient
dissension among people who have
strongly held opposing views.
But there is no way to postpone any
longer those issues that sometimes in the
future will be divisive but which have his-
1288
