Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 10
the ones who serve here and their fam-
ilies. We have rescheduled it for Satur-
day afternoon, so we'll be having to come
back right after the wedding. We don't
have often a chance for me and both my
sisters and my brother, Billy, and my
mother and me all to be in the same place.
I hope that Fayetteville, North Carolina,
survives our visit. [Laughter]
Hi. Good to see you.
ADMINISTRATION'S ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Q. Mr. President, a very general ques-
tion, nonpolitical. As you look back at the
end of this first year, what has been the
most personally gratifying accomplish-
ment of your year in the Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's hard
to pick out the accomplishments. We
were very pleased to get the economy
moving in the right direction. We had an
economic stimulus package that the Con-
gress passed with dispatch. The unem-
ployment rate has dropped about 1
percent. Employment has increased more
this year, I think, than ever before in his-
tory-4 million people net gain in em-
ployment this year; 900,000 last month
alone.
Since June, the inflation rate has lev-
eled off at 4 percent. I wish I could pre-
dict that it was going to stay that low; I
don't think it will. But this shows a good
response.
We formed a new Department of En-
ergy, which brings order out of chaos in
one of the most serious challenges that
might affect our Nation in the future.
Formerly, we had 50 different agencies in
the Federal Government that were deal-
ing with energy. It was almost impossible
to get the answer to a question or to reg-
ister a complaint or to make a beneficial
suggestion.
The Congress, I think, has dealt fairly
with my programs. We've got a long-
range, very well-considered farm bill that
will be in effect now for about 5 years.
We've met all the challenges, so far as I
know, that I've put to the Congress.
We've made good progress in getting
back on the track the negotiations with
the Soviet Union. We've protected our
own interest; we've shown them that we
are firm and can't be pushed around.
We've begun some major reorganiza-
tion effort, projects. It will take us about
3 years to finish them all; some require a
great deal of time. But the Congress has
given me almost unlimited authority, sub-
ject to subsequent congressional veto, to
take over the executive branch now and to
bring it into a manageable state. We've
cut back tremendously on Government
regulations, paperwork, reports to be re-
quired.
This past week, OSHA, for instance,
eliminated 1,100 regulations that they had
evolved over the last number of years. I'm
trying to approach the Government as a
business manager and also as a small
businessman who knows the defects in the
Government.
Our family has been brought very close
together.
We've had substantial success in the
developing nations of the world in being
reaccepted as a part of the world com-
munity who had some concern about them
and who treated them with equality and
mutual respect.
I believe we've had a blessing in that
we've not had a serious military threat.
This, obviously, is something that I hope
to maintain throughout my term in office.
I hope that we've taken at least a small
step forward in restoring the confidence of
the American people in the integrity of the
Government and the competence of Gov-
ernment. This is going to be a slow process.
It's something that can't come in a year,
or even 2 years, because with the horrible
shocks of Vietnam and Watergate and the
2095
