Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 12
Gaza Strip. And with tedious negotiations,
we've made some progress on that. No-
body yet knows whether it will be success-
ful.
The last thing I'd like to mention very
quickly, to give you more time for ques-
tions, is the southern Africa difficulties in
three general categories: One is Rhodesia
or, as the black Africans call it, Zimbab-
we; the second one in Namibia, which was
formerly Southwest Africa; and the third
one, of course, is South Africa itself.
We've not had much involvement in
African affairs up until a little more than
a year ago, when Secretary Kissinger did
make a trip through there and evolved
proposals which I thought were good ones
but which didn't prove to be acceptable,
primarily with Rhodesia.
The United Nations plays a major role
in Namibia, working under the general
auspices of five of us major nations-our-
selves, Canada, Great Britain, France, and
Germany-negotiating with South Africa
on their withdrawal from Namibia.
QUESTIONS
CHAIRMAN OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
BOARD
Q. I'm Ed Wishcamper, Abilene, Texas,
Reporter-News. In the Washington Star
last evening, Charles Walker wrote about
the prospect of Arthur Burns perhaps be-
ing reappointed as Chairman of the Fed-
eral Reserve Board. At this time, that de-
cision is 2 months away. What will be
done?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't decided
about a reappointment yet and haven't
had a chance to discuss this with my own
staff or my economic advisers. As I said
in my press conference this week, the
highly publicized disagreements and dis-
harmonies between me and Chairman
Burns just do not exist. We talk on the
telephone quite frequently; either he calls
me or I call him. We have a monthly ses-
sion with the Vice President, the head of
the Office of Management and Budget,
the Secretary of Treasury, and my eco-
nomic advisers. We had one, coinciden-
tally, yesterday.
And I don't understand how these kinds
of stories evolve. But I think it's accurate,
what I said in the press conference, that
I've never had an argument with Mr.
Burns. And even in our monthly lunch
sessions, when we have a very free discus-
We've got additional problems, as you
know, in the Horn of Africa, also in An-
gola, which still has about 20,000 troops.
The Cubans have, in effect, taken on the
colonial aspect that the Portuguese gave
up in months gone by. And we hope that
there will be some inclination on the part
of the Cubans to withdraw their forcession, it's always been very harmonious and
from Angola. They are now spreading
into other countries in Africa, like Mozam-
bique. Recently, they are building up their
so-called advisers in Ethiopia. We consider
this to be a threat to the permanent peace
in Africa.
So, that outlines in general some of the
foreign policies that we are pursuing.
I know that you have special questions
to ask, and I'd like now to have your
questions.
friendly. There are differences of opinion
expressed on long-range trends and so
forth, but it's been very harmonious. I
have not decided what to do about his
reappointment.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
Q. I'm Ben Plastino from Idaho Falls.
I think I interviewed you about 2 years
ago. My question is, what is your feeling
now on the development of nuclear en-
2011
