July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
forth in my Message to Congress on
March 4, 1977, and share with you my
views on pricing and entry.
1. Automatic Route Entry. Pricing
flexibility must be accompanied by strong
entry provisions. It is entry, or the realistic
threat of it, that prevents price flexibility
from being abused. Automatic route
entry is especially important in keeping
prices low, and I consider it to be one of
the most important elements of a reform
bill. The current provision in the bill
allows carriers to enter a very limited
number of new markets each year with-
out having to undergo the costly process
of obtaining Board approval. The record
developed by your Committee clearly sup-
ports even greater automatic entry than
is provided by the current draft.
2. Presumption in Favor of Entry. Re-
tention of the provision in the bill that
would reverse the burden of proof in entry
proceedings is essential. The presump-
tion should be that competition is con-
sistent with the public interest. Anyone
who is against new competition should
have to show that it would be harmful to
the public-not the other way around.
Indeed, I would prefer a provision revers-
ing the burden of proof immediately upon
enactment of the bill, rather than delay-
ing its effectiveness of this provision for
three years, as in the current draft.
3. Unused Route Authority. If a car-
rier has authority to serve a market but
has chosen not to use it, a new carrier
who would like to serve the public in that
market should be given the opportunity
to do so. There is simply no justification
for preventing new carriers from serving
markets which other carriers are not
using. The draft bill makes entry against
a carrier holding unused authority more
difficult than entry into markets where no
such unexercised grants of authority are
outstanding. I recommend that this pro-
vision of the current bill be strengthened.
4. Pricing Flexibility. One of the major
aims of reform is to allow carriers to lower
their prices wherever possible. The cur-
rent regulatory scheme permits lower
fares only by means of heavily regulated
and highly restricted price discounts. I
urge you to support the provisions in the
bill which take meaningful steps to
remove the artificial regulatory barriers to
lower prices.
I believe that entry provisions and up-
ward pricing flexibility are intimately
related. To the extent that the automatic
entry and dormant authority provisions
are strengthened, and the burden of proof
is reversed at an earlier date, some limited
upward pricing flexibility may be war-
ranted. But if these changes are not made,
then I would support a move to limit
carriers to price increases only where they
are justified by rising costs. Alternatively,
you might wish to consider explicitly tying
entry to pricing; that is, providing for
some easing of the bill's entry limitations
in those instances where prices have been
significantly increased.
There are many aspects of this com-
plex reform legislation, but the value
which the ordinary citizen ultimately
gains from our efforts mainly depends on
the Congress' resolution of these four
basic issues.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Howard W. Cannon, United
States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
able by the White House Press Office on
July 29. It was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
NOTE: The text of the letter was made avail-
1380
