Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 15, 1977
Energy Conference With
the Governors
Remarks of the President and Gov. Reubin
Askew of Florida at a News Briefing Following
the Conference. July 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body. I didn't know this many people
worked on Saturday. [Laughter]
We've just completed a very important
and helpful conference with, I think, 44
of the 50 Governors on the subject of en-
ergy, the interrelationship between the
Federal and State governments, and the
major responsibilities that fall on the
shoulders of Governors. We got good ad-
vice, Dr. Schlesinger and I and other Cab-
inet officers, and the Vice President.
I'd like to introduce to you now for
brief comments Governor Reubin Askew,
who is chairman of the National Gov-
ernors' Conference, and then I will re-
spond briefly. And then he and Julian
Carroll, who is the chairman of the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Committee in
the Governors' Conference, and Dr.
Schlesinger will be available to answer
your questions.
Governor Askew.
GOVERNOR ASKEW. Thank you, Mr.
President.
On behalf of the Governors represented
here today, I'd like to express our appreci-
ation to you and to the Vice President, Dr.
Schlesinger, Jack Watson, and the mem-
bers of the Cabinet who participated in
these meetings over the past day and a
half.
There are three points, I think, that
have been reflected in all of the discus-
sions and the panel reports of this confer-
ence. First, there is a shared desire on the
part of the States and the Federal Gov-
ernment to come to grips with the energy
challenge. Secondly, the only way we are
going to do the job effectively, whether in
transportation, conservation, coal utiliza-
tion, or other vital areas, is through co-
operation between the Federal and the
State Government. Third, the discussions
have shown that there are many critical
problems that affect individual States
and regions more than others.
And that is why it is so important to
have a Federal program that is responsive
to State needs and concerns, and we feel
this meeting marks such a good beginning.
In fact, I believe that our meeting this
weekend, particularly the meeting with
the President this morning in which we
spent close to 3 hours, is unparalleled and
unprecedented, at least in my memory,
where a President has given this much
time on a single subject, as important as
it is to the Governors.
We had an excellent exchange last
night with Dr. Kissinger-[laughter]—ex-
1225
