Dec. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
justice, moral beliefs in human values.
These are all qualities that have elevated
the American society in such a short peri-
od of time to its present high prestige in
the world, and a nation like ours with its
ancient culture can very well feel to what
extent such concepts in moral principles
are vital, especially in the world of today,
which is suffering from some sort of a
civilization crisis.
I entertain excellent memories of the
fruitful discussions which I had with
you
in Washington a few weeks ago. The cor-
dial hospitality extended by Mrs. Carter
and yourself and the warmth of your
attitude and the understanding which you
showed in our discussions have deeply
touched me. I am glad that our discussions
were so meaningful, particularly in the
case of energy, which is one of the most
important and vital problems of our era.
We, who are among the greatest pro-
ducers, share the same view that the
present unrestricted use of oil-which is
an expendable and finite resource is not
logical and that this valuable commodity,
instead of the present, normal daily use,
should be utilized mainly in the petro-
chemical industry. In the meantime, ef-
forts should be exerted to find a substitute
in new resources of energy.
Fortunately, we enjoy close cooperation
with your country in the field of energy,
which will no doubt be consolidated in the
future. We also share the same opinions
regarding the establishment of an honor-
able and durable peace, and we sincerely
hope that 1978, which begins tomorrow,
will be a year of such a peace of which
you are the harbinger.
I wish every success to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and Mrs. Carter, who has proved
to be such a successful ambassador of good
will, motivated, as she is, by high humani-
tarian ideals in your present tour, and
hope that this will prove to be fruitful
trips in the interest of the whole world and
that of peace, security, and welfare for
human society.
With this hope I propose a toast, Mr.
President, for your and Mrs. Carter's
health and happiness, for the further
progress and prosperity of the great and
noble American people, for the ever-
increasing friendship and cooperation be-
tween our two countries, and for inter-
national peace and understanding.
THE PRESIDENT. Your Majesties and
distinguished leaders of Iran from all
walks of life:
I would like to say just a few words to-
night in appreciation for your hospitality
and the delightful evening that we've
already experienced with you. Some have
asked why we came to Iran so close be-
hind the delightful visit that we received
from the Shah and Empress Farah just
a month or so ago. After they left our
country, I asked my wife, "With whom
would you like to spend New Year's
Eve?" And she said, "Above all others,
I think, with the Shah and Empress
Farah." So we arranged the trip
accordingly and came to be with you.
These visits and the close cooperation
that we share, the intense personal and
group negotiations and consultations are
very beneficial to both our countries.
They are particularly beneficial to me as
a new leader of the United States. I
might pause parenthetically and say I
apologize for taking 10 years off your
service this afternoon when I said 27
years. It should have been 37 years. And
Empress Farah, thank you very much for
correcting me on that. The Shah said he
felt 10 years younger when I did that.
[Laughter]
But we do have a close friendship that's
very meaningful to all the people in our
country. I think it is a good harbinger of
things to come-that we could close out
2220
