July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Hoc Committee begin its work of pulling
together the various pieces of the energy
plan this week. The cooperation which
you, and each of the Committee Chair-
men and members, have shown in keep-
ing to a difficult and rigorous schedule for
consideration of the plan has been strong
and deserves commendation.
As your Committee proceeds with the
work of integrating the various elements
of the plan, however, I am concerned that
we all be mindful of the critical need to
keep the energy plan in fiscal balance.
The plan which I put forward to the
Congress was consistent with achieving a
balanced budget. Its receipts between
1978 and 1985 show a small surplus over
its costs. While I do not view the energy
plan as a means to balance the budget in
and of itself, an internal balance within
the plan is essential if we are to have the
the resources to realize our goals in
other areas such as tax reform, welfare
reform and national health insurance, and
to move toward a balanced budget. Any
deficit created by excess expenditures on
the energy plan will reduce our ability to
attain these other goals.
It is also essential that, as we keep the
energy ledger in balance, we retain the
basic elements of equity and economic
fairness which I believe we both agree
are necessary ingredients of a workable
energy program. Jim Schlesinger and I
look forward to continuing to work
closely with you and members of your
Committee for the realization of these
objectives.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Honorable Thomas L. Ashley, Chairman, Ad
Hoc Select Committee on Energy, U.S. House
of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
NOTE: The text of the letter was made avail-
able by the White House Press Office on
July 21. It was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Federal Employment of the
Handicapped
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. July 21, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
When I addressed the White House
Conference on Handicapped Individuals,
I said that our nation can no longer toler-
ate discrimination against the handi-
capped. That means that we must en-
force regulations to make sure that all
facets of our national life-whether
transportation, education, recreation,
architecture, or others-are open to all
our people.
Perhaps the most important of these
areas is employment. I intend that the
government should set an example for
fair employment practices, by demon-
strating what can be done to make the
fullest possible use of the abilities of
qualified handicapped people.
This is not a new effort. The govern-
ment has already made progress toward
removing barriers to federal employment.
But I believe that we can do more. I ask
that you actively review your annual af-
firmative action plans for hiring handi-
capped people and disabled veterans. As
part of your review, I ask that you study
the actions being taken to meet your goals,
and that you take any extra steps that
may be necessary to fulfill our commit-
ment.
Our society has a duty to provide equal
opportunities for our people, and an en-
lightened government has a duty to lead
the way.
JIMMY CARTER
1298
