Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 23, 1977
Fayetteville, North Carolina
Remarks in a Telephone Interview With
Jeff Thompson of WFNC Radio.
December 17, 1977
MR. THOMPSON. Good morning, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Jeff.
hear me all right?
Can you
MR. THOMPSON. Yes, fine, thank you.
We're very honored and privileged that
you took the time to call. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, during the cam-
paign I told you I would when I came
back to Fayetteville, and I wanted to
honor my promise.
MR. THOMPSON. Have you got time
for a few questions?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have. About 5
minutes is what they said you wanted.
THE MIDDLE EAST
MR. THOMPSON. Your meeting with
Prime Minister Begin yesterday, to be fol-
lowed upon your return to Washington by
another, suggests some imminent urgency
in progressing developments in the Mid-
dle East. Can you tell us your adminis-
tration's current role in that conciliation
effort?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our role is the
same as it always has been, to encourage
direct negotiations between the nations
involved in the Middle East dispute and
to give support whenever they call on us.
We also are very insistent that they do
as much as possible on their own, and we
want to be sure they trust us to relay mes-
sages accurately and to describe accu-
rately the positions of the leaders who,
quite often, have not communicated at all
in the past.
Prime Minister Begin will be meeting
with President Sadat within another week
or so, and both he and Sadat communi-
cate with me quite frequently to give me
their positions. We think this is a good
step toward a comprehensive peace. Al-
though it will involve primarily the two
leaders from Egypt and Israel, we hope
that Jordan, Syria, Lebanon will come in
later on if progress can be made.
But we're just offering our good serv-
ices. And to the extent that we are trust-
worthy, they use our services very eagerly.
TOBACCO PRICE SUPPORTS
MR. THOMPSON. Mr. President, on a
matter of considerable statewide interest
here in North Carolina, there is growing
intensity in the Congress to significantly
reduce or even abolish the price support
program for tobacco. Although you have
supported the support program consist-
ently, can you say uncategorically that
you would veto any legislation that would
reduce or abolish the tobacco support
program?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, to-
bacco is just as important for Georgia as
it is North Carolina, and the tobacco sup-
2133
