Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 3
the Jews in 1917. But it will require the
same dedication that made Israel a reality
and has permitted it to grow and to
prosper.
oppor-
We may be facing now the best
tunity for a permanent Middle East peace
settlement in our lifetime. We must not
let it slip away. Well-meaning leaders in
Israel and in the Arab nations, African,
European, South American, North Amer-
ican, all over the world, are making an
unprecedented and a concerted effort to
resolve the deep-seated differences in the
Middle East.
This is not a time for intemperance or
partisanship; it's a time for strong and
responsible leadership and a willingness
to explore carefully, perhaps for the first
time, the intentions of others. It's a time
to use the mutual strength and the unique
friendship and partnership between Israel
and the United States and the influence of
you and others who have a deep interest
and concern to guarantee a strong and
permanently free and secure Israel, at
peace with her neighbors and able to con-
tribute her tremendous human resources
toward the realization of human rights
and a better and more peaceful life
throughout the world.
The Old Testament offers a vision of
Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways,
and we will walk in his paths: and the law
shall go
forth from Zion, and the word of
the Lord from Jerusalem.
"And he shall judge among many peo-
ple, and rebuke strong nations afar off;
and they shall beat their swords into plow-
shares, and their spears into pruning-
hooks: nation shall not lift up a sword
against nation, neither shall they learn
war any more.
"But they shall sit every man under his
vine and under his fig tree; and none shall
make them afraid: for the mouth of the
Lord of hosts hath spoken it.
"For all people will walk every one in
the name of his god, but we will walk in
the name of the Lord our God for ever and
ever."
However we may falter, however diffi-
cult the path, it is our duty to walk to-
gether toward the fulfillment of this ma-
jestic prophesy.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:45 p.m. at the
Capital Hilton Hotel. Prior to his remarks, he
was presented with the Nahum Goldmann
Medal.
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. November 3, 1977
what that kind of peace might mean in its World Weather Program
deepest sense. I leave you with these lines
from the Prophet Micah-who's still one
of
my favorites-lines and words which no
summary or paraphrase could possibly do
justice. It's from the Fourth Chapter and
the first five verses:
"But in the last days it shall come to
pass, that the mountain of the house of the
Lord shall be established in the top of the
mountains, and it shall be exalted above
the hills; and people shall flow into it.
"And many nations shall come, and say,
Come, and let us go up to the mountain of
the Lord, and to the house of the God of
To the Congress of the United States:
The memory of the severe winter of
1976-1977 in the eastern United States
and its effects on our people and the na-
tional economy is still fresh in our minds.
The continuing drought in the western
United States is affecting not only agricul-
ture and power generation but even basic
community water supplies. Droughts,
floods and freezes in the USSR, the
African Sahel, the Indian subcontinent
1957
