July 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
appropriate observance (S. Con. Res. 47).
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the period of July 16
through July 24, 1977, as United States
Space Observance.
I urge the communications media,
educators, the aerospace industry, scien-
tific and public-service organizations and
the American people to join with the Ad-
ministrator of the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration during this pe-
riod in commemorating the achievements
of the United States space program which
demonstrate that advanced technology
devoted to peaceful purposes can lead
the way to a better life for people of all
nations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
July, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:07 p.m., July 11, 1977]
Commodity Credit Corporation.
Nomination of Ray V. Fitzgerald To Be a
Member of the Board of Directors.
July 11, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Ray V. Fitzgerald, of
Plankinton, S. Dak., to be a member of
the Board of Directors of the Commodity
Credit Corporation. He would replace
Kenneth E. Frick. Fitzgerald was named
Administrator-designate of the Agricul-
tural Stabilization and Conservation Serv-
ice (ASCS) by Secretary Bergland on
May 4, 1977.
Fitzgerald was born May 19, 1923, in
Plankinton, S. Dak., and received a degree
in business from Xavier University in
Cincinnati. He was secretary of agricul-
ture for South Dakota in 1959 and 1960.
He was Assistant Deputy Administrator
of ASCS in 1961 and 1962 and Deputy
Administrator for State and County Op-
erations from 1962 to 1969.
From 1969 to 1971, Fitzgerald was a
consultant to the U.S. Senate Select Com-
mittee on Nutrition and Human Needs.
He was chief of the Agricultural Co-
operative Development International
(ACDI) technical team advising cooper-
atives, farmer associations, and the Agri-
culture Directorate in Vietnam from 1971
to 1974. He was president of ACDI from
1975 until he assumed his present position.
Presidential Medal of Freedom
Remarks on Presenting the Medal to
Dr. Jonas E. Salk and to
Martin Luther King, Jr. July 11, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. As you may know, the
Medal of Freedom is the highest civilian
award that's given in our country. It was
begun when President Truman was in the
White House, and the number of people
who receive it is very small.
There are many Americans who do
great things, who make us proud of them
and their achievements, and who inspire
us to do better ourselves. But there are
some among those noble achievers who
are exemplary in every way, who reach
a higher plateau of achievement, and
whose recognition almost demands being
consummated by someone in my own
position.
Today I have chosen to honor two great
men, one who has alleviated suffering
1228
