Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Another thing that we're working on
that's been highly publicized is the SALT
agreement. I think we are approaching a
settlement with the Soviets, if they con-
tinue to act in as constructive a fashion as
they've exhibited the last few weeks.
We are working on a comprehensive test
ban treaty. Now we are both permitted to
test nuclear weapons up to 150,000 tons,
which, as you know, is seven or eight times
larger than the Hiroshima explosion. But
we would like to eliminate those tests al-
together. We personally would prefer to
eliminate all peaceful nuclear devices be-
ing tested. So far, the Soviets have not
been willing to agree to that.
But we've already got good, substan-
tial progress, I believe, assured. We are
trying to agree with the Soviets to prevent
any arms buildup in the Indian Ocean,
to prevent attacks on one another's satel-
lites in space, and to prohibit chemical,
biological, radiological warfare.
Lately, I've been encouraged. We've
been able to get the Soviets, for the
first time, to take a moderate position on
the Middle East. We think the recent
American-Soviet statement has been very
constructive there, and we're making
slow, tedious progress toward a Geneva
conference.
This is one of the most complicated
international questions which has ever
been addressed, I guess, in the history of
human beings. We have to negotiate with
the Soviets, who are our cochairmen and
have been since 1973. We're negotiating
with the Lebanese, with the Syrians, with
the Jordanians, with the Egyptians, indi-
vidually. We're negotiating between each
one of those countries and the Israelis.
We are also negotiating among the
Arab countries, who have differences, and
we're trying to keep a good and success-
ful presentation to the American public
about what we are doing, without betray-
ing the confidences of the heads of state
who deal directly with me.
I've enjoyed being President so far. It's
a job with obviously great challenge and
an adequate diversity so that we don't
ever suffer from boredom. [Laughter]
As you probably have noticed, many of
the items that I've described-and I
could go down the list with welfare re-
form and tax reform and social security,
and so forth, and our new farm bill, deal-
ing with the problems of the urban
areas are all highly controversial, in-
evitably, predictably, and almost all of
them have been delayed too long.
Some should have been addressed many
years ago. Some of them have been in
existence as problems for decades, even
generations. But I feel encouraged about
them.
We have a good working relationship
with Congress. We've all learned a lot
since we've been up here. And one of the
best things about my own administration,
from a personal point of view, is when I
am able to communicate directly with the
people back home.
This is an unprecedented effort that
Jody has initiated to bring you into the
White House. And I don't think we've
ever had a session with television, radio,
and newspaper people like you that we
didn't have innovative questions that
brought a fairly substantial news story. I
don't know exactly how Jody handles the
embargo, but I think they have been pro-
ductive; I know for me.
I would be glad now to answer any
questions that you might have for awhile.
QUESTIONS
STEEL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, northern Minnesota
and northern Michigan are both suffering
from the steel strike. Now, about 20,000
1800
