Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
made too many promises in last year's
campaign and in such precise language?
And taking that a step further, do you
think that perhaps you tried to fulfill
too many of those promises this first
year?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm trying to fulfill all
my promises. And I think I was quite
reticent in making those promises, cer-
tainly compared to some of my oppo-
nents. But we've put forward already to
the Congress proposals that carry out the
major promises that I made-reorganiza-
tion, energy, welfare reform, and so
forth.
We've also been successful, I think-
when an analysis is made of what the
Congress achieved this year, I think
there's going to be a very pleasant reac-
tion from the American people when
they see the progress that we've accom-
plished. So, I don't think I made too
many promises, and I think I'm doing an
adequate job in trying to fulfill those
promises.
There is a very heavy agenda for the
Congress. And it's much easier for the
administration to evolve a proposal or to
present legislation to the Congress than
it is for Congress actually to pass it.
And so the Congress will inherently fol-
low behind any administration in dealing
with very controversial issues that have
no easy solution. So, I think so far our
relationship with the Congress has been
good. The effort to carry out my prom-
ises has been adequate. I don't think I
made too many promises to the American
people.
ARTHUR BURNS
Q. Have you decided yet whether you
will reappoint Arthur Burns?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. Well, won't the business community
be further unsettled if you don't reap-
point Dr. Burns? Wouldn't it be a risky
thing not to do?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think not. I
don't believe anybody is indispensable,
you know, a President or the Chairman
of the Federal Reserve Board or anyone
else. I think that if I should decide to re-
place Dr. Burns as Chairman of the Fed-
eral Reserve, then it would be incumbent
on me to get someone who is competent
and who would arouse the confidence of
the American people, including the busi-
ness community.
GEORGIANS IN THE ADMINISTRATION
Q. Mr. President, as you know, there
are those who say that the high councils
of your administration are overloaded
with Georgians. First, do you think such
a thing is possible, and secondly, in
searching for a replacement for Bert
Lance, will you perhaps go beyond the
boundaries of Georgia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the high coun-
cils of my administration are comprised
by the Cabinet members and the major
heads of the agencies involved. I consult
on foreign affairs not with members of
the immediate White House staff who
might be from Georgia, but with Dr.
Brzezinski and with Secretary Vance, on
transportation with Brock Adams, on de-
fense with Secretary Brown, and so forth.
The members of the Cabinet, I think,
are broadly representative of the Amer-
ican people. My immediate White House
staff, who don't run the departments-
many of them are from Georgia. But I
don't think that there's an excessive de-
pendence on them, no more than has
been the case in the past when Presi-
dent Kennedy brought large numbers of
people from Massachusetts to work inti-
mately with him who had been with him
before, or President Johnson, or others.
2058
