Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
economic stimulus program with substan-
tial tax reductions, substantial jobs pro-
grams, public works projects, and I be-
lieve that this is beginning to pay rich
dividends. We've had good progress on
many other major items that we've pro-
posed a comprehensive farm bill, which
is a great step forward.
We've had some problems that still
exist. I terminated the construction of the
B-1 bomber, for instance. We've already
completed three of those very expensive
airplanes. We have a fourth one now in
production that will give us an adequate
number to complete a comprehensive re-
search and development program on the
advanced, very costly, very fast-moving
bomber. The Congress is still insisting,
some of the Members of Congress, on
building a fifth and sixth airplane at an
absolute total waste of about $500 million,
a half a billion dollars.
This is the kind of question that's very
tenacious and very difficult to address.
But I think the sum total of this year,
the agenda that we have completed, is a
very good one.
Q. Yes, but what about public percep-
tion? It doesn't seem to be precisely along
these lines.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the
public perception, of course, is always
affected by reports in the news media,
and it's inevitable that most of the atten-
tion given during the progress of a con-
gressional session or legislative session
while I was Governor-dwells upon the
hot debates and the disputes and the dis-
agreements, and there's not nearly so
much attention given when there's a har-
monious resolution of a difficult question.
But I believe that there will be a turning
of attention when the Congress does
adjourn for 1977 to an inventory of what
has actually been done. And I believe
that when that attention is given and that
assessment is made, that the public im-
pression will be good.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, I take it from your
description of the U.S. role in the Mid-
east that it is not your intention to en-
dorse specific proposals; that is to say, if
Mr. Begin or anyone else presents to you
what they hope to do, that they would not
be able to go back to a peace conference
and say, "Jimmy Carter says that this is
what he likes."
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's a fairly
good assessment. I stay in close touch with
most of the Middle Eastern leaders, cer-
tainly President Sadat. We exchange
communications several times a week. Cy
Vance is returning from the Middle East
tonight, and he will give me a very defini-
tive analysis of the attitude of all the
Middle Eastern leaders involved, plus
Saudi Arabia, one step removed geo-
graphically.
I think I know at least in general terms
what would be acceptable to President
Sadat, maybe not as a final conclusive
agreement, but as an interim step, or
major step, toward a final agreement.
And if Prime Minister Begin's proposal,
in my own personal judgment, is con-
ducive to a step in the right direction and
would be acceptable to President Sadat,
then I would certainly privately tell him,
"This is a very good step." If it should be
far short of what I think President Sadat
could accept without very serious political
consequences and serious disappointment
in Egypt and the rest of the world, I
would have no reticence about telling
Prime Minister Begin privately, "I just
don't think this goes far enough." But I
would not be the ultimate judge of
whether or not it's acceptable or not to
the Egyptians. That would be up to Presi-
dent Sadat.
2118
