Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 9
-Conduct sunset reviews. Often reg-
ulations on the books become ineffec-
tive or outdated because they do not
receive regular periodic review. For
that reason, I will be instructing all
departments and agencies to con-
duct sunset reviews of their regula-
tions, beginning with one or more
regulations or sets of regulations
which have a significant impact on
the public. Regulations which have
been the target of public criticism or
which conflict or overlap with the
regulations of other agencies will be
among initial targets.
PARTNERSHIPS FOR FUTURE ACTION
The actions I have outlined here rep-
resent my commitment to pursue and
resolve the chronic management problems
associated with Federal grants-in-aid. To
ensure that we do not lose ground inad-
vertently, I have asked the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget to
develop a legislative checklist to alert
Federal agencies and OMB analysts to
provisions in pending legislation which
might perpetuate or aggravate such
problems in the future. I fully realize that
executive actions alone are not enough. I
am seeking to foster partnerships with:
• State and local governments-by es-
tablishing expeditious ways for State
and local officials to help the Federal
Government resolve major adminis-
trative problems;
• the Congress-by working with both
Houses to make Federal aid pro-
grams and procedures more man-
ageable;
the Advisory Commission on Inter-
governmental Relations-which I
have asked to suggest, after one year,
appropriate ways to further stream-
line Federal and administrative prac-
tices.
We shall continue to work together
toward our mutual goal of improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of government
in the United States.
Federal Audit Plans
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive De-
partments and Agencies. September 9, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Sharing Federal Audit Plans
The Administration is committed to
forging new ties of cooperation among all
levels of government. We want to elimi-
nate the duplication and wasteful effort
that too often has accompanied the man-
agement of Federal grants to State and
local governments.
One area where improvements can be
made is in coordinating the audit of these
grants. All three levels of government
have audit responsibilities, but it does not
make sense for them all to audit the same
transactions. Therefore, in order to im-
prove coordination, I am ordering all
Federal executive agencies to make public
the State and local portion of the annual
audit plans required by Federal Manage-
ment Circular 73-2. The plans will be
available to State and local governments,
to the National and Regional Intergov-
ernmental Audit Forums, and to other
interested parties. The plans would also
be available to the general public, and
would be submitted to OMB prior to the
beginning of the fiscal year in which they
are to be implemented. They should be
updated periodically throughout the year
as significant changes are made.
I expect Federal agencies to use their
audit plans as a basis for making greater
efforts to improve interagency coopera-
1563
