Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
that Texas was bought and paid for?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. No, sir. Anybody who
lives among as many people who have
moved out of Georgia, including my own
ancestors, to go to Texas and fight for
Texas independence, neighbor of Tennes-
see and North Carolina and South Caro-
lina and Alabama, who provided people
who fought for the independence of
Texas, know the history of your great
and courageous State.
Only a small part of the territory that
was originally claimed by Texas was actu-
ally bought by the United States. As you
know, we paid, I think, about $15 million
for areas that had been previously claimed
by Texas but that don't lie within the
Texas boundaries now. This was territory
to the west of Texas. But I know, and I
think everybody in this country knows,
that Texas was independent, voluntarily
became a State of our Nation, and I'm
very proud that some of my ancestors
participated in that process.
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, I'm Bob Bailey with
the Buhl, Idaho, Herald. And my question
is, recent events in South Africa contra-
dict this Nation's basic philosophy of
equal rights for all humans. Are you go-
ing to impose sanctions against the Re-
public of South Africa, and if so, what
sanctions do you plan?
THE PRESIDENT. All right, thank
you.
We have tried to work as best we could
with the South African Government dur-
ing this last 10 months and have had
some cooperation with them on resolving
the problems in Namibia, which was
formerly Southwest Africa, and also the
Rhodesian-Zimbabwe question, where
they have a major influence on Ian
Smith. At the same time, we've tried to
use our influence on the South African
Government, not to tell them how to run
their own affairs, but to let them know
the condemnation that exists in the rest of
the world for the apartheid system, for
the requirement that the majority of their
citizens carry passes, that they're not given
equal opportunities for employment, pro-
motion, educational opportunities, and so
forth.
What precipitated the deepest possible
concern, however, was an almost com-
plete abolition of any voices of dissent in
South Africa last week among groups rep-
resenting black citizens and the taking
away of the privileges of newspapers to
publish the facts to the South African
people.
As a result of this action they took last
week, we are supporting sanctions against
South Africa, working with the allies that
we have in the Western World, and also
working, hopefully, with some of the lead-
ers of the African nations themselves.
These sanctions will consist of a manda-
tory embargo on the shipment of weapons
to South Africa. This has been a volun-
tary imposition in the past.
Our belief is that this will be over-
whelmingly passed by the Security Coun-
cil. We hope that because of its action,
the South Africans will take more con-
structive action in the future.
I might add one other point. There are
other matters, of course, that will be con-
sidered. We are quite concerned about
Prime Minister Vorster's statement this
past week that they had not given us
assurances against the testing of atomic
weapons. In both a public statement that
we've made and also in private dispatches
through diplomatic channels and a pri-
vate message directed to me from Vorster,
they had unequivocably committed them-
selves not to design nor produce nor to
test any atomic explosions at all, either
peaceful or weapons. So, we have some
concerns about South Africa.
1922
