Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 9
of America, have begun-I think, 11 years
ago this ceremony of going to the Shrine
to the Maccabees in Israel, acquiring there
a light for the torch, of bringing it to our
country so that we could share, as Ameri-
cans, in a sense of brotherhood and com-
mon purpose and a recognition of our his-
torical background, together, the courage
of the Maccabees and the recent courage,
of course, of the new Israeli state.
For the last more than 30 years, this
struggle has been going on. And as Rabbi
Sternstein said, in the recent weeks there's
been a tremendous breakthrough in the
search for peace that we hope and pray
will be successful. And I hope that this
ceremony will remind all the world that
Israel and the United States, we stand
together in a spirit of deep commitment,
with a common religious background and
with a common commitment to peace and
a recognition of the great courage that
was required more than two centuries
ago and which is still required to achieve
and to maintain that difficult goal of
peace and also freedom, together.
Thank you very much.
With sincere regret, I accept your resig-
nation. Our Administration will miss the
benefit of your talent and energy.
Whatever direction your personal
career shall take you in your home state
of Pennsylvania, please be assured that
you have my personal friendship and best
wishes for success and personal gratifi-
cation.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Honorable Peter F. Flaherty, Deputy At-
torney General, U.S. Department of Justice,
Washington, D.C. 20530]
Dear Mr. President:
December 2, 1977
With grateful appreciation to you for
the honor of serving in your Administra-
tion, I hereby submit this letter as my
resignation, effective December 9, 1977,
from the position of Deputy Attorney
General.
As Deputy Attorney General, I have
been involved mainly in reorganization
and administrative changes at Justice, in-
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:02 p.m. at cluding LEAA, Freedom of Information,
the ceremony in the Oval Office. The Presi-
dent received the torch from representatives of
Masada, the Youth Movement of the Zionist
Organization of America, and handed it to
Rabbi Joseph P. Sternstein, president of the
organization. Rabbi Sternstein used the flame
to light four candles of a menorah in celebra-
tion of the fourth day of Chanukah.
Department of Justice
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Peter F. Flaherty. December 8, 1977
To Peter F. Flaherty
December 8, 1977
This will acknowledge receipt of your
letter of December 2, 1977, submitting
your resignation as Deputy Attorney
General.
minimum prison standards, the Marshals'
Witness Security Program and the elim-
ination of a large number of regional
offices in the LEAA, Marshals Service
and the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion. Most of these changes are completed
or nearing completion.
In my home state of Pennsylvania,
there has been much speculation as to my
entering the 1978 gubernatorial race. The
response has been most encouraging, and
a recent poll indicated that I would be
the leading Democratic contender. Much
exploratory work remains to be done, how-
ever, before I make a final decision to
enter the race. Obviously, I should not
seriously explore the matter from my posi-
tion as Deputy Attorney General.
2085
