Dec. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Kuykendall from mandatory retirement
until September 30, 1978.
The White House,
December 21, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:59 a.m., December 21, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was announced by
the White House Press Office on December 21.
Transatlantic Air Service
Announcement of Approval of Expanded Air
Service Between the United States and Europe.
December 21, 1977
The President today announced that
he has approved major portions of a Civil
Aeronautics Board decision significantly
expanding air service between the United
States and Europe. The President's de-
cision approves 11 new cities for direct
service to Europe. These cities are: At-
lanta, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Hous-
ton, Kansas City, Minneapolis/St. Paul,
New Orleans, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, and
Tampa. It will also permit three new car-
riers to provide United States-to-Europe
service, and it expands the route system of
carriers currently providing such service.
By increasing competition on the North
Atlantic routes, the decision will result in
better service opportunities for the public.
Today's decision approves the following
portions of the Civil Aeronautics Board's
recommendations:
-Northwest Airlines will replace Pan
American on various routes between U.S.
cities (Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles,
Minneapolis/St. Paul, Chicago, Detroit,
Washington/Baltimore, New York/New-
ark, and Boston) and Glasgow and points
in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland,
and Iceland.
-Trans World Airlines' existing au-
thority is renewed, and TWA is author-
ized to serve additional U.S. cities (Pitts-
burgh, Denver, St. Louis, Cleveland,
Minneapolis/St. Paul, and Kansas City)
as co-terminals on direct or nonstop
transatlantic routes.
-Delta is granted authority to serve
the Atlanta-London route.
-Pan American World Airways' cer-
tificate is amended to renew most of its
existing authority, to authorize Miami-
Madrid nonstop service, and to add
Houston-London authority.
-National Airlines is awarded routes
between Miami, New Orleans, and
Tampa to Paris.
The President disapproved two por-
tions of the decision. First, the President
directed the Board to submit an order
adding Amsterdam and Frankfurt to Na-
tional Airlines' route system.
Second, the President directed the
Board to submit an order designating
Braniff Airways to serve the Dallas/Fort
Worth-London route.
The decision to certificate Braniff Air-
ways to serve the Dallas/Fort Worth-
London route and National Airlines to
serve Amsterdam and Frankfurt is based
on the President's judgment that the cer-
tification of strong regional domestic car-
riers to serve international markets is im-
portant to his foreign policy of relying to
the maximum extent possible on competi-
tive forces in international aviation. To
achieve this goal, the administration, in
close cooperation with the Civil Aeronau-
tics Board, is seeking more competitive
bilateral air agreements with foreign
countries. The President has also recent-
ly approved reduced fares on the North
Atlantic and has permitted carriers such
as Laker Airways to enter the market and
provide service at substantially reduced
rates. The decision to permit competitive
2158
