Sept. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ministration, Federal Energy Administra-
tion. Mr. Heffelfinger will be the principal
officer for personnel, equal employment op-
portunity, organization and management
studies, real property, and administrative
services.
FREDERICK P. HITZ-Deputy Assistant Secre-
tary for Congressional Affairs, currently
serving as a senior member of the Energy
Policy and Planning Staff, Executive Office
of the President. Mr. Hitz will serve as the
dependence Avenue, SW., but pending
preparations, temporary headquarters for
key officers will be at 730 Jackson Place,
NW., Washington, D.C. Most Depart-
ment personnel will remain in place until
the Forrestal Building becomes available.
adviser to the Secretary on legislative mat- Veterans Day, 1977
ters and direct the congressional relations
program of DOE.
WILLIAM E. PEACOCK-Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary for Intergovernmental Relations, cur-
rently serving as a senior member of the
DOE Activation Task Force, Energy Policy
and Planning Staff, Executive Office of the
President. Mr. Peacock will serve as the ad-
viser to the Secretary on matters related to
State and local affairs, provide a focal point
for contact with Governors, mayors, and
other government officials, and direct the
Department's intergovernmental relations
programs.
MICHAEL J. TASHJIAN-Director of Procure-
ment and Contracts Management, currently
serving as Director of Procurement, Energy
Research and Development Administration.
Mr. Tashjian will be the principal official
and business adviser on all procurement con-
tracts and other business agreement matters.
He will also provide policy guidance on per-
sonal property matters, and he will support
and provide policy on all source selection
procedures.
RAYMOND L. WALTERS-Director, Executive
Secretariat, currently serving as Special As-
sistant to the Chairman, DOE Activation
Task Force, Energy Policy and Planning
Staff, Executive Office of the President. Mr.
Walters will be responsible for assuring
proper coordination and follow up in the
Secretarial decision process and for providing
current, accurate, and complete information
for the Secretary.
Announcements of additional Presiden-
tial nominees and other appointees will be
made shortly.
The Department will be located in the
James V. Forrestal Building, 1000 In-
Proclamation 4519. September 13, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The blessings of liberty which our an-
cestors secured for us are today, as they
have always been, the birthright of every
American. They have remained so be-
cause in each generation there have been
men and women who have been willing
to suffer the hardships and sacrifices nec-
essary to preserve our rights for future
generations.
No act of citizenship is more worthy of
our respect than a willingness to serve
in our armed forces and to protect and
defend our ideals. There are nearly thirty
million of our fellow citizens among us
today who have earned that respect by
their loyal and honorable service.
In recognition of the contributions our
veterans have made to the cause of peace
and freedom, the Congress has deter-
mined (5 U.S.C. 6103 (a)) that one day
each year should be set aside as a na-
tional holiday in order that all Americans
may be able to take part in activities de-
signed to show our respect for their dedi-
cation to their country.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, ask all Americans to observe Mon-
1586
