Sept. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Meeting With President
Francisco Morales
Bermudez Cerruti of Peru
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting.
September 6, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in every in-
stance, I spent several hours studying
about each country and am briefed as
best I can be by the State Department
and by the other leaders of our own Gov-
ernment concerning issues that are im-
portant between myself and the leaders of
the visiting country.
I've already met with General Torrijos
of Panama and this is Morales Bermudez,
the President of Peru. We discussed a
number of items with Peru. For instance,
we are very grateful that they have signed
the Treaty of Tlatelolco and also the non-
proliferation treaty and the fact that they
are moving strongly toward democratiza-
tion of their government.
The President has announced that in
1980, if things go well, they'll have free
elections, which is quite a step forward.
We also discussed matters that concern
other countries, the possibility of Bolivia's
having access to the Pacific Ocean, which
they lost about a hundred years ago, and
the possibility that Ecuador might have
access to the Amazon River, which they
desire very much.
We discussed the international copper
prices and the possibility of an interna-
tional sugar agreement, which is of great
importance to almost all the countries to
the south and also to us. But these are
some of the items we discussed, in addi-
tion to the main question, which has
brought all the countries here, and that is
their interest in a new era of cooperation
and equality of treatment of the Latin
American countries by our country as
demonstrated so vividly in the signing of
the Panama Canal Treaty.
So, in each individual instance, with
18 or 20 foreign leaders, there are general
subjects that affect the whole hemi-
sphere the alleviation of tensions, the
reduction of armaments, the nonprolifera-
tion commitment, human rights questions.
Each country is quite different from one
another. And I have tried to learn in every
case what I can do to make our relation-
ship with them better and also to alleviate
any tensions that might exist with their
neighbors.
Q. Realizing, Mr. President, that this is
Panama week, if you will, you have the
other matter pending, the matter of Bert
Lance, the latest call for his resignation.
What is your response to Chairman Ribi-
coff's and Senator Percy's call yesterday?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't particu-
larly want to talk about that now since I
am engaged in other matters. But I have
responded with appreciation to Senators
Ribicoff and Percy for their early con-
vening of the Senate committee for an
expeditious presentation of all the allega-
tions that have been made against Bert
Lance and for giving him a chance to re-
spond to them. And what I want is for it
to be concluded quickly, for all the facts
to be presented to the American people
and to the Congress and to me.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
1536
