Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 15
SOCIAL SECURITY LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, to what extent are
you satisfied or dissatisfied with the re-
sults of the social security legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the over-
whelming consideration that I had early
this year when we proposed legislation to
the Congress was to restore the integrity
of the social security system itself, to make
sure that income to the social security
system was adequate to meet committed
expenditures.
The Congress conference committee re-
port fulfills that completely. This puts the
social security system on a sound financial
basis, at least for the next 25
throughout the rest of this century.
years,
It's a little more costly than I had
hoped it would be. But we were able to
stop some of the very costly proposals that
either the House or Senate had proposed.
I think it's a good resolution of a very
serious problem that did exist when I took
office, that is, that the social security sys-
tem was on the road toward bankruptcy.
Now it's sound. The American people will
pay more taxes into the social security
system, but in return they'll know that it
will be there permanently and in a sound
condition.
THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, may I ask you about
the role of the Soviet Union in the Middle
East? Do you feel that the Soviet Union
in recent months has been in any way
helpful in trying to bring peace to the
Middle East, and how do you regard
U.S.-Soviet relations, as we come to the
end of this year?
THE PRESIDENT. I think our relations
with them are much better than they
were shortly after I became President. I
think they've gotten to know me and my
attitudes; I think I've gotten to know
them and their attitudes much better than
before. On SALT, a comprehensive test
ban, the Indian Ocean, and many other
items, we've had a very constructive re-
lationship with the Soviet Union which I
think is constantly improving.
I think the Soviets have been much
more constructive in the Middle East
than they formerly had. Obviously,
they've not been as constructive as I
would like to have seen.
The Soviets, for instance, were invited
to attend the Cairo conference, along
with other nations. They were invited by
President Sadat. They chose to decline the
invitation. I wished that they had ac-
cepted. The Syrians have chosen to de-
cline. I have no evidence that the Soviets
have had to use their influence on the
Syrians to prevent their attendance. I
think this was a decision made by Presi-
dent Asad in Syria.
So, I would say the Soviets have not
been very constructive yet. They have not
been nearly as much of an obstacle as they
apparently were in the past.
Our general relationships with the
Soviets are very good, and my hope is that
they will continue to cooperate in the
future when we go past Cairo toward an
ultimate Geneva conference. I was well
pleased with the joint Soviet and Ameri-
can statement. Although it's not a defini-
tive solution, obviously, it has no obstacles
in it which would prevent an ultimate
resolution of the Middle East differences.
So, I'd say it's a mixed assessment. In
general, though, they could have been
much worse.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, your preference for a
general or comprehensive settlement in
the Middle East is quite understandable,
one that could be endorsed by all the in-
terested parties. But I wonder if you think,
2119
