Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 12
than the rest of the country. Just one small
item that I mentioned in passing is the
railroad quality. The average speed, for
instance, of the coal trains coming out of
West Virginia to the coast is 12 miles per
hour because the roadbeds have been per-
mitted to deteriorate so badly. So, in the
future, I think we are going to see a much
better distribution of available energy
supplies.
You've almost had to quit using coal
in New England because of that purpose.
I think the new technology that we hope
to evolve in the future, the fluidized bed
burning of coal, can let it be used in an
increasing percentage, at least in our
country and also in the total tons con-
sumed, with minimum adverse effect on
the environment, environmental quality.
So, I'd say technology, distribution, shift
to new sources of supply, and the new
pipelines coming down through Canada
will all help to alleviate New England's
problem.
GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN BUSINESS
COMMUNITY
Q. Jack Beckland from Destin Log in
the Florida Panhandle. In our area, we
hear a lot of concerns by small business-
men that somehow the Government is
stacking the deck against them in the form
of high minimum wages and the probable
big jump in social security contributions
and, generally, redtape. Would you care to
comment on this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have a kinship
with you. I have a small business, as you
know, too, probably much smaller than
the ones you are talking about. I don't be-
lieve that you could accurately say that
the minimum wage and social security sin-
gle out small business.
I think in the past, when decisions have
been made in Washington, the natural
place for, say, President Nixon, President
Ford to turn to would be the Business
Roundtable, or the National Association
of Manufacturers, which is heavily in-
clined toward the perspective of big busi-
ness.
And I'm trying to make sure that
doesn't happen. This coming 3 or 4
months, I will meet with about 400 key
leaders from around the Nation who rep-
resent just small business, ranging in size
from 10 or 15 employees up to 2,000 or
3,000 total employees. I think this gives
me a much different perspective.
I'll just give you one example. Among
the very large businesses, when I asked
them what they prefer in the way of tax
relief, they've said what they want is lower
corporate tax rates.
This group I had in yesterday—there
were about 40-when I asked them,
"What would you prefer, lower corporate
tax rates, investment tax credit improve-
ment, say, from 8 to 12 percent with a
broader coverage, or removing the
double taxation of dividends," I would say
80 percent of them said they would like
to have the investment tax credits im-
proved. That's a difference in perspec-
tive, I think, between the middle and
small businessman or businesswoman and
the very large corporations.
So, the only thing I can say is that some
of those changes are inevitable on energy
costs, social security, minimum wage, but
I believe giving the small business leader
more voice in government before a de-
cision is made is better.
That brings up another point, and that
is that the large corporations can quite
often handle unwarranted Government
intrusion better than the small ones can.
OSHA requirements, ERISA reporting,
HEW, Labor forms to be filled out-these
are a much greater burden on a small
businessperson than they are on a very
large corporation that have their own
2015
