Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 29
The second part is, will you play any
personal role in the Air Force's proposed
decision to close down Loring Air Force
Base, and will you meet with Members of
the Maine congressional delegation prior
to any final determination on the Loring
case?
THE PRESIDENT. I appointed, as you
know, Judge William Gunter to act as
a judge and, to some degree, a mediator
in the Indian land claims suit. I believe
that Judge Gunter's recommendations
were fair and equitable. Now, of course,
the problem arises on the acceptance of
them by the State, by the Indians, and
private landowners, and the Congress.
I don't intend to play any additional role
in that.
As you know, if his own recommenda-
tions are rejected, then the matter would
fall either into the courts or into the Con-
gress. We are in a unique position here
with Maine Indian claims because it's
possibly a precursor to later and even
greater legal controversies.
Under the Constitution of our country,
under the laws that have existed for many
years, the executive branch of Govern-
ment represents the Indians. Both the
Department of Interior and the Attorney
General have a legal charge to represent
the Indians' case, and so we are not at
liberty to do anything that would con-
travene the rights of Indians. But I think
that Judge Gunter's recommendations
were fair, and I hope that everybody will
move to resolve those differences soon. We
have a similar case of a more minor na-
ture, perhaps, in Massachusetts, that we're
now working with, and potential Indian
claims in the West of much more far-
reaching significance, including old treaty
terms that say the Indians have a right to
all the water that flows through a State,
and so forth.
Another question that you asked was
about the Loring Air Force Base. Your
Senators have been on me [laughter]—
almost daily ever since I've been in the
White House about that matter. And I
have discussed it thoroughly with the De-
partment of Defense, including the Sec-
retary of Defense, himself.
My position on that particular matter,
as it has been with other military base
closures around the country, is to let them
make a judgment on the basis of what's
best for our country, and if there is any
doubt about the economic or military
advantages to be derived from a closure
or transfer, to leave the status quo pre-
vailing.
I don't intend to change my position
specifically for political purposes, and it
would be nice if I could accommodate
the desires that are so strongly expressed
by your Senators. But I think that if the
Defense Department continues to feel
that the closing or transfer of all or part
of Loring's functions are in the best in-
terests of our country, that I would sup-
port that position.
U.S.-SOVIET JOINT STATEMENT ON THE
MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, my name is William
Frank, and I'm from Wilmington, Dela-
ware.
There's a movement being started in
the city where I live to send you a lot of
letters. The text seems to be that the joint
Soviet-United States statement on the
Mideast¹ represented a severe erosion of
the United States posture, and they also
will tell you that the abandonment by the
United States of solemn promises to Is-
rael raises the question of the reliability
of the American commitments. Do you
have any comment on that?
1 The text of the October 1 statement is
printed in the Department of State Bulletin
of November 7, 1977, page 639.
1935
