Aug. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Although our objectives were deliberately
limited-and as has been mentioned, I
think, in the press, the discussions were
exploratory in nature-they were highly
successful.
Premier Hua has sent word back to me,
And let me close by saying again, it's
very good to be back home.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:48 p.m. at
Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
Letter to a Meeting of the Association in
Reykjavík, Iceland. August 27, 1977
along with Vice Premier Teng, that the Atlantic Treaty Association
discussions were very fruitful from their
point of view. I believe that this is a
major step forward in our ultimate goal
of normalizing relationships with the
People's Republic of China.
Discussions will be continued, and they
could not have been in better hands, nor
will they in the future be in better hands
than those of our Secretary of State, Cy
Vance.
Cy, we're proud to have you back. You
are a great representative of our country,
and of course, as always, our people have
full faith in you.
Dear Mr. Mommer:
I ask you to extend to the Association
my warmest greetings as you assemble
again to consider the current state of our
Alliance. We look to you, opinion leaders
in the North Atlantic Community, for
insights on how we should move to
strengthen even further the security on
which the Atlantic Community vitally
depends.
Your deliberations have never been
more timely. We are faced with a renewed
SECRETARY VANCE. Thank you very
much, Mr. President. I appreciate very military challenge from the Warsaw Pact.
much your coming out here to welcome
us back.
Let me say it's very good to be home.
We had a good and useful trip to China.
I had the privilege of meeting not only
with the Foreign Minister but also with
Chairman Hua and with Vice Premier
Teng. The conversations were described
by them as earnest and significant. I felt
them to be very useful.
As the President has said, this was an
exploratory trip, and I think it was very
important that we have this exchange of
views for the first time with this powerful
and great nation. We will be continuing
our discussions in the future.
In the last decade, the Warsaw Pact has
steadily and impressively strengthened its
forces deployed against Western Europe.
At last May's NATO Summit, I joined
my Alliance colleagues in a thorough re-
view of the challenge. We chose our re-
sponse carefully—a major program of de-
fense improvements, both short and long-
term, as well as both conventional and
nuclear. My government is solidly com-
mitted to these efforts, which we believe
will maintain the credibility of existing
NATO strategy into the 1980s and be-
yond. We are intensively engaged, in co-
operation with our Allies, in charting con-
crete force improvements in pursuit of
this objective.
1520
