Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
• Make unlawful the hiring of un-
documented aliens, with enforcement by
the Justice Department against those
employers who engage in a "pattern or
practice" of such hiring. Penalties would
be civil—injunctions and fines of $1000
per undocumented alien hired. Criminal
penalties could be imposed by the courts
against employers violating injunctions.
Moreover, employers, and others, receiv-
ing compensation for knowingly assisting
an undocumented alien obtain or retain
a job would also be subject to criminal
penalties.
• Increase significantly the enforce-
ment of the Fair Labor Standards Act
and the Federal Farm Labor Contractor
Registration Act, targeted to areas where
heavy undocumented alien hiring occur.
Adjust the immigration status of un-
documented aliens who have resided in
the U.S. continuously from before Janu-
ary 1, 1970 to the present and who apply
with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) for permanent resident
alien status; create a new immigration
category of temporary resident alien for
undocumented aliens who have resided
in the U.S. continuously prior to Janu-
ary 1, 1977; make no status change and
enforce the immigration law against those
undocumented aliens entering the U.S.
after January 1, 1977.
Substantially increase resources avail-
able to control the Southern border, and
other entry points, in order to prevent
illegal immigration.
• Promote continued cooperation with
the governments which are major sources
of undocumented aliens, in an effort to
improve their economies and their con-
trols over alien smuggling rings.
Each of these actions will play a dis-
tinct, but closely related, role in helping
to solve one of our most complex domes-
tic problems: In the last several years,
millions of undocumented aliens have
illegally immigrated to the United States.
They have breached our nation's immi-
gration laws, displaced many American
citizens from jobs, and placed an in-
creased financial burden on many states
and local governments.
The set of actions I am proposing can-
not solve this enormous problem over-
night, but they will signal the beginning
of an effective Federal response. My Ad-
ministration is strongly committeed to ag-
gressive and comprehensive steps toward
resolving this problem, and I am therefore
proposing the following actions:
EMPLOYER SANCTIONS
The principal attraction of the United
States for undocumented aliens is eco-
nomic-the opportunity to obtain a job
paying considerably more than avail-
any
able in their own countries. If that oppor-
vinced that far fewer aliens will attempt
tunity is severely restricted, I am con-
illegal entry.
I am therefore proposing that Congress
make unlawful the hiring by any employer
of any undocumented alien. This employ-
ment bar would be implemented in the
following way:
• Enforcement would be sought against
those employers who engage in a "pattern
or practice" of hiring undocumented ali-
ens, with the Justice Department setting
priorities for enforcement.
• Penalties for violation of the employ-
ment bar would be both injunctive relief
and stiff civil fines-a maximum of $1,000
for each undocumented alien hired by an
employer. A violation of a court injunc-
tion would subject an employer to a po-
tential criminal contempt citation and
imprisonment.
• An employer would be entitled to de-
fend any charge of hiring an undocu-
mented alien by proving that a prospective
1417
