Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
both sides can consider how our military activities in the Indian Ocean,
this whole area, might be even further reduced.
The peaceful settlement of differences is, of course, essential. The
United States is willing to abide by that principle, as in the case of the
recently signed Panama Canal treaties. Once ratified, these treaties can
transform the U.S.-Panama relationship into one that permanently pro-
tects the interests and respects the sovereignty of both our countries.
We have all survived and surmounted major challenges since the
United Nations was founded. But we can accelerate progress even in a
world of ever-increasing diversity.
A commitment to strengthen international institutions is vital. But
progress lies also in our own national policies. We can work together to
form a community of peace if we accept the kind of obligations that I
have suggested today.
To summarize: first, an obligation to remove the threat of nuclear
weaponry, to reverse the buildup of armaments and their trade, and to
conclude bilateral and multilateral arms control agreements that can
bring security to all of us. In order to reduce the reliance of nations on
nuclear weaponry, I hereby solemnly declare on behalf of the United
States that we will not use nuclear weapons except in self-defense; that is,
in circumstances of an actual nuclear or conventional attack on the United
States, our territories, or Armed Forces, or such an attack on our allies.
In addition, we hope that initiatives by the Western nations to secure
mutual and balanced force reductions in Europe will be met by equal
response from the Warsaw Pact countries.
Second, an obligation to show restraint in areas of tension, to negoti-
ate disputes and settle them peacefully, and to strengthen peacemaking
capabilities of the United Nations and regional organizations.
And finally, an effort by all nations, East as well as West, North as
well as South, to fulfill mankind's aspirations for human development and
human freedom. It is to meet these basic demands that we build govern-
ments and seek peace.
We must share these obligations for our own mutual survival and our
own mutual prosperity.
We can see a world at peace. We can work for a world without want.
We can build a global community dedicated to these purposes and to
human dignity.
The view that I have sketched for you today is that of only one
leader in only one nation. However wealthy and powerful the United
1722
