Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 7, 1977
Newspaper Farm Editors of
America
Interview With Members of the
Organization. September 30, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me apol-
ogize for interrupting your meeting.
[Laughter]
It's a great pleasure to be with you. I
think that all of you noticed with great
attention yesterday the signing of the 1977
agriculture bill, which is probably the
most far-reaching and innovative farm
legislation in the history of our country,
certainly in the last 35 or 40 years.
I just had lunch with Chairman George
Mahon from Lubbock, Texas, and he
agrees with that assessment. So, it's not
just a newcomer's assessment. He told me
that in his district this year they will pro-
duce 3.2 million bales of cotton, which is
an unbelievable quantity.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I would like to say that I know that
your interests are broad-ranging because
you represent literally millions of families
in this country who look to you for lead-
ership and guidance and whom you serve.
I believe that so far this year we've had a
good beginning of our administration.
We've approached some questions that
your readers, listeners, and viewers are
deeply concerned about.
I've gotten authority from the Congress
to reorganize the executive branch of
Government, which we're doing now, and
we have a 3-year period in which that
can be accomplished. We've formed a
new Department of Energy. We now see
the Senate engaged in dealing with the
energy questions which the House has al-
ready successfully accomplished, in my
opinion, in a very courageous way.
We've proposed to the Congress a far-
reaching reform of our welfare system to
give our people a better chance for both
jobs and income, and this will primarily
be decided by the Congress early next
year. And before the Congress adjourns,
I'll present to them a comprehensive tax
reform package.
In addition to that, we are trying to
work on the international field and resolve
some of the longstanding questions that
confront us. The Middle East is difficult,
southern Africa is difficult, the SALT ne-
gotiations are difficult, the strengthening
of NATO is quite difficult.
We also are trying to enhance interna-
tional trade, the export of our agricultural
and industrial products. We have had, so
far, good success.
The only very serious cloud is that we
are importing too much oil. This is going
to give us an adverse trade balance this
year of about $30 billion. If we didn't
have the excessive oil imports, we would
1703
