Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 29
dent Ford, for deregulation of natural gas.
And when I made my energy speech to
the Congress-it's the only one I've
made—last April, I repeated this commit-
ment. The difference is in the rapidity
with which natural gas is deregulated.
We have proposed a substantial step to-
ward ultimate deregulation of natural gas
by moving from $1.47 to $1.75 in price.
We, I think, proposed a reasonable defini-
tion of what new gas is and pledged our-
selves to increase the price of natural gas
step by step, until it reached a price equiv-
alent to the international oil price.
I think that this is a move toward de-
regulation. But I think it would be quite
disruptive and very costly to the Amer-
ican people, and I don't believe it would
result in a substantial increase in the
quantity of natural gas produced, to com-
pletely deregulate it right now. So, it's a
matter of time scale and not a matter of
commitment that causes a difference be-
tween me and Governor Briscoe.
I know that he and Governor Boren
and others-Governor Edwards from
Louisiana, Boren from Oklahoma-prefer
immediate and complete deregulation.
But I just think that would be too rapid
and too high a price change at this time.
And I think it would be too heavy a bur-
den on consumers and it would be highly
inflationary.
CHAIRMANSHIP OF SENATE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE
Q. Mr. President, Bill Minor from
Jackson, Mississippi.
It's been said in some quarters in Mis-
sissippi that you have persuaded Senator
Jim Eastland to abandon his plans to
retire and run for reelection, as if he
needed to be persuaded. But it was ru-
mored very strongly that he was planning
to step out, but that you may have entered
into some of the persuasion in order for
him to remain as chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee because it would
have meant the elevation of Senator Ken-
nedy to the chairmanship. Did you have
any role in that at all?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's a long
question that has several facets.
Let me say that when I went down to
Mississippi recently to visit Yazoo City,
Senator Eastland was with me, as you
know, on part of the trip. And after we
came back, I had breakfast with Senator
Eastland and eight or nine other Demo-
cratic Senators as part of a series.
And after the breakfast one morning, I
told him that one of the most frequent
comments that I received from Missis-
sippians along the side of the road and in
the public meetings with whom I spoke
was that they hoped that Senator East-
land would run for reelection.
And I relayed the opinion of those Mis-
sissippians to him. He didn't tell me what
his plan was, and I have had no indica-
tion that he might want to step down or
might stay on. I doubt that my own relay-
ing of that often expressed opinion to him
would affect his ultimate decision. And I
have no preference about who should be
the chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
I think in some of the more controversial
issues that Senators Eastland and Ken-
nedy act in concert. As you know, they've
jointly worked on a complete revision of
the criminal code-one of the most im-
portant measures, I think, that will come
out of the Congress-and on some highly
controversial issues like, for instance-let
me think of an example-well, the mat-
ter of illegal aliens. Both Senator Eastland
and Senator Kennedy have agreed to be
joint sponsors of the legislation, so I don't
think the incompatibility between the two
men is nearly so great as might be thought.
But I think Senator Eastland is a good
man and a good Senator. He's been very
1941
