Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Flaherty, and do you believe it was tied
to a reported dispute with Attorney Gen-
eral Bell over the appointment of U.S.
attorneys; and just one other part,
whether or not Mr. Flaherty has asked
you to campaign in any way for him in
his anticipated run for the Governor's
chair in Pennsylvania?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer
briefly. I was very proud that Pete Fla-
herty came to work as a Deputy Attorney
General. That was an an arrangement
that was made really without my prior
knowledge between the Attorney General
and Pete Flaherty.
Secondly, I did not know ahead of time
that Pete was going to resign and go back
to Pennsylvania. It was not a result of a
dispute or an argument or an incompati-
bility between him and the Attorney Gen-
eral. It was an action taken by Pete on his
own initiative. He did a very good job
during the time that he was here. He was
basically in charge of reorganization of
the Department, doing some long-range
studies for management reasons. I think
he and the Attorney General were com-
pletely compatible. And the only com-
ments that the Attorney General has made
to me were in praise of Flaherty.
I have not talked to Pete. I got a writ-
ten letter saying that he intended to re-
sign, and I've written a letter back to him
accepting his resignation and expressing
my regret that he was leaving and my
good wishes for the future. But he's not
discussed with me any involvement in the
campaign. My policy has been and will
be not to involve myself in any sort of
Democratic primary campaign. But I
have habitually supported Democratic
nominees, after they were chosen, in a
general election.
HENRY HOWELL
Q. I notice you met with Henry Howell
this morning.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. I was wondering if you had offered
him a position in the administration and,
in view of your campaigning for him, if
you felt his defeat was a personal politi-
cal defeat?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I was disap-
pointed when Henry lost. I know him
very well and like him and, as a matter
of fact, came into Virginia twice 4 years
ago to campaign for him at my own ini-
tiative just because I have an admiration
for him. But of course that's a judgment
that the Virginia people made, and I
wouldn't question the soundness of their
judgment.
I did not offer him a position in the
Government.
VISIT TO NORTH CAROLINA
Q. Mr. President, I'm from North
Carolina, Senator Morgan's home county.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. We're delighted that you're going to
visit the State next week. Will you be able
to tell us any more about the plans for
your visit there?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm going down
Friday afternoon. My youngest sister,
Ruth Carter Stapleton-her oldest son is
getting married. It's going to be a chance
to be with my family. We don't get our
whole family together very often.
Q. Will you be there overnight, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'll be there over-
night Friday, and I'll be there for a
breakfast for the family on Saturday
morning, and I'll stay for the wedding
Saturday afternoon.
Q. We're neighbors. Would there be any
chance of coming down to Dunn, North
Carolina? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I doubt if I can.
We have to come back immediately. We
had to cancel a reception here at the
White House for the Secret Service and
2094
