Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
gan congressional delegation to stand. I
don't believe there's any other group in
the country that has been more eager to
help work with me and others in alleviat-
ing these problems than this group has.
And I would like for them to stand and
let you recognize them.
SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS
Q. Hello, Mr. Carter. Thank you for
inviting me here this afternoon. My ques-
tion deals with health care, and it's some-
thing that has touched my life and lives
of other children.
What is your administration doing to-
day for the children with learning dis-
abilities, in terms of education, specialized
training, and especially financial support
for the children in low-income houses?
People with low income can't afford the
training their children need and have to
send them to school where the teachers
and the programs are not geared for the
children with learning disabilities. These
children suffer, and it's an emotional
problem. It is a physical problem, and it
scars them for the rest of their lives. And
most of society neglects it and ignores it.
The problems surface later, sometime in
dropouts, in crime, and in many other
areas. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
One of the first things I did when I
was elected was to appoint a special com-
mission on those Americans who have
mental problems and those who have dis-
ability problems. My wife is the Honorary
Chairman, and as you may know, she has
had hearings all around the country and
has just recently given me her report. In
the meantime, though, we've been learn-
ing from this special study.
One of the things that we are doing is,
as we set up the day care centers and
child care centers and expand that pro-
gram, we're giving first priority to chil-
dren who have learning disabilities and
other problems of that kind. In the past
they have been the last priority. We have
now moved them up and will move them
up to the first priority.
The second thing we are doing is to
make sure in all our programs that deal
with disabilities that we are emphasizing
not institutional care, but community-
oriented small units, where the children
can be close to their families, close to their
own homes, where the cost is much less
and the benefit of training programs and
education programs are greatly magnified.
Another thing that we've done is to in-
crease greatly the Head Start programs,
which give the children in low-income
communities an early start in the learning
experience. The first Head Start program
that ever existed in Georgia-I happened
to have been the head of it. And I learned
at that time the tremendous benefit that
can be derived for children who come
from deprived homes, not only handi-
capped because of emotional or mental or
physical problems but also because of so-
cial problems and environmental prob-
lems, where the families are so poverty-
stricken that the kids have never seen a
book, they've never heard a bedtime story,
they don't have any base on which to
compete with the other children.
And the last thing I'll mention very
briefly is the so-called CHAPS program,
which I think is very crucial in the future.
This will provide early, complete physical
examinations which will include not only
teeth and eyes and their bodily functions
but also will include any disabilities that
are at least apparent at that time. We
now have about 12 million children a
year who are given this kind of early,
thorough examination. We expect to ex-
pand this very rapidly to about 9½ mil-
lion, which is an additional 8 million or
about a fivefold increase. This will be
1850
