Nov. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
groups represent not only themselves but
they represent their families and their
other ancestors who have been so severely
deprived.
We have an obligation to them to re-
dress longstanding grievances and to let
officials of the fund and corporate executives
were meeting with White House staff members
on the inauguration of the 2-year Capital Fund
Campaign.
the progress in the future mirror not just Thanksgiving Day, 1977
a degree which represents the progress of
the rest of our Nation's educational so-
ciety, but a much more rapid rate of
progress to overcome some of the handi-
caps that have been inflicted upon these
people in the past.
Proclamation 4537. November 11, 1977
I think we have a lot to learn, also,
from the predominantly black colleges of
our Nation. They have come to repre-
sent a unique symbol of human rights in
all its broad categories. Because of the
well-organized effort, quite often they
represent, perhaps even inadvertently,
other groups in our American society who
are not so well organized, not so well rep-
resented as you are represented around
this table, and who don't have a well-pub-
licized effort to correct wrongs.
So, for all of these reasons, I, as Presi-
dent, am not only proud of the predomi-
nantly black colleges of our Nation rep-
resented by the fund, but also am proud
of you for being willing to contribute your
very valuable time to this effort. I'm
available on this occasion and others to
help you.
I know that you recognize that the hard
work of fundraising has to be in your
hands, but I can't think of a better proj-
ect for you to undertake. It's a tribute to
you, and I know it's an inspirational
thing for you to be involved in so worthy
a cause. So, good luck in your fundrais-
ing efforts. I'm a proud partner with you
in one of the finest commitments for the
benefit of all the American people that I
can imagine. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:15 a.m. in
the Roosevelt Room at the White House, where
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Although the first years of America's
struggle for independence were often dis-
heartening, our forebears never lost faith
in the Creator, in their cause, or in them-
selves. Upon learning of the American
victory at Saratoga in 1777, Samuel
Adams composed the first National
Thanksgiving proclamation, and the Con-
tinental Congress called upon the gov-
ernors of every state to designate a day
when all Americans could join together
and express their gratitude for God's
providence "with united hearts." By their
actions they extended a revered regional
custom into a national tradition.
Precisely two centuries have now passed
since that time. We have tamed a con-
tinent, established institutions dedicated
to protecting our liberties, and secured
a place of leadership among nations. But
we have never lost sight of the principles
upon which our Nation was founded. For
that reason we can look to the future with
hope and confidence.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in accord with Section 6103 of Title 5 of
the United States Code, do hereby pro-
claim Thursday, November 24, 1977, as
Thanksgiving Day. I ask all Americans to
gather on that day with their families and
neighbors in their homes and in their
houses of worship to give thanks for the
2004
