Sept. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ing in professional sports. But there's not
a better sports center in the whole
Nation than the New Jersey sports com-
plex that is now operating for your en-
joyment and pleasure and pride, estab-
lished by Brendan Byrne.
You've already shown, again, that New
Jersey can be the State of champions. I
just met Jersey Joe Walcott right behind
me, who's a great champion and whom
I admire.
I've observed very closely in recent
months the decision that has been made
to revitalize Atlantic City. There was a
time, when I was a young man, when
Atlantic City was looked upon as one of
the finest, most beautiful, most progres-
sive, most enjoyable places in the Nation
to go. But it began to go downhill. But
now, I think, with the new laws that have
been passed, Atlantic City can be revived.
But there's a danger there, because we
don't want to see the prospective recre-
ation facilities, including gambling, being
used to support illegal activities or leading
to government corruption. And if there's
one person in this country that I know
can stand firm against the pressures of
corruption and guarantee honesty and in-
tegrity in the future operations in Atlantic
City, it's Brendan Byrne. And I know
you agree with me about that, too.
Another thing that concerns me very
much as President is the very high unem-
ployment rate. In the last 4 years, in
New Jersey, the unemployment rate has
been reduced 25 percent. We've had more
housing programs come into your State
than we did in the 8 years gone by. And I
just came from a medical center in New-
ark where, because of the good preven-
tive health care that's now coming to New
Jersey, the infant mortality rate has been
reduced more than 50 percent, cancer
deaths have been reduced more than 50
percent, and tuberculosis deaths have
been reduced more than 60 percent, just
in the last 10 years.
So, in many ways, including environ-
mental quality, health care, law enforce-
ment, progress for education, pride, rec-
reation, the Brendan Byrne administra-
tion has done you a good job.
One other point I'd like to make is this:
It's very difficult for a politician to come
from nowhere and to win an election.
This first time I heard about Brendan
Byrne, he had never run for office before.
He was given very little chance to win.
But as you know, 4 years ago, he was
elected Governor with your help. Earlier
this year, because of the unpopularity of
the income tax law, particularly, Bren-
dan Byrne was given practically no
chance to win the Democratic primary.
Well, he's a fighter. He's slow in brag-
ging about himself, but he believes in you
and you have never betrayed his confi-
dence.
And something that I cannot say about
myself that I can say about Brendan
Byrne is that he's never lost an election.
yet. [Laughter]
The last thing I want to say is this,
about this good man: He's a personal
friend of mine. I know him. I've visited
him in his home. His wife, Jean, and my
wife, Rosalynn, are good friends.
And I believe that it's important to
you as a State that does have economic
problems, a State that does have a new
lease on life, a State that does now have
strict controls over elections, openness in
dealing with your own government, a
good relationship between administrators
and employees in State government, one
that's struggling for better transportation,
housing, health care, and education, to
keep a good administrator in office.
As you well know, just a few months
ago when New York City across the river
couldn't sell its own bonds, there was a
great outpouring of surprise when the
1578
