Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 18
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With a Group of Editors and News
Directors. November 11, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This is another in a
series of meetings with news editors of all
kinds from around the country. I always
look forward to them, and I really ap-
preciate your giving me this chance to
learn about your concerns. And it also
gives me a chance to learn about the rest
of the Nation outside of Washington.
What I'd like to do is take about 5 min-
utes to outline some of the things on
which I'm working right at this moment,
just for illustrative purposes, and then
spend the balance of our time answering
your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
On the domestic scene, of course, the
major issue that we face now is the energy
package, which the Congress is discuss-
ing. This is five major bills. They've just
about finished work on two of them and
still have three to go, the more contro-
versial ones still to come-automobiles,
natural gas, and taxation, with the crude
oil equalization tax.
In addition, there are about 19 other
conference committees, I believe, that are
now functioning. One of the most im-
portant is on social security legislation.
I'm quite concerned that the very at-
tractive benefits that are awarded to re-
tired people will be excessive, because the
working people and employers now have
to pay those benefits. And we presented a
reform package to the Congress without
any increase in the level of benefits for
those who receive them, and we are hope-
ful that the Congress will not come for-
ward with too generous a package which
will add substantially to the tax burden of
the working people and employers.
In addition, as you know, this year
we've tried to address some of the other
serious problems. I've already presented
to the Congress a welfare reform pro-
gram, what we call Better Jobs and In-
come Program. And we've gotten reor-
ganization authority, which was a struggle
at first, but the Congress gave me that for
3 years. We've tried to cut back on paper-
work, reporting forms, straighten out
OSHA so that it wouldn't be so onerous
to people. We've passed major legislation
in agriculture with a 5-year farm bill;
put into effect about a $21 billion stimu-
lus package, economic stimulus package,
over half of which will be felt by the end
of this quarter and the balance of which
will be felt in the first quarter of 1977
[1978].
The unemployment rate has come
down about 1 percent, but it's been fairly
level since late April at roughly the 7-per-
cent level.
2009
