Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 23
Canal in its original conformation has be-
come inadequate. I think in the last 12
months, only four or five Navy warships
have been through the canal at all. Any
large ship, an aircraft carrier, for instance,
would have to go around the southern
area of South America.
Standard oil tankers that would bring
oil, say, from Alaska to the gulf coast
area, or the Atlantic area, could not pos-
sibly go through the Panama Canal. That
oil, if transported through the canal,
would have to be offloaded into small,
lighter small ships and taken to the canal
and then up to, say, New Orleans or some
other gulf coast port.
Over a period of time, I think that the
canal needs to be expanded. I think it's
premature now, though, for me to decide
whether or not a sea-level canal would
be advocated or whether an expansion of
the present canal facilities would be best.
There has been a very elaborate study
made of this, I think concluding only a
year or two ago, and, I think, initiated
when President Johnson was in office,
that showed that if a sea-level canal was
needed, that it ought to be placed in Pan-
ama. That was before we had the addi-
tional opportunity to haul Alaskan oil
and natural gas through the canal. So,
that's an option for the future. I just want
to be sure that we don't foreclose the op-
tion, if a sea-level canal is built, of our
Nation playing a role in it, in harmony
with and in partnership with Panama.
But whether we need it at this time, I
doubt; in the future I think we will-
Q. Mr. President?
Secretary Kissinger-and President Ford
had started on southern Africa, the Mid-
dle East, Panama, and Chile.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I didn't mention
those things, but go ahead with your ques-
tion.
Q. This is according to a report that
was written by
was written by reporters who
who were
present.
At any rate, if you used the words "ab-
solute continuum," what did you mean by
that, and were you saying that the voters
had no choice on those issues between
you and President Ford?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't mention any
specific areas of the world where there
was an absolute continuum. What Secre-
tary Kissinger came to talk to me about
was the Panama Canal. In some areas of
foreign policy, there is a complete continu-
um as Presidents change. I have a dif-
ferent emphasis that I have placed on
foreign affairs questions than did Presi-
dent Ford or President Nixon or their
predecessors.
I think in the case of the Panama
Canal negotiations, there was a complete
continuum. We did appoint Sol Linowitz
to help Ellsworth Bunker, and we added
to the discussions a concept of guaranteed
neutrality of the canal after the year 2000.
That was an innovation. But the negotia-
tions with the Panamanian officials con-
tinued without interruption.
Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker, who
was the lead negotiator when President
Ford was in office, continued as my lead
negotiator. We added on Sol Linowitz.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Judy [Judy But I never mentioned anything about
Woodruff, NBC News].
Q. Mr. President, when you met with
Secretary Kissinger last week, you told
him in the presence of reporters that you
had told President Ford that morning
that you had what you called an abso-
lute continuum of what you-referring to
Chile or any specific nation in that
comment.
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, have you tried to as-
certain, or have you ascertained that no
one who worked during the transition for
you was in contact with the U.S. Attor-
1493
