Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 9
Federal Grants-in-Aid
Remarks Announcing Reform of the System.
September 9, 1977
In the midst of the bilateral negotia-
tions with leaders from the Latin Ameri-
can countries, we are continuing our effort
to make the Federal Government more
effective and more open and more effi-
cient and to remove a burden that has
existed on business and labor, agriculture,
State and local governments.
As a former State and local official, I
am keenly aware that the way that Fed-
eral grants are handled is increasingly
irrational and inefficient and, also, in-
sensitive to local needs.
Today, I'm proud to be able to an-
nounce a concentrated attack on redtape
and confusion in the Federal grant-in-aid
system. My own Presidential Assistant,
Jack Watson, is making this same an-
nouncement today at the National Gov-
ernors Association meeting in Detroit.
Making government work better is not
the most dramatic or exciting subject, but
there are a few things that we can do
during this administration to assure the
American people that this important sub-
ject is being resolved as successfully as
possible.
In the case of Federal grants, reform
will save tax dollars and will also enable
the Federal, State, and local governments
to give taxpayers maximum value for
each dollar that is spent.
We will concentrate first on five areas
where experience has shown the most
serious problems exist:
First, paperwork requirements for the
grants themselves. When I was Governor
of Georgia, we estimated that 30 percent
of the personnel hours in the State De-
partment of Education was spent just in
preparing grant requests.
Second, the Federal Government's fi-
nancial management practices. This can
result in enormous savings to make sure
that funds that go to local and State gov-
ernments and to private contractors in
pursuit of work that they do are only ex-
pended when the money is actually
needed. And there are tremendous sav-
ings in the tens of millions of dollars
available here.
Third, Federal audit procedures. These
are important, because there is a general
feeling, which I share, that quite often
there is waste, avoidable cost overruns,
and then when later investigations are
precipitated because of doubts about the
efficacy of these programs, the data are
not available to prove or disprove charges
of mismanagement or outright fraud.
Fourth, the drafting of the regulations.
This is a constant problem of mine, trying
to change the sometimes confusing and
unnecessary verbosity and also complexity
of regulations. So, simplicity of regula-
tions and minimizing the number of regu-
lations is a very important issue.
The last one is the various requirements
in the area of civil rights, of citizens' par-
ticipation in the governmental process,
the protection of environmental quality,
and other associated elements of any deci-
sion involving these kinds of practices.
Most of these changes are straightfor-
ward, commonsense changes, and they are
long overdue. There will be a group here
after I leave to answer specific questions,
but I'd like to outline them as quickly as
I can.
Standard application and reporting
forms will be used instead of a great vari-
ety of individual forms now in use. This
has been underway for the last 3 or 4
months.
A limit on the number of copies that
the Federal Government asks State and
local governments to file, not more than
1557
