Oct. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
1977, as National Farm-City Week and
ask all Americans to observe that period
with suitable activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
October, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5:03 p.m., October 20, 1977]
stability on the Korean peninsula is essen-
tial to that goal. I am determined, there-
fore, to maintain our commitment to the
security of the Republic of Korea. How-
ever, our security relationship is not a
static one, and the specific ways in which
we seek to accomplish our basic policy
objectives must be evaluated in light of
present circumstances.
Within this context, I have concluded
that the withdrawal of U.S. ground com-
bat forces from Korea over a four- to five-
year period can be accomplished in a
manner which will not endanger the
security of the Republic of Korea. So long
Transfer of Defense Articles to the as it is conducted in a way which will as-
Republic of Korea
Letter to the Speaker of the House, the
President of the Senate, and the Senate
Majority Leader Transmitting Proposed
Legislation. October 21, 1977
I am transmitting today for the con-
sideration of the Congress legislation
which will authorize the transfer of cer-
tain United States-owned defense articles
to the Republic of Korea. A draft bill and
a section by section analysis of its pro-
visions are enclosed.
In the Korean War the independence
and security of the Republic of Korea
were preserved at a cost of 34,000 Ameri-
can lives and many billions of dollars.
Since then, a major objective of United
States foreign policy has been the avoid-
ance of renewed hostilities and the main-
tenance of peace on the Korean peninsula.
Our security relationship with the Re-
public of Korea, which has been the
cornerstone of this policy, has consisted of
three principal elements our 1954 Mu-
tual Defense Treaty, a program of military
and economic assistance, and the presence
of United States Armed Forces in Korea.
Peace and stability in Northeast Asia
are vital to our national interests, and
sure continued peace and stability in
Northeast Asia, the ground force with-
drawal is a natural evolution of our on-
going security relationship. Both govern-
ments have understood that the presence
of U.S. ground forces was not permanent
and is related directly to the maintenance
of the military balance. With appropriate
assistance, such as that included in the
legislation I am proposing, the Republic
of Korea will be able to assume a larger
share of its defense burden and assume the
tasks of U.S. units being withdrawn.
I have established a tentative schedule
for the withdrawal of ground combat
forces: 6,000 men, including one brigade
of the Second Division, will be withdrawn
by the end of 1978. The remainder of the
ground forces will be withdrawn incre-
mentally with the final withdrawal taking
place in 1981 or 1982. U.S. air forces will
remain in Korea with a small U.S. Army
element to provide communications, in-
telligence and logistic support to our
forces and those of the ROK.
My decision to withdraw U.S. ground
combat forces from Korea rests on cer-
tain basic considerations:
-Korea's impressive economic growth
over the past decade and the correspond-
1822
