Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Business Council
Remarks at a Meeting of the Council.
December 14, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I understood this is
turn. And that's a tremendous—and I'm
sure it was a heartfelt feeling on his part.
I've never asked any of you to come to
the White House or to join in an un-
selfish undertaking involving handicapped
where I was supposed to come to restore people or veterans or the evolution of pro-
business confidence. [Laughter]
I'm glad to be with you. John deButts
and many of you have been very close
friends of mine since I've been in the
White House as President, and I've re-
lied upon many of you already to give
me advice, to give me your counsel and
sometimes, of course, your criticisms, and
I've learned from it.
grams that you didn't respond with en-
thusiasm and with effectiveness.
My own responsibilities are quite di-
verse, as you know. I think we are mak-
ing good progress. We've been negotiating
Soviet Union on some of the historically
very intimately and productively with the
intransigent problems. We've made re-
markable progress so far in evolving the
terms of a comprehensive test ban.
We have tried for the first time, really,
to put an absolute lid and to roll back
the level of nuclear weaponry. We're ne-
gotiating with the Soviet Union on how
to prevent an arms buildup and a military
race in the Indian Ocean. They've begun,
as a matter of habit, to inform us before
This is a time in our Nation when it's
very important for us to realize the
strength that we have and to seek as
much as we possibly can a common pur-
pose and to probe for a partnership be-
tween the leaders in our free enterprise
system and the leaders in our freely
elected government offices.
One of the things that I thought I they fire their own test missiles so that
might do to restore confidence is to
point out to you how hard I work and
how much I do each day. [Laughter] To-
morrow I hope to meet with three world
leaders. I already have appointments with
two of them. I'll be meeting with Prime
Minister Begin tomorrow morning for an
early breakfast and to negotiate with him
on questions involving Middle Eastern
peace.
I'll be having lunch tomorrow with
Prime Minister Manley of Jamaica, and
I'm seeking an appointment with Senator
Russell Long for tomorrow afternoon.
[Laughter]
I was looking over the history of the
Business Council this afternoon, and I
noticed that President Lyndon Johnson
said about you that he knew of no other
organization that offered to do more for
our Nation and asked for so little in re-
there will be no misunderstanding be-
tween us. And I have high hopes that
next year we'll be successful in bringing
to a conclusion a SALT II agreement.
We will have part of it on a 3-year basis,
part of it will be more permanent, several
years, and we will lay out the ground-
work for a SALT III agreement with
much more drastic reductions.
We've been involved, I think for the
first time, in seeking a comprehensive
settlement of the Middle Eastern ques-
tion. And there have been some very
notable results. I've met with all the
leaders in the Middle East. As a matter
of fact, I've met this year already with 68
heads of nations to negotiate with them
and to seek a common purpose between
themselves and us. And I can see very
clearly that those who could not bring
themselves to negotiate with each other,
deep within their own hearts and repre-
2106
