Aug. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
• Eliminate
overlapping
overlapping functions
among economic agencies;
• Repair weaknesses or gaps in the Fed-
eral Government's capacity to con-
duct economic analyses of particular
industries or regions;
• Link foreign policy with economic de-
cisions; and
•Ensure that economic decisions are
carried out.
This effort will require the active par-
ticipation of Federal departments and
agencies. You may be asked to contribute
time, resources, and staff assistance. I
know that I can count on your support.
In order to inform all affected parties
that this review is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
• Regulatory activities affecting food
which now involve 14 agencies and
over 2000 regulations;
• Food research and education which is
now conducted by 12 different orga-
nizations;
• International activities which involve
12 different organizations;
Commodity procurement and distri-
bution including the Federal feeding
programs;
Aquaculture activities which are dis-
persed among three major depart-
ments, and
• Conservation activities which affect
the availability of good soil and water
to grow crops.
The objective of this review is to im-
prove the Government's capability to ad-
dress the Nation's needs for adequate sup-
plies of reasonably priced, safe, and nutri-
tious foods.
As part of this overall project I have
directed OMB's new Regulatory Policy
and Reports Management staff to begin a
specific review of Federal food inspection,
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Comprehensive Review of Fed- labeling and grading as well as other re-
eral Food and Nutrition Policy
I have directed my Reorganization
Project staff at the Office of Management
and Budget to begin a thorough review of
the organization and structure of Federal
food and nutrition programs.
The Federal Government is unable to
respond as effectively as it should to the
important changes taking place in the
production, processing, marketing, and
consumption of food. As a result, our ca-
pability to develop and implement a
coherent food and nutrition policy is
severely hampered.
lated food regulatory practices. The com-
view and the food regulatory policy review
prehensive food and nutrition policy re-
will be closely coordinated within the
Reorganization Project.
This important effort will need the ac-
tive participation of the Congress, Federal
Departments and Agencies, State and
local officials, and the public.
You may be asked to contribute time,
resources, and staff assistance to this ef-
fort. If so, I hope you will make your best
effort to do so.
In order to inform all affected parties
that this review is underway, I have di-
This review will focus on seven major rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
areas:
• Production and marketing of food;
JIMMY CARTER
1496
