Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 24
ican people. It reestablishes our country,
I think, as kind of a beacon light for a
principle that's right and decent and
compassionate.
I don't know if this would be liberal or
conservative, but it prides the concept
of individuality, of the freedoms that our
country has espoused.
And I don't think there's a national
leader in the world right now who isn't
constantly preoccupied with how well we
measure up on the subject of human
rights. Do our own people think that we
abuse them too much through govern-
ment, don't give them an equal oppor-
tunity, or what does the world think of
us?
the Seabrook plant, which has been very
controversial in New England-specifi-
cally New Hampshire-okayed the use of
cooling tunnels, and this more or less gives
them the green light to continue with
their construction of the nuclear plant.
What's your feeling on that decision last
week?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you
probably know that the decision was a
narrow and a technical one-whether or
not the discharge of cooling water into
the ocean would substantially affect the
environment for marine life. And after a
great deal of analysis, in which I did not
participate, the director of our Environ-
mental Protection Agency said there
This has been brought about in part by would be no substantial modification of
our own attitude, but I think to a sub-
stantial degree because of the Helsinki
agreement and the present Belgrade
conference that is preparing to discuss
this subject, among others, in October.
These are some of the things that are
important. Of course, I'll make a decision
this month about whether or not to go
ahead with the production of the B-1
bomber and a few other incidental
ques-
tions of that sort. [Laughter]
But perhaps it might be better than for
me to go ahead with a dissertation, for me
to answer your questions. And I would be
glad to do so.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
you
marine life with the discharge of those
warm waters.
This does not mean that final licens-
ing has been approved. It does not mean
that the plant will be constructed. I feel
that our country and others in the world
are going to have to rely quite heavily on
atomic power as one of the energy sources
in the future. I think that to the extent
that we can conserve energy, quit wasting
gas, oil, coal, that we can minimize the
dependence upon nuclear power. The
present severe constraint on the initiation
of new atomic plant construction in our
country now is economic.
And I think that as assessments are
made by power companies, many of them
have recently decided not to go with
atomic powerplants but to shift toward
coal. If we do have technical advantages
demonstrated in the clean burning of coal,
with liquid fuel beds and so forth, I think
that trend will be enhanced.
Q. Mr. President, with regard to en-
ergy, you have indicated that nuclear
power was more or less a last resort as far
as energy plans go. Last August, after
won the nomination, you came up to New
Hampshire and indicated that nuclear
plants shouldn't be placed where people need atomic powerplants. I'm very con-
don't want them, and you outlined your
feelings on that.
A week ago today the Environmental
Protection Agency gave the go-ahead to
But I think it would be a mistake for
us to think that we can't have and won't
cerned about the control on an interna-
tional basis of the waste products so that
they can't be changed into explosives. But
I have no aversion to the use of atomic
1167
