Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 10
ily life is more and more a personal choice,
less and less an economic and social ne-
cessity.
But even as customs have changed and
many of the traditional sanctions have
lost their force, the overwhelming major-
ity of Americans have still chosen the re-
wards of family life. It is within the family
that we first learn to communicate with
other people, to give and receive love and
understanding, to work together for com-
mon goals, and to respect the rights, needs
and talents of others. The family teaches
us responsibility and compassion, it en-
courages our best efforts, and it forgives
our failures. It fills many of the gaps left
by other institutions in our society. As a
Nation we must strengthen and support
the values of family life for they are in-
separable from our finest national traits.
In honoring the family it is especially
appropriate to acknowledge those Amer-
icans who, through adoption, open their
homes and hearts to wanted children.
They bring a special commitment to the
family and share a special reward in nur-
turing their children and seeing them
grow in love.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in accordance with a joint resolution of
the Congress, approved August 15, 1977
(91 Stat. 836) do hereby proclaim the
week of November 20, 1977, as National
Family Week and call upon the American
people to observe that week with appro-
priate ceremonies, programs and activi-
ties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this ninth day of No-
vember in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:50 p.m., November 9, 1977]
Veto of Bill Providing for
Mandatory Inspection of
Rabbit Meat
Message to the House of Representatives
Returning H.R. 2521 Without Approval.
November 9, 1977
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning, without my approval,
H.R. 2521, an Act "To provide for the
mandatory inspection of domesticated
rabbits slaughtered for human food and
for other
for other purposes."
This Act would establish a new man-
datory federal inspection program for do-
mesticated rabbits and rabbit products
processed for human consumption. The
program would be similar to that already
applicable to poultry products, and would
apply to imported rabbit meat as well as
rabbit meat processed in the United
States.
In my view, the costs to the general tax-
payer associated with H.R. 2521 cannot
be justified on several grounds:
-A voluntary inspection program op-
erated by the Department of Agriculture,
but paid for by the processors of rabbit
meat, is already available to processors
wishing to enjoy the marketing benefits of
federal wholesomeness certification and
grading. Moreover, rabbit meat marketed
in the United States (including imports)
is subject to inspection by the Food and
Drug Administration to ensure sanitation
and wholesomeness. Neither the Agricul-
ture Department nor the Food and Drug
Administration has been able to substan-
tiate a significant health problem with
rabbit meat in this country.
-Existing federal inspection programs
are intended to apply to meats consumed
1993
