Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
ensuring that every family with a
working adult would have a total in-
come above the poverty line.
The Congress is beginning its consid-
eration of the President's welfare pack-
age. The Special Welfare Reform Sub-
committee established in the House
moved quickly on major elements of the
proposal and has endorsed several key
provisions of the administration plan.
3. Social Security. The social security
system was in serious danger of having its
major trust funds depleted in 1979 (dis-
ability fund) and in 1983 (old age and
survivors fund). The system was pro-
jected to have an estimated deficit of
8.2 percent of taxable payroll over the
next 75 years. Since 1975, expenditures
by social security have exceeded income,
and unless changes were made in the way
the system is financed, that trend would
continue and worsen.
The President proposed a refinancing
of the social security system that would:
• prevent the default of the trust
funds;
bring income and expenses into bal-
ance in 1978 and maintain that bal-
ance through the end of the century;
• create sufficient reserves to protect
the system against sudden declines
in revenue caused by unemployment
or other economic uncertainties;
• protect the system's financial integ-
rity through the end of the century;
• avoid tax rate increases to workers
beyond those already scheduled in
law and spread burdens more equi-
tably through the wage base.
The Congress passed a social security
bill which incorporates many of the
major elements of the administration's
proposals, which will ensure the financial
stability of the system throughout the rest
of the century.
II. Economic Recovery. When the
President was elected, unemployment was
at 8 percent, and the country was still
struggling to recover from a severe reces-
sion. There were 7.5 million Americans
out of work, and 1.4 million full-time
workers had been forced to take part-
time jobs. It was estimated that the econ-
omy operated at approximately $132 bil-
lion below its high employment potential.
The country lost nearly $35 billion in
Federal tax revenues and $10 billion in
State and local revenues because of the
economy's poor performance.
To alleviate those problems, the Presi-
dent proposed and signed into law a com-
prehensive package of economic stimulus
legislation, totaling $21 billion in Federal
expenditures. The main elements of the
stimulus package, many of whose effects
have already been felt throughout the
economy, are:
•
$4 billion in public works programs
(creating about 200,000 jobs);
$5 billion in tax reductions, primarily
through an increase in the standard
deduction, largely benefiting moder-
ate- and low-income workers;
$1 billion increase in countercyclical
revenue sharing;
expansion by 425,000 job slots (to
725,000 slots) in public service em-
ployment and training programs;
$1.5 billion youth employment pro-
gram which will create over 200,000
jobs for young people and will dou-
ble the size of the Job Corps.
As a result, in part, of the stimulus
package, the economy has improved—un-
employment has declined to 6.9 percent;
employment has increased to 92 million
workers (the largest number in the coun-
try's history); per capita, after-tax in-
come (adjusted for inflation) has in-
creased 4 percent over the past 12
months; gross average weekly salary has
2137
