Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
welcome them all, because they reflect a
relief of suffering people and persecuted
people.
The results of our human rights policy
will seldom be dramatic. There will be
tensions along the way, and we will often
be perceived as either being too rash or
too timid. But this is a small risk, com-
pared to the risk assumed by brave men
and women who live where repression has
not yet yielded to liberty.
My personal commitment to human
rights is very strong. The American people
feel as I do. Our Government will con-
tinue to express that commitment and not
ever hide it. And we will always encourage
other nations to join us.
Thank you very much.
I'll be glad to answer questions now.
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, there are reports that
Prime Minister Begin is bringing along
some of his peace proposals to discuss with
you. My question is, if the United States
underwrites peace, will we have a say in
terms of what real peace is, if it gives
economic aid, psychological aid, security,
and so forth? And I have a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our hope and
our goal has been that the nations di-
rectly involved in the Middle Eastern
crisis, the Middle Eastern disputes, would
meet directly with one another and reach
agreements that would encompass three
basic questions. One is the definition of
real peace, genuine peace, predictable
peace, relationship among human beings
that might transcend the incumbency of
any particular leader. I think President
Sadat has made a major stride already in
the achievement of what is real peace.
The second one is the withdrawal of the
Israelis from territory and, at the same
time, the assurance that they would have
secure borders. And the third one, of
course, is to resolve the Palestinian
question.
As I've said before, the direct negotia-
tions between Egypt and Israel is a major
step forward. We are attending the Cairo
conference and will offer our good services
when it's needed. But the basic responsi-
bility will be on the shoulders of the two
nations directly involved. As you know,
United Nations observers are also there.
Other countries were invited by President
Sadat to attend-Lebanon, Syria, Jordan,
and the Soviet Union. They have not yet
accepted that invitation.
We are not trying to define the terms
of peace. Anything that is acceptable to
Israel and her neighbors will certainly be
acceptable to us. But we are always avail-
able, I hope, as a trusted intermediary on
occasion to break a deadlock or add a
supportive word or in a way to introduce
one of those leaders to another and con-
vince the opposite party that each leader
is acting in good faith.
I have no idea what proposals, if any,
Prime Minister Begin will bring to me
tomorrow morning. But he and I will
meet privately, just the two of us for a
while at his request, and I will listen to
what his report might be, and we will be
constructive as we have been in the past.
Q. Well, do you have any idea of what
the outcome of the Cairo conference will
be in terms of goals?
THE PRESIDENT. I have hopes, but ob-
viously I can't predict what will occur.
We've always hoped that even when some
of the nations choose not to participate,
that the nations who do negotiate could
move a major step forward toward an
ultimate, comprehensive peace settlement.
Both Prime Minister Begin and Presi-
dent Sadat have stated publicly and re-
peatedly that they are not seeking strictly
a bilateral or a two-nation agreement.
2116
