July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tember 7, to be part of fiscal year 1977
arms sales.
Congress time is short because of other
priority legislation. The President is
anxious to give Members of the Senate
and House sufficient time, as they have
requested, to debate the complex technical
issue of the proposed sale.
The President is confident that once
Congress fully discusses the proposed sale
and assesses the assurances we have
provided regarding the security and man-
agement of the AWACS system in Iran,
the sale will receive favorable congres-
sional review.
National Cancer Institute
Appointment of Arthur C. Upton as
Director. July 29, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of Arthur C. Upton, of
Shoreham, N.Y., to be Director of the Na-
tional Cancer Institute, Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. He
would replace Frank Rauscher, Jr. Upton
is a professor of pathology at the State
University of New York at Stony Brook.
He was born February 27, 1923, in Ann
Arbor, Mich. He received a B.A. in 1946
and an M.D. in 1949 from the University
of Michigan.
Upton did his internship at University
Hospital in Ann Arbor in 1947, and was
a resident in pathology at the University
of Michigan from 1948 to 1950. He was
an instructor in pathology there in 1950-
51.
From 1951 to 1954, Upton was a
pathologist at Oak Ridge National Lab-
oratory, and from 1954 to 1969 he was
chief of the pathology-physiology section
there. Since 1969 he has been a professor
of pathology at the State University of
New York at Stony Brook.
Upton has also served as attending
pathologist for the medical department
at Brookhaven National Laboratory since
1969, and was dean of the School of
Basic Health Sciences at Stony Brook
from 1970 to 1975.
He is a member of the American As-
sociation for Cancer Research and served
as president of the association in 1963-64.
He is representative of the association to
the U.S. National Committee on the In-
ternational Union against Cancer. He is
also a member of the American Society
for Experimental Pathology and the Ra-
diation Research Society. He is a member
of numerous medical advisory committees,
including the National Cancer Institute
Board of Scientific Counsellors and the
International Commission on Radiologi-
cal Protection.
Federal Government
Reorganization
Announcement of Administration Survey of
Congressional Members for Reorganization
Purposes. July 29, 1977
The administration announced today
that it is surveying Members of the House
and Senate to identify which Federal pro-
grams result in the most day-to-day prob-
lems for their constituents. The results of
the survey will be used in pinpointing tar-
gets for President Carter's Government
reorganization program.
The survey is one of several adminis-
tration efforts to develop information on
Government performance. Other sources
will include: meetings with affected
groups, field interviews with State and
local officials, Federal Information Cen-
ters, analysis of White House mail, and
1378
