Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 21
nate delay, in presenting his answers in
the Senate hearings this past week. So, I
don't think that any blame should accrue
to Bert Lance for having acted improperly
or having lowered the standards of our
Government.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to fol-
low that up with a little more specific
question. During the campaign, you not
only campaigned on the promise that your
appointees would avoid the appearance
of impropriety but you also campaigned
against the privileged few who had too
much influence and against expense ac-
count padders and that sort of thing.
Mr. Lance, by his own admission-I
think this isn't in doubt-overdrew his
checking accounts by thousands of dollars
on a regular basis. He flew on corporate
planes for what appear to be political
and, perhaps, personal reasons. What I
think many of us are interested in, sir, is
your justification for reaffirming your be-
lief in his integrity, given the positions
you took as a candidate.
THE PRESIDENT. My impression is that
I've answered that question already, but
I would be glad to reaffirm what I've said.
I have seen the statements about him. I've
read the charges against him. I've heard
the allegations about him of even criminal
acts. I've seen some of his accusers apol-
ogize publicly for having made a serious
mistake, for having made a peremptory
and a preliminary judgment without
hearing his explanation which, when it
came, was adequate.
I just don't feel that I can preserve
just the appearance of the White House
to the exclusion of everything else. I also
have a responsibility as President to be
interested in justice and fairness and in
giving someone who is accused erroneously
a chance to answer the questions.
There has always been a possibility that
in the last week's Senate hearings that
Bert could not answer the allegations ade-
quately, that he would prove to have
violated a law. That was not the case.
And I think my judgment that Bert had
a right to officially answer every question,
in 3 hard days of interrogation by highly
competent Senators and well-qualified
staffs after they've had months to pre-
pare, was justified.
He's answered them adequately. So, it
would not be possible for me, just because
one of my leaders or employees was ac-
cused of something, to discharge them or
demand their resignation on the basis of
an accusation about which I had doubt
and which later proved to be false.
Q. Mr. President, sir, I'd like to ask you
about your statement, repeated statement
that Mr. Lance never did anything illegal.
The Comptroller of the Currency reported
that Mr. Lance's overdraft loans of more
than $5,000 violated the banking law, and
Mr. Lance, I think, conceded that his
failure to report loans to board of directors
of the two banks he ran also was an infrac-
tion of the banking statutes.
It's true there are no civil-they are
civil statutes and there are no criminal
penalties. But how do you justify this
with your statement that he never broke
any law?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my assessment
is that you are trying to succeed where
the Senate committee failed. There was
no judgment made that Bert Lance did
anything illegal. The only Comptroller's
report that I saw specifically said that he
had done nothing illegal, and I think that
he's adequately explained his position. He
had 3 days to do it in. I think he did it
well. And I have no information to add to
what Bert has already revealed to the
Senators and to the public.
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to follow up
on Judy's [Judy Woodruff, NBC News]
question, not directly, on how this may
1641
