Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 28
suggestions solicited from the general
public.
The survey, which began earlier this
week, asks Congressmen and Senators to
list those Federal programs which, based
upon their own constituent casework,
cause the most public dissatisfaction,
frustration, and confusion.
In a June 29 press briefing on reorgani-
zation, President Carter said that con-
gressional casework offers a unique source
of information on the Federal Govern-
ment's performance.
"Members of the House and Senate
spend a good part of every day helping
people cut through Government redtape,”
he said. "They know firsthand how the
Government looks from the receiving end
of the services."
NOTE: The White House press release also in-
cluded the text of a letter from Richard A.
Pettigrew, Assistant to the President for Reor-
ganization, which was sent to the Members of
Congress to explain the purposes of the survey.
Voyager Spacecraft
Statement by the President. July 29, 1977
was con-
This Voyager spacecraft was
structed by the United States of America.
We are a community of 240 million
human beings among the more than 4
billion who inhabit the planet Earth. We
human beings are still divided into na-
tion states, but these states are rapidly
becoming a single global civilization.
We cast this message into the cosmos.
It is likely to survive a billion years into
our future, when our civilization is pro-
foundly altered and the surface of the
Earth may be vastly changed. Of the 200
billion stars in the Milky Way galaxy,
some-perhaps many-may have in-
habited planets and spacefaring civiliza-
tions. If one such civilization intercepts
Voyager and can understand these re-
corded contents, here is our message:
This is a present from a small distant
world, a token of our sounds, our science,
our images, our music, our thoughts, and
our feelings. We are attempting to survive
our time so we may live into yours. We
hope someday, having solved the prob-
lems we face, to join a community of
galactic civilizations. This record repre-
sents our hope and our determination,
and our good will in a vast and awesome
universe.
NOTE: The statement has been placed in a Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration
Voyager spacecraft which is scheduled to be
launched August 20. The statement is recorded
in electronic impulses which can be converted
into printed words.
Airline Industry Regulation
Letter to Members of the Senate Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
July 28, 1977
To Members of the Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Reducing regulation of the airline in-
dustry is the first major opportunity to
meet our shared goal of eliminating out-
dated and excessive government regula-
tion. Sound regulatory reform is a top
priority of my Administration. I com-
mend you for the progress you and your
colleagues have made in working toward
that goal.
I urge you to speed the pace of your
deliberations so that a bill can be acted
upon by the Senate this year. You have
already made significant decisions on
many parts of the bill. But the most im-
portant decisions still lie ahead. I would
like to elaborate upon the principles I set
1379
