July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
chines that are purchased by hospitals
and health care centers, sometimes two or
three in the same location and, of course,
the patients who come there have to pay
for those.
I think there needs to be an additional
concern in reduction in this very high in-
vestment that has to be paid for by
patients.
We also in some areas have too many
hospital beds. When you have 40 percent
of the hospital beds that are empty, then
the patients that are in the other 60 per-
cent are paying for their bed and also
paying for those 40 empty beds that night.
So, we need to have a much closer atten-
tion paid through local supervision, not
the Federal Government, to make sure
that we don't overbuild hospitals, hospital
beds, machines, overadmit people to hos-
pitals, and give them health care that they
don't need.
But I think in all of these cases that
the money
that we do save can go back
into giving people better preventive care
and better and more complete care for
those who actually need it.
Now, the particular bill that you refer
to, if you'll tell me briefly what it says,
maybe I can answer your other questions.
Q. It combines the functions of the old
regional medical program, comprehen-
sive health planning districts, and does
some of the things that you just men-
tioned. You must establish a certificate of
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's a move
in the right direction.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Tom
Espy. In light of the recent developments
in SBA's 8(a) set-aside programs, what is
your posture or the posture of the Presi-
dent on the continuation and expansion of
minority and disadvantaged economic de-
pro-
velopment programs, especially those
grams in the Department of Commerce?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm going to be frank
with you.
I think in the past that in many
areas, the minority citizens have not been
given an equal opportunity in the business
world. When I came home from the Navy
in 1953, I started a business and I needed,
3 or 4 years later, to get a loan. I went to
the Small Business Administration and
got a loan. I belonged to a prominent
family in town and so I had every assist-
ance that I needed from the local banks,
from the Small Business Administration.
They would send senior businessmen
down to Plains to help me with my busi-
ness, to make sure my accounts receivable
were not too high, that I didn't overextend
myself on loans, that my inventory was
not too much, that I ran my business
properly.
But quite often, minority new business
people or sometimes women as well, when
they get a loan from the Government or
parts that are supported by the Govern-
ment, have not been treated that way.
need for new beds, for new machines, any Sometimes they've been given just enough
new facility.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think that's very
good legislation. And one of the best things
about it, I understand, is that it lets the
people who live in an area do the plan-
ning and make the decisions without hav-
ing Federal Government supervisors or
bureaucrats come in and do it for you. Is
that correct?
Q. Correct.
of a loan to go into bankruptcy and have
not been given a chance to work their way
into the learning process.
This is what we're trying to address in
the Small Business Administration-in
the minority businesses part of it—and
throughout the entire Department of
Commerce.
As you know, there have been some
scandals revealed recently where the Gov-
1322
