Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 12
bonds for the sports complex sold so easily
at such a low rate of interest. And that's
because of sound fiscal management.
Compared to the Republican adminis-
trations before him, the rate of increase in
government spending has been cut in half.
And although New Jersey has the highest
population density of any State in this
Nation, you have the lowest number of
State employees per capita of any State
in the country.
So, I think in almost every way you're
getting a good bargain out of Brendan
Byrne. And I want to be sure that when
the election comes in November, that he
gets a good bargain from you and your
help and that New Jersey benefits all
around with a partnership that's paid off
so far and, I believe, is going to pay off
even more in the future.
Thank
you very much. I'm proud to be
with you, and I'm proud of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:06 p.m. at
the corner of Butler and Hudson Streets in
the Chambersburg area of Trenton. His visit
coincided with the Feast of Lights, a week-
long religious festival celebrated in Trenton.
Minority Business Enterprise
Statement by the President.
September 12, 1977
During the last decade, the Federal
Government has played a crucial role in
stimulating the development of minority
businesses in this country. Working in
partnership with private enterprise, the
Government has sought to promote par-
ticipation in our economy by entrepre-
neurs from socially and economically dis-
advantaged segments of society. There
have been some successes and some fail-
ures in these minority business develop-
ment efforts, but the important benefits to
society to be gained from these efforts
have never been questioned. Building
strong minority business enterprises is in
the national interest because they con-
tribute to our efforts to reduce unemploy-
ment and to stimulate community de-
velopment.
It is the policy of this administration
to promote the development of minority
business enterprise. The experiences of the
past decade show that the Government
cannot solve all the problems in this area,
but government at all levels has an im-
portant leadership role. This administra-
tion will actively support minority busi-
ness development, and we strongly en-
courage the private sector to increase its
involvement in this area. The overwhelm-
ing majority of existing minority busi-
nesses are in the retail and service fields.
While I am confident that businesses in
these areas will continue to prosper, it is
my hope that we can promote the par-
ticipation by minorities in industries with
growth potential such as energy and tele-
communications, where opportunities for
development are greatest.
I have discussed this matter with the
members of my Cabinet and found en-
thusiastic support among them for the
Federal Government's promotion of mi-
nority business development. Some de-
partments already have ongoing minority
business development activities, but others
do not. We must improve the perform-
ance of existing activities and create pro-
grams in other departments in recognition
of the fact that all departments of Gov-
ernment have a role to play in minority
business development.
I intend to rely on the Interagency
Council, chaired by Sidney Harman, the
Under Secretary of Commerce, to pro-
mote, coordinate, and monitor Federal
programs relating to minority business
enterprise. The Council should meet regu-
1579
