Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 4
States may be, however capable of leadership, this power is increasingly
only relative. The leadership increasingly is in need of being shared.
No nation has a monopoly of vision, of creativity, or of ideas. Bring-
ing these together from many nations is our common responsibility and
our common challenge. For only in these ways can the idea of a peaceful
global community grow and prosper.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. in the General Assembly Hall.
Prior to his remarks, the President met briefly with United Nations Secretary General
Kurt Waldheim and General Assembly President Lazar Mojsov.
United Nations
Remarks at a Working Luncheon for Officials
of African Nations. October 4, 1977
That's the briefest speech I've ever
heard Andy Young make. [Laughter]
It is an honor for me to meet with the
distinguished representatives of so many
countries in Africa. President Machel
and I were just noticing that we have
50 States in our Nation and about 220
million people. In Africa, there are also
about 220 million people-49 states now;
Zimbabwe will be 50 and Namibia will
be 51.
In the past, we have not always en-
joyed as close a spirit of friendship and
cooperation with the nations of Africa as
we would have liked. I think it's accurate
to say, however, within the last 9 months,
because of the good services of our Sec-
retary of State, Cy Vance, and our Am-
bassador to the United Nations, Andrew
Young, that those relations have im-
proved greatly, and we are very thankful
for this progress.
Our purpose is the same as yours-to
see a strong, vigorous, free, and prosper-
ous Africa with as much of the control
of government as possible in the hands
of the residents of your countries. We
believe in majority rule. We believe in
human rights. We believe in peace. And
we, of course, also believe in strong har-
mony among neighbors and also between
ourselves and you across the Atlantic
Ocean.
This luncheon is a chance for me to get
acquainted with all of you, and we are
very eager for this chance to grow into
closer and more constant consultations
between myself, all of you, and the leaders
of
your great countries.
We have benefited greatly in the evo-
lution of our own national policy from
close consultation with many of you. I
believe that our purposes are the same as
yours.
We face together the problem of how
to resolve the Rhodesian, Zimbabwe
question. Our own cooperation with the
British, with the Organization of African
Unity, with the strong leaders of nations
who are neighbors of Zimbabwe have
been very helpful in forming a common
purpose. And now this question, as you
know, has been presented to the United
Nations. As the months ahead give us an
opportunity for increasing realization of
our hopes for majority rule and peace in
Zimbabwe, we would welcome your con-
stant advice and counsel about how we
can use the influence of the United States
in the most constructive way.
Of course, we are also dedicated to
carrying out the resolutions which already
1723
