Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 9
SENATOR
Thank you.
RANDOLPH. They will.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:03 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Roosevelt Room
at the White House.
As enacted, S. 717 is Public Law 95-164,
and H.R. 6010 is Public Law 95-163, ap-
proved November 9.
Federal Mine Safety and
Health Amendments Act
of 1977
Statement on Signing S. 717 Into Law.
November 9, 1977
Mining has long been recognized as
an exceptionally hazardous and demand-
ing occupation. To a large degree, this
Nation's economy has been built on the
labors of its miners. Their health, safety,
and welfare are matters of paramount
concern, particularly as we expand pro-
duction of coal and other needed min-
erals.
I am exceptionally pleased today to
sign S. 717, the Federal Mine Safety and
Health Amendments Act of 1977. For the
first time, all the Nation's miners will be
protected under one comprehensive mine
safety and health law. Building on expe-
rience gained under previous mine safety
and health laws, the bill makes needed
improvements which strengthen the pro-
tections which should rightly be afforded
the Nation's miners and provides that the
Secretary of Labor is to administer this
new law.
I would note with pleasure that this is
a bill which represents the close coopera-
tion of the administration with both
Houses of Congress. I particularly want
to recognize the efforts of Senator Wil-
liams and Congressman Perkins in passing
this legislation.
I would note with pleasure that this
is a bill which represents the close cooper-
ation of the administration with both
Houses of Congress. I particularly want
to recognize the efforts of Senator Wil-
liams and Congressman Perkins in passing
this legislation.
I would also note that the new law,
which transfers responsibilities for mine
safety and health programs from the De-
partment of the Interior to the Depart-
ment of Labor, is a significant contribu-
tion to our efforts to reorganize the Fed-
eral Government to perform more effi-
ciently and effectively.
This administration will be sensitive to
the economic impacts of this legislation.
to ensure that the mining industry stays
productive and efficient while, at the
same time, the lives and health of the
Nation's miners are protected.
I look forward to working together
with miners, their representatives, and
with the operators of the Nation's mines
to implement this vital legislation.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 717 is Public Law 95-
164, approved November 9.
Visit of Prime Minister
Robert D. Muldoon of
New Zealand
Remarks of the President and the Prime
Minister at the Welcoming Ceremony.
November 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This morning, I want
to welcome to our country Prime Min-
ister Muldoon and his wife, Thea, who
have come here from New Zealand, a na-
tion which has, for the last 125 years, had
1989
