Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
rado, do you have this opportunity? I
think we are very fortunate and we have
to understand that. That is probably the
strength from which we will speak on all
things, even when we differ. So, I would—
yes, I recognize the water situation that
has been pointed out here. I remind you
that I was Governor of the State of Idaho.
But let me also say that when the Presi-
dent gave us some of the charges that he
has given us, he took the tough road. It
had been a lot more politically beneficial
to him to have ignored the future prob-
lems of water, because the people that
Mary was describing and that other
people are describing, some of them
So, I thank you very much for being
here, and we are going to listen. And the
decision will be his, as all the difficult ones
are. But it will be made before the Ameri-
can public, and I think that is the impor-
tant thing.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you again,
everybody. I appreciate it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. in
the Ballroom at the Denver Hilton Hotel.
Following the panel discussion, the Presi-
dent met in the Cedar Room at the hotel with
a group of Western States Governors to discuss
water policy.
haven't even been born yet. They don't Denver, Colorado
have a very strong constituency in the
Congress yet, and the President could
have ignored it. But the beneficiaries will
be all America if we'll work together in
this regard.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Briefing on the Panama Canal
Treaties. October 22, 1977
There is nothing secret about water
policy. It affects all of our lives. The
President said it's the lifeblood of Amer-
ica, and it particularly is in the West. So,
we'll continue to work with you in the
Department of Interior. We'll come forth
with our proposals the best we can, sub-
mit them to the President in February.
Then he'll make the difficult call as to
what we have to do to see that all people
have the balance that you touched upon.
Every person at this table indicated that
we need this, and we can, if we'll balance
it. But we must work together to balance
it.
The closing footnote I would like to
make is to the question the president of
your Chamber of Commerce asked. He
said, can you balance the budget? Well,
if the President treats all members of the
Cabinet as he treats me, when I submit
my budget, I'm telling you that he'll
balance that budget. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I know that you've al-
ready had an excellent briefing from Am-
bassador Sol Linowitz and from my own
national security adviser, from the Secre-
tary of Defense and from our representa-
tive, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, about one of the most controversial
and, perhaps, one of the most important
issues that our country has to face, and
that is the Panama Canal Treaty-or
treaties.
I'd like to take a few minutes to talk to
you from the perspective of the Presidency
of our great country and from the perspec-
tive of the Commander in Chief of our
Armed Forces.
President Eisenhower, President Ken-
nedy, President Johnson, President Nixon,
President Ford, and myself have all seen
a need to modify or amend the present
treaty with Panama concerning the Pana-
ma Canal. The negotiations have been
taking place for 14 years, and the treaty
that we have evolved, after tough, now
1884
