June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
When I came into office, I tried de-
liberately to have an open mind. And
I've spent weeks studying all the aspects
of our strategic defense forces. I've met
with congressional leaders. I've spent a
great deal of time with the Secretary of
Defense and others in trying to under-
stand all the ramifications of this very
important decision.
The leaders in the House and Senate
this morning have been informed of
my
decision, both by Frank Moore ยน and by
the Secretary of Defense.
My belief is that the Congress will be
supportive knowing that our previous re-
quests for limited production funds were
based on a previous decision. But my
decision is that this production is not
now necessary. And I believe that the
House and the Senate will confirm my
decision.
RELATIONS WITH THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, in view of the grow-
ing difficulties between the United States
and the Soviet Union, are there any early
prospects in the coming months for a
meeting with Brezhnev, between your-
self and Brezhnev, and is August in
Alaska-does that have any validity?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree that
there are growing difficulties between
ourselves and the Soviet Union. The tech-
nical discussions on SALT questions,
comprehensive test ban, demilitarization
of the Indian Ocean, a reduction in the
sales of conventional weapons to devel-
oping nations of the world have been pro-
ceeding with very good attitudes on the
part of the Soviets, and, of course, us.
So, I don't believe that the relations be-
tween us are deteriorating.
I think that my own relationship with
Mr. Brezhnev and other Soviet leaders
ยน Assistant to the President for Congressional
Liaison.
should be one of continuing consulta-
tions, not just to ratify final agreements
but to get to know one another. And
I would welcome a chance this year to
meet with President Brezhnev, to explore
the ability of our countries to reach
quicker decisions. But it would not be
based on any deep concern about rela-
tions now, nor any frustration about
what's gone on before.
The time or date or place would still
have to be worked out, and it would be
inappropriate, I think, to try to presume
what those decisions might be on spe-
cifics until we determine accurately the
attitude of the Soviet leaders.
Q. May I say that-
THE PRESIDENT. Please do.
Q. -you yourself have expressed
surprise at the reaction of the Soviets
to your human rights
human rights drive, and
Brezhnev has told Giscard that there are
difficulties. So, I don't think it's
exactly--I mean there is an atmosphere.
THE PRESIDENT. There are difficul-
ties, obviously, in reaching final decisions
on matters that are very controversial,
very difficult, and which never have been
successfully concluded. We've never tried
as a nation to have a comprehensive test
ban to eliminate all tests of all nuclear
devices, both peaceful and military. We've
demilitarizing the Indian Ocean, first
never tried to open up the discussions of
freezing the present circumstances, then
reducing our military presence there.
We've never tried for a sharp reduction
in the deployment of nuclear weapons.
So, these new ideas obviously take more
time to conclude. But I don't have any
sense of fear or frustration or concern
about our relationships with the Soviet
Union. We have, I think, a good pros-
pect of continuing our discussions, and
I have every hope that those discussions
will lead to success.
1198
