Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
we have been blessed recently with
bountiful crops, we don't have an exces-
sive reserve supply of crucial food and
feed items on hand. This bill permits us
to maintain adequate reserves, and it also
encompasses a provision that's very dear
to me, and that is that most of the re-
serves will be under the control of farm-
ers and that there's a very careful safe-
guard against the dumping of agricul-
tural products on the market, artificially,
to force prices down and, therefore, to
damage the economy of farm families.
We have moved in this bill to correct
a very serious economic problem that
exists among the farm communities of our
Nation by increasing target and loan
prices for the 1977 crop. And I believe
that this will certainly be a good invest-
ment both this year and in the future.
Another aspect of this bill that par-
ticularly appeals to me is the reduction
of Government interference in the agri-
cultural economy. This is always devout-
ly to be sought, and I think the Congress
has very wisely achieved this goal in this
current legislation.
We've eliminated acreage allotments.
Quite often in the past, acreage allot-
ments historically have evolved into a
financial measure of the benefit of Gov-
ernment programs, and they are bought
and traded like actual property. This bill
moves to eliminate those acreage allot-
ments.
We've also maintained an important
element in the set-aside authority for the
Agriculture Secretary. And very shortly
now, set-aside regulations will be promul-
gated by this Department.
I have to admit that the bill is about
$300 million more costly than I had per-
sonally preferred to see. But I think the
investment is a good one. And I think the
cost of this bill, because of its wise draft-
ing, will be less and less as the future
years go by.
We have an exceptional case at the
present time in agriculture, where addi-
tional expenditures are required. One of
the elements of agricultural legislation and
appropriations which is often overlooked
is that at least half the costs that are
normally attributed to an agricultural bill
are actually in the form of redeemable
loans. And this is not an expenditure
from the Federal Government; it's an
investment in a very good and sound
commodity. The loan is secured and the
loans are repaid, but under our present
accounting system, this is identified as an
expenditure, and it tends to distort in the
public mind the degree of Federal in-
vestment in agriculture.
I'd like to close by saying that I'm very
proud of the good work that has been
done this year, and in years gone by, by
Senator Talmadge, the chairman of the
Senate committee and, of course, by Tom
Foley and Bob Poage and all those Demo-
crats and Republicans who've worked
with them, both within the committee
and on the floor of Congress.
These have been tedious studies and
negotiations. Bob Bergland and his staff
in the Department of Agriculture have
worked very harmoniously with the con-
gressional leaders. And as the President of
our country, as a farmer myself, as some-
one who feels a direct responsibility to
the consumers of this country, I'm very
proud now to affix my signature onto the
Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 and
ratify into law one of the most progressive
and far-reaching pieces of legislation that
has come before me.
Thank you very much, all of you.
Unaccustomed as he is to public speak-
ing, I would still like to ask Senator Tal-
madge to say just a word, if he would.
[Laughter]
SENATOR HERMAN E.
E. TALMADGE.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. I
think you've correctly summarized the
1680
