Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 28
lies, Canada and Mexico. And we have
the Ambassadors here from those coun-
tries to take part in this ceremony.
We have about 2,000 American prison-
ers incarcerated in foreign lands. Histori-
cally we've had an arrangement with the
Scandanavian countries that when we
have their prisoners in our jails or when
they have our prisoners in their jails,
that we exchange those American citizens
and their citizens. And now we are ex-
tending this principle to Mexico and also
to Canada.
We have 575 Americans in Mexican
prisons, and we have 250 Americans in
Canadian prisons. And after negotiating
these treaties, we now have implemented
that process legally by which these prison-
ers might be exchanged.
If they so desire, Mexican and Ca-
Mexican and Ca-
nadian prisoners in our jails can go back
to their own lands to serve out their
terms, and vice versa concerning our own
American citizens in Mexican and Ca-
nadian prisons.
I think this is a major step forward. It
indicates a compatibility between our own
country and our neighbors. It shows that
we have a respect for their judicial system,
the fairness of their courts, and the trial
processes. It also, I think, will be con-
tributory toward better rehabilitation.
I think it's always easier for someone
who is in prison in their own land to have
closer connections with their peer groups
and with their neighbors, with those who
love them, with their future potential em-
ployers, so that they can work harder to-
ward a rehabilitation effort.
Of course, in Mexico, for instance,
there is no opportunity for parole for good
service in prison. When these young men
and women mostly come back to our land,
then they'll be given that opportunity if
they perform well and demonstrate their
own rehabilitation.
So, I'm very grateful that we have
passed this Senate bill 1682 which car-
ries out the provisions of the treaties al-
ready signed with Canada and Mexico.
And we will commence an immediate ex-
change of prisoners after this legislation
is signed today.
Again, I want to congratulate the Mem-
bers of Congress who have been so ef-
fective in getting this legislation passed.
[At this point, the President signed S. 1682 into
law.]
Well, congratulations, all of you, and
thank you.
Pete, would you like to say a word?
REPRESENTATIVE RODINO. Mr. Presi-
dent, my colleagues, and my friends:
Let me say that this marks, as the Pres-
ident has stated so eloquently, another
expression of America's commitment to
human rights and a deep commitment in-
deed to justice. And more importantly, I
think it is an expression of the American
people's willingness to carry out the great
concepts of this country and to be under-
standing and to be compassionate, even
though sometimes we have got to bear a
bigger burden.
I congratulate the President for his
leadership, and the members of my com-
mittee for the work they did, and all of
those who together brought this about.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Eilberg.
REPRESENTATIVE EILBERG. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to thank you very much for
the opportunity to be here. It's pleasure
enough just to be here at the bill signing,
but to be called upon to say a few words is
something that I will remember all the
rest of my life.
I want to say that without the leader-
ship of Peter Rodino, without the sub-
committee that we have, without the ex-
treme support of a totally dedicated
staff and it's really there that the credit
1919
