Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 13
House, reflects the determination on the
part of both the Congress and this admin-
istration to end the years of delay in deal-
ing with our energy problems. I hope that
the Senate will complete its action as soon
as possible on the balanced package of
incentives and taxes in the national energy
bill.
Cooperation between the administra-
tion and the congressional leadership has
been essential to the progress of the bill so
far. And I look forward to continued op-
eration on this and other vital projects.
I met with the Senate leadership this
morning for breakfast-Senator Byrd,
Alan Cranston, Danny Inouye-plus Sen-
ator Long, who has responsibility for the
tax aspects of the energy program, and
Senator Jackson, who has responsibility
for the conservation use elements of the
energy plan.
I don't underestimate the difficulty,
politically speaking, of evolving a com-
prehensive program. The one that we
put forward to the Congress is the one we
stand behind. We've had no reason to
modify our basic proposals. The House
has adopted a substantial portion of the
package that we put forward. I know that
the difficult decisions are multitudinous
that yet need to be made and that pres-
sures from special interests will continue
to be an obstacle. But I remain optimistic
that a sound, workable energy policy for
the United States will be a reality before
this Congress goes home this year.
I wish Jim Schlesinger and all those
who will be working with him the best of
luck in the difficult job they face. With
the help and support of the American
people, we can move together into a new
era of energy security.
Dr. Schlesinger and his assistants are
here to brief you on the organizational
structure of the new Department. This is a
rate of progress that has truly made me
proud. The evolution of the energy plan,
the expeditious passage through the
House, the progress that it's made so
far this week already in the Senate, and
the evolution of major legislation to estab-
lish this Department has been at a rate
that's almost unprecedented.
And I believe that it's because of his
leadership and the urgent need of this
legislation that's made our success pos-
sible so far.
Jim, I am very grateful that you have
made these accomplishments, and we
stand together as partners for the future.
SECRETARY SCHLESINGER. Thank you
very much, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
SECRETARY SCHLESINGER. We have
here, Mr. President, the seal of the De-
partment of Energy. We know that you
have many plans for reorganization. We
don't know whether this will be the only
department that you create during your
tenure, sir, but we trust that it will be
the first. The coloring indicates that we
will strike the appropriate balance be-
tween energy and environment, and we
will keep the sky blue and the grass green.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Jim.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office
Building.
Department of Energy
Announcement of Activation Date and
Nominations for Positions in the Department.
September 13, 1977
The President today submitted nomina-
tions to the Senate for key positions in
the Department of Energy (DOE) and
signed the Executive order setting Octo-
ber 1 as opening day for the new Cabinet
Department.
1583
