July 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
this is my first visit to the 39th President
of the United States of America.
I've been looking forward to this meet-
ing very much, because with it we are
deepening an acquaintance and a mutual
understanding which we were able to
renew and to develop, as you mentioned,
sir, in London. We shall be continuing
discussions which got off to a favorable
and constructive start at the summit con-
ference.
Speaking from this spot about a year
ago, I was able to pay tribute to the proud
history of your great nation and to recall
its achievements in the span of two cen-
turies. Today my thoughts turn to that
which lies ahead of us.
Let us together tackle our common
problems with determination and with
mutual understanding. Our two nations
and two countries are joined in very
strong bonds of friendship. And I would
like to underline what you just said, Mr.
President: This friendship has steadily
been developed since the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany was constituted three
decades ago, and it has never been closer
than today.
As partners in the North Atlantic Al-
liance and among the industrialized na-
tions, both our countries have a responsi-
bility to carry in a world of growing inter-
dependence. The security of our countries
is indivisible, and you Americans can
count on us to keep on making our full
contribution towards maintaining it.
We shall continue our efforts to over-
come existing tensions and to strive for
peace and to strive for cooperation in all
parts of the world, particularly in the Eu-
ropean continent.
We do act on the basis of common be-
liefs which we have reaffirmed in the past
few months. We can state with satisfac-
tion that these meetings have emitted a
message of confidence which has had a
beneficial effect on the economic develop-
ment of our two countries, in particular,
and also on that of the international com-
munity.
We are at one in our determination to
maintain peace, to enhance freedom and
human dignity in a democratic order, to
enhance free trade and economic co-
operation, and to serve the well-being of
our peoples. The identity of our ideals
and of our interests gives strength to our
alliance.
Mr. President, I'm looking forward to
our talks and to our working together.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:38 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
United States Circuit Judge
Nominating Panel for the
Fourth Circuit
Announcement of the Membership of the
Panel. July 13, 1977
The President today announced the
members of the U.S. Circuit Judge
Nominating Panel for the Fourth Circuit.
The Panel will submit, within 60 days, a
list of five names from which the Presi-
dent may select a nominee to fill the va-
cancy created by the death of the Honor-
able J. Braxton Craven, Jr. The President
asked the panel to consider only persons
from North Carolina for the vacancy.
The members of the panel are:
WESLEY M. WALKER, attorney, Greenville,
S.C., chair;
JEAN GALLOWAY BISSELL, senior vice presi-
dent, South Carolina National Bank, Co-
lumbia, S.C.;
KATHLEEN CARTER, president, Human Rela-
tions Concept, Inc., Baltimore Md.;
1242
