Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
Dealing with the
with the economy, which
we've just discussed, would be a top pri-
ority. Completing work on the energy
package would be the first specific thing
that we'll do. One of the most important
is to resolve the Panama Canal Treaty
question.
About 75 years ago in the middle of the
night the American Secretary of State
signed the Panama Canal Treaty that
presently is in existence. No Panamanian
has ever signed it; no Panamanian ever
saw it before it was signed. It was signed
by a Frenchman who benefited finan-
cially from the terms of the treaty on be-
half of the Panamanians.
That treaty gave us a chance to do a
tremendous job in building the Panama
Canal, keeping it open for international
shipping. It's helped our country a lot.
It's something of which we can be proud.
Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy
recognized that the present treaty was
inadequate. President Johnson started ne-
gotiations to change it. Presidents Nixon
and Ford continued. And we concluded
it this year.
It's one of the most difficult political
questions that we'll have to deal with. It's
going to take a lot of time in the Con-
gress to pass it.
What we wanted was one that treated
us and Panama fairly, and we got it. We
wanted a treaty that did not put a finan-
cial burden on the American taxpayer,
and we got it. We wanted treaties that
would guarantee proper operation of the
Panama Canal itself, for us and for for-
eign shipping, and we got it. We wanted
treaties that would also guarantee us per-
manently the right to take what action we
think necessary to keep the canal safe, to
defend it, and to keep it open for us to
use, and we got it.
We wanted treaties-two treaties there
are that would give us the right for ex-
peditious passage in time of need or emer-
gency, for our ships to go to the head of
the line and go through the canal without
delay, and we got it. We wanted treaties
also that would be acceptable in the eyes
of the international community, particu-
larly in Latin America, and we got them.
So, this is what we have tried to do un-
der four Presidents, and we have finally
succeeded. And I would say that would
be one of the most difficult challenges
that we have politically this year. It is ab-
solutely crucial that the Senate ratify
these treaties, and I think the terms are
very favorable to us and to Panama.
MR. BROKAW. You've got all that in the
treaty, Mr. President. Do you have the
votes in the Senate?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will get the
votes in the Senate.
MR. BROKAW. Do you not now have
them?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say for sure
that we do because many Senators still
haven't expressed their commitment to
me or their opinion. But I was talking to
President Ford this past week, who's
strongly supportive of the treaties, along
with Secretary Kissinger and others, and
he said that in his speeches to college
groups and others around the Nation,
that he is getting an increasingly favor-
able response from the audience. I think
public opinion is building up for the
treaties as they know the terms of them.
MR. MACNEIL. Could we interpret this
as the beginning of a new campaign on
your part to get out and sell the treaty?
You've been criticized for having left the
ground to the opposition somewhat. Are
you going to make a major effort person-
ally to try and sell it?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I consider it one
of my most important responsibilities.
MR. MACNEIL. And can you meet the
deadline that President Torrijos has set
of April, which he says is urgent, and
2195
