Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in Vietnam. I think there's a sense that
we've got to show our strength and show
our ability to stand firm no matter what
the challenges to us might be.
I look on the ratification of the Panama
Canal treaties as a show of strength and
as a show of national will and as a show
of fairness and as a show of confidence in
ourselves now and in the future to act if
necessary, but not to have to show that
we are strong just because we can run
over a little country.
It's much better for us to show our
strength and our ability by not being a
bully and by saying to Panama, let's work
in harmony, let's form a partnership. If
the canal is challenged either by insur-
gents or terrorists from your own country
or by outside forces we'll be there to work
with you to defend the canal, but not to
throw down a gauntlet and tell Panama,
we dare you to do anything about the
canal because we're strong enough to de-
feat any forces that you might put for-
ward.
We don't have to show our strength as
a nation by running over a small nation
because we're stronger than they are. So,
I don't see the treaties as a withdrawal.
We are retaining permanent rights to de-
fend the Panama Canal. We will operate
it with a dominant position the rest of
this century, and after the year 2000, and
this century, of course, we'll have a com-
plete right for our ships to use the Panama
Canal on a priority basis in time of either
need or emergency.
So, I don't believe we're giving up any-
thing by showing that we can work in
harmony with a small nation. We can
suffer tremendously in our reputation
among the small nations of the world not
just in Latin America but throughout the
world if we continue to try to run over
Panama just because we're strong mili-
tarily.
I don't think anybody thinks that Pan-
ama is stronger than we are militarily,
and I don't think we have to prove it by
trying to push them around. I think
they've been very fair in the negotiation
period, which has lasted 14 years. They've
been very patient. And their original, very
extreme demands, which they thought
were legitimate, have not been accepted
by us, and I think General Torrijos has
acted fairly with me. He's very concerned
about the Senate action. He's gone out of
his way to make it possible for the Senate
to vote for the treaties.
And, of course, we've tried to help him
as well. I think there'll be a new sense of
partnership and commitment based on
the strength of our country, not weakness,
in the Panama Canal Treaty effort.
Q. Thank you. Mr. President, I'm
Betty Orten from Colorado. I support the
Panama treaty, and I thank you for the
briefing. And I ask you, sir, please to con-
sider the opinions of Colorado and the
West regarding water. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that that's
been ever present on my mind ever since
I
got off the plane here. [Laughter] And
for the benefit of Coloradans and also
Georgians, I'm determined to keep the
Panama Canal full of water and to keep
our ships moving through it. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, firstly, I'd like to be
able to tell my children that I chatted
with the President. [Laughter] Norm
Johnson from Salt Lake City. I under-
stand that the board which governs the
Panama Canal will change makeup after
a period of time, and at some point-
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. That is not true?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Let me explain
it to you.
The board will always consist of nine
people for the rest of this century-five
Americans, four Panamanians. The four
1890
