July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The Chancellor, who last visited the
United States in July 1976 to celebrate
the American Bicentennial, was accom-
panied by Mrs. Schmidt. His party also
included leaders from German business,
labor, and cultural life. At the conclu-
sion of their last meeting, the Chancellor
invited the President to visit Germany,
and the President accepted in principle,
indicating that he looked forward to a
visit.
Department of Agriculture
Nomination of Sarah Weddington To Be
General Counsel. July 15, 1977
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Sarah Weddington,
of Austin, Tex., to be General Counsel of
the Department of Agriculture.
Weddington was born February 2,
1945, in Alibene, Tex. She is a member
of the Texas House of Representatives
and a specialist in family law.
She was the first woman ever elected
to the Texas Legislature from Travis
County. As a State Representative since
1974, Ms. Weddington served as a dele-
gate to the Texas Constitutional Conven-
tion of 1975, where she was a member of
the Legislative Committee.
A graduate of the University of Texas
Law School, she served for 3 years as as-
sistant reporter to the American Bar As-
sociation Special Project to Reevaluate
Ethical Standards. She practiced for a
year as assistant city attorney for Fort
Worth, resigning in 1971 to start her pri-
vate practice in Austin.
United Nations
Nomination of Allard Kenneth Lowenstein To
Be Alternate U.S. Representative for Special
Political Affairs. July 15, 1977
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Allard Kenneth
Lowenstein, of Long Beach, N.Y., to be
the Alternate Representative of the
United States of America for Special
Political Affairs in the United Nations,
with the rank of Ambassador.
Mr. Lowenstein was born January 16,
1929, in Newark, N.J. He received his
B.A. in 1949 from the University of North
Carolina and LL.B. from Yale University
Law School in 1954. He served in the
United States Army from 1954-56.
He has taught at Stanford University,
the City College of New York, Yale
School of Urban Studies, University
of Massachusetts, and the New School of
Social Research. He served as a visiting
fellow at John F. Kennedy School of
has been a special assistant to United
Government, Harvard University. He
States Senator Frank P. Graham and a
foreign policy assistant to Senator Hu-
bert H. Humphrey. From 1969-71 he was
United States Representative from the
State of New York. He is currently a
consultant with the Department of State.
United Nations
Appointment of Edward M. Mezvinsky as U.S.
Representative on the Human Rights
Commission of the Economic and
Social Council. July 15, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of Edward M. Mezvinsky
1252
