Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 6
QUESTIONS
BERT LANCE
Q. I know that this is intended, Mr.
President, to be a news conference on the
all-important subject of welfare reform.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it is.
Q. But I do feel compelled to ask
about something else that has just arisen
that is also important. Budget Director
Bert Lance has acknowledged that he re-
ceived another big loan from a bank in
which his own bank had an interest-free
account.
Now, when did you become aware of
these matters? Have you asked him for an
explanation, and does he still have your
full confidence?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer
this question, and then I would like to
have questions on the new system that
I'm proposing, because some of the spe-
cialists on welfare programs have come
down from Washington to both ask and
answer questions. But I'll be glad to an-
swer that question.
Now perhaps a question about the new
program for better jobs and income.
WELFARE COSTS
Q. Mr. President, you said your pro-
gram is designed to move people from
welfare to work?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. But you're projecting increased
costs in the future. What will be the first
year in which your program will actually
reduce the total cost of welfare, and how
low might it go?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's hard to say.
Some estimates have shown that we
might reduce the rolls for AFDC [Aid to
Families with Dependent Children] as
much as 50 percent when all of the part-
time jobs that we envision are made avail-
able to families.
We will present this program to the
Congress today in hopes that—by next
spring, perhaps, is the target date that
the Speaker has announced yesterday-
that it might be passed into law. The full
program will not possibly be implemented
I became aware of the Comptroller's until fiscal year 1981, which is October
interest in the loan at the New York bank
about, I guess, a week or 10 days ago. The
Comptroller is conducting an inquiry
with Mr. Lance. I've not talked to Mr.
Lance about it. My understanding is that
the inquiry is proceeding thoroughly and
that all information concerning the loan
will be made available to the public.
Mr. Lance, as you know, answered
questions about this yesterday. He's much
more familiar with it than I am, and I
can only say that any information that is
available that is known by Mr. Lance, by
the Comptroller, will be made available
to the public.
I know little about the details of the
loan, but I have full confidence in both
the Comptroller and Mr. Lance to handle
it properly.
of 1980.
However, in the meantime, the jobs
part of the program will be initiated as
rapidly as possible. And also, of course,
the earned income tax credit, which will
help working families, will be initiated
along with tax reform much earlier, per-
haps within the next 18 months or 2
years.
We obviously see that every time you
provide a new job for a person with our
present stimulus package-public works
programs, public service jobs, the Youth
Employment Jobs program that we ini-
tiated yesterday—a total package of $21
billion-that you put people to work and
take them off welfare.
So, I think that this new program for
both better jobs, more jobs and better in-
1445
