Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 28
Although I have signed this bill, I want
to make clear that I have serious constitu-
tional reservations about section 3(d).
That section permits Congress, by con-
current resolution, to disapprove a pro-
posed amendment to the convention. The
Congress concurrent resolution would
not be presented to the President for ap-
proval or veto. This may violate Article
I, Section 7 of the Constitution.
Pherson. From 1974 to 1976, he was bal-
listic missile defense program manager in
Arlington, Va. Since 1976 he has been
Deputy Chief of Engineers.
Marshall holds the Distinguished Serv-
ice Medal, the Silver Star, and the Legion
of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 186 is Public Law National Credit Union
95-75, approved July 28.
Mississippi River Commission
Nomination of Maj. Gen. Robert C. Marshall
To Be a Member and President of the
Commission. July 28, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Maj. Gen. Robert C.
Marshall, Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army,
to be a member and President of the Mis-
sissippi River Commission. He would re-
place Maj. Gen. Francis P. Koisch. Mar-
shall is currently Deputy Chief of En-
gineers in the Office of the Chief of En-
gineers.
He was born November 10, 1921, in
Washington, D.C. He received a B.S. in
military science from the U.S. Military
Academy and a B.C.E. in civil engineer-
ing from Cornell University.
Marshall has served in the U.S. Army
since 1943. He served in Vietnam in 1968
and 1969. From 1969 to 1973, he was
Commanding General of the SAFE
GUARD Systems Command at Redstone
Arsenal, Ala. In 1973 he was special as-
sistant to the Chief of Staff, U.S. Con-
tinental Army Command, stationed at
Fort McPherson, Ga.
In 1973 and 1974, Marshall was Dep-
uty Chief of Staff for Logistics for the
U.S. Army Forces Command at Fort Mc-
Administration
Nomination of Eloise A. Woods To Be
Chairman of the National Credit Union
Board. July 28, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Eloise A. Woods, of At-
lanta, Ga., to be Chairman of the Na-
tional Credit Union Board. She would
replace Richard H. Grant. Woods is sec-
retary, treasurer, and general manager
of the Georgia Telco Credit Union in
Atlanta.
She was born January 19, 1927, in
Okeechobee, Fla. She attended Florida
Southern College.
Woods has been with the Georgia Tel-
co Credit Union since 1947. She is also
founder and former president, and cur-
rently director and secretary, of the In-
ternational Telephone Credit Union As-
sociation. She has served as director and
vice president of the Georgia Credit
Union League and as chairperson of its
legal and legislative committee.
Woods has also served as national
director of the Credit Union National
Association, as director of the Georgia
Credit Union League Service Corp., as
director and secretary of the National
Share and Deposit Guaranty Corp., and
as director and president of the Georgia
Credit Union Deposit Insurance Corp.
1375
