Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 12, 1977
Secretary of Energy
Remarks at the Swearing In of
James R. Schlesinger. August 5, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. I've come before you this afternoon
to consummate an effort that began last
fall in discussing with Dr. James Schles-
inger the subject that's been on our mind
perhaps more than any other throughout
my own administration: the concept of
energy shortages and the attitude of
American people, how we might mini-
mize the inevitable consequences that re-
sult from an overuse of scarce supplies.
I had known Dr. Schlesinger just a few
months. He came down to Plains to talk
to me late last summer, after returning to
our country from a trip to the Far East,
including China. And I think it's ac-
curate to say that he and I liked each
other immediately and began to confer on
many subjects concerning defense, atomic
energy, foreign affairs, budget matters,
and then, finally, the most important sub-
ject of all-energy.
He has been the one that the Congress
and I and the American people have
trusted. He's put together, with the help
of an extremely able staff, working sac-
rificially, a comprehensive energy pro-
posal that the Congress is now addressing
in a very effective way.
And I think it's accurate to say that
here at the midpoint of the year's work,
past the midpoint, that the success we've
already witnessed has been in large meas-
ure due to the intelligence and capabil-
ity and the esteem which is exhibited by
Dr. Schlesinger and those who know him.
Yesterday, the Department of Energy
was created. And in an absolutely un-
precedented fashion, in just a couple of
hours, he was confirmed by the Senate
committee under Senator Scoop Jack-
son, and then on the same day was con-
firmed as the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Energy.
This is the 12th Cabinet-level depart-
ment, the first one created in the last 11
years. And it comes at a time when it's
greatly needed.
I think it's important that these new
proposals be pursued through the Con-
gress, authorized by law, and imple-
mented in the most enlightened and ef-
fective way.
I also think that the new Department
needs to be formed rapidly and efficient-
ly and effectively. I think it's important
that the head of this Department have the
trust of other Cabinet members, of the
President, of the Members of Congress,
local and State officials, and the people
of our country.
And I have chosen a person who fills
all those very profound and very impor-
1441
