Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tional arms sales around the world. We're
the worst violator at this time; the So-
viets, perhaps, next; and the French, Brit-
ish, Belgians, Germans to some degree
participate in this excessive arms sale. We
all feel that it should be cut back. How to
do it is another matter, of course, that's
very difficult to address.
We have gotten deeply involved in
African affairs, an area of the world that
we had neglected for too long, in my opin-
ion. And we there face the question of
Zimbabwe, Namibia, and we are debat-
ing, as you know, in the United Nations
this week, how to handle the recent retro-
gression of South Africa in its dealing with
freedom of the press and with freedom
of expression of opinion. I think we'll have
almost unanimity when we finally vote on
the resolution to declare a mandatory
arms embargo.
In addition, we've tried to strengthen
NATO, our commitment there, which had
been in doubt among many of our Euro-
pean allies. We're working harmoniously
with the OPEC nations, trying to restrain
any increase in the price of oil in 1978.
It's going to be a difficult achievement if
it is accomplished.
We are putting a lot of time on the
Mideast settlement, and I won't go into
any further details, but I think you recog-
nize them.
In addition, we've addressed some of
the more controversial issues that I under-
stand concern some of you-how to han-
dle our nationwide water policy to make
sure that the funds that we do have to
expand are spent in the most efficacious
way for our people. I think we have an
adequate supply of water, a greater com-
mitment to conservation.
We've got authority now for 3 years to
reorganize the executive branch of Gov-
ernment; we're making good progress on
that.
The Congress has begun hearings on a
welfare reform bill that I think will put
the emphasis on work, which I believe is a
good step in the right direction. It's highly
likely that the Congress will get the social
security funds restored to a position of in-
tegrity, whereas one of them was going
into bankruptcy within the next 2 years,
another one would follow shortly behind
that.
After the Congress adjourns and we see
what they do on energy taxation, social
security, and after we assess the quality of
our Nation's economy, we'll make the final
judgments on the tax reform package that
will be presented to the Congress before
they come back into session in 1978.
We've had an opportunity to address
other items that, in my opinion, were long
overdue. And I would guess that this first
year's work has been one that's perhaps
overly full, judged by some standards, but
I don't think so. There are none of the
matters that I've described to you, or per-
haps a dozen more that I could list, that
could stand to be delayed any further.
And the fact that the Congress is now de-
bating these issues, the public is becoming
aware of them, I think, is a very good step
in the right direction.
I'd be glad to answer any questions that
you might have. I'll try to be brief with
my answers.
QUESTIONS
INDIAN LAND CLAIMS AND LORING AIR
FORCE BASE IN MAINE
Q. Mr. President, John Day of the
Bangor News, Bangor, Maine. I'd like to
ask you a two-part question on a couple
of issues which are of vital concern to
Maine people. First of all, what are your
current thoughts on an equitable resolu-
tion of the Maine Indian land suit case,
and when will you present your recom-
mendations to Congress?
1934
