July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JULY 28, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body. I have two brief statements. One
relates to foreign affairs and defense.
The other one relates to domestic elec-
tion processes.
NUCLEAR TEST BAN NEGOTIATIONS
I'm very glad to announce that our
delegation in Geneva has just completed
trilateral discussions with delegations
from the United Kingdom and from the
Soviet Union on the possible negotiation
of a comprehensive ban against the test-
ing of nuclear weapons or peaceful nu-
clear devices. Although there are still a
number of problems that must be re-
solved, the results of these intense con-
sultations have been sufficiently promising
so that the three countries have decided to
begin formal negotiations in Geneva on
October 3. It's my hope that sufficient
basis for agreement can be reached that
all other nations of the world will join
us in the ultimate prohibition against
testing of nuclear devices.
SENATORIAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN
FINANCING
The other point I'd like to mention
is one that relates to the electoral process.
Our greatest damage to the political
process in our country comes when there
is a perception among the public that the
actions of their elected officials have been
unduly influenced by special interest
groups, and the major way that people
get that feeling is in reviewing the large
and single source campaign contributions
received by those officials.
The Senate is now considering a bill
which would help remove this obstacle
to faith and confidence on the part of
the people of this country. This bill,
known as Senate Bill 926, would extend
public financing to Senate campaigns. It
would remove the appearance of obliga-
tion to special interests. It would give
private citizens a larger role in choosing
their Senators, and it would help en-
able deserving candidates to run for office
even if they are not rich themselves. But,
most importantly, it would help restore
the public's confidence and trust in offi-
cials who have such a vital role to play
in the future of the citizens of this
country.
As you know, we now have public
financing for Presidential campaigns. It
worked very well last year—[laughter]—
with not only the successful candidate but
all of his challengers having gone
through the entire campaign without be-
ing obligated to anyone because of politi-
cal campaigns. I think this has been one
of the major factors in restoring the
confidence of our people in the system,
and I hope that the Senate will approve
their public financing bill. And I think
that they, when it's tried, will find the
same results to be applicable. The House
will consider later on similar legislation
for themselves.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
QUESTIONS
ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS IN OCCUPIED
TERRITORIES
Q. Mr. President, in your view, did
the Israeli embrace of the three settle-
ments on the West Bank diminish in
settlement in that part of the world?
any way the prospects for a negotiated
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think that
any move toward making permanent the
settlements in the occupied territories or
the establishment of new settlements ob-
1366
