Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I am not in favor of
any plowback to the oil industry. There
were proposals made in the Ways and
Means Committee starting out at about
80 percent plowback, going all the way
down to 20 percent. We opposed all those,
and eventually the House rejected this
proposal. That's still my position.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, the other night in
Los Angeles you said that for the first time
the Soviet Union has agreed to cut back
on or decrease the number of nuclear
weapons. And you suggested that a new
strategic arms agreement may be in sight,
perhaps even in the next few weeks.
Can you tell us anything more about
that? Can you tell us what kind of de-
creases may be in the works and any other
specifics about the kind of thing that is
shaping up?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the negotiations
between us and the Soviet Union have
been characterized in recent weeks by,
I would say, constructive cooperation
from both sides. My own comments have
been mirrored by the comments made by
Foreign Secretary Gromyko and also by
President Brezhnev.
I would guess that we have a fairly
good prospect within the next few weeks
of a description of the general terms for
a settlement. The details, the exact pro-
cedures by which we might verify and so
forth, would take a long and tedious nego-
tiation.
As you know, the SALT I agreement,
the so-called interim agreement, provides
for a heavy disparity between us and the
Soviets, with the Soviets having a right
to have about one-third more launchers
than we have and about one-third more
submarines than we have, about one-third
more submarine missiles than we have.
The Vladivostok agreement, which, as
you know, has never been ratified, set a
2,400 limit on launchers, 1,320 limit on
MIRV'd missiles. We hope to reduce
those levels, and there's general agree-
ment now that those levels will be re-
duced.
Also for the first time we have dis-
cussed in very strong terms and are close
to an agreement on how many land-based
ICBM MIRV'd missiles will be permit-
ted. This is a new development. But we've
not yet reached final agreement between
ourselves and the Soviet Union.
But I think, as I said in both Iowa and
Los Angeles, that within a few weeks we'll
have a demonstration of real progress.
The detailed signing of a treaty will take
longer than that.
RICHARD HELMS
Q. Mr. President, Attorney General
Griffin Bell said recently he had reached
some decision in his own mind as to
whether or not it is proper and practical
to seek an indictment against former CIA
Director Richard Helms. He also dis-
cussed some of the ways that he thought
might be used to keep sensitive material
of national security value from being re-
vealed at any trial that might ensue.
Have you reached any conclusion in
your own mind on this matter? And is the
issue of revealing national security mate-
rial sufficiently resolved now so that the
possible indictment itself?
judgment can be made on the merits of a
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. The
Attorney General has not informed me
about what his decision is. In fact, I had
not known he had made a decision until
I saw it in the press. I would presume,
though, that before that discussion is put
into final form, that he would discuss it
with me. He has not yet done so.
ASSESSMENT OF ADMINISTRATION
POLICIES
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Rhodes, the
Republican leader of the House, says that
1912
