Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
neighborhoods. They are determined that
their city will not become black, brown,
and broke, as Monsignor Baroni ยน says. It
could happen if the practices of financial
institutions, the real estate industry, big
business, and the local and State and even
the Federal Government are not stopped.
During your campaign, Mr. President,
you encouraged us to revitalize our neigh-
borhoods, and we were encouraged to do
so. But at the present time we wonder
about the depth and the extent of the
commitment of your administration to the
cities. As we hear of your proposed urban
development policies, we are afraid that
your administration perceives the urban
problem as only a black problem, as a
problem of totally devastated areas, such
as the Bronx in New York. We are also
concerned that the revitalization of the
downtown areas of our cities, often with
massive new programs, sounds suspiciously
like the urban renewal programs in the
sixties. We wonder how the new action
grants will affect our cities, and are they
going to reach people or only their in-
dustry or business?
We believe that young people should
stay in our neighborhoods. At the present
time the enticements of the banking in-
dustry are sucking our young people to
suburbia.
I would like to demonstrate it with an
example. I am in this parish 23 years.
And when our boys returned from the
war, from Korea and Vietnam, they
wanted to buy a home in our neighbor-
hood, let us say, for $12,000. In order to
buy a home in a good ethnic neigh-
borhood they had to have 50 percent
down, $6,000. In the meantime, if
1 Geno Baroni, Assistant Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development for Neighbor-
hoods, Voluntary Associations, and Consumer
Protection.
they had only $500, they could go to
suburbia and buy a home for $25,000.
And they were always told, "How can
you invest your money
your money in an old neighbor-
hood?" They couldn't understand that
those people love the roots of their ances-
tors.
We are dreaming of a community
where people can walk to church. We are
dreaming of a community where our
children are walking to school, when the
child can go down three, five blocks, and
he knows everybody, Mr. Naggie or Mr.
Kovach, and the parents don't have to
be afraid that somebody might pick him
up. We are dreaming of a neighborhood
where people know each other on a first-
name basis.
This is a beautiful life, what our people
enjoy. And this is a beautiful way of life
that we would like to keep. And we re-
sented in the past when some people
tried to antagonize various ethnic neigh-
bors, like the blacks and the Hungarians
and the Polish people. We are not en-
emies; we are friends. And we want to
combine our efforts to revitalize our neigh-
borhood, our cities. We have to realize
there are no cities in America if you don't
have neighborhoods. And if you don't
have nice, sound neighborhoods, you are
not going to have nice family life in our
Nation.
We wonder again how your banking
policy is going to affect our neighborhood,
whether the banking industry is going to
be people oriented or only for business or
for industry? We would like to see that
they would invest
they would invest money in people whom
we love very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. Thank
you Father.
As Father Hernady said, I have visited
his neighborhood, and, as some of you
may remember, I got in trouble during
the campaign talking about ethnic purity
1834
