Dec. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
it's a deep commitment of the vast ma-
jority of the Polish people, a desire and a
commitment not to be dominated.
Q. You don't deny that they are dom-
inated here, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I've com-
mented all I wish on that subject.
CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERA-
TION IN EUROPE
Q [in Polish]. Mr. President, what is
the potential for realization of the Hel-
sinki Final Act as an integral entity, es-
pecially in the view of the Belgrade meet-
ing? And what is your opinion about
Chancellor Schmidt's ยน proposal to repeat
in one or another form the meeting on the
top level?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Helsinki
agreement, which calls for cooperation
and security in Europe and which has, as
a so-called Third Basket component, an
insistence upon maximum enhancement
and preservation of human rights, is an
agreement that is important to the Poles
and also to our country and other signa-
tories of that treaty.
We believe that the Belgrade confer-
ence has been productive. This is a ques-
tion that must be approached on a multi-
national basis. The treaty terms provide
for open and frank criticism of other
signatories when standards are not met.
There has been a free exchange of opin-
ion between ourselves and the Soviet
Union and indeed all the nations in-
volved.
We hope that this session will come to
a rapid and successful conclusion and
that there will be repeated scheduled
meetings based upon the Belgrade con-
ference that would be held in the future
so that all nations who participated in the
Helsinki agreement and all those who
didn't become signatories would have a
constant reminder before them of the
1 Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany.
importance of cooperation, mutual se-
curity, the sharing of information, the
recombination of families, free emigra-
tion, and the preservation of basic hu-
man rights.
So, I hope that this will be a continu-
ing process scheduled repeatedly and that
this issue of human rights will never be
forgotten.
Yes, Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Mr. President, then how satisfied
are you that your concept of the preserva-
tion of human rights is currently being
honored here in Poland?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that our con-
cept of human rights is preserved in Po-
land, as I've said, much better than
(some)2 other European nations with
which I'm familiar. There is a substan-
tial degree of freedom of the press ex-
hibited by this conference this afternoon;
a substantial degree of freedom of re-
ligion, demonstrated by the fact that ap-
proximately 90 percent of the Polish peo-
ple profess faith in Christ; and an open
relationship between Poland and our
country and Poland and Western Eu-
ropean countries in trade, technology,
cultural exchange, student exchange,
tourism.
So, I don't think there's any doubt that
the will of the Polish people for complete
preservation and enhancement of human
rights is the same as our own.
Q. What steps, then, do you believe
should be taken here in Poland to come
closer to reaching your concept?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think Poland
shares with us a commitment, which is
sometimes embarrassing for us and them,
to have our own faults publicized evoca-
tively at conferences like the one in Bel-
grade, where there's a free and open dis-
cussion and criticism and a singular point-
2 Printed in the White House Press Office
transcript.
2208
