Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 10
down is causing this problem to be felt
in all nations. We hope, though, that it
will come down next year as it began to
come down this year.
Q. Could I follow?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. Will you accept a Humphrey-
Hawkins full employment bill that sets a
goal of 4 percent unemployment within
5 years?
THE PRESIDENT. We've been working
very closely with the congressional lead-
ers, including my personal conversations
with Congressman Hawkins and Senator
Humphrey. The Humphrey-Hawkins bill
is a concept that I endorse and support.
This bill has been constantly modified
since it was introduced several years ago,
as you know.
We expect to have an announcement
about the administration's position on
Humphrey-Hawkins within the next few
days. There are some important aspects
of the bill that have been modified re-
cently. One is to inject into the bill's con-
cepts a strong anti-inflation commitment
in addition to the anti-unemployment
commitment. Also, from the bill have been
removed the direct authorizations for pro-
grams that might have been very costly.
They would have to be considered step
by step by the Congress as required.
Another thing that has been added to
the recent version of the bill is some flex-
ibility to accommodate changing times in
the future. My belief is that these specific
modifications by the authors of the bill and
their staffs, working with my staff, can be
realized. And my expectation is that we
will have a successful conclusion of these
negotiations and then that the bill will be
presented to the Congress with my en-
dorsement.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, you had a meeting
yesterday on national health insurance.
And I know that you don't have a pro-
gram to present at this time, but can you
give us some clue as to your thinking of
where you are going with national health
insurance, and have you got any kind of
timetable in mind?
THE PRESIDENT. It's too early yet to
lay down specifics on a national health in-
surance program. This was a concept that
was endorsed by all the candidates for
President last year, and it's a need in our
country that this entire health care system
be improved. One of them is to cut down
the exorbitant increases in national health
care, particularly hospital costs.
We've already initiated a major effort
on a hospital cost containment bill. These
costs have been doubling every 5 years,
which makes it almost impossible to give
better health care because the costs have
gone up so rapidly there.
Also, there are many facets of national
health care in addition to just health in-
surance. Physical fitness is obviously one;
air and water pollution problems, preven-
tion of disease, expansion of the medical
personnel that can give health care. And
we've just signed a bill that provides for
so-called physician extenders to let reg-
istered nurses and others do more of the
work in health care.
I would say, since this was just an ex-
ploratory talk, and my first one, yesterday,
with my top staff members and Cabinet
members, that it's too early to lay down
a schedule. But we'll be working on this
now with increasing commitment, and I
think by early next year, the principles of
the national health program will be out-
lined to the American people.
RICHARD HELMS
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Helms' attorney
says that his client will wear his convic-
tion on charges of failing to testify fully
before Congress as a badge of honor. Do
you think it's a badge of honor, and do
1995
