Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 14, 1977
Veterans Benefits
Statement on Signing S. 1307 Into Law.
October 8, 1977
I am today signing S. 1307, a bill which
provides standards for discharge review
and benefit eligibility for those persons
whose discharge is upgraded by the De-
partment of Defense under the Special
Discharge Review Program and for cer-
tain other veterans.
While I believe several of the bill's
provisions can be improved-and I will
propose legislation next year to do so-
S. 1307 properly recognizes the need for
an equitable and compassionate attitude
toward the many veterans who received
less than honorable discharges.
One of my first official acts as President
was the pardon of those persons who vio-
lated selective service laws during the era
of the Vietnam war, a war which divided
the American people. By this action,
thousands of persons were relieved of
sible prosecution for violations of the
Military Selective Service Act.
pos-
In addition, I directed the Secretary
of Defense to develop an administrative
program to deal with those persons who
received less than honorable discharges
during the Vietnam war era. Under the
Special Discharge Review Program de-
veloped by the Department of Defense,
with the advice of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, 28,000 applicants have been re-
viewed to date, and 16,000 persons have
had their discharges upgraded. The Re-
view Program has freed many young per-
sons from the social and employment
hardships that resulted from their less
than honorable discharges.
This Special Discharge Review Pro-
gram gave Congress the opportunity, by
passing S. 1307, to evaluate the treatment
given to all veterans with less than honor-
able discharges, regardless of the era in
which they served. Through S. 1307, the
Congress has provided all veterans with
less than honorable discharges the oppor-
tunity to apply for an upgraded status.
Nothing in this bill detracts from the
impact of the Presidential pardon or the
Special Discharge Review Program in
helping to wipe the records of these vet-
erans clean.
S. 1307 accomplishes many positive
benefits for veterans:
-For the first time, all veterans, re-
gardless of the time of their service, will
have their applications for discharge up-
grading and for benefit eligibility deter-
mined by uniform nationwide standards.
Thus, pre-Vietnam era, post-Vietnam
era, and Vietnam era veterans will all be
judged by the same nationwide standards.
-Veterans with less than honorable
discharges, as well as those upgraded
under the Special Discharge Review Pro-
gram, will automatically be eligible for
1757
