Dec. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ing the traditional friendship between our
nations.
We are glad, indeed, that we shall be
able to acquaint you with the record of
accomplishment of Socialist Poland, with
its plans and aspirations with all that at a
price of a relentless effort, painstaking and
self-sacrificing labors our nation has built
on the ruins and ashes.
Ours is the desire that your visit to
Poland serve actions which link our peo-
ples together and that it may engrave well
in the good memories of yourself, Mr.
President, Mrs. Carter, and the members
of your party.
Welcome on the Polish soil, Mr. Presi-
dent, in the spirit of the Polish hospitality.
THE PRESIDENT. First Secretary Gierek,
distinguished officials from Poland and
from other nations, the people of Poland:
We are delighted to be in your great
country. When I left the United States
this morning, I told the people of my Na-
tion that this journey reflects the diversity
of a rapidly changing world. It is a world
in which old ideological labels have lost
their meaning and in which the basic goals
of friendship, world peace, justice, human
rights, and individual freedom loom more
important than ever.
I am proud to begin this journey in
Poland-friend of the United States since
the time our Nation was founded. Poland
is the ancestral home of more than six
million Americans, partner in a common
effort against war and deprivation.
Relations are changing between North
and South, between East and West. But
the ties between Poland and the United
States are ancient and strong.
Not far from our home in the State of
Georgia, a great patriot of both our na-
tions, Casimir Pulaski, was mortally
wounded while leading a cavalry legion
in the fight for American independence.
The home of my son's wife is Pulaski
County, Georgia, named for this hero
from Poland.
Also, for his military skill and bravery,
Thaddeus Kosciuszko won the respect of
our first President, George Washington,
during wartime. And for his commitment
to freedom and justice, he won the ad-
miration of our third President, Thomas
Jefferson, in time of peace.
These brave men fought alongside
Americans in the era which produced
three of the great documents in the
struggle for human rights. One was the
Declaration of Independence from Amer-
ica. The second was the Declaration of
the Rights of Man from France. And the
third was the Polish Constitution of
May 3, 1791.
Our shared experience in battle has
also taught us the paramount importance
of preventing war, which has brought
devastation to Poland twice in this cen-
tury. At the end of World War I, a great
American, Herbert Hoover, came to Po-
land to help you ease the suffering of war
and to observe the reestablishment of an
independent Poland. Circumstances were
different and the struggle was long, but
Hoover said, and I quote, "If history
teaches us anything, it is that from the
unquenchable vitality of the Polish race,
Poland will rise again from these ashes."
And his prediction came true.
I have come not only to express our
own views to the people of Poland but also
to learn your opinions and to understand
your desires for the future. Building on the
historical ties between us, recognizing the
new and changing realities of life, I look
forward to strengthening Polish-American
friendship on my visit here in Warsaw.
2204
