Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of nations, we failed to address the deepest sources of potential conflict
among us.
As we seek to establish the principles of détente among the major
nuclear powers, we believe that these principles must also apply in re-
gional conflicts.
The United States is committed to the peaceful settlement of dif-
ferences. We are committed to the strengthening of the peacemaking
capabilities of the United Nations and regional organizations, such as
the Organization of African Unity and the Organization of American
States.
The United States supports Great Britain's efforts to bring about a
peaceful, rapid transition to majority rule and independence in Zim-
babwe. We have joined other members of the Security Council last
week and also the Secretary General in efforts to bring about independ-
ence and democratic rule in Namibia. We are pleased with the level of
cooperation that we have achieved with the leaders of the nations in
the area, as well as those people who are struggling for independence.
We urge South Africa and other nations to support the proposed
solution to the problems in Zimbabwe and to cooperate still more closely
in providing for a smooth and prompt transition in Namibia. But it is
essential that all outside nations exercise restraint in their actions in
Zimbabwe and Namibia so that we can bring about this majority rule
and avoid a widening war that could engulf the southern half of the
African Continent.
Of all the regional conflicts in the world, none holds more menace
than the Middle East. War there has already carried the world to the
edge of nuclear confrontation. It has already disrupted the world econ-
omy and imposed severe hardships on the people in the developed and
the developing nations alike.
So, true peace-peace embodied in binding treaties—is essential.
It will be in the interest of the Israelis and the Arabs. It is in the interest
of the American people. It is in the interest of the entire world.
The United Nations Security Council has provided the basis for
peace in Resolutions 242 and 338, but negotiations in good faith by all
parties is needed to give substance to peace.
Such good faith negotiations must be inspired by a recognition that
all nations in the area—Israel and the Arab countries have a right to
exist in peace, with early establishment of economic and cultural ex-
change and of normal diplomatic relations. Peace must include a process
1720
