July 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mr. President, today you are where it's
at. When you get to the East Coast you
will be where it's going to be.
REPRESENTATIVE BOGGS. Mr. President,
it was a joy and a privilege to have a
President who was so well prepared, tech-
nically, to pose the right questions and
then understand the answers on the rig.
And I was especially pleased that you rec-
ognize the expertness with which the
workers were performing their duties, be-
cause our onshore capabilities in Loui-
siana should help us in being able to
acquire some of the research and develop-
ment funds for the alternative sources of
energy such as the o-tech (ocean tech-
nology) problems, and also geopressure
(geopressurized brine). So that I hope
you have been well impressed with the
workmanship and with our capability.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 11:30 a.m. at the Airport Hilton Hotel.
Earlier in the morning, the President had
visited the Yorktown oil drilling rig off the
coast of Louisiana.
Interview With the National
Black Network
Question-and-Answer Session
With Representatives of the
Network. July 18, 1977
MR. SANDERS. We will begin our ques-
tions with Joe Brown.
MR. BROWN. Mr. President, welcome
to "Black Issues and the Black Press."
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I am glad
to be with you.
NEW YORK CITY POWER BLACKOUT
MR. BROWN. Some leaders say that the
violence that erupted during New York
City's blackout and the deprivation in
New York City and other black communi-
ties is tied to what they call a powder
keg with other cities around the country.
And if that is true, do you prefer or do
you favor a preferential treatment for
blacks in order to work off this type of
reaction around the country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, it is
of great concern to the whole Nation
when violence occurs, when theft occurs
or looting occurs or damage to property
or persons occurs. There is no excuse for
it. But it is also important that public offi-
cials like myself try to understand the
reasons for it.
Obviously, the number one contribut-
ing factor to crime of all kinds, in my
opinion, is high unemployment among
young people, particularly those who are
black or Spanish-speaking or in a minority
age or group where they have such a diffi-
cult time getting jobs in times of eco-
nomic problems.
We have begun to study the reasons for
the entire incident in New York. I think
had the power companies notified home-
owners immediately to turn off air con-
ditioners, TV sets, and cut down on power
consumption, the crisis could have been
avoided. If we had a comprehensive na-
tionwide grid system where we could feed
in power when a certain area has its
source disrupted, that would have helped.
If we had some closer working relation-
ship between local, State, and Federal au-
thorities with the power companies, that
would have helped.
But the long-range problem is to re-
store confidence of citizens who live in a
community in the structure of govern-
ment, police officers, the housing oppor-
tunities, good jobs, and this obviously was
not the case in New York. So, I think that
this is an additional indication of the need
to channel government programs for
housing, health, education, job opportuni-
1340
