Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 21
ernment had made loans to minority
business people as a political payoff, I
might add, before I came into the White
House and we're trying to stop that,
also. I had a meeting today with Parren
Mitchell, who is head of the Black Cau-
cus, this morning, and as we put into
effect changes in how to make these loans,
we want to be sure that we don't have dis-
crimination against minority entrepre-
neurs and also that when a loan is made,
that it's not only sound but that that per-
son who borrows the money has a constant
attention given to him or her to make sure
that the business is successful and that
the loan is repaid.
I can't say to you that we have done
enough in that respect in the past. But I
can guarantee to you that we'll do much
better in the future.
LIFE AS PRESIDENT
Q. Mr. Carter, my name is Mary
Tucker and I would like to know how is
it to be a President?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mary.
Well, Mary Tucker, nothing would
please me better in about 30 years than to
have you find out how it is to be President
by living in the White House yourself as
President. And if you're running, remind
me and I'll vote for you if Amy doesn't
run. Okay? [Laughter]
Let me say though, to answer your ques-
tion additionally, it's a good life. I spent
2 years, Miss Tucker, campaigning
around this country. I came into Missis-
sippi a lot of times. So did my wife, all
three of my sons, all three of my daugh-
ters-in-law, my mother and my sister and
many Georgians. And we learned a lot
about Mississippi and we learned a lot
about the other States in the Nation. And
I think a lot of people got to know me.
Now, I feel that people like you and
your parents have put a lot of responsi-
bility on my shoulders and a lot of faith
in me. And I think that as long as I am
able to come out like this and meet with
you and others and learn, that I can do a
good job.
We've brought our family back to-
gether. We had been separated for almost
2 years. Amy was only 2 years old when I
was elected Governor and she was 3 years
old when I moved into the Governor's
Mansion. Now she's just 9, but she is en-
joying living in the White House, too.
She goes to the public school right down
the street. She has a cat and a dog and a
treehouse, and she has a lot of her friends
come into the White House. So, we have
a good family life.
I've had a good chance so far to work
with the Members of the Congress. Your
own Senator Stennis and Senator East-
land and Sonny Montgomery, your Con-
gressman, have been a lot of help to me.
I had Governor Finch up to the White
House a week or so ago to help me with
energy problems. So, I have a lot of help.
So, in general, it's been a very pleasant
job. The working conditions are good. My
office is near my home and the people have
been very nice to me so far. And I just
hope I don't ever betray the trust that
all of you have placed in me. And I hope
that you'll come up sometimes and visit
me in the White House and also have a
chance to play with Amy for a few min-
utes. Would you do that?
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Everett
Beers. I strongly support your position on
human rights as manifested in your for-
eign policy statements. I'm very sorry that
I missed your remarks on human rights
this afternoon. But I would like to know,
aside from the rhetoric that's been gen-
erated, can we really hope to influence the
world community on human rights issues,
and how can you conscientiously justify
excluding our allies such as Korea and
1323
