Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 15
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
MR. VRIESMAN. Mr. President, the next
question comes from Phil Mueller,
KSL-AM, Salt Lake City. With interest
rates going up and the Fed's discount rate
moving up, are we on the brink of a
recession?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think not. As
you know, I've met with probably 25 or
30 leaders of foreign nations. And the eco-
nomic problems worldwide-France has
a growth rate less than 3 percent per year,
their inflation rate is about 9 or 10 per-
cent, and their unemployment rate is, I
think, the highest it has been in 25 or 30
years. They are a strong nation compared
to many others in Europe.
We are not facing a recession. Our own
growth rate this year has been extraordi-
narily high. There's no way that we can
maintain the growth rate that we experi-
enced the first 6 months. But I would say
that, even in the last 6 months of this
year, our growth rate would be averaging
out for the entire year 5 or 6 percent, low-
est in the last 6 months than in the first.
This is in accordance with the projections
that we made earlier. Our unemployment
rate since last November, during the time
I've been in office, has dropped about a
full 1 percent. And, of course, the infla-
tion rate is down as well.
We've got problems in the economy.
There are some particular weak points
among minority citizens and also, particu-
larly, among young people, both white
young people and otherwise. But every in-
dication is that we'll have about the same
rate of economic growth in 1978 as we will
have the last half of 1977.
We anticipate that the unemployment
rate will continue to decrease slowly, but
steadily. And, of course, a big threat to
us is to make sure that in the process we
don't let inflation get out of hand. But I
would say now the prospects are very good
that we'll have a sustained growth in the
economy that's adequate.
We've just got projections of business
investment plans, and including inflation,
they run about 132 percent, which is
very high. And even discounting maxi-
mum inflation rates, we think that busi-
ness investments will be about 8½ per-
cent higher than they were a year ago.
So, things look pretty good from my
perspective.
ENERGY
MR. VRIESMAN. Mr. President, this will
be your
final question. The question, Mr.
President, comes from Fred Blackman of
WGHP-Television, High Point, North
Carolina. Recent reports indicate there
will be an oil surplus this winter, that the
oil companies' estimates for consumer
needs is too high. How can your adminis-
tration justify calls for stringent conserva-
tion measures in the light of such reports?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't vouch for
the accuracy of that report. We've had in
the first half of this year a rate of im-
porting oil-it's higher than any we've
ever experienced in the history of our
country. We anticipate a trade imbalance,
a negative trade balance this year of $25
to $30 billion primarily because of exces-
sive oil imports.
Our consumption of gasoline this sum-
mer in automobile driving was up in a dis-
turbing degree. We've just simply not con-
served the consumption of energy in our
own country. For the same standard of
living, compared to countries like Sweden
or Germany or Japan and so forth, we
consume about twice as much energy per
person as citizens in those other nations.
So, we have a very serious problem
that's going to get worse in the future if
1599
