Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 7
devastation there. It's absolutely heart-
breaking, and I realize after campaigning
throughout this country that this is not a
unique area. There are other urban areas
like this where crime is rampant, where
living conditions that we all take for
granted are completely absent, where de-
terioration diminishes hope, and where
there's an ingrained distrust of the con-
cern and the ability of government to
meet legitimate needs.
But I believe that the people there ex-
hibited a sense of confidence and appre-
ciation and hope, and I'm determined
not to disappoint them. And I need your
help in this effort.
There are just a couple of other points
I want to make.
On a worldwide basis we have restored
our own Nation's commitment to basic
human rights. There's not a single leader
in the world among almost 150 nations
who doesn't have before him or her a
constant concern about this question:
"How am I and my government treating
the people who look to me for leadership?
What does the outside world think about
my nation as I deal with the needs of
human beings and the question of human
freedom?" It's a new development.
And in the conference that's going on
now in Belgrade to assess the progress
from the Helsinki signing of the treaties,
there's a deep and penetrating and non-
confrontational assessment of how well
we are all doing.
We don't claim to be perfect or holy.
We've got our own problems in this coun-
try. The first time I met Ambassador
Dobrynin, that was a major subject of
the discussion. And he said to me, "At
least in the Soviet Union our women have
equal rights."
We are moving to assess our own prob-
lems, to correct our own defects and, at
the same time, in a constructive way
holding open for complete debate the
deprivation of rights in other countries.
This is not an easy subject to raise. It's
sensitive. It creates controversy. But it
could not any longer be ignored.
I want our Nation to be one where
there is an intense internal pride in what
we stand for and a reaffirmation of our
commitment to the principles on which
our Nation was formed. And I believe
that we've restored that spirit, because
now the United States of America is again
identified with the question of human
freedom and human rights, and I want to
keep that image before the world as long
as I'm in office.
Just one other thing: I know that in
many of these issues and I could go on
for another 10 minutes itemizing them
for you there will be specific portions
and sometimes misinterpretations pre-
sented to you that cause you to doubt
and also to refrain from giving me your
full support. I need your support, your
open, aggressive, and courageous support.
In a few minutes, you'll be receiving an
analysis of the Panama Canal Treaty
from Ambassador Bunker. There is no
doubt in my mind that our country's best
interest will be served by the ratification
of this treaty, these treaties-two of them.
Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon,
Ford have all, seen a need to modify the
present treaty arrangements with Pan-
ama. And now we've been successful in
bringing forth two treaties that serve our
Nation well, our Nation's defense.
Jim Schlesinger, Melvin Laird, the five
Joint Chiefs of Staff, our present Secre-
tary of Defense, Paul Nitze, many others
agree that our defense needs are well
served by these treaties. President Ford,
Secretary Kissinger, Secretary Rogers,
Secretary Dean Rusk have all committed
themselves to help passing these treaties
through the Senate.
1749
