Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 3
establishing and maintaining a chain of
command among prisoners of war or de-
tained personnel. The senior member of
all Services must be provided the neces-
sary command authority over all members
of the Armed Forces with whom he is
imprisoned or detained. The present
wording in the Manual for Courts-
Martial should be amended to provide
such authority.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the
authority vested in me by the Uniform
Code of Military Justice (Chapter 47 of
Title 10 of the United States Code) and
as President of the United States of
America, the Manual for Courts-Martial,
United States, 1969 (Revised Edition),
prescribed by Executive Order No. 11476
and amended by Executive Order No.
11835, is hereby further amended as
follows:
SECTION 1. The third paragraph with-
in paragraph 168 is amended by striking
out the third sentence and inserting the
following in place thereof:
"A commissioned officer of one armed
force is not 'his superior commissioned
officer' with respect to a member of an-
other armed force merely because of
higher rank. However, a commissioned
officer of one armed force is, within the
meaning of Article 89, 'his superior com-
missioned officer' with respect to a mem-
ber of another armed force if duly placed
in the chain of command over that per-
son. In addition, when members of more
than one armed force are prisoners of war
or otherwise detained by a hostile entity
so that circumstances prevent resort to the
normal chain of command, a commis-
sioned officer of one armed force who is
not a medical officer or chaplain is 'his
superior commissioned officer' with re-
spect to a member of another armed force
who is his junior in rank.".
paragraph 170a is amended by inserting
the following after the second sentence:
"A warrant officer, noncommissioned
officer, or petty officer of one armed force
who is senior in rank to a member of
another armed force is senior to that
member under the same circumstances
that a commissioned officer of one armed
force is the superior commissioned officer
of a member of another armed force for
the purpose of Article 89 and 90. See
168.".
SEC. 3. The first paragraph within
paragraph 1716 is amended by inserting
the following after "See 138b":
"A member of one armed force who is
senior in rank to a member of another
armed force is the superior of that mem-
ber with authority to issue orders which
that member has a duty to obey under
the same circumstances as a commissioned
officer of one armed force is the superior
commissioned officer of a member of an-
other armed force for the purposes of
Articles 89 and 90. See 168.".
The White House,
November 3, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:52 p.m., November 3, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was announced
by the White House Press Office on Novem-
ber 3. It was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
Defense Meritorious Service
Medal
Executive Order 12019. November 3, 1977
ESTABLISHING THE DEFENSE MERITORI-
OUS SERVICE MEDAL
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President of the United States of
SEC. 2. The first paragraph within America, and as Commander in Chief of
1959
