Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 14
obviously, the pollution decisions, the
occupational, safety, and health pro-
visions, and also the matter of strip min-
ing laws. We tabulate those, and that's
part of the discussions that we give to the
Congress when we have new proposals to
put forward and, obviously, part of the
considerations within our own decision-
making process.
At the present time about, I believe,
six percent of all industrial investment is
in pollution control devices. I would not
advocate to the Congress that we lower
the standards on air and water pollution.
And I supported and was glad to sign the
strip mining law this year.
We can, however, encourage business
in its attempt to overcome that drain on
capital investment funds by modifications
in the income tax laws and rates, by more
rapid depreciation for those investments,
and also by some modification in invest-
ment tax credits-maybe concentrated on
those items that don't contribute to busi-
ness profits, but do contribute to a better
life for the people who live in those
communities.
I think that's the only way I can ex-
plain our attempt to at least partially
compensate for that drain on capital that
is needed for business investment in the
future. I think, though, that there is a
growing realization in the Environmental
Protection Agency, EPA, that predicta-
bility has been lacking in the past. And
if a business executive who does have to
spend substantial amounts of money for
new equipment for meeting air and water
pollution standards, if they have some
long-range realization of what will be re-
quired and the regulations won't be
changed every year or two, that that in
itself would be of help.
I particularly would be eager for you,
through Secretary Kreps or through any
member of my staff, to point out now or
in the future particularly onerous require-
ments on you that you think are unfair.
And that applies to almost any aspect
of Government regulation or decision that
affects your lives.
I called in, for instance, all the State
school superintendents and some of the
leading presidents of our university sys-
tems, and they gave me lists of reports and
regulations that they thought were both
onerous and unnecessary. And we were
very glad to get those.
Bert Lance and Jim McIntyre took
those recommendations, assessed them; a
few of them were found to be required by
law. We have presented those to the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
asked them to remove those requirements.
Others could be changed by Executive
decision. This constant admonition from
leaders like yourselves, or complaints
about the way government programs are
administered is exactly what we need.
I would like to say one thing in closing,
and then I have to leave. My own admin-
istration has a heavy commitment to the
autonomy and responsibility of the mem-
bers of the Cabinet. In the past there have
been Presidents, both Democratic and Re-
publican, who operated the Government
in an administrative way out of the Oval
Office. I have no inclination to do that.
I do work very closely with the members
of the Cabinet in evolving basic policy,
and I demand from them that they keep
me informed about what's going on. But
there has never been and never will be an
occasion when any of my staff members in
the White House try to run the affairs in
administering the major departments of
Government.
So, I would urge you to get personally
acquainted, if you're not already, with the
2113
