Nov. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
large, unnecessary expenditures for a tech-
nologically obsolete project and without
imperiling our shared desire for halting the
uncontrolled spread of nuclear weapons
capability.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 5, 1977.
Emergency Medical Services
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4535. November 5, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Each week more than one thousand
Americans lose their lives due to accidents
and illnesses because emergency medical
assistance is either unavailable or inade-
quate.
In 1968 the Department of Transpor-
tation issued a national uniform standard,
"Emergency Medical Services," under
the Highway Safety Act of 1966. This
Federal initiative has provided essential
training courses for emergency medical
personnel, vital communications for citi-
zen access, quicker responses and physi-
cian direction, and important specifica-
tions for ambulances, including necessary
medical equipment and uniform colors
and markings.
We salute the Nation's emergency per-
sonnel, upon whose skill and dedication
we all depend.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate the week be-
ginning November 6, 1977, as Emergency
Medical Services Week.
I call upon the Governors and Mayors
and all other State and local officials to
assist hospital administrators and physi-
cians, fire departments, public safety
agencies and ambulance services in im-
proving emergency medical services.
I call upon Federal agencies, especially
the Departments of Transportation and
Health, Education, and Welfare to con-
tinue, with renewed emphasis, their as-
sistance to States and communities in
their efforts to help those in need of emer-
gency medical assistance.
I call upon the American people to lend
their support to these efforts in order that
we may assure that no individual in this
country will suffer due to the lack of
available or adequate emergency help
when in need.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fifth day of Novem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred seventy-seven, and of the Indepen-
dence of the United States of America the
two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:28 p.m., November 7, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on November 7.
Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation
Nomination of William M. Isaac To Be a
Member of the Board of Directors.
November 7, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate William M. Isaac, of Louis-
ville, Ky., to be a member of the Board of
Directors of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation (FDIC). He would re-
place Robert Barnett, resigned.
Isaac was born December 21, 1943, in
Bryan, Ohio. He received a B.S. in busi-
1974
