Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
dor for the enhancement of human rights,
and our thanks to the leaders of Ecuador
for supporting our strong position in im-
proving human rights taken in the last
Organization of American States meeting.
We also are very excited and pleased to
see the move of the leaders of your coun-
try toward democratic elections that will
commence perhaps next year. And we
congratulated Admiral Poveda on this
decision.
We discussed the statement by the
Peruvian President that additional pur-
chase of arms and weapons by Peru was
not planned, the gratitude that we have
for improved relationships between Ecua-
dor and Peru. We discussed the future
possibility of access by Ecuador to the
Amazon River, although the prospects
are not good at this point. The discus-
sions, I think, will be accelerated in the
future.
We discussed the delivery of landing
craft from our country to Ecuador and
the upcoming delivery of a new destroyer.
And I also expressed my thanks that the
desire of Ecuador for army and navy
equipment was obviously predicated on
defense of your country and not offense
against any other nation.
We reemphasized our appreciation to
the people of Ecuador for supplying oil to
our country during the 1973 embargo
and the gratitude that we feel for this ex-
pression of friendship to us.
We had long discussions about these
items, and I think the meetings were very
helpful to me in understanding the special
problems and opportunities that exist in
Ecuador.
We discussed other matters-oil ex-
ploration, enhancement of
your port facil-
ities, construction of new highways, the
high percentage of your national budget
that's spent for education, improvement of
health care. These kind of things are very
good for us to see.
REPORTER. Thank you very much, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you again.
NOTE: The exchange began at 12:10 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
Meeting With President Hugo
Banzer Suarez of Bolivia
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting.
September 8, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we had a very
with President
thorough discussion
Banzer of the good relationships between
ourselves and your country. We examined
the maps of the possible route to the sea
for Bolivia, just north of Arica in Chile.
And our hope is that Bolivia, Chile,
and Peru can agree on some corridor
which will permit Bolivia to have direct
access to the sea on Bolivian territory.
We have no authority over the nations
involved, but we have expressed our hope
to Presidents Pinochet and Morales Ber-
mudez that this might be accomplished.
We also discussed the progress that
Bolivia has made in reducing the traffic
in drugs, particularly cocaine, that comes
to North America.
And I expressed my sincere hope that
the Americans who are in Bolivian pris-
ons and who have not yet been tried
might have their cases examined very
soon. Three of these prisoners are very ill.
And we hope that within the bounds of
Bolivian law, that their cases might be re-
solved very early.
This is a serious problem in our coun-
try. The parents of these prisoners, and
families, have aroused a great deal of in-
terest among American citizens, and
1550
