Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
We support the 1977 best practicable
technology level. But at that point then I
think we need to bring into play the Sec-
tion 208 of that law, which is the area-
wide waste management planning sec-
tion, which will cover a major part area-
wide of the State of Colorado, because
the greater part of it is rural, and go in
that direction first before we push too
hard for the 1983 best available technol-
ogy.
And I say that for this reason: I said
earlier that we return 85 percent of the
water that we use in that plant to the river
for use east of Pueblo. If we at this point
in time, while we are meeting the stand-
ards now if we have to go to the best
available technology level, we are going
to have to destroy a volume of water
equal to 10 percent of what will be
brought into the Arkansas River Basin by
means of the Franklin Arkansas Project.
We think that that destruction and
what it will do to the economy east of
Pueblo, plus what it's going to require in
energy use to get that destruction, puts us
into an economically unsound area. And
we believe that we should move into the
208 area at this point and bring it to frui-
tion with the planning which is one of the
best things in that bill, because it allows
local participation to set the needs.
And in that connection, I would like
to mention, I understand the conference
committee on 3199 has made a recom-
mendation, whether it will clear or not,
that the funding for that section should
be extended at least 2 years in order to
allow orderly and continuing planning
under that 208 section, because, as you
recall, that's a 2-year program, and what
many areas are doing in order to get the
funding and get in, they are rushing it.
We are getting hurried planning, and I'm
afraid we are not going to get good
enough planning for what we want in the
future.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Mr. Atkins.
I mentioned earlier the special concern
about Indian rights. We have with us to-
day Leonard Burch, who is the tribal
chairman of the Southern Utes, and I
would like to call on him. And I would
like to ask him and the other panelists,
since most of the items have been covered,
to be as brief as you can, because at about
2:30 I would like to go to the audience
for questions. So, please keep your state-
ments as brief as you can, the other panel-
ists.
Mr. Burch.
INDIAN TRIBAL RIGHTS
MR. BURCH. Thank you, Mr. President.
As representative of the Indians that
call Colorado their home, we would like
to welcome you to our State. I hope this
is not your last visit. We would like for
you to come back and see us.
On the national Indian water policy,
there was a meeting in Washington on
October 12, and the two national organi-
zations the National Tribal Chairmen's
Association and the National Congress of
American Indians-are working together
with Assistant Secretary Forrest Gerard
in coming up with a national Indian
water policy.
So, I am certainly glad that you brought
this up in your opening remarks, Mr.
President, about the concern that is the
concern of all the Indians across the
country, of the water issues that face
them. Each one of these issues that do
face the Indian tribes across the country
is very unique in certain ways. So, I am
glad that you have mentioned it and that
Secretary Andrus, in working with the
national organization and the consulta-
tion with the Indian leaders that you
1873
