Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
(c) is recommended for such an ap-
pointment by the employing agency in
which the career-related work was per-
formed; and,
(d) satisfies such other requirements
and conditions as the Civil Service Com-
mission may prescribe for career or career-
conditional appointment of an individual
in career-related work-study programs.
SEC. 3. The Civil Service Commission
shall prescribe such regulations as it deems
necessary to carry out the provisions of
this order and to provide for the con-
tinuation of planning, implementation
and evaluation of employment programs
for students throughout the Government.
These regulations shall provide for the
periodic evaluation of the work of each
student and require that each student's
continuation in the program shall be
dependent upon a finding of satisfactory
performance.
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11813 of
October 7, 1974, is hereby revoked.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 26, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:25 p.m., October 27, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was announced by
the White House Press Office on October 26.
It was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
OCTOBER 27, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. I have
a brief statement to make before I take
questions.
ENERGY AND TAX REFORM LEGISLATION
Action on a national energy policy is a
test of the ability of our democratic sys-
tem to respond to a recognized threat be-
fore it seriously damages our Nation and
our economy, and we will all be measured
by the courage which we are able to mus-
ter to face up to this energy problem.
The debate that's now going on con-
cerning the National Energy Plan is not a
contest between the executive branch and
the Congress nor between the House of
Representatives and the Senate. It's a test
of our national will.
We must protect the American people
and also avoid unfair windfall profits. We
must also meet our stated objectives on
conservation, on production, and on the
shift of consumption to other sources of
energy other than gas and oil. And we
must not let the formation of a national
energy policy break our budget.
Nothing less is at stake than the ability
of our own Nation to act independently as
a country. We cannot allow uncertain
foreign oil supplies to obtain a strangle-
hold over the United States. We cannot
continue to import $45 billion worth of
oil annually, almost half the total amount
that we consume and about how much we
waste that we don't need to waste.
And we cannot let this excessive de-
pendence on foreign oil continue to in-
crease our trade deficit, to drain off pur-
chasing power of our economy, and also
to affect our economic stability.
Both the Congress and I know that en-
actment of comprehensive energy legisla-
tion must be our top priority.
Now, as you know, I had planned to
send by now to the Congress a major tax
reform package. Although most of the
work has already been done, I've decided
to submit that program after Congress
completes its work on both social security
and also energy legislation.
The Congress right now needs an op-
portunity to concentrate its attention
1908
