Sept. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to the extent required or permitted by law,
including transfers of funds, personnel and
positions, assets, liabilities, contracts, prop-
erty, records and other items related to
the transfer of functions, programs, or
authorities.
SEC. 3. As required by Section 901 of
the Department of Energy Organization
Act, this Order shall be published in the
FEDERAL REGISTER.
The White House,
September 13, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:01 a.m., September 14, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
Department of Energy
Remarks of the President and Secretary of
Energy Schlesinger on the Activation of the
Department. September 13, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, everybody.
I've just signed an Executive order
that will activate the new Department of
Energy on October 1. Creation of this
new Department fulfills a campaign
pledge that I made more than a year ago.
The Department of Energy will be in
operation less than 2 months after I signed
the enabling legislation, although the law
does allow up to 4 months for the Depart-
ment to be formed.
This new Department is the first major
result of our efforts to reorganize the Fed-
eral bureaucracy to serve the American
people more efficiently. As we move into
another winter season, we need to be able
to deal with the possible emergency short-
ages in a unified way. This was certainly
not the case this past winter, and the Na-
tion suffered because of it. Activation of
this Department will do this by letting us
combine many different individuals and
agencies into a single unit.
Today, also I submitted my own nomi-
nations for key positions in the Depart-
ment of Energy to the Senate, and I will
be submitting additional nominations very
shortly.
The creation of a Department of Energy
is an important step toward dealing with
our energy problems. It will give a clearer
direction and focus to your energy future
by providing the framework for carrying
out a comprehensive and balanced na-
tional energy plan. This will help the
public and the private sectors as they work
together to bring energy supply and
demand back into balance, both now and
in the years ahead. But simply creating a
department will not solve our energy
problems. We will never do that without
a clear will in Government and among our
people to end waste, to use energy more
efficiently, and to look for practical new
sources of energy.
It's crucial that all of us understand
the magnitude of the problem that we
face. This summer, in spite of wide, maxi-
mum publicity that I and others gave to
the problem of overconsumption, gasoline
consumption has risen to an all-time high.
We imported more oil during the first 6
months of this year than ever before in the
history of our Nation. And these problems
grow worse every day until we act to
solve them.
will
Whether we succeed or fail will largely
depend on the choices we make as in-
dividuals and on our own ability to adapt
and to share for our common long-term
good as a nation.
We also need new legislation which,
along with the Department of Energy,
will be the backbone of our comprehen-
sive energy plan. The rapid progress to
date of national energy legislation through
the Congress, having already passed the
1582
