Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 30
grams of the National Guard and Re-
serve. Our Nation continues to depend
for its defense upon our Reserve forces.
Under the total force concept, Reserve
forces would perform critical missions in
any future conflict. My administration is
committed to ensuring that these vital
forces are fully manned, well trained, well
equipped, and capable of rapid mobiliza-
tion and integration into the active force
in time of national emergency.
The programs available in the Reserve
offer an excellent opportunity for many
young men and women to learn valuable
skills while also serving their Nation.
I call upon employers throughout the
Nation, both public and private, to join
me in continued support of these pro-
grams which are so necessary to our na-
tional defense.
Working Group on Food and
Agricultural Policy
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
September 30, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
This Administration is determined to
develop food and agricultural policies
which help the people who need help
most, both in the United States and
abroad. By encouraging efficient agricul-
tural production, especially on the family
farm, we can ensure reasonable incomes
for producers and fair prices for consum-
ers. An efficient productive system will
also help us meet the demands of foreign
markets. Our policy should give our pro-
ducers the greatest possible access to for-
eign markets, while helping poor nations
improve their own ability to produce and
distribute food.
The Secretary of Agriculture has pri-
mary responsibility in the Executive
Branch for developing policies and ac-
tions in food and agriculture. In order to
exercise this responsibility, the Secretary
of Agriculture must weigh and balance
interests represented in other parts of the
Executive Branch. Accordingly, I am di-
recting the Secretary of Agriculture to
form a Working Group on Food and Ag-
ricultural Policy. This Working Group
will be chaired by the Secretary's designee
and will be composed of representatives
at the level of assistant secretary from
these organizations:
Department of State
Department of the Treasury
Department of Agriculture
Office of the Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations
Agency for International Develop-
ment
Council of Economic Advisors
Office of Management and Budget
National Security Council
The Secretary of Agriculture may in-
vite representatives of other organizations
in the Executive Branch to serve in the
Working Group.
In consultation with the Secretary of
Agriculture and the White House Do-
mestic Policy Staff, the Working Group
will develop an agenda for policy con-
siderations on domestic and international
food and agriculture. The Secretary of
Agriculture, in consultation with the Do-
mestic Policy Staff, will inform me of
policies adopted and actions taken and
will refer to me policy options on issues
requiring Presidential decision.
A subcommittee of this Working Group
will serve as the vehicle for developing an
1695
