Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 30
ject. But I hope that they will be amena-
ble to that same suggestion.
So, the answer is, I don't know of any
disagreements between the Poles and the
Soviets that came out this morning, nor
do I know any significant disagreements
that came out between ourselves and the
Poles.
Yes, sir.
TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS
Q [in Polish]. Mr. President, the Soviet
leader, Leonid Brezhnev, has put forward
a suggestion recently that the Eastern and
Western countries renounce the neutron
bomb together. Would you be ready to
accept such a proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the disturbing
failures up until this point in nuclear
weaponry has been a complete absence of
discussions concerning tactical or theater
nuclear weapons. The only discussions
that have ever been held between our-
selves and the Soviets related only to
strategic weapons, those that can be fired
from one continent to another or from the
sea into a continent.
I would hope that as a result of the
SALT II talks we might agree with the
Soviets to start addressing the question of
the so-called tactical nuclear weapons, of
which the enhanced radiation or neutron
bomb would be one.
This weapon is much less destabilizing
in its effect, if it should be deployed, than,
for instance, some of the advanced new
Soviet weapons like the SS-20 missile,
which is much more destructive than any
weapon held by the NATO allies and has
a much greater range.
So, my hope is that in general we can
reduce the threat of nuclear destruction
in the European area. There are now sev-
eral thousand tactical nuclear weapons al-
ready deployed on both sides in the Euro-
pean theater. And the whole matter must
be addressed in its entirety, rather than
one weapon at the time.
We would not deploy the neutron bomb
or neutron shells unless it was an agree-
ment by our NATO allies. That's where
the decision will be made. But there are
other new weapons, including the SS-20,
much more threatening to the balance
that presently exists.
Yes, sir.
POLISH EMIGRATION
Q. Mr. President, you said that you
have agreed to expand the agricultural
credits to Poland.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. In talking with us the other day,
your advisers have linked that with a
human rights concern, namely, that the
reunification of families between the East-
ern and Western blocs be improved in
Poland. Have the Poles agreed to do that?
Have they given you any satisfaction that
this, too, would be done?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the first sub-
jects which I discussed with First Secre-
tary Gierek in our private talks today was
the reunification of families between
Poland and the United States. In the last
4
years there have been about 15,000 Poles
who have been permitted to emigrate to
our country. We still have about 250 fami-
lies we call them nuclear families, that
is, a father, mother, and children—who
desire to be unified, and permission has
not yet been obtained.
First Secretary Gierek said that he
would give his own personal attention to
alleviating this problem. And he directed.
his Foreign Minister and I directed our
Secretary of State to proceed with this
discussion during this afternoon. Their
assurance was that our concern would be
alleviated.
2211
