Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
-Kenneth M. Curtis, Chairman of the
Democratic National Committee.
The President met with representatives
of the Young Presidents' Organization,
Inc., who were meeting with administra-
tion officials in the Old Executive Office
Building.
The President attended the White
House Conference on Steel, which was
chaired by Ambassador Robert S. Strauss,
Special Representative for Trade Nego-
tiations, in the Roosevelt Room. Partici-
pants included representatives from the
steel industry, organized labor, manufac-
turers, economists, environmentalists, con-
sumer groups, Members of Congress from
steel-producing States, and White House
and other administration officials.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a
barbecue supper on the South Lawn for
500 members of the "Peanut Brigade," a
group of Georgians who campaigned for
Mr. Carter beginning with the early
1976 primary campaigns for the Demo-
cratic Presidential nomination.
October 14
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance
and Dr. Brzezinski;
-a group of Congressmen from West-
ern States to discuss water policy;
-Dr. Schultze;
-a group of editors, publishers, and
broadcasters (transcript will be
printed next week);
-Ambassador Strauss.
The President attended a reception for
members of the Finance Council of the
Democratic National Committee in the
State Dining Room.
The President announced that he has
accorded Patricia Derian the personal
rank of Ambassador while serving as
Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the
International Conference of the Red
Cross, to be held at Bucharest, Romania,
from October 15 to October 21.
The President announced that he will
nominate George H. Aldrich for the rank
of Ambassador while serving as the Dep-
uty Special Representative for the Law of
the Sea Conference and Deputy Chief
of Delegation.
The White House issued a correction
concerning the October 7 press release on
the nomination of Theodore M. Hes-
burgh for the rank of Ambassador while
serving as Chairman of the U.S. Delega-
tion to the United Nations Conference
on Science and Technology Development
(see page 1751). The release stated that
the conference will be held in Geneva in
1979. In fact, no decision has been made
on where the conference will be held.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nom-
inations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted October 11, 1977
ROBERT E. WHITE, of Massachusetts, a Foreign
Service officer of Class one, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to Paraguay.
Submitted October 12, 1977
JOHN E. DOWNS, of Missouri, for the rank of
Minister during the tenure of his service as
the Representative of the United States of
America on the Council of the International
Civil Aviation Organization.
GEORGE A. PEAPPLES, of Michigan, to be an
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Gary
Dean Penisten.
1795
