Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have a positive trade balance of about $15
to $20 billion.
Agricultural products exports in the
last 12-month period was about $24 bil-
lion, which is as high or higher than it's
ever been before.
I've met this week with a series of for-
eign leaders, which has been my custom
and, I guess, my predecessors'. I spent this
morning meeting with the heir apparent
to President Tito of Yugoslavia, Mr.
Kardelj. Earlier this week, I met twice
with Foreign Minister Gromyko, with the
head of the Government of Malaysia,
Prime Minister Hussein, and with leaders
from Jordan and Syria, and another group
last week.
So, this is a continuing obligation of
mine, which I welcome. I think we are
making good progress, and I've been
pleased so far with my own life here in the
White House. This is my first experience
in serving in the Federal Government, ex-
cept for the Navy, and I think the Con-
gress has been very cooperative and I've
got a good Cabinet.
I think since we have a limited amount
of time, I would rather spend the next
about five or six states exhibiting there,
but not the United States. Do you think
we ought to have a unified effort like that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do, and I would
just about guarantee you that the next
time such an occasion arises we'll have a
display there. I didn't know about it, and
I'll contact Bob Bergland about that this
afternoon and find out why we didn't.
That would be Agriculture and Com-
merce combined.
We do have a fairly substantial budget
allocation which we expend with enthusi-
asm for displays in international fairs and
other opportunities of this kind. But why
we missed the Cologne Food Fair, I don't
know. But I'll find out.
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ACT OF 1977
Q. Mr. President, were there any sec-
tions of the farm bill that you were dis-
satisfied with?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, a
bill of that complexity is a result of in-
numerable conferences and compromises.
And my own presentation to the Congress
was about $300 to $600 million lower in
cost than the final bill was, not counting
few minutes answering questions that you food stamps. We don't know if it's $300
might have, if I can.
QUESTIONS
COLOGNE FOOD FAIR
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned in-
ternational trade, expansion of interna-
tional trade. Recently, Governor Thomp-
son of Illinois sent a two-man agriculture
team over to Europe on a trade mission.
They reported that when they were at the
Cologne Food Fair, the United States was
about the only country that did not have
a national food display, a national agri-
cultural display, and they thought that
was in the eyes of many of these nations
a loss of face in some way. There were
or $600 million, depending upon how the
question of oats will be handled. But I
think in its final form, I didn't have any
reluctance about signing it.
I think there's a great improvement in
allocation of funds for research and de-
velopment. It eliminates the concept of
acreage allotments, which have, I think,
been abused in the past. It fairly well
equates production costs with target
prices, at least on an average. There are
some places which have very high pro-
duction costs which can't be accommo-
dated exactly.
I think the loan levels are reasonable
enough to give us a competitive place in
the international market. It establishes the
1704
