Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and Brazil in recent years have unsettled
world markets and inflicted misery and
often death upon untold numbers of
people.
Senate Concurrent Resolution 67 of
the 90th Congress dedicated the United
States to participate in the World
Weather Program in order to develop im-
proved worldwide weather observations
and services and to conduct a comprehen-
sive program of research to extend our
understanding and prediction of global
weather and climate variations. I am
pleased to transmit, in accordance with
that Resolution, this annual World
Weather Plan that describes significant
activities and accomplishments and out-
lines the planned participation of Federal
agencies for the coming fiscal year. The
progress already achieved in this vital
program demonstrates that we truly can
do something to help our people antici-
pate and cope with the effects of the
world's weather.
The White House,
November 3, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "World Weather
Program-Plan for Fiscal Year 1978" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 73 pp.).
tain words of the Code have, on occasion,
caused confusion resulting in training
divergencies.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the
authority vested in me as President of the
United States of America, and as Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of
the United States, in order to clarify the
meaning of certain words, Article V of
the Code of Conduct for Members of the
Armed Forces of the United States, at-
tached to and made a part of Executive
Order No. 10631 of August 17, 1955, is
hereby amended to read as follows:
"When questioned, should I become a
prisoner of war, I am required to give
name, rank, service number and date of
birth. I will evade answering further
questions to the utmost of my ability. I
will make no oral or written statements
disloyal to my country and its allies or
harmful to their cause.".
The White House,
November 3, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:51 p.m., November 3, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was announced by
the White House Press Office on November 3.
It was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
American Prisoners of War
Executive Order 12017. November 3, 1977
AMENDING THE CODE OF CONDUCT FOR
MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES OF
THE UNITED STATES
The Code of Conduct has been an
established standard of behavior for all
members of the Armed Forces of the
United States for more than twenty years.
It has helped individuals in captivity to
sustain their moral and physical strength
and to survive extreme torture and abuse.
However, experience indicates that cer-
American Prisoners of War
Executive Order 12018. November 3, 1977
AMENDING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-
MARTIAL, UNITED STATES, 1969 (RE-
VISED EDITION)
Members of the Armed Forces of the
United States who are captured and held
prisoner by a hostile armed force are
effectively outside the direct operational
control of United States military authori-
ties. Recent conflicts involving members
of the Armed Forces indicate a need for
1958
