Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
warheads and a limit on the production of
new weapons. And I believe that in a few
weeks we'll be able to announce some
success in our negotiations with the
Soviets that will make you proud. That's
my hope and my belief.
A little more than a year ago in San
Diego, I made a speech about nonprolif-
eration, and I think it's accurate to say
that then and even at the time I went into
office, there was a general feeling through-
out the world that it was too late to re-
capture a commitment against the spread
of atomic explosives, to put the nuclear
genie back in the bottle. But now we've
built up a hope and a belief among the
nations of the world that we can have at
least a limited use of atomic power to
produce electricity and to meet our legiti-
mate need and to stop once and for all the
spread of atomic explosives. I believe that
this is a realization that will soon be ap-
preciated by the world.
We've had this past week 36 countries
come together in Washington to talk
about this subject. And I hope that we'll
never again see another nation added to
the club of those who can destroy human
beings with nuclear explosives. This is my
belief, and this is my hope.
I want to say just a word about our
efforts to reorganize the Government of
our country. The Congress has coura-
geously given me the authority to carry out
this effort over a 3-year period, and I be-
lieve that you will be pleased with what
is being done in that respect. It's a project
that will make the Democratic Party
proud. And I know that a great responsi-
bility lies on my shoulders not to disap-
point the people who have given me this
effort that has been so long overdue.
The Congress has also passed a very
strong economic stimulation package, and
we are beginning to see the results of it.
Our economy is in danger of causing us
grave concern. Among the nations of the
world, ours is one of the strongest, and we
have an inherent advantage in our Nation
with our great productivity and the com-
mitment of our people to hard work and
our free enterprise system.
The latest estimates of the inflation rate
from September were less than 4 percent,
but there is still an underlying inflation
rate of 6 or 62 percent that we hope to
bring down in the future. Last December,
shortly before I became President, we had
an unemployment rate of 8.1 percent.
Now it's down below 7 percent, and I be-
lieve it will continue to go down the rest
of this year and next year, but very, very
slowly. So, we are making some progress.
I believe that our country needs to get
the spirit of what we have been given,
and I believe there's too much whining
and complaining about some of the tem-
porary setbacks that do cause us legitimate
concern. But I believe, if all of us Demo-
crats speak out about the greatness and
the strength and the bright future that lies
ahead of us and the tremendous blessings
that have fallen upon us, that our country
can benefit even more by a concerted ef-
fort to make that future even greater.
I want to say just a word about three
basic subjects that I haven't talked about
to you in a good while. One is the ques-
tion of human rights. As you well know,
our Nation has been deeply wounded in
the last few years. The war in Vietnam-
our withdrawal from that country caused
our people to be embarrassed and brought
the condemnation of most of the rest of
the world on our Nation. We have been
embarrassed by the Watergate revelations
and by the CIA investigations. There was
a sense of malaise and a sense of discour-
agement and a sense of distrust of our
own Government, a sense of betrayal of
the fine ideals on which our country was
founded.
1895
