Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 22
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
MR. AGURS. What you say, Mr. Presi-
dent, makes sense in one respect, but in
terms of what you promised in the cam-
paign, to reduce the military budget in
favor of social programs, has not
happened.
I would like to go to a statement by
Representative Shirley Chisholm, with
whom you met last week, who says, while
your commitment to social programs and
alleviating the social programs of the
Nation is unquestionable, she finds-she
is concerned about a lack of that same
commitment on the part of some of the
individuals from whom you get advice.
Are you aware of that concern, and
what do you plan to do to eliminate the
fears and, I might add, which is shared
by many in the black community?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have cut the
military budget considerably. I recom-
mended a reduction in the military budget
of $32 billion to begin with, which has
been approved by Congress. They have
reduced it a little more than I did, about
an extra billion and a half dollars. And
then in the last couple of weeks, I recom-
mended the termination of the B-1
bomber program, which amounts to
another reduction of $1.4 billion. At the
same time, we have had about a $21 bil-
lion increase in making our economy grow
more rapidly with job programs, public
works programs, summer employment
programs, better health programs, hous-
ing programs, and tax reductions. So, I
think the essence of it so far is that we
have done exactly what I promised dur-
ing the campaign.
Representative Chisholm did come to
see me and pointed out that in her opin-
ion some of my employees or subordinates
at the community level were not carrying
out as enthusiastically as I was trying to
do here at the White House, programs
that would improve the lives of poor
people. I think that this very well
well may be
true. I have only been in office now about
6 months, and we have not been given the
authority to change all the administrators
that were left over from the Nixon and
Ford administrations. But I think it is ac-
curate to say Joe Califano and Pat Harris
and others are trying to make changes
now. And my guess is that the field work-
ers who are at the community or city level
working in the Federal Government agen-
cies are making strides to carry out the
programs that we initiate here in Wash-
ington.
I think that you probably know that
the present budget under which we op-
erate is a fiscal year '77 budget, which was
passed by the Congress a year ago. And
when our own new budget goes into ef-
fect in October, you will see another in-
crease in the quality of services for poor
people.
MR. SANDERS. Mr. President, can we
shift that responsibility back here to the
White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
MR. SANDERS. And find out really if
these programs can be translated into
the kind of language that would be at
least acceptable and understandable to
those people out there on the street? You
are talking about reorganization-
THE PRESIDENT. That is right.
MR. SANDERS. and balancing the
budget. Those are top priorities, but how
does that translate to Joe Blow who needs
a job?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, since last No-
vember when I was elected, we have had
an increase in the number of people em-
ployed in this country of 3 million. In
December the unemployment rate was 8.1
percent. We set as a goal for ourselves
this year to cut it down to 7 percent. It
has already been cut down to 7 percent
1343
