June 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
TVA has also become a very heavy coal
producer, as you know. And the clean
burning of coal is a very important aspect
to them. Those are some kinds that come
to mind offhand.
I'm not in favor of the shifting now
toward the liquid metal fast breeder re-
actor in any sort of production model. My
belief is that we won't need the breeder
reactor, technology of that kind, to go
into production for maybe 20 or 25 years.
I think it is premature. It's extremely ex-
pensive and, in my opinion, completely
unnecessary.
We have a budget authorization of
roughly half a billion dollars for research
and development in atomic energy. A
major portion of that will go into testing
different kinds of breeder reactors, which
may or may not prove to be the best of all.
But to make a heavy investment in one
particular type of breeder reactor-that
is, the liquid metal fast breeder reactor-I
think is ill advised at this point.
I might add parenthetically that we do
have a breeder reactor that will go critical
either the last of August or the first of
September at Shippingport which uses
thorium as its base fuel.
But I don't have any doubt that in the
future we'll need the breeder reactors.
It's just too early to put so much of our
financial and human resources into one
particular model like the one at Clinch
River.
Q. One little followup if I may while
you are on the subject of TVA. Are you
close to appointing a Director on the
TVA?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
close to home. There's another one that's
close to home to us all, I think, and that's
the Postal Service. It took 5 days for
the invitation to this festivity to come to
me down in Arkansas, which is 800 miles
away.
And it seems like the Postal Service is
costing more and more and more and
becoming more and more and more in-
efficient. What's going to happen?
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to point out
that one of the reasons is probably be-
cause it's not under my authority.
[Laughter] No, I don't really know what
to do about that. This is a matter that we
are just getting started on.
As you know, the Postal Service is in-
dependent of the President and is osten-
sibly run as a business corporation with
the corporate officers choosing the direc-
tor. And I have met with him and have
received voluminous recommendations
from postal employees, postmasters, rural
mail carriers, and others who cry out for
some improvement in the service and the
morale within the Post Office depart-
ment.
I don't know what ought to be done
as far as structure is concerned. I've not
decided that it ought to be back as it was
before with the President appointing the
Postmaster General and being directly re-
sponsible for the Post Office. Now it's very
difficult to decide who is responsible.
I think it's almost inevitable-although
they did not take action in their June
meeting that there will be a call for in-
creased postal rates, a call for an elimina-
tion of Saturday service, possibly com-
bined with a realization of need for heavy
Q. Could you give us any time frame subsidies, maybe not all three of those,
on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I would guess within
the next 2 or 3 weeks. That's my plan.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Q. Mr. President, we've talked about
the energy problem, which is certainly
but at least two of those.
I don't know how to answer your ques-
tion, but as the time for the decision ap-
proaches, I'll be involved, because the
appropriation of funds-and we face a
deficit of about $200 million a month-
will ultimately have to be approved by me
1170
