Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 2, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With a Group of Editors and News
Directors. August 26, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I always hate to inter-
rupt Jody when he's in the midst of an-
swering a question, because I know that if
in the House of Representatives. But now
the emphasis is going to shift very strong-
ly to the Senate one of the major rea-
sons, of course, is because of the discus-
sion on the comprehensive energy pack-
age.
Hearings will commence in the House
and Senate on the comprehensive welfare
reform package. And before the Congress
he doesn't give an answer, that I might adjourns, hopefully in October, we'll have
have to answer it later on.
These sessions have been very valuable
to us because they've brought to me as
President, I think to our whole White
House staff, a different perspective about
nationwide interests from what we ordi-
narily get at a Presidential news confer-
ence, or even a daily briefing by Jody
Powell to the White House press corps.
There's a much more personal interest
in specific issues that affect our country
in domestic and foreign affairs, and some
things that we take for granted here in
Washington are quite often of intense in-
terest to you or to the individuals that
read your newspapers or listen to your
broadcasts.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We have now completed the first half
year of our term, much more than a half
year as far as relationships with Congress
go, and I've been very pleased at the
results. Most of the action so far has been
available to them our proposal on tax
reform.
Of the original priority items that we
enumerated at the beginning of
my ad-
ministration, the Congress has taken care
of all of them so far in a very expeditious
way the creation of a new Department
of Energy, which will be put together and
ready to go by the 1st of October, the
economic stimulus package, which con-
sists of about $21 billion, which is just be-
ginning to be implemented. We figure
that this quarter only about $3 billion of
the $21 billion will be felt throughout the
country. We are now letting public works
contracts at the rate of about a thousand
per week. We are putting public service
jobs into effect at a rate even beyond
what we had hoped to do.
We have also, of course, seen the Con-
gress pass a very strong ethics legislation.
We've been able to get authority for re-
organization of the executive branch of
Government. And we are embarked on
1509
