Aug. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
complete end of testing of nuclear explo-
sives, both military and peaceful explo-
sives.
We have put into effect a new policy on
nonproliferation to try to prevent nations
that don't presently have atomic explo-
sives from developing them. This has up-
set some of our allies in Europe who want
to sell factories and machines that can
make explosive material. But I think we
ought to be tenacious about it.
And I think it's good to let the Ameri-
can people know the facts behind the
controversies and the debates. Obviously,
when these kinds of debates are made
public, it creates an image of confusion
and a lack of a comprehensive policy, and
it shows that our Nation is not a dictator
for other countries.
We have to put forward ideas, and
maybe over a period of time we'll have
some progress. I think we will. But I've
never had any doubt that the American
people ought to be as thoroughly in-
formed as possible and also involved in
the decisionmaking process.
THE MIDDLE EAST
MR. REASONER. Keeping on the Middle
East for just one minute, a number of
Israeli leaders in private say that you
have made drastic changes in America's
attitude toward Israel and that they re-
gard you with considerable trepidation.
Are you aware of that feeling, and do you
think there is justification for it?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'm aware of
that feeling and also many other feelings.
There's no single attitude among all Jews
in the world or all Israeli citizens. To the
extent that Israeli leaders genuinely want
a peace settlement, I think that they have
to agree that there will be an acceptance
of genuine peace on the part of the
Arabs, an adjustment of boundaries in
the Middle East which are secure for the
Israelis and also satisfy the minimum re-
quirements of the Arab neighbors and the
United Nations resolutions, and some
solution to the question of the enormous
numbers of Palestinian refugees who have
been forced out of their homes and who
want to have some fair treatment.
These three basic elements are there.
And we are trying not only to put for-
ward our own ideas but to search among
the different disputing nations for some
common basis on which they can reach
agreement. We can only act as an inter-
mediary to the extent that the different
countries trust us.
So, we've tried to be fair. We've tried
to be open when possible. We've kept con-
fidences when they have been given to us
in confidence. And I don't know that we
can reach a final solution. We are hopeful
that we can, and I think world opinion is
very powerful on disputing nations when
there is a consensus about what ought to
be done.
So, we'll continue to labor at it, taking
slings and arrows from all directions,
criticisms, publicly in nations when pri-
vately the leaders say we are willing to do
this when we come out publicly for the
political consumption there's an adamant,
same position. Quite often for domestic
very disputive, and antagonistic attitude
taken on the part of some leaders. But we
are willing to accept this consequence. I
don't know how to guarantee an ultimate
success, but I am willing to accept the
criticism that comes from all parties as we
struggle for success.
BERT LANCE
MR. DONALDSON. Mr. President, you
talked a moment ago about one of
your
accomplishments. You said very proudly
that the restoration of confidence in gov-
ernment was high.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. DONALDSON. And all the polls
show that people give you high marks for
1470
