Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 4
istration. These problems affect the daily
lives of millions. The success we have in
dealing with them will therefore bear sub-
stantial benefits for great numbers of peo-
ple. For this
this reason, their correction
deserves priority attention.
By its very nature, congressional case-
work highlights trouble spots and may not
present a full picture of agency perform-
ance. I am aware too that departments
and agencies are already taking action to
address problems identified in the survey.
Some of these problems may be beyond
agencies' immediate control and have a
statutory basis. Because these complaints
involve the direct, day-to-day dealings of
average citizens with their government,
however, I would like to report to the
public and the Congress as soon as possi-
ble on the steps we are taking to address
them.
Please report to the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget the efforts you now have
underway, or the specific efforts you plan
to take, to address those complaints in-
volving your agency. This information
should be included as part of your regular
monthly reorganization progress report
which is due December 5.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum, together
with a fact sheet on the survey, was released on
November 3.
Office of Rail Public Counsel
Nomination of Howard A. Heffron To Be
Director. November 3, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Howard A. Heffron, of
Bethesda, Md., to be Director of the
Office of Rail Public Counsel.
Heffron was born October 3, 1927. He
received an A.B. from Columbia Univer-
sity in 1948 and an LL.B. from Harvard
Law School in 1951.
From 1953 to 1957, he was Assistant
U.S. Attorney for the Southern District
of New York. From 1959 to 1961, he was
first assistant to the Assistant Attorney
General, Tax Division, and Special As-
sistant to the Attorney General of the
United States.
From 1965 to 1967, Heffron was a gen-
eral consultant to the President's Com-
mission on Law Enforcement and the
Administration of Justice. From 1967 to
1969, he was Chief Counsel for the Fed-
eral Highway Administration, where he
directed a staff of 57 lawyers providing a
full range of legal services to agencies
administering the automobile safety and
motor carrier safety regulatory programs.
Since 1969 Heffron has practiced law
in Washington and New York. Since 1975
he has also been a consultant on criminal
justice for the German Marshal Fund of
the United States.
Bills Concerning the
Environment
Remarks on Signing H.R. 2817 and H.R. 4297
into Law. November 4, 1977
First of all, I want to welcome all of
you here this morning for an occasion
that's very important to our country in the
symbolism and the actual accomplish-
ment to this legislation.
One of the difficult questions that I had
to face as Governor of Georgia was how
to preserve our inland wetlands from in-
evitable and very rapid destruction. And
when I sent Congress an environmental
message earlier this year, I pointed out
that every year we lose 300,000 acres of
these extremely valuable component parts
of our national ecology.
1961
