Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
know that the Justice Department was
involved in it until December 1. The in-
formation that I got from Bert Lance-
I now know that it was November 15-
was derived from Lance himself. And he
states to me and my memory confirms
it-that he only referred to me the prob-
lem with the Comptroller's Office.
My guess is that on December 1 they
did not specifically point out to me that
the Justice Department was also involved.
My memory of it is that they said that
the problem that had been described to
me had been resolved and that a
press statement would be made then.
So, I would believe-certainly my
memory confirms-that I did not know
anything about the Justice Department
itself anytime in 1976 and that Bert
Lance did not know anything about the
Justice Department being involved until
the 1st of December.
If
you
have a followup, you can ask it.
Q. Just to follow up on that-
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. —would it have made a differ-
ence to you if you had known at that time
that there had been a Justice Department
investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. Would you have delayed your ap-
pointment perhaps to see what the inves-
tigation had been about?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I doubt it because
on the 1st of December when Lance him-
self found that the Justice Department
was involved, it was also to learn that
same day or the day after that the Justice
Department had determined that there
were no grounds for a further pursuit of
the case.
WEAPONS PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, on the strategic arms
situation.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. In the absence of an agreement as
of next Monday, could you tell us what
your attitude will be toward major Amer-
ican weapons systems that have been un-
der research? For example, where do we
stand now after this 5-year agreement ex-
pires on the MX missile; what is your
attitude toward it? And how about on
the cruise missile? During the period after
the agreement expires, will you be observ-
ing any constraints, or do you think con-
straints ought to be reserved, for exam-
ple, on the range of the cruise missile,
the air-launched cruise missile?
THE PRESIDENT. We are proceeding
with our research and development pro-
gram on the items that you described. As
you know, under the present agreement
with the Soviets, there is no restraint on
the mobile missiles nor on air-launched
or ground- or sea-launched cruise mis-
siles. Pending an agreement with the
Soviets, we are free to proceed with those
matters.
We are continuing to conduct active
tests with the cruise missile. And I might
say, the tests have been very successful so
far. We have not proceeded that far along
with the MX. We are negotiating with
the Soviets on those two items for the so-
called SALT II agreement. We have not
completely resolved those two questions
yet.
ENERGY TAXATION
Q. Mr. President, may I ask you some-
thing about your energy program? When
you started talking about a wellhead tax,
as I understood it, virtually all the money
collected on that tax would be rebated
back to consumers.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
1692
