Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 19
Region II (New York)-Eckardt Beck, Re-
gional Administrator, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency
Region III (Philadelphia)-Thomas Maloney,
Regional Administrator, Housing and Urban
Development
Region IV (Atlanta)—Sara Craig, principal
regional official, Health, Education, and
Welfare
Region V (Chicago)-Loran Wittner, region-
al representative of the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Commerce
Region VI (Dallas)-William Harris, Regional
Administrator, Employment and Training
Administration, Department of Labor
Region VII (Kansas City)-John Kemp, Re-
sippi House of Representatives from 1960
to 1968.
Turner was a director of the Mississippi
Authority for Educational Television
from 1970 to 1976 and chairman of the
board from 1972 to 1976. He was a mem-
ber of the Board of Governors of the Pub-
lic Broadcasting Service from 1973 to
1976.
Outstanding Contributions by
gional Director, Department of Transporta- Federal Employees
tion
Region VIII (Denver)-Betty J. Miller, Re-
gional Administrator, Housing and Urban
Development
Region IX (San Francisco)-Bill Arntz, Re-
gional Administrator, Department of Energy
Region X (Seattle)-Bernard Kelly, principal
regional official, Health, Education, and
Welfare
Corporation for Public
Broadcasting
Nomination of Irby Turner, Jr., To Be a
Member of the Board of Directors.
October 19, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Irby Turner, Jr., of Belzoni,
Miss., to be a member of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting for a term expiring March
26, 1982. He would replace Virginia B.
Duncan, term expired.
Turner was born May 7, 1932. He holds
a B.A. from Millsaps College and an
LL.B. from the University of Mississippi
Law School. He served in the U.S. Army
from 1955 to 1957.
Turner has practiced law since 1957
and has been city attorney for Belzoni,
Miss., since 1959. He served in the Missis-
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments
and Agencies. October 19, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
If we are to improve the quality and
performance of our government, we must
involve all government employees in that
task. We need their determination, their
energy, and their ideas to set high stand-
ards and see that we meet them. One way
to give public employees a greater stake
in the government's performance is to
recognize those who have made excep-
tional contributions—especially, these
days, in the crucial area of energy
conservation.
I intend to recognize these major con-
tributions myself, to illustrate the impor-
tance I attach to them. Therefore, I want
you to bring to my attention contributions
by civilian and military personnel, recog-
nized through awards made under the
Federal Government's Incentive Awards
Program since January 1, 1977, which
produce first-year benefits of $5,000 or
more. I also intend to recognize energy-
saving actions, when you are satisfied that
they are especially significant and deserve
additional recognition. The best of these
contributions will be considered for
1817
