Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ures that we take in our own country of
examining people as they go into the air-
port loading facility is mirrored around
the world.
So, we are doing everything we can on
a unilateral basis, also on a multilateral
basis through the United Nations and
through the airline arrangements that we
have with cooperative countries, to hold
down this particular form of terrorism.
We recognize that there are other forms
of terrorism, but I was responding just
to that particular part because that was
part of your question.
GOVERNOR GEORGE WALLACE OF ALABAMA
Q. Mr. President, I'm Bob Ingram
from Montgomery, Alabama, Magazine.
In all likelihood, barring a political
miracle, Governor Wallace will be join-
ing you in Washington in 1979 as a Mem-
ber of the United States Senate. My
question is, do you look forward to his
Senate service, if it develops, with antic-
ipation or trepidation? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that
I don't want to get caught in an expres-
sion of preference between him and any
of his potential Democratic opponents-
certainly not including Senator Spark-
man, who has worked very closely with us
as chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee.
But if it should happen that the Ala-
bama people choose Governor Wallace,
he would come to Washington as a friend
of mine. I worked with him very well
when he was Governor. After the Ohio/
New Jersey primary date, he was the first
one who called to congratulate me and
also to offer his support, which I'll always
remember. And he and I have communi-
cated frequently since I've been in the
White House about matters of interest
to the Alabama people.
So, if that should be the choice of the
Alabama voters, then I would certainly
welcome Governor Wallace to the Senate.
But I don't want that to be interpreted
as a preference that he be chosen over
Senator Sparkman, for instance. I don't
want to get involved in that particular
question.
ELIGIBILITY FOR SOCIAL SECURITY
PAYMENTS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Doug Parker
with the Salt Lake Tribune. I was won-
dering how you felt about the inclusion in
this social security bill of the allowance to
let people earn all they want after they
retire and still be eligible for social secu-
rity.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. During the cam-
paign, I deplored the $3,000 limit and said
that it should be raised. And I still feel
that
that way.
The position that I took-I've forgot-
trarily chose a $5,000 earnings limit. I
ten the exact figure, but I think we arbi-
don't object to a higher limit. Whether
the House and Senate will go along with
a complete elimination of a limit, I don't
know. I don't think the cost in the social
security system is likely to be very high,
and I would certainly sign a bill that had
that provision in it.
DEREGULATION OF NATURAL GAS
Q. Mr. President, as you are probably
aware, some officials in Texas feel very
strongly that you committed yourself to
work for a natural gas price deregulation,
and they think that you now reversed that
position. Governor Briscoe displays a let-
ter in which you seem to indicate that you
would work with the Congress for dereg-
ulation. How do you explain your change
in position?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
I've changed my position. I don't inter-
pret it that way. My position was that I
would work with Congress, as had Presi-
1940
