Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
is to reduce the overall level of nuclear
armaments; and secondly, to have an as-
surance that there is an equivalent capa-
bility in the future to give a reasonable
sense of security to both nations. And I
think, at the same time, integrally with
this is to let the Soviets know that we are
negotiating in good faith, that we are not
trying to pull a trick, or to take unfair
advantage over them.
At the same time, I recognize that prog-
ress on SALT leads to further progress on
comprehensive test ban, on the matter
of nonproliferation, on general reductions
in armament sales around the world. And
I think it would lessen tensions between
us and the Soviets that have existed his-
torically.
So, we are making some progress. An
immediate agreement is not in prospect.
We have narrowed down the differences
to a relatively small number which could
take quite a long time to resolve. Our ne-
gotiators are now going back to Geneva to
try to eliminate as many of the differences
as possible. So, reasonable progress has
been made.
I wouldn't be too optimistic about an
early settlement. And there is no plan at
this time for a meeting with Mr.
Brezhnev.
STEEL AND TELEVISION INDUSTRIES
Q. Mr. President, important segments
of the steel and television manufacturing
industries have been laying off thousands
of workers recently because of foreign
competition, some of which they allege is
unfair. What, if anything, do you plan to
do about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have already
negotiated in the television industry a vol-
untary constraint on the Japanese, who
are the major exporters to us. This was
worked out this year by Robert Strauss,
working even directly with Prime Min-
ister Fukuda. I think this will alleviate the
increasing imports of color televisions
which were causing a problem.
The steel question is one that is ob-
viously a highly complex question. I
would not be willing to lay all the blame
on imports. We have obviously some ele-
ments in the steel industry, where the
plants themselves are older-they are not
quite as efficient as some of the more
modern plants overseas. We have a prob-
lem that the steel industry points out fre-
quently in the compliance with fairly
strict environmental quality standards,
which I certainly would not change.
But I think it's fair to point out the
Japanese and the West Germans have the
same degree of quality constraints now on
air pollution and water pollution. So, this
is not an unnecessary advantage for them.
I might add quickly that we are address-
ing the steel industry with a multidepart-
mental approach. This is under the con-
trol of an Assistant Secretary [Under Sec-
retary] in the Treasury Department, Mr.
Solomon, who is an expert on the steel
industry. He is working with Robert
Strauss, our Special Trade Representative,
and with Charles Schultze, my Council of
Economic Advisers Chairman, with the
Secretaries of Commerce and Labor.
Where large unemployment has been a
factor with the closing of at least one steel
mill, we have already moved to provide
retraining and economic assistance for
those workers involved. And within the
next few weeks, I plan to receive the re-
port of this group whose work was begun
several weeks ago and then to meet with
labor and industry leaders in the steel in-
dustry and also with Congress Members
who have large steel interests in their own
areas.
But we believe that the problems are
chronic. I don't think any basic changes
need to be made in our import laws or in
the national statutes. And I think that
perhaps my own involvement in it can
1690
