Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 10
ter to train medical doctors, nurses, physi-
cians' assistants. In this center right here,
under the leadership of Dr. Bergen and
your mayor, your Governor, and others,
there are more black students studying to
be medical doctors than in any other inte-
grated medical college in the United
States.
And this program has been established
and is now in operation without rigid
quotas but based on the merit of the stu-
dents who are studying, behind me, to
hold down the disease that's always been
so bad, and particularly among poor peo-
ple.
There has not been another place in our
country, so far as I know, where there's
been such a dramatic reduction in deaths
among the poor families and working
families of your region. In the last 10
years alone, because of this kind of leader-
ship, infant deaths have been cut 50 per-
cent; deaths because of cancer have been
cut 50 percent; deaths because of tuber-
culosis have been cut 60 percent. And
there's no doubt in my mind that under
the leadership of Ken Gibson, of Governor
Brendan Byrne, of your congressional dele-
gation working with Governor Byrne, that
with the output of this great center be-
hind me, new doctors will have an even
greater reduction in the future.
We are now concentrating, also, on pre-
ventive health care. I know that Pete Wil-
liams, Pete Rodino, your Governor, and
others are going to work to help congres-
sional legislation get passed to cut down
on the cost of hospital care. We now have
a bill in the Congress to do this. If it
doesn't pass, we'll have a doubling in the
cost of hospital care every 5 years.
So, we must work together to give you
better education, fairer tax programs, a
good quality place to live, good housing,
better health care, prevention of disease,
and an opportunity for jobs. The worst
single domestic problem that I face-and
it's also faced by your Governor and your
mayor and the Congress-is unemploy-
ment, and particularly in urban areas.
A year ago the unemployment rate in
your State was 10.3 percent. It's already
been reduced by 2 percent. And with the
kind of programs that have gone into ef-
fect, we have a good chance in the future
to reduce it even further.
This is a State that now gets its fair
share of Federal tax moneys. You've paid
them, but in the past you've not been get-
ting them back. When Brendan Byrne
came into office, New Jersey ranked 49th
among all the States in the Nation in
getting your share of Federal money to
pay for better housing, health care, law
enforcement, transportation. Now New
Jersey ranks 34th. And I believe it's fair
to say
that because of the cooperation that
does exist between Governor Byrne and
your Members of Congress, even when we
had a Republican administration, that
New Jersey began to cooperate and get
programs that benefit you.
You've got a man in the Governor's of-
fice of great courage, of sound judgment,
and one that's completely honest. And as
you see Atlantic City in the future be
a revived city, we don't want to see hood-
lums come in and take it over. And if
there's one man that's strong enough and
honest enough to keep out corruption, it's
Governor Brendan Byrne.
Well, I think all of you know how im-
portant it is for a candidate who takes
courageous stands for people who don't
have much influence to do so in the face
of those like some of the demonstrators in
this crowd that want special privileges for
the ones that haven't paid their taxes in
the future.
Brendan Byrne is a man who will fight
for you if you don't have a job. Brendan
Byrne is a man who will fight for you if
1575
