Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 2
Now, when the neutrons from the
U-233 bombard, come out of this, bom-
bard this, they cause-[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I understand
now we have with the standard liquid
water-I mean, light water reactors,
enough energy to last 30 or 40 years. And
if this breeder principle does work, it
would magnify that energy supply maybe
to 600 years, is that correct?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Yes, sir, very
much more if it works. We do expect it
to work, as I will discuss later.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. I don't like to
start things that don't work, including
yourself. [Laughter] Incidentally, Mr.
President, I interviewed 260 first-class
midshipmen for the last 3 days from
morning until midnight. And they're all
potential Presidents, if they carry out my
admonitions. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Jim, you might come
in on what this means to us as far as
energy supplies are concerned.
SECRETARY SCHLESINGER. It does two
things, Mr. President. First, it enormous-
ly expands the potential supply of fission-
able material, which would provide us
with a backup for our fission-produced
power. Secondly, it may substantially ex-
tend the life of existing light water reac-
tors by shifting to a different kind of fuel
cycle and preserve our investment in
those reactors.
THE PRESIDENT. The thorium supply
is fairly plentiful, is it not?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Yes. This reactor
is designed so that it can be placed into
the pressure vessels of existing reactors.
In that way, it's different than the liquid
metal breeder. Of course, the liquid
metal breeder would require brand new
plants.
THE PRESIDENT. Is this the first actual
power production that's useful from a
breeder reactor in our country?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Yes, this is.
THE PRESIDENT. And when did this
reactor go
critical? When did it-
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. It went critical
several weeks ago. And we've been testing
it that whole time for physics and me-
chanical tests. And I would like to say
that the reactor has come within three-
tenths of 1 percent of our calculations.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. What will
happen to this energy? Will it be wasted?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. No, sir. This
energy right now is on the grid of the
Duquesne Power Company in Pittsburgh.
THE PRESIDENT. So, it feeds into-
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. This is feeding
right now into the energy grid. As a re-
sult of your order, it is being brought up
to full
power.
THE PRESIDENT. I see.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. It soon will be at
that.
Now, to go on with the description.
This is a grid. By the way, there are
17,000 of these. They're all 8 feet high.
You've only seen a small section.
These rods-this shows only the small
ones are placed in what we call a grid.
This grid is made out of a very special
type of stainless steel, and it took quite a
long time to develop it.
Now, there are 300 of these grids. This
is the smallest one; there are larger. Each
one of them-see, they separate the rods
so they don't touch. That's one of the
small ones.
Now, the reactor is 8 feet in diameter;
it's 8 feet high and weighs about 90 tons.
This is built so all parts of that reactor,
that huge thing, 8-by-8, weighing 90 tons,
is built to the accuracy of 1/1000 of an
inch. We have to have that accuracy be-
cause we cannot waste neutrons.
So, this whole, huge, 90-ton thing is
built to the accuracy of a Swiss watch.
That will give you some concept of how
2069
