Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
violin and to brag on her and to go over going to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, to be
some of her school studies.
an editor there. He has been on the White
House professional reporting staff.
Q. He was worried about that, that
weren't seeing Amy.
you
THE PRESIDENT. I see her enough. Amy
and I planned the treehouse, and we built
it together. We go to Camp David when-
ever we can. We find that that's the most
pleasant place for us to go. In fact I'll be
leaving for Camp David this afternoon.
Amy and Rosalynn can't come until to-
morrow morning. This is the first time
I've gone without them. But I've invited,
as my guest, Senator Humphrey. When I
brought him back from Milwaukee [Min-
neapolis] a few weeks ago, he commented
to me that he had never seen Camp
David. His wife is temporarily in the hos-
pital, so he and I are going to go up to-
gether this afternoon and have a chance
to sit in front of the fire and talk about
both history and the future.
And in the warm season of the year, I
play tennis about three times a week.
Amy and I and Rosalynn have bowled
twice this week. We have a little one
bowling alley in the White House that was
put there by Harry Truman. We go swim-
ming at Camp David and do a lot of
hiking, bike riding. I get a good bit of
exercise. I keep my weight exactly the
same as it was 10, 15 years ago. I weigh
about 155.
And although some people say I've
aged-the people that say I've aged, I've
noticed they've aged, too. [Laughter] But
to summarize, I enjoy it. I'm in good
shape, physically, and I get a thorough
examination quite often. I have a full-
time doctor that stays with me all the
time and have a dentist that comes in
about every 6 weeks to check my teeth and
make sure I'm in good shape. But I've en-
joyed it and get a lot of exercise and don't
overwork.
This is a new editor, by the way. Saul
[Saul Kohler, Newhouse News Service] is
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Thank you, sir. Mr. President, is
your commitment to a negotiated settle-
ment in the Middle East deep enough
that, if necessary, you would go there
yourself to confer with the heads of state
of Israel and the Arab countries, notwith-
standing the fact that they have all been
here?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Asad has not
been here; I met him in Geneva. But I
have met with all of them. I don't antici-
pate any need for me to go to Geneva or
to go to the Mideast to bring about a ne-
gotiated settlement. My commitment to
that is very strong and permanent. If it
takes the full time I'm in office to bring
about a complete, comprehensive, perma-
nent peace in the Middle East, I'll devote
my fullest resources to it, both in convinc-
ing the public of this country and the
public of the world that it's necessary and
in assuaging hurt feelings, trying to bring
together leaders who may have been sep-
arated by one circumstance or another.
One of the reasons that I wanted Cy
Vance to go over is because Asad and Sa-
dat are not presently on very good terms,
and I wanted Cy Vance to meet both of
them and see what bounds could be re-
established to pull them back together.
But obviously, if I felt sometime in the
future and I don't anticipate this,
Saul-but if I felt sometime in the future
that my personal presence was the differ-
ence between success or failure, obviously
I would go, because I consider this to be
a very important thing not only for the
Middle East but for the world.
If
you analyze the quantity of oil that
we have to get from the Middle East, it's
2098
