Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 19
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Au-
thority. He took leaves of absence from
MBTA in July 1976 to work at the Demo-
cratic National Convention, and from
August to November 1976 to serve as trip
director for the Carter Presidential cam-
paign. Since January 1977, he has been
Special Assistant to the President for
Personnel.
Visit of Prime Minister Begin
of Israel
Toasts of the President and the Prime Minister
at a Working Dinner for the Prime
Minister. July 19, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
welcome all of you here tonight-the
Members of the Senate, the Cabinet, my
own staff, the distinguished Members of
the House, and also our very fine visitors
from Israel, Ambassador Dinitz.
I was very much concerned a few weeks
ago, when I discovered that this is a spe-
cial night and I didn't know if we could
induce anyone to come. The Speaker
pointed out again tonight that this is the
All-Star Game, the major baseball game
of the year. [Laughter] And I was taken
aback the day before yesterday, when my
wife came and said, "Jimmy, we ordi-
narily have only 20 people come to your
working suppers, and we are trying to
cut the list down to 60."
I couldn't understand it. So, I talked
to Cy and talked to Dr. Brzezinski, and
they said that everyone wanted to come
to meet the new Prime Minister of Israel.
This is the largest group we have ever had,
Mr. Prime Minister, and it's a great trib-
ute to you and to the interest in your
country and is demonstrative, I think, of
the very close ties of friendship between
the United States and the great nation of
Israel. I'm pleased to be the host tonight
to such a distinguished man.
As I said in my welcoming remarks
this morning, this is very gratifying to me.
He's the only foreign visitor I have had
who is junior to me. I feel like a senior
statesman tonight since he's very new in
office. And he and I have a lot more in
common.
Ambassador Dinitz was telling me that
after the election somebody asked Prime
Minister Begin how it felt to be unknown.
And he said, well, he was known as
Menahem who?-very similar to me, ex-
cept the question was asked about him
after he was elected Prime Minister, and
it was asked about me when I first started
running for President. [Laughter]
But he and I have a lot more in com-
mon than those ties that I've described to
you, and we've explored some of them
today. It's been one of the most gratifying
and stimulating discussions that I have
had since I have been President.
We've had a chance to get to know
each other personally, and it's been ob-
vious to me that our guest is a strong
leader. He's a man of deep convictions
and unshakeable principle. He's a man of
truth and quiet dignity. He's a man who
is polite and very modest. The only times
today when I've seen him somewhat dis-
concerted is when he thinks that the praise
and the compliments are excessive, and
he's embarrassed then.
I think this is a tribute to him. And I
know that the people in Israel and the
many friends in our country who look
with favor on him and his leadership are
gratified to have him come to see us.
We've had far-reaching discussions
today. We've explored differences of
opinion in a very blunt and frank fashion.
And I think we've resolved some of the
differences; few still remain. But we've
discovered and mutually recognized, in
1287
