Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 29
SECTION 1. The Secretary of the In-
terior, hereinafter referred to as the Sec-
retary, shall, through existing National
Park Service programs, provide for the
continuation of appropriate commemora-
tion of events relating to the American
Revolution until December 31, 1983.
SEC. 2. The Secretary shall administer
existing contracts and grants of the
American Revolution Bicentennial Ad-
ministration, hereinafter referred to as
ARBA.
SEC. 3. In performing the functions de-
scribed in Section 1 and 2 of this Order,
the Secretary may, in addition to any
other available authority, exercise the fol-
lowing powers under the Act which are
hereby transferred to him for such pur-
poses until December 31, 1983, except
as otherwise provided in subsection (b)
of this Section:
(a) All powers described in Section
2(f) of the Act with respect to the ex-
penditure of funds donated to ARBA
prior to the effective date of this Order,
and the expenditure of revenues received
or which may be received pursuant to
contracts described in Section 2 of this
Order.
(b) Until December 31, 1977, all pow-
ers exercised by ARBA prior to the ef-
fective date of this Order which relate to
enforcement of Section 2(i) of the Act.
(c) All powers described in Section
5(a) of the Act.
SEC. 4. All personnel, records, property
and appropriations, including all funds
and revenues described in Section 3 (a)
of this Order, as relate to the powers and
functions assigned or transferred by this
Order are hereby transferred to the Sec-
retary.
SEC. 5. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall make such
determinations and issue such orders as
may be necessary or appropriate to carry
out the transfers provided by this Order.
SEC. 6. Executive Order No. 11840 of
February 18, 1975, is hereby revoked.
SEC. 7. This Order shall be effective
June 30, 1977.
The White House,
June 29, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:34 a.m., June 30, 1977]
Executive Branch Reorganization.
Studies
Remarks to Reporters Announcing the
Studies. June 29, 1977
I have a couple of very brief state-
ments to make.
First of all, I'm particularly pleased
with the action that was taken this after-
noon by the Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Committee when they accepted
by, I think, a 22-to-21 vote the admini-
ings for the time being on natural gas
stration's proposal which retains ceil-
prices, but still provides adequate incen-
tives for production of natural gas.
This fight, of course, is still not over.
But I commend the members of the com-
mittee for their courage in the face of
strong lobbying pressure. And I hope
that their position will be maintained
throughout the legislative process. I be-
lieve that their action is a major victory
for American consumers.
The other item that I have is one
that's very important to me, and I think
to the American people. Over the last 2
years, there has been no theme that I
have emphasized more often than a need
to reorganize the Federal Government.
The American people overwhelmingly
support this idea and that's one reason
I was elected President. They know that
reorganization is desperately needed, and
neither they nor I underestimate the
difficulty.
1191
