Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
out to be right. There is some part of this complex legislation to which
every region and every interest group can object. But a common national
sacrifice to meet this serious problem should be shared by everyone—
some proof that the plan is fair. Many groups have risen to the challenge.
But, unfortunately, there are still some who seek personal gain over the
national interest.
It's also especially difficult to deal with long-range, future challenges.
A. President is elected for just 4 years, a Senator for 6, and our Repre-
sentatives in Congress for only 2 years. It's always been easier to wait
until the next year or the next term of office, to avoid political risk. But
you did not choose your elected officials simply to fill an office. The Con-
gress is facing very difficult decisions, courageously, and we've formed a
good partnership. All of us in Government need your help.
This is an effort which requires vision and cooperation from all Amer-
icans. I hope that each of you will take steps to conserve our precious
energy and also join with your elected officials at all levels of government
to meet this test of our Nation's judgment and will.
These are serious problems, and this has been a serious talk. But our
energy plan also reflects the optimism that I feel about our ability to deal
with these problems. The story of the human race is one of adapting to
changing circumstances. The history of our Nation is one of meeting
challenges and overcoming them.
This major legislation is a necessary first step on a long and difficult
road. This energy plan is a good insurance policy for the future, in which
relatively small premiums that we pay today will protect us in the years
ahead. But if we fail to act boldly today, then we will surely face a greater
series of crises tomorrow-energy shortages, environmental damage, ever
more massive Government bureaucracy and regulations, and ill-
considered, last-minute crash programs.
I hope that, perhaps a hundred years from now, the change to
inexhaustible energy sources will have been made, and our Nation's
concern about energy will be over. But we can make that transition
smoothly for our country and for our children and for our grandchil-
dren—only if we take careful steps now to prepare ourselves for the future.
During the next few weeks, attention will be focused on the Congress,
but the proving of our courage and commitment will continue, in differ-
ent forms and places, in the months and the years, even generations
ahead.
It's fitting that I'm speaking to you on an election day, a day which
reminds us that you, the people, are the rulers of this Nation, that your
1986
