July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
are also faithfully and earnestly
committed.
I do not think I am far off the mark,
because the statesman is first of all a
man, if I connect your reaffirmations for
human rights not so much to a high
political strategy but rather to your
youthful experiences as a son of the Deep
South-sensitive, with foreseeing clear-
ness to the appeal of civil unity and of
the equality of man.
On the road of détente, the meeting in
Belgrade offers us a proving ground to
show that there is a convergence of ideas
between America and Europe. And we
must embark on it, both firmly and grad-
ually, confident in the value of the prin-
ciples in which we believe.
Mr. President, in the spirit of friend-
ship and solidarity between our two coun-
tries and in view of the ever closer and
more concrete cooperation which we in-
tend to implement between our two Gov-
ernments, I raise my glass in a toast to
your personal happiness and to that of
your family, to the prosperity of our two
peoples, and to the well-being of all those
present.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
United States-Canada Maritime
Boundaries and Related Resource
Issues
Designation of Lloyd N. Cutler as the
President's Special Representative for
Negotiations. July 27, 1977
The President today announced the
designation of Lloyd N. Cutler, of Chevy
Chase, Md., as his special representative
for maritime boundary and resource ne-
gotiations with Canada, with the per-
sonal rank of Ambassador. Ambassador
Cutler, who is a Washington attorney,
will conduct negotiations with Canada
over the coming months in an effort to
reach a comprehensive settlement of
U.S.-Canadian maritime boundaries and
related fishery and hydrocarbon issues.
The Government of Canada has
named Ambassador Marcel Cadieux to
conduct its negotiations. Ambassador
Cadieux formerly served as Under-Secre-
tary of the Department of External
Affairs in Ottawa and as Ambassador of
Canada to the United States. He is on
temporary assignment from his position
as Canadian Ambassador to the Euro-
pean Communities.
The two countries attempted to re-
solve their maritime boundary and fish-
eries issues in talks from late 1975 to
early 1977. Failing agreement, earlier
this year they entered into an interim
Reciprocal Fisheries Agreement for 1977,
to enable each country to continue fish-
ing in the 200-mile zone of the other
while negotiations for more permanent
arrangements proceed. The new negotia-
tions will resume under the direction of
Ambassador Cutler and Ambassador
Cadieux around August 1.
The two Governments have agreed
that, with a view toward reaching a ne-
gotiated settlement between them, the
special negotiators will be guided by the
following terms of reference. The negotia-
tors will report to Governments by Octo-
ber 15, 1977, on the principles of a com-
prehensive settlement encompassing:
-maritime boundaries delimitation;
-complementary fishery and hydro-
carbon resource arrangements, as appro-
priate;
-such other related matters as the
two Governments may decide.
The negotiators will develop the sub-
stance of an ad referendum comprehen-
sive settlement for submission to Govern-
ments by December 1, 1977.
1362
