Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 21
the means to be used, we have been in full
agreement on the goals of this legislation.
I am particularly grateful to Senator
Long, Congressman Ullman, Senator Nel-
son, Congressman Burke, and the House
and Senate leadership for the efforts they
put into making this bill a reality. I am
pleased at how quickly we were able to
move this massive piece of legislation
through the Congress so that it could be
signed today.
It is with great pleasure that I sign H.R.
9346.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9346 is Public Law
95-216, approved December 20.
Foreign Corrupt Practices and
Investment Disclosure Bill
Statement on Signing S. 305 Into Law.
December 20, 1977
I am pleased to sign into law S. 305, the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977
and the Domestic and Foreign Investment
Improved Disclosure Act of 1977.
During my campaign for the Presi-
dency, I repeatedly stressed the need for
tough legislation to prohibit corporate
bribery. S. 305 provides that necessary
sanction.
I share Congress belief that bribery is
ethically repugnant and competitively un-
necessary. Corrupt practices between cor-
porations and public officials overseas
undermine the integrity and stability of
governments and harm our relations with
other countries. Recent revelations of
widespread overseas bribery have eroded
public confidence in our basic institutions.
This law makes corrupt payments to
foreign officials illegal under United
States law. It requires publicly held cor-
porations to keep accurate books and rec-
ords and establish accounting controls to
prevent the use of "off-the-books" devices,
which have been used to disguise corpo-
rate bribes in the past. The law also re-
quires more extensive disclosure of owner-
ship of stocks registered with the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission.
These efforts, however, can only be
fully successful in combating bribery and
extortion if other countries and business
itself take comparable action. Therefore,
I hope progress will continue in the
United Nations toward the negotiation of
a treaty on illicit payments. I am also en-
couraged by the International Chamber
of Commerce's new Code of Ethical Busi-
ness Practices.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 305 is Public Law 95-
213, approved December 19.
Exemption From Mandatory
Retirement
Executive Order 12031. December 21, 1977
EXEMPTION OF JEROME K. KUYKENDALL
FROM MANDATORY RETIREMENT
Jerome K. Kuykendall, Chairman, In-
dian Claims Commission, will become
subject to mandatory retirement for age
on December 31, 1977, under the provi-
sions of Section 8335 of Title 5 of the
United States Code unless exempted by
Executive order.
In my judgment, the public interest re-
quires that Jerome K. Kuykendall be ex-
empted from such mandatory retirement.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the
authority vested in me by subsection (c)
of Section 8335 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, I hereby exempt Jerome K.
2157
