Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 8, 1977
Presidential Medal of Freedom
Announcement of Award to the Rev. Martin
Luther King, Jr., and Dr. Jonas E. Salk.
July 4, 1977
The President today announced that he
is awarding the Presidential Medal of
Freedom to the Rev. Martin Luther King,
Jr., and Dr. Jonas E. Salk.
The Presidential Medal of Freedom is
the Government's highest civil award. It
may be awarded only by the President to
persons who have made especially meri-
torious contributions to the security or
national interests of the United States, to
world peace, or to cultural or other sig-
nificant public or private endeavors.
The citations accompanying the medals
follow:
"Martin Luther King, Jr. was the con-
science of his generation. He gazed upon
the great wall of segregation and saw that
the power of love could bring it down.
From the pain and exhaustion of his fight
to fulfill the promises of our founding
fathers for our humblest citizens, he
wrung his eloquent statement of his dream
for America. He made our nation stronger
because he made it better. His dream sus-
tains us yet."
"Because of Doctor Jonas E. Salk, our
country is free from the cruel epidemics of
poliomyelitis that once struck almost
yearly. Because of his tireless work, un-
told hundreds of thousands who might
have been crippled are sound in body to-
day. These are Doctor Salk's true honors,
and there is no way to add to them. This
Medal of Freedom can only express our
gratitude, and our deepest thanks."
President's Personal
Representative to the Vatican
Designation of David Walters. July 6, 1977
The President has asked David Walters,
of Miami, Fla., to act as his personal rep-
resentative to the Vatican. Walters, a pri-
vate attorney, succeeds Henry Cabot
Lodge and will visit the Vatican from
time to time to exchange views on inter-
national and humanitarian subjects of in-
terest and concern to the Vatican and to
the U.S. Government.
Walters was born April 4, 1917, in
Cleveland, Ohio. He has a B.A. from
Baldwin College and LL.B. and J.D.
degrees from the University of Miami
Law School. From 1940 to 1950, he
worked for the Department of Justice,
serving as an investigator, section head,
then administrative hearing judge under
the Administrative Procedures Act. From
1215
