July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This is one of our top priorities-to re-
organize the structure. It's not an easy or
quick thing that can be done, and the per-
son in charge of it is Eleanor Holmes
Norton.
I'd like to outline very briefly for you,
in the time I have available, some of the
achievements already. But I want to em-
phasize again, I'm not bragging about it
because we recognize, as does Vernon Jor-
dan, my friend, that we have a long way
to go. We've set as a goal for this year the
reduction of the unemployment rate from
8.1 percent, which it was last December,
to 7 percent by the end of this year. We've
already reached that goal, and we expect
it to go on down, perhaps as low as 6.5
percent before the end of the year, with
a trend downward that will be main-
tained.
We have also created just a few of the
jobs that I have described to you. Of the
$4 billion public works bill-the benefits
that have not mirrored in the reduction in
unemployment that we've already seen;
that's still to come because it takes a long
time to get these programs going once the
Congress approves the measure of the
$4 billion, we last week signed the first
contracts for less than one percent of the
money that's available. But beginning
with this week, we will be approving
1,000 public works contracts per week,
and we'll have all $4 billion allocated by
September 30 and, for the first time, for
the first time, 10 percent of every contract
must go to a minority subcontractor or
supplier. This can mean $400 million in
additional, new income for minority busi-
ness men and women.
Now, I mentioned an increase in the
public service jobs from 310,000 to 600,-
000. That legislation is just now being
passed, and it will be the end of Septem-
ber-September 30-before we have the
725,000 people involved.
Right now, we are adding 15,000 pub-
lic service jobs per week. Our proposal for
youth employment has now passed the
Senate and House conference, and I ex-
pect to have it at the White House for
signature next week. It will create over
200,000 jobs in a National Youth Con-
servation Corps, built on the old Civilian
Conservation Corps that was put into ef-
fect by Franklin Roosevelt. And we are
just doubling the Job Corps slots to
40,000. Now, this is a program that's been
approved, but it hasn't yet been put into
effect. But it will be put into effect rapidly
now that we have it on the books.
Income security-a lot of people are
concerned about the social security sys-
tem. We have proposed to the Congress-
I hope they'll act quickly-to make sure
that we have a sound social security sys-
tem. And we have made a proposal to put
it back on a sound basis without increas-
ing the tax rate of American workers
above what's already been prescribed by
law.
I want to mention food stamps-again,
an income for poor people that's very
valuable but, as you know, in the past
they've had to have cash money to buy
food stamps. We have proposed, and the
Senate has already approved, and I hope
the House will approve quickly, the elimi-
nation of any requirement to purchase
food stamps. In the future they won't have
to buy them.
We're taking the first step towards
comprehensive health care by proposing
to the Congress hospital cost containment.
The price to sick people of hospital care
has gone up too rapidly. It is now
doubling. It's now doubling every 5 years,
about twice the rate of growth of the
normal, nationwide inflation rate.
By early next year, we'll have a com-
prehensive package of health care to put
forward. And we're prepared to move
1350
