Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
on our country. I've tried to bring into
the White House some of those business
principles that I learned, as many of you
did, the hard way.
I try to evolve with my Cabinet mem-
bers and other advisers long-range goals
and describe them as clearly as I can to
the public—what we hope to achieve
under conditions that we spell out clearly
as a target for maximum unemployment
and the maximum inflation rate, a sus-
tained growth in our national product,
the percentage of personal income that's
collected by the Federal Government in
taxes, the percent of our Nation's pro-
ductivity that's collected and spent by the
Federal Government, to provide some
stability so that we can all work toward
those same goals. And every decision that
I make in my budget hearings, in my
evolving and proposing legislation to the
Congress, in the signing or modification
or vetoing of bills, is determined to a
major degree by my commitment to meet
those goals.
This is not always possible, of course. I
intend to devote most of my State of the
Union speech in January to the major
purpose of my administration in 1978. It
will be concerning our economy and how
to restore confidence and how to redress
many of the problems that I've described
tonight as a national commitment next
year.
I think the Nation is ready for this, and
I believe the lowest unemployed Ameri-
can, up to those who are proud to re-
ceive the minimum wage on a part-time
basis, to the leaders of our top businesses
and industries-we can harness our own
efforts in the private sector with those of
us in the public sector to try as best we
can to realize the benefits of the finest
economic system on Earth.
There's one thing that has concerned
me a great deal since I've been in office,
and that is the tendency on the part of
us all to emphasize the negative aspects
in our Nation's economic system. We've
got the greatest country on Earth. We've
got the best economic system on Earth.
It's been stable and part of our lives for
200 years. God has blessed us with un-
equaled natural resources. We have access
to two oceans without constraint on our
international commerce through the sea
or through the air.
We have got a diversity of population
that brings to us the best from every na-
tion on Earth. And we have an underlying
commitment of entrepreneurs and a sense
of basic human freedom and a sense of
self-respect and personal responsibility
that sustains us in times of trial, in times
of tension, in times of despair. But we all
have too much of an inclination to de-
plore and to emphasize temporary aber-
rations that can always be described as
catastrophies or insurmountable obstacles.
And this creates a sense of discouragement
and a lack of commitment to aggressive
redressing of those transient problems that
is discouraging to me as President.
I just hope that all of you will join me
when there is good news to acknowledge
it, and when you have a chance to speak
to those who look to you for leadership,
to point out the things of which we can
be proud and for which we can be
thankful.
The Presidency, as has often been said,
is kind of a lonely job. There are times
when a decision has to be made just by
me. I use my advisers as much as possible;
I have to consult constantly with the Con-
gress; I work closely with my Cabinet,
with my White House staff. But eventually
the time comes when a decision on inter-
national affairs or defense or the well-
being of our people or economics has to
be made by the President.
2110
