Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriation Act for fiscal year 1978. I
wish, however, to express my strong dis-
agreement with Section 706 of this act.
"On January 21, 1977, pursuant to my
power under the Constitution, I issued a
proclamation granting, with certain ex-
ceptions, an unconditional pardon for
Vietnam era violators of the Selective
Service laws. By Executive order, I di-
rected the Attorney General to take cer-
tain actions to implement the pardon
proclamation. Section 706 purports to
prohibit the use of funds appropriated
under this act to carry out the Executive
order. The prohibition relates to the three
types of action called for by the Execu-
tive order: dismissal of indictments for
certain violations of the Selective Service
laws, termination of investigations regard-
ing those violations, and permitting entry
into the United States of aliens who might
be excludable because of possible viola-
tion of the Selective Service laws.
"The first two aspects of Section 706 will
have no real practical effect because the
matters in question-dismissal of indict-
ments and termination of investigations-
do not actually depend upon the expendi-
ture of funds by the Department of Jus-
tice. The third aspect is intended to pre-
clude entry of certain aliens who, as a
result of the pardon and the Executive
order, may be entitled to enter. I am ad-
vised by the Department of Justice that
this aspect of Section 706 is unconstitu-
tional. It amounts to interference with the
pardon power which is invested in the
President by the Constitution. Moreover,
it would be a bill of attainder because it
would impose punishment, without judi-
cial trial, upon an easily ascertainable
group. In addition, certain applications of
Section 706 would constitute a denial of
due process."
NOTE: As enacted, the Departments of State,
Justice, and Commerce, the Judiciary, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriation Act, 1978, is
Public Law 95-86, approved August 2.
Department of Energy
Organization Act and Bill
Amending the Small Business
Administration Act
Remarks on Signing S. 826 and H.R. 692
Into Law. August 4, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I have two legislative
acts that have now been passed by the
Congress, which I intend to sign this
morning. One is a bill that has been very
important to me. It's concerning changes
in the Small Business Administration to
make it more feasible for myself, as Presi-
dent, and for the executive branch of
Government to deal with victims of catas-
trophe such as floods, tornadoes.
And this legislation has been sponsored
by the Senators from West Virginia and
others. It makes it possible for lower inter-
est loans for people whose homes have
been destroyed, whose businesses have
been destroyed, and more direct and in-
stant assistance.
I'm particularly grateful that the ma-
jority leader, Senator Byrd, and Senator
Jennings Randolph and the congressional
leadership in this legislation.
delegation from West Virginia took the
This is House of Representatives act
692, and it is with a great deal of pleasure
that I sign this bill.
1410
