Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 5
Our Declaration of Independence and
the Bill of Rights expressed a lofty stand-
ard of liberty and equality. But in prac-
tice, these rights were enjoyed only by a
very small segment of our people.
In the years and decades that followed,
those who struggled for universal suf-
frage, those who struggled for the aboli-
tion of slavery, those who struggled for
women's rights, those who struggled for
racial equality, in spite of discouragement
and personal danger, drew their own in-
spiration from these two great docu-
ments-the Declaration of Independence,
the Bill of Rights and our own Constitu-
tion. Because the beliefs expressed in these
documents were at the heart of what we
Americans most valued about ourselves,
they created a momentum toward the
realization of the hopes that they offered.
Some of these hopes were 200 years in
being realized. But ultimately, because the
basis was there and the documents signed
at the origins of our country, people's dis-
couragements and disappointments were
overcome, and ultimately these dreams
have prevailed.
My hope and my belief is that the in-
ternational covenants that I sign today
can play a similar role in the advancement
and the ultimate realization of human
rights in the world at large.
The last time I was here at the United
Nations, shortly after I became President,
I made an entire speech on the subject of
human rights. Yesterday I made a speech
on peace. And today I've taken tangible
steps toward the realization both of peace
among nations and the preservation of
human rights for individual men and
women throughout the world.
My hope and my prayer is that the high
and noble expressions in these documents
will be realized throughout all nations as
the high and noble expressions of hope in
our own Bill of Rights, 200 years ago, is
being realized in our great country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 a.m. in
the Economic and Social Council Chamber at
the United Nations Building in New York City.
Following his remarks, the President attended
a reception and then met with United Nations
Secretary General Kurt Waldheim.
United Nations
Remarks at a Working Luncheon for Officials
of Asian Nations. October 5, 1977
I've been trying to define the geograph-
ical area represented here. I've noticed
that Cyprus is present, and Mongolia is
present, and the Philippines is present,
and Korea is present, Vietnam is present.
I've not quite yet gotten oriented about
which particular part of the world this
luncheon is supposed to encompass.
But I do see one or two things in com-
mon. One is that the ancient civilizations
of the world are represented here-the
fountainhead for knowledge and science
and education, mathematics, medicine,
culture, music, art, drama. And it's a very
stimulating and exciting thing for me to
meet representatives of those historic peo-
ples who have meant so much to the for-
mation of human society.
I've also noticed that many of you rep-
resent countries that are quite new, hav-
ing been formed only in recent years. But
you've been able to bridge the gap be-
tween an ancient civilization of your peo-
ples' heritage and also a new form of
government.
I notice also that many of you have
moved strongly toward a concept of pre-
servation of human freedoms and the
right of people to be treated well. I've no-
ticed expansion of the definition of human
rights in my own consciousness to encom-
pass the right of someone to have a place
1735
