June 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tries, sold their products, and we were in
effect quietly encouraging this escalation
in nuclear arms—I mean in conventional
arms sales around the world.
So, there are some differences in per-
spective, but I have to say that it's too
early to assess tangible results.
Q. Mr. President, it's no more of a
gamble as far as you see it?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no more of a
gamble, no. I think our positions are much
more clearly expressed in a public way. I
think that all of you representing the news
media and your readers and viewers and
listeners have a much more accurate
assessment of what we hope to achieve in
SALT negotiations, what we hope to
achieve with human rights and with non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons, and
what we hope to achieve in the Middle
East, and what we hope to achieve in
dealing with the People's Republic of
China and Cuba, and so forth, very con-
troversial matters, than they did in the
past.
But I think the openness of it and the
involvement of the public in the debates
and discussions will prevent our making
some of the mistakes that were so devastat-
ing to our country in the past. I don't think
it's more risky to do this. I don't believe
that open debate in itself is a risk. I think
This is a program that we think has
been successful. I think if you have no-
ticed the news in the last few weeks when
the transcript of my answers are released,
on, I think, Sunday, each time there has
been a very heavy coverage of some of
the points because you ask questions look-
ing at your particular parochial viewpoint
that bring out issues that quite often are
not asked by the Washington correspond-
ents who are here all the time at the
center of government. And it also makes
me think about questions that you raise
that I would very rarely get in a Wash-
ington White House news conference.
And I've been benefited greatly from it.
Thank you very much.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:15 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. The
transcript of the interview was released on
June 25.
Prior to the interview, the group held meet-
ings with Esther Peterson, Special Assistant to
the President for Consumer Affairs, Robert J.
Lipshutz, Counsel to the President, David L.
Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs, and Geno C. Baroni,
Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment for Neighborhood and Consumer
Affairs.
it possibly avoids the risk of a serious mis- Department of the Army
take when a decision is made in secret
without the sound judgment and the ex-
perience and the common sense of the
American people and the Congress being
involved in making those crucial decisions.
Thank you very much. I enjoyed it. I
hope you enjoyed your stay here. With
whom have you met today?
Q. We met Mrs. Peterson.
Q. The Counsel.
Q. David Aaron.
Q. And a meeting with Geno Baroni.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope you do
enjoy it here. We are very honored to have
you here.
Nomination of Walter B. LaBerge
To Be Under Secretary. June 27, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Walter B. LaBerge, of
Fairfax County, Va., to be Under Secre-
tary of the Army. LaBerge is Assistant
Secretary General for Defense Support at
NATO.
He was born March 29, 1924, in Chi-
cago, Ill. He received a B.S. in naval sci-
ence (1944), a B.S. in physics (1947),
and a Ph.D. in physics (1950) from the
University of Notre Dame.
1174
