Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 28
where nongovernmental persons filed a
lawsuit saying that the 1902 law was
passed by Congress, signed by the Presi-
dent, and had been violated.
When the State and the Federal courts
made a ruling, they said that the law
must be enforced and directed the Sec-
retary of Interior to take action to enforce
the law, which, as you know, had not been
enforced in the past. And that's what
we're doing. We did not initiate this ac-
tion. We're carrying out the court order.
Both I and all the Members of Congress
have taken an oath to uphold the Con-
stitution of the United States and the laws
of our country as interpreted by the
courts.
I'm a farmer myself, as you know. I
own 2 or 3 thousand acres of land, and
I recognize that the scale of farming is
quite different from what it was in 1902;
in fact, even what it was in 1952, when
we were still plowing with mules down
home.
As you know, a husband and a wife
of a farm family can own 160 acres each,
which makes a total of 320 acres. I doubt
that this is the final word about the sub-
ject. The Congress is monitoring this very
carefully. Legislation might be introduced
to modify the 1902 law. I think that there
ought to be some larger permits for land
holdings-I can't say the exact acreage
right now. But in the meantime, we'll
have to comply with the Federal court
rulings.
I might say that at the banquet that
was held in Los Angeles this past week-
end, we had a very large contingent there
of Imperial Valley farmers to support me
and also the Democratic Party and what
we are trying to do. We are trying to
approach it in an objective and fair
fashion, but we're constrained to enforce
the law and we'll continue to do so.
But we did not take the initiative. We
are familiar with the problems there. I
think some modification might very well
be made in the law in the future, but in
the meantime, we'll have to carry out
the court directive.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Q. Mr. President, George Joplin again.
Labor costs currently account for about
86 percent of postal service expenses. In
light of this, it is clear nothing can be
done about the rising rates and declining
services unless the labor cost problem is
dealt with. How do you intend to deal
with this?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I don't
have any authority over the Post Office.
This is a matter that was decided by the
Congress just a few years ago, to make an
independent Postmaster General who is
not appointed by the President and who is
not accountable to me, and also a rate-
making board which is an independent
board.
At the time this new legislation was
passed, the postal employees were among
the lowest paid Federal employees.
They've had a very rapid increase in sal-
aries, and now they are among the high-
est paid Federal employees. They are
separate from the others because of the
independence of the Post Office, as deter-
mined by the Federal law that was passed
by Congress.
We've advocated to the Congress that
the Postmaster General be a Presidential
appointee, that he serve for 6 years, that
his appointment be ratified by the Senate,
and that he be accountable, not only to
the public but also, at least to that degree,
to me as President.
I just believe that there has been prog-
ress made in making the Post Office more
efficient. The rapid rise in wages, the
rapid rise in inflationary pressures have
created serious problems, but we will con-
tinue to subsidize the postal rate structure.
And we will also single out for the rate
of subsidy those elements of postal users
who provide the greatest and most ad-
1927
