Aug. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
President's ability to select the best avail-
able leadership for the Commission.
Accordingly, I hope that Congress will
correct this defect prior to the appoint-
ment of the new Chairman by enacting
legislation giving the President the flexi-
bility to select any of the Commissioners
as Chairman.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6370 is Public Law
95-106, approved August 17.
Arms Control and Disarmament
Act Amendments of 1977
negotiations with other nations is the re-
sponsibility of the President under our
Constitution. But I share Congress belief
in the importance of consultation and
close cooperation on these matters, and I
am confident that we shall continue to
work together in a manner that is con-
sistent with our respective constitutional
responsibilities in the conduct of the Na-
tion's foreign policy. It is in this spirit
that I am signing this legislation.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6179 is Public Law
95-108, approved August 17.
Statement on Signing H.R. 6179 Into Law. Director of the Office of
August 18, 1977
I am signing H.R. 6179, the Arms Con-
trol and Disarmament Act Amendments
of 1977. H.R. 6179 authorizes fiscal year
1978 appropriations of $16,600,000 for the
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
The bill also adds a new section 37 to
the Arms Control and Disarmament Act,
declaring the sense of the Congress that
adequate verification of compliance
should be an indispensable part of any in-
ternational arms control agreement. The
section provides for the Director of the
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency
to furnish to the Congress information re-
garding verification, including the degree
to which each element of any significant
arms control proposal made to or by the
United States can be verified by existing
national technical means. The report of
the Conference Committee points out that
this provision is not intended to interfere
with the President's ability to conduct
arms control negotiations but is intended
to emphasize the responsibility of the Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency to keep
Congress informed on these matters.
As Congress recognizes by the adoption
of the Conference Report, the conduct of
Management and Budget
Remarks of the President at a News Conference
by Bert Lance Following an Investigation of
His Finances. August 18, 1977
I have reviewed the report of the
Comptroller of the United States, both
personally and also with the White House
Legal Counsel, Bob Lipshutz, and my
faith in the character and competence of
Bert Lance has been reconfirmed. I see no
other conclusion that can be drawn from
any objective analysis of these findings.
It's obvious that few individuals in Gov-
ernment or out of Government have ever
undergone such an extensive and detailed
investigation of their personal and busi-
ness affairs by the Comptroller's Office, by
the Justice Department, and twice by the
Senate Committee. This process has not
been an easy one for Bert, nor for those
who are close to him. But I think I speak
for him and his family, as well as for my-
self, when I say that we all recognize that
intense scrutiny is a legitimate part of pub-
lic life and public service.
I want to conclude by thanking Bert
Lance for standing firm through difficult
times, by answering every question put to
1480
