Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 26
At the same time, we have had a pro-
digious expansion in the number of stu-
dents up to the level of universities, which
are open today to the children even of
the humblest families.
Another item I would like to add-
the proportion of Italians who now own
their own homes has reached 50 percent.
The road to be covered in the field of
social justice is still long. We are con-
ditioned by the grip of unemployment
and of inflation. But the results of more
than 30 years comfort us in our firm be-
lief in the goodness of the democratic
system. We consider freedom to be the
fulcrum of any intention and design of
our programs.
I am proud to speak these words in the
presence of a chosen representation of
Italian-Americans, almost all descend-
ants of humble immigrants to whom for
a long time our fatherland was not able
to ensure bread and work.
On your soil the immigrants gave a
strong contribution to the continuous
growth of the American nation, sharing
without exception joys and adversities.
Allow me today not to talk of those
who have emerged socially in many
fields. I would like instead to mention
the contribution of blood given by the
Italian-Americans when the United
States has been engaged in war.
There is not a single military cemetery
from Normandy to Nettuno in which the
names of so many people of Italian origin
do not bear witness to this participation
in the greatest sacrifice of their new
homeland.
When you, Mr. President, were serv-
ing in the Navy in Hawaii, you would
certainly have paused in meditation in
front of the historical memorial to the
fallen of Pearl Harbor. Well, even on
that stone are engraved significant names,
such as those of machinist W. J. Bon-
filio, of sailors E. I. Brigniole, E. Puzzio,
M. I. Giovinazzo, F. J. Pidrotti, J. N.
Ristivo, and R. D. Valenti, of yeoman
M. Crisquolo, of shipfitter F. Riganti.
Europe and Italy also owe those boys,
twice in this century, their victorious
liberation.
And it was the sacrifice of all this
youth that inspired enlightened states-
men to give life in 1949 to the Atlantic
Treaty, the prime purpose of which has
been that of preserving peace. By asso-
ciating themselves in time to effectively
ward off the danger of a third world war,
the United States, Canada, and 13 Euro-
pean countries have undertaken an affir-
mation of solidarity which had no his-
torical precedent and which still remains
an essential element of world stability.
We are pleased to say that this view is
shared today in Italy by the widest ma-
jority of political forces, together with
the other qualifying objective of the Euro-
pean Community.
Mr. President, on the occasion of every
change here at the White House, we in
Europe legitimately ask ourselves, what
will be the policy of the United States
towards our continent? It seems to us
that a man from Georgia, the son, that
is, of a State which counts among its
cities a Rome and an Athens, must be by
vocation more than others close to
Europe. [Laughter]
You have given assurances of this
many times during your electoral cam-
paign, and you confirmed it without fear
of doubt last May at the London sum-
mit. And on the same occasion, you also
made it clear, without equivocation, that
there is no contrast between the repeated
raising of the issue of human rights and
international policy of détente, to which
1361
