Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in light of what has happened since Presi-
dent Sadat's visit, since many people feel
that Israel has no real worries about a
one-front war, that if an agreement, for-
mal or informal, even a real warming
takes place between Israel and Egypt, that
you could have de facto peace in the Mid-
dle East, perhaps not as neat and wrapped
up as a treaty, that would be a major
accomplishment in itself? And do you
think that it may have to come to that as
a result of President Asad's opposition to
the talks and the PLO?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our immediate
hope and goal is that any peace move
made by Israel and Egypt would be ac-
ceptable to the moderate Arab leaders in
the Middle East, certainly King Hussein
in Jordan, certainly the Saudi Arabians.
We have had good indications in my per-
sonal visits with President Asad that he
wants to resolve the differences. Lebanon
is heavily influenced, as you know, by
Syrian presence there. The PLO have
been completely negative. They have not
been cooperative at all.
In spite of my own indirect invitation
to them and the direct invitations by
Sadat and by Asad, by King Hussein, by
King Khalid in Saudi Arabia, the PLO
have refused to make any move toward a
peaceful attitude. They have completely
rejected United Nations Resolutions 242
and 338. They have refused to make a
public acknowledgement that Israel has
a right to exist, to exist in peace. So, I
think they have, themselves, removed the
PLO from any immediate prospect of par-
ticipation in a peace discussion.
But I certainly would not ascribe that
short of intransigence or negative attitude
toward any of the other parties who have
been mentioned as possible participants.
We want to be sure that at least moderate
Palestinians are included in the discus-
sions. And this is an attitude that's mir-
rored not only by myself but also by Prime
Minister Begin, President Sadat, and
others. So, I think they are all major steps,
already having been taken, to delineate
those who are immediately eager to con-
clude a step toward peace-those like
President Asad, who will wait a while and
see what does occur, to see if the Golan
Heights question can be resolved and so
forth, and those who have in effect re-
moved themselves from serious considera-
tion like the PLO.
AGRICULTURAL POLICIES
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you
about the farm strike. Some of the Na-
tion's farmers are on strike today. As you
know, there was a meeting at the White
House last weekend, and some of the
farmers present noted your absence and
said if you really cared about their prob-
lems as a farmer yourself you would have
been there. How do you respond to that,
Mr. President? And do you plan any ac-
tions because of the farm strike?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have deep
sympathy for the farmers. I'm one of
them. I understand their particular con-
cerns at this time. They have enormous
investments, capital investments. In my
own county, for instance, the average
farm family has a much greater invest-
ment than does the average businessman
or industrialist. Their income on their in-
vestment is exceedingly low.
We've made some major strides in 1977
to help ease those problems. The last time
I checked, the price of wheat was up
about 60 cents. The price of corn was up
about 38 cents from a year ago. So, the
trends are in the right direction. The tar-
get prices, the support prices, passed by
Congress in the new farm bill, are much
more favorable to the farmers than was
the case with the previous legislation
under which farmers had to live.
2120
