Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
perpetuity greatly strengthens our ability
to guarantee its open use.
I might say that as we embark now
on this new and improved relationship
with Latin America, it's not on the basis
of financial aid or grants or loans; it's
on a nonfinancial basis of mutual benefit
and equality and mutual respect.
So, for all these reasons I'm very grate-
ful to have this chance to participate with
you in the observance of this good week.
I think we have 16 million Americans
who speak Spanish, plus 3 Americans in
the White House who are trying to learn
Spanish-myself, my wife, and my daugh-
ter, Amy.
Es un gran placer para mi el estar
con ustedes esta tarde. Muchas gracias
a todos. [It is a great pleasure for me to
be with you this afternoon. Thank you
all.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. Procla-
mation 4516, designating the week beginning
September 11, 1977, as National Hispanic
Heritage Week, is printed on page 1521 of this
volume.
Meeting With Nobusuke Kishi
of Japan
Remarks at a Meeting With the Former Prime
Minister. September 15, 1977
Just for the benefit of the news media,
this is one of the great leaders in the free
world.
Prime Minister Kishi was courageous
enough to support a friendship with our
own country at a time when it was not
popular for him to do so.
He's been instrumental in some of the
finest international efforts that related to
the well-being of humans throughout the
world. And although he's had a lot of
years on Earth and a lot of experience,
he's still young at heart.
It's a great honor for us to have him
here in the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:15 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
Designation of Federal Officials
for Liaison With State and Local
Leaders
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
September 15, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Designation of Senior Intergov-
ernmental Officials in Federal Agencies
To simplify the procedures of the Fed-
eral government and to make its pro-
grams more responsive to public needs, I
have asked the head of each Federal
agency having extensive contact with
State and local leaders to designate a
senior official for liaison with them in the
development of policy. These intergov-
ernmental officials are listed at the end of
this notice.
I have also asked the agency heads to
ensure that these officials respond to mat-
ters referred to them within two weeks.
If a problem cannot be solved in this two
week period, I have asked that the re-
sponse indicate a definite plan of action.
and a timetable for reaching a resolution.
State and local governments should, of
course, direct their questions about pend-
ing applications to the appropriate grants
offices and should take reasonable steps
to resolve all questions at that level be-
fore enlisting the aid of the intergovern-
mental officials.
1602
