Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 26
owner of Sim Bright Real Estate & In-
vestments. From 1973 to 1976, Bright was
also coordinator of the cooperative educa-
tion program at Potomac State College,
West Virginia University.
Department of State
Nomination of Benjamin H. Read To Be
Deputy Under Secretary. July 25, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Benjamin H. Read, of
Washington, D.C., to be Deputy Under
Secretary of State for Management. He
would replace Richard M. Moose. Read
is president of the German Marshall
Fund of the United States.
Read was born September 14, 1925, in
Philadelphia, Pa. He received a B.A. from
Williams College in 1949 and an LL.B.
from the University of Pennsylvania in
1952.
From 1952 to 1955, Read practiced
law in Philadelphia, and in 1955 and 1956
he was an associate defender with the
Volunteer Defender Association there. In
1957 and 1958, he was an attorney adviser
in the Legal Adviser's Office at the State
Department.
From 1958 to 1963, Read was legis-
lative assistant to U.S. Senator Joseph S.
Clark of Pennsylvania. From 1963 to
1969, he was special assistant to the Sec-
retary of State and Executive Secretary
at the State Department.
Read was acting Director, then Direc-
tor, of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars from 1969 to 1973.
Since 1973 he has been president of the
German Marshall Fund of the United
States, a Washington-based foundation
dedicated to assisting Americans and Eu-
ropeans to understand and resolve the
common problems of industrial societies.
Visit of Prime Minister
Giulio Andreotti of Italy
Remarks of the President and the
Prime Minister at the Welcoming
Ceremony. July 26, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This morning it's a great
honor for me, on behalf of the American
people, to welcome to our country a per-
sonal friend of mine and a man who rep-
resents a nation which is a close partner
and friend of the United States. Prime
Minister Andreotti is one of the most ex-
perienced and accomplished leaders in
the whole world. He's had a breadth of
service in the Government of Italy, which
is almost unbelievable in its complexity
and in its diversity and accomplishments.
About 30 years ago, as a very young
man of 27, he became the Under Secre-
tary of State, and since then he's been the
Minister of Interior, the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of Defense, the
Minister of the Treasury, of Commerce
and Industry, the Minister of the Budget
and Economic Planning. And before
his present service, he has been Prime
Minister of Italy on two different occa-
sions. So, the great developments in Italy
and its emergence as one of the world
leaders is to a major degree a measure of
the accomplishments of this fine man.
The last time he was in the United
States was in December. He met then
with Vice President-elect Walter Mon-
dale. In January, when we made our first
series of visits around the world to show
how valuable those national friendships
were, of course Italy was one of the places
that the Vice President visited. He was
well received by our good friend, Prime
Minister Andreotti.
When I went to the London summit
conference in May, I enjoyed working
with Prime Minister Andreotti and five
other world leaders in assessing the prob-
1353
