Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nov. 12
last year, sir, you met with a group of men,
and you indicated that you wanted to de-
velop a personal relationship with the
people in that room that would continue
even after you were elected: Do you
feel
that you've been able to maintain that
kind of relationship?
THE PRESIDENT. That was a religious
group?
Q. No, it was primarily a group of
minority leaders.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I remember. I
came there for another reason, but I met
with them after the banquet.
Yes, I think so. We've had, I think, as
much success in keeping me available to
the public as any administration has been
able to do. At the conclusion of this year,
for instance, I will have met personally
and answered questions from about 400,
perhaps more, editors and radio and TV
executives like yourselves.
This morning I had a meeting with a
group, for instance, that was involved in
the Negro College Fund. Yesterday I met
with about 40 small businessmen at the
middle-business level-for instance, Van
Heusen Shirt Company and Radio Shack,
about that level-that have several thou-
sand employees, but are not the biggest
ones. I've made 5 or 6 different—well,
more than that-I probably made 15 visits
to individual communities around the Na-
tion and ordinarily have either a forum
that's publicized or call-in shows, or I have
a press conference every 2 weeks, twice a
month. We've never missed that yet.
In addition, I've had three fireside chats
and one session in the Oval Office where
people called me on the telephone for a
couple of hours. Walter Cronkite helped
me with that. We have a stream of visitors
who come here during the week-some
meet with me, some, the Vice President,
some, top members of my staff.
Although it's never adequate, you know,
I've done the best I could to devote a lot of
time to this contact directly with the
people from around the country.
And as far as the black leadership is
concerned I mentioned the United
Negro College Fund, but I met earlier
this week with the Black Caucus, and
I've done the same thing with women's
groups.
I met yesterday afternoon with the na-
tional leaders of about 75 different wom-
en's organizations over in the White House
and made a brief talk and answered their
questions. So, although you are never com-
pletely satisfied, I think we've done the
best we could in keeping my contact di-
rectly with the people.
AGRICULTURE
Q. Mr. President, recently in States-
boro, there was a tractor motorcade of
3,000 tractors. These men were protesting
low farm prices and high production costs.
Do you have any good words to give these
farmers?
THE PRESIDENT. Tell them I'm one of
them-[laughter]—say we've got a dirt
farmer in the Secretary of Agriculture's
office who understands their problems as
well.
We've passed this year one of the most
far-reaching farm bills, the most far-
reaching farm bill that's ever been passed
in this country. I would say the total
amount of indirect or direct Federal aid
this year, this coming year, will be about
$11 billion.
Prices now are growing, are going up
fairly well-soybeans, corn, wheat. The
price of peanuts, which is important down
around Swainsboro and Statesboro, as you
know, is fixed at a reasonable price. We
are trying to get the Government out of
the unwarranted interference in the agri-
culture picture as best we can.
We've got large farm stocks on hand of
wheat and corn. We'll have the highest
yield this year in history of both corn and
2013
