Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
-Albert Shanker, president, Robert
Porter, secretary-treasurer, and mem-
bers of the executive committee of
the American Federation of Teach-
ers, AFL-CIO;
-Vice President Mondale, Adm.
Stansfield Turner, Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;
-Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
-Marshall Shulman, Special Consult-
ant to the Secretary of State for
Soviet Affairs;
-Leonard Woodcock, Chief of the
United States Liaison Office,
People's Republic of China, Vice
President Mondale, Secretary of
State Cyrus Vance, Richard Hol-
brooke, Assistant Secretary of State
for East Asian and Pacific Affairs,
and Dr. Brzezinski, for a discussion
prior to Ambassador Woodcock's de-
parture for Peking.
July 8
The President met at the White House
with:
-Vice President Mondale, Secretary
Vance, and Dr. Brzezinski;
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Secretary of the Treasury W.
Michael Blumenthal, Mr. Lance, Dr.
Schultze, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assist-
ant to the President for Domestic Af-
fairs and Policy, Jack H. Watson, Jr.,
Assistant to the President for Inter-
governmental Affairs, to discuss
budgetary and economic projections
for the period 1979-81;
-members of the Commission on Civil
Rights, to discuss the Commission's
recent report;
-Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall;
-Western and Plains States Gover-
nors who were meeting with Secre-
tary of Agriculture Bob S. Bergland
to discuss agricultural policy.
The President met with Soviet Ambas-
sador A. F. Dobrynin, Academician V. A.
Kirillin, Deputy Chairman of the Coun-
cil of Ministers of the U.S.S.R., and Dr.
Frank Press, Science Adviser to the Presi-
dent. Earlier in the day, in a ceremony
at the Department of State, Academician
Kirillin and Dr. Press had signed the re-
newal for another 5 years of the U.S.-
Soviet Agreement on Cooperation in the
Fields of Science and Technology of May
24, 1972.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following releases of the Office of the
White House Press Secretary, distributed dur-
ing the period covered by this issue, are not
included in the issue.
Released July 6, 1977
Announcement: nomination of Harold L.
Murphy to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Georgia
Released July 8, 1977
Announcement: nomination of Donald L.
Beckner to be United States Attorney for the
Middle District of Louisiana; Jose A. Canales
to be United States Attorney for the South-
ern District of Texas; John H. Hannah, Jr.,
to be United States Attorney for the Eastern
District of Texas; J. Albert Jones to be
United States Attorney for the Western Dis-
trict of Kentucky; Theddis R. Coney to be
United States Marshal for the Southern Dis-
trict of Texas; and Bennie A. Martinez to
be United States Marshal for the District of
New Mexico
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or
nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 7, 1977
JOHN H. SHENEFIELD, of Virginia, to be an
Assistant Attorney General, vice Donald I.
Baker, resigned.
HAROLD L. MURPHY, of Georgia, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Georgia, vice James C. Hill, elevated.
1222
