Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. Mr. President, I am from New Eng-
land, and we don't engage in overdrafts,
as Mr. Lance calls some of his actions.
When you were a businessman in Georgia,
did you ever become involved in over-
drafts? He gives the impression that it's a
common practice in the State of Georgia.
THE PRESIDENT. There are several peo-
ple here, I think, from Georgia. I don't
think that this is-
Q. But did you, in your business-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't say that I
depended on overdrafts to run my busi-
ness, but as I have said in one of my reg-
ular news conferences that was televised
nationwide, yes, I've had overdrafts. Let
me add one other thing.
There is a fairly common practice-and
I am not trying to criticize banks, because
I don't know how wide the practice is-
but there's a general sense at home, not
because it's in the South, but because I live
in a small town, that if you have several
accounts and a substantial balance in all
those accounts, but then you become
overdrawn in one of those accounts, then
that's not considered to be an illegal or an
unethical act.
I run, I would say in my business, six or
seven individual accounts, different as-
pects of my farm or my warehouse busi-
ness. Also, I have a personal account. I
never write any checks. I haven't written
three checks in the last 5 years. My wife
does all the check writing. But if we
should have $50,000 or $100,000 in my
warehouse account, and in my own per-
sonal account my wife should buy a dress
and give a $25 check to pay for it and the
check bounced because we were over-
drawn, they would not send for the sheriff
or call me on the phone to say, "You've
disgraced yourself by having an over-
draft." They would say, in effect, "We'll
honor this check. We'll put a notice in
your mailbox, and then you can shift some
money from your warehouse account over
into the personal account."
But I don't excuse overdrafts. You
know, it's obvious that I would rather my
own life have been completely free of any
overdraft. But I can't say that it's an ac-
ceptable thing. But I still don't believe
that it's an unethical or illegal thing in the
banking circles in which I've had to
operate.
ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, people in the North-
east are as concerned about energy as any-
thing. I know that Secretary Schlesinger
yesterday told the Senate Finance Com-
mittee that he wasn't sure how you were
going to react to the idea of diverting the
wellhead tax to energy production rather
than tax rebates. I wonder, can you tell us
today how you feel about it?
THE PRESIDENT. My preference is to
have the wellhead tax receipts go to tax
rebates. There are some alternatives that
obviously will be considered by the Con-
gress with or without my approval, and I
can't say that my own position will pre-
vail ultimately. But there are different
ways to use wellhead taxes. My preference
is, as we presented it to the Congress, the
rebates. One reason for that preference is
that it's fair. Another one is that it doesn't
create a tremendous withdrawal from the
national economy of substantial amounts
of
money. If you have increased wellhead
taxes and immediately return that money
to people in better paychecks on a 2-week
basis, then there's not a shock to the
country. If you withdraw that money and
wait 3 months, 6 months, or a year before
it gets back into the economy, you have a
tremendous dampening effect on our na-
tional economy, which is bad.
Now, if some of the wellhead tax should
be shifted to enhance the effectiveness of
the energy goals, then I can't see anything
1618
