Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Humphrey, we're glad to have you." He
said, "Yes, but I need a ride." [Laughter]
And I said, "Well, that's fine. Maybe I
could send the Vice President out to pick
you up." He said, "Well, I've never rid-
den in Air Force One."
So, I went to the west coast and came
back via Minnesota and picked him up.
But first I said, "Well, why is it you want
to come back?" He said, "I think if I
come back, I can get the Congress
straightened out." He said, "I guarantee
you, if you give me a ride back to Wash-
ington, I'll have the energy package
passed in a week." [Laughter]
He is a man who has touched my life
and that of my family, as I'm sure he's
touched almost everyone here in a strange
and very delightful way. And I'm going
to tell you just a few brief instances that
occurred, actually, long before I had any
dreams of coming to Washington myself.
The first time I heard about Senator
Humphrey was when I was in the Navy,
and he made a famous speech at the Dem-
ocratic National Convention. He was
quite well known in Georgia. I don't
think anyone else has kept more Georgia
politicians from seeing the end of a Dem-
ocratic convention than Senator Hum-
phrey has, because it got so that every
time he walked in, they walked out and
came back home. [Laughter]
So, in 1964, when he became the Vice-
Presidential candidate, in Georgia it
wasn't a very popular thing to be for the
Johnson-Humphrey slate. My mother,
Lillian, ran the Sumter County Johnson-
Humphrey headquarters. And I could al-
ways tell when my mother was coming
down the road, because she was in a
brand new automobile with the windows
broken out, the radio antenna tied in a
knot, and the car painted with soap.
[Laughter]
In that campaign, Hubert and Muriel
came down to south Georgia to Moultrie
for a Democratic rally. And because of
my mother's loyalty, she was given the
honor of picking up Muriel at the airport.
And Rosalynn and my mother and
Muriel and my sister Gloria went down
to Moultrie to attend the rally. Senator
Humphrey made a speech, and they had
a women's reception for Muriel. And they
were riding around that south Georgia
town getting ready for the reception.
Everybody in town was very excited. And
as Muriel approached the site, she said,
"Are any
black women invited to the re-
ception?"
For a long time no one spoke, and
finally my sister said, "I don't know." She
knew quite well that they weren't. And
Muriel said, "I'm not going in." So, they
stopped the car, and my sister Gloria
went inside to check and let the hostess
know that Muriel was not coming to the
reception. But in a few minutes, Gloria
came back and said, "Mrs. Humphrey,
it's okay." So, she went in and, sure
enough, there were several black ladies
there at the reception. And Muriel never
knew until now that the maids just took
off their aprons for the occasion.
[Laughter] But that was the first inte-
grated reception in south Georgia,
Muriel, and you are responsible for it.
Ten or eleven years ago, when I was
not in political office at all, Senator
Humphrey was Vice President. He had
been to Europe on a long, tedious, very
successful trip. And he came down to
Atlanta, Georgia, to visit in the home of
a friend named Marvin Schube. And I
was invited there to meet him, which was
a great honor for me. I have never yet met
a Democratic President, and he was the
only Democratic Vice President I had
ever met. And I stood there knowing that
he was very weary because he had just
returned from Europe. But he answered
the eager questions of those Georgia
friends until quite late in the morning,
2074
