Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tions for 1977, health care costs, auto-
mobiles, cement and the trends in indus-
trial plant construction, as well as its fil-
ings before various Federal regulatory
agencies.
sup-
During the remainder of 1977, the
Council on Wage and Price Stability will
continue to play an important role in
plementing fiscal and monetary policies
by calling public attention to wage and
price developments or actions by the
Government that could be of concern to
American consumers.
The White House,
October 11, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 38-page report is entitled "Coun-
cil on Wage and Price Stability-Quarterly
Report, April 1977."
The message was not issued in the form of
a White House press release.
Visit of Lieutenant General
Obasanjo of Nigeria
Toasts of the President and Lieutenant
General Obasanjo at a Dinner Honoring the
Nigerian Head of State. October 11, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me wel-
come all of you here. This is one of those
great occasions in our country's history
when a new relationship between two
great nations is beginning to take form
and the advantages of that relationship
are becoming obvious to all those
involved.
This weekend I went to Camp David,
and I spent probably 18 or 20 hours
studying tax reform options, and I spent
2 or 3 hours reading a very interesting
book called "Things Fall Apart," written
by a great modern novelist called Achebe
from Nigeria. This was an intriguing book
about the life of a small community in
Nigeria and how it was changed with the
advent of the intrusion of white mission-
aries and the British Government officials
and how there was a struggle to retain
both the freedom and independence and
heritage that was precious to the Nigerians
in the face of inexorable changing social
and economic times. It was a very fine
book, and I would recommend it to any of
you here who haven't read it.
This is a time of great admiration in
my own life for General Obasanjo and the
people who come with him, and also the
great country that General Obasanjo
represents.
There is a common theme that runs
through the advice to me of leaders of
African nations: "We want to manage
our own affairs. We want to be friends
with both of the great super powers and
also with the nations of Europe. We don't
want to choose up sides. We don't want
you or the Soviet Union to inject your-
selves into the internal affairs of the na-
tions of our continent. We believe that
we are able and we are certainly willing
to resolve challenging and very difficult
disputes."
And if there's one nation that has come
into the forefront because of great popu-
lation, 80 million, because of economic
advances, the wealthiest nation in Africa,
probably, because of enlightened leader-
ship, it's Nigeria.
This is a country that went through a
very terrible civil war. And those of us
who live in either the North or South in
our own country know that it took us a
hundred years to overcome the conse-
quences of a divisive civil war in our own
country. But under the leadership of Gen-
eral Obasanjo and the Military Council,
Nigeria has healed its wounds and has
carved out for its own citizens a very fine
and rapidly improving quality of life and
at the same time, in an almost unprece-
dented fashion has earned the confidence
and trust of the other leaders of Africa
1772
