Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. Are you going to meet Mr. Begin
more than once, or are those 3 hours to-
morrow morning about it?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll be meeting with
Cy Vance this afternoon at 6:15, when
he returns, to get a report from him on
all the visits that he concluded in the
Middle East. But I only have one meeting
scheduled with Prime Minister Begin so
far tomorrow. If he and I can't conclude
our discussions inside the time allotted,
then I would cancel some of my other
appointments to meet further with him.
Q. You know, one of the interesting
things is that Mr. Vance is not a low-level
official of this Government. He was in
Jerusalem last week.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. Why does the Prime Minister have
to come all the way here just to look you
in the eye for about 3 hours?
THE PRESIDENT. You'd have to ask him
about that. He sent word to me that he
would like to come over here and meet
with me. He has not told me what the
subject of his conversation would be. But
quite often I have an inclination to talk
directly to heads of state and not just to
the foreign minister, and I think that the
work of Secretaries of State and foreign
ministers are a good precursor to the
January. I think everybody wants to con-
clude this as rapidly as possible. It's prob-
ably the most difficult and complicated
and politically divisive issue that the Con-
gress has ever addressed. You have to re-
member that we are not a nation of con-
sumers alone. We are a nation of major
producers, one of the largest oil-produc-
ing nations in the world, and also the
greatest consumer of all in the world. And
there are inherent conflicts.
The Senate conferees, as you know,
have been rigidly divided nine to nine.
They've never been able to break that
deadlock so far. But I can see progress
being made, because many Members of
the Congress come and discuss with me
or with Frank Moore or with Jim Schles-
inger their own private feelings about
what they could accept. And there's much
more flexibility among the members of the
conference committee individually than
there has been so far in the public state-
ments or the actual votes. I think we'll
have a general agreement, and I think the
action on the energy measures will be con-
cluded quite early in the next year's
session.
more final discussions between heads of Federal Property Council
state.
I don't think Prime Minister Begin
would have made this long and arduous
trip had he not had something important
to discuss with me. I look forward to it
with a great deal of anticipation.
Q. Mr. President, when do you think
you will get an energy bill?
THE PRESIDENT. At the latest, early
next year. I think if the conference com-
mittees can lay down the principles of
natural gas regulation and oil taxation,
I think the conferees' staff members can
be working on that between now and
Executive Order 12030. December 15, 1977
TERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL PROPERTY
COUNCIL
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, including Sec-
tion 205(a) of the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as
amended (40 U.S.C. 486 (a)), and as
President of the United States of America,
it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) The Federal Property
Council is terminated.
2124
