July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
FEDERAL HOUSING SUBSIDY PROGRAM
Q. My name is Maurice King. I want
to know if you are considering doing away
with the Federal housing subsidy pro-
gram, and, if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. We are not consider-
ing doing away with the Federal housing
subsidy program. There is no doubt in
my mind that the program will be con-
tinued. We are constantly searching for
a way to do a better job of providing good
housing with the amount of money that
we have available, and both Secretary
Patricia Harris and Secretary Califano at
HEW, Bert Lance at the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, myself, and others,
are trying to see a proper balance on how
limited Federal funds might be made
available.
I believe in family homeownership and
in many instances there's no way for a
family to finance a home without Federal
assistance in the acquisition of the loan,
and sometimes interest subsidies. Among
young people—I mean, older people, the
202 programs, to provide housing for
them with a reasonable monthly payment,
ought to be continued. We also, of course,
need to continue the Section 8 program
which provides decent housing for those
with very low incomes.
The question that is being addressed is,
with a limited amount of money for hous-
ing, how to make sure that we don't spend
too much on very expensive homes for just
a few people when many more hundreds
of thousands of American citizens do with-
out housing subsidies at all.
But the answer to your question in one
word, about whether or not we are going
to do away with the housing subsidy pro-
gram-the answer is no.
PANAMA CANAL ZONE
Q. Hello, Mr. President. I am Jeff
Davis, and my question is, with the Re-
public of Panama asking for complete
control of the Panama Canal, do you feel
it would be a mistake to grant their de-
mand, and do you think that the Panama
Canal Zone would be a vital base in case
of a third world war, as Cuba is a threat
to our Southern States?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. In 1903 to 1907,
our country worked out with Panama an
arrangement to acquire control of the
Panama Canal Zone and, of course, we
built the Panama Canal. The treaty said
that Panama retained sovereignty over the
Panama Canal Zone; that we had control
over the Panama Canal Zone as though
we had sovereignty. So, even in the time
of Theodore Roosevelt the agreement was
that we and the Panamanians both, in
effect, have sovereignty over the Panama
Canal Zone-they have legal sovereignty,
we control it-to operate after the build-
ing of the Panama Canal itself.
My hope is that we can sign a treaty
with Panama to share with them, from
now until the year 2000, the operation of
the Panama Canal itself and to continue,
after the year 2000, an adequate author-
ity to protect the Panama Canal, to keep
it open for international use, giving our
own warships priority along with those of
Panama in the use of the canal.
My guess is, that before many more
years go by, we might very well need a
new canal, one at sea level, that can han-
dle very large ships. This was studied
when Lyndon Johnson was President, and
the cost of it was very high, several bil-
lions of dollars. Since then we have seen a
much greater need for the canal.
We are now looking for a way to get
Alaskan oil and gas to the central part
and the Eastern seaboard of the United
States. The large ships that bring the oil
down from Panama [Alaska] can't go
through the canal. If they bring oil, they
come down to the Panama area, off-load
1326
