Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
region of the country to another if the
banks were truly overextended in loans or
if they did have lending reserves that they
were withholding for some other reason.
I think those are some of the things that
come to mind just offhand that have al-
ready been done and obviously can be
continued in the future.
to
Maybe one more question, then I have
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Q. Mr. President, probably our peanut
farmers in Texas have benefited as much
as anyone on agricultural research, basic
research. The gap is closing faster all the
time on what research has to offer to the
better farmers to stay in business. I under-
stand that the Congress is contemplat-
ing or making a move to increase the
amount of funds for basic agricultural
research.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. How would the administration go
along with that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. We favor that. In
fact, in the new agriculture bill that I
signed yesterday, there is a substantial
increase in commitment of the Federal
Government for the basic research pro-
gram. I, myself—and you use peanuts as
an example-have seen production rates
of peanuts, I'd say, either tripled or quad-
rupled because of the results of basic
research.
In the case of peanuts, the basic find-
ing was that the less you cultivate peanuts,
the more they made. We used to culti-
vate peanuts so much that we destroyed
the vines, injured them, and created prob-
lems for the growing nuts.
But I think that some of the money
that pays the richest dividend is in the
field of basic research, because one or two
scientists who are adequately financed can
change the basic production rates of
crops.
We've got a lot of needs because of
changing times. We're going to have to
learn how to produce crops with less fuel
being used. And the environmental stand-
ards that are being enforced-passed by
the Congress and obviously enforced by
us-are making it necessary to produce
crops with fewer herbicides and insecti-
cides which we used as a substitute for the
massive cultivation in the past.
We also have insects that are growing
immune to the standard pesticides that
have been used on the farms for literally
decades.
We are now seeing one of our basic in-
secticides challenged as far as toxicity to
human beings is concerned, and that's
toxaphene. I can close my eyes now and
smell toxaphene. I've lived with it 25 or
30 years.
But all these changing demands on
farmers require that we stay up with the
basic research.
I'd like to say one other thing. I hap-
pen to be a nuclear-trained person, but
there's no group in the world that's more
eager to take advantage of basic research
in practical and immediate application
than farmers. Farmers are not conserva-
tive at all in the way they produce food
and feed and fiber. What has always been
a concern to us in Georgia is trying to
encourage farmers to wait 2 years or wait
3 years to let the experiment stations com-
plete their testing program before the
farmers adopt it on a massive scale. And
some of the more successful farmers have,
in effect, turned their farms automatically
over into an experiment station which
they themselves have been willing to
finance.
I've been part of that. As a small ware-
houseman that had 200 or 300 farm cus-
tomers, my farmers, if you came out with
any sort of a new planting technique or
cultivating technique or herbicide or pes-
ticide or curing technique, they were
1710
