Dec. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have just informed First Secretary
Gierek that in addition to the $300 mil-
lion in commodity credit grain sales that
has been authorized by our own country,
that we will increase that by $200 mil-
lion more worth of food and feed grains.
Poland has had a devastating and un-
precedented 4 years of crop failure be-
cause of adverse weather conditions; 3
years of drought, the last year, of exces-
sive floods. We, on the other hand, have
had very good and bountiful harvests.
And we want to share our grain with Po-
land on legal credit terms which have al-
ready been established by our govern-
ment.
I think another thing that Poland can
help with is to improve even further the
better relationships that we are working
out with the Soviet Union. Poland is a
nation that has good communications and
cooperation with the nations in Western
Europe with Germany, Belgium, Hol-
land, France and others—and also are an
integral part of the Warsaw Pact nations.
And I think this ease of communication
and this natural and historical friendship
is a basis on which Poland can provide
additional cooperation and communica-
tion between ourselves and the Soviet
Union.
I don't say this to insinuate that we
have a lack of communication now. But
Poland's good offices can be of great
benefit to us.
Yes, sir.
Q. Mr. President, in your discussions
earlier today with First Secretary Gierek
and other Polish leaders, did they in your
mind express any viewpoints on interna-
tional questions that diverged in tone or
substance from the viewpoints generally
expressed by the Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. We discussed a wide
range of subjects. I didn't detect any sig-
nificant differences of opinion between
ourselves and the Polish leaders, and we
did not go into detail on matters that now
are not resolved between ourselves and
the Soviets.
For instance, the details of the SALT
negotiations and the comprehensive test
ban were not discussed by me and Mr.
Gierek. So, I would say that we found no
disharmonies of any significance between
ourselves and the Poles, or between the
Poles and the Soviet Union.
Mr. Gierek did express a concern that
there might be a bilateral agreement be-
tween Israel and Egypt in the Middle
East, to the exclusion of the other Arab
countries. This is an opinion also held by
the Soviet Union. It's an opinion also held
by us and by Israel and Egypt.
I pointed out to Mr. Gierek that had the
Egyptians and Israelis wanted to seek a
solution only for the Sinai region and the
Egyptian-Israeli relationship, they could
probably already have consummated such
an agreement. But President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin do not want such
an agreement. I pointed out this to Mr.
Gierek and he was relieved to hear this.
He also was quite concerned about the
lack of progress on the mutual and bal-
anced force reductions, which have been
stalemated in Vienna for years. He
pointed out that the primary responsibil-
ity lay on the shoulders of the United
States and the Soviet Union.
This is not exactly the case, because we
consult very closely with our NATO allies
before any common opinion or proposi-
tion is put forward. I hope to relieve this
stalemate shortly. And we are consulting
closely with the Germans and others in
the Western European theater and also
with the Soviets on this matter.
He was very pleased that we want to
reduce international sales of conventional
weapons. This is a subject on which we
have just begun to talk with the Soviet
Union, and perhaps Poland is ahead of
the Soviet Union in this particular sub-
2210
