Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 10
past year, up to the 1st of October, the
highest farm export level we've ever had
in history-$24 billion worth of American
farm products were sold overseas. We've
never done that before. We are even em-
phasizing that effort much more in the
future.
We'd like to open up permanent sales
possibilities in countries that don't pres-
ently buy food from us. My first stop on
my trip will be Poland. We want to main-
tain our sales of agricultural products
grown in this country to the so-called
Eastern European countries, to the Soviet
Union, to the People's Republic of China,
as well as to our natural allies and friends
in this hemisphere and others.
In the energy package-we've tried to
put it together in such a way that it
would not only protect the farmers and
the agricultural communities but also
open the way for increased use of, as you
refer to it, biomass, and also forestry prod-
ucts. I spent about 4½ hours this morn-
ing-I got up at about 5 o'clock and came
over here early to work on it—and I
will be spending 22 hours immediately
after this meeting, in this room, working
on the budget for the Department of En-
ergy next year.
And I'll be analyzing and making final
decisions, pending congressional approval
next year, on how much research and de-
velopment money to put into things like
the use of biomass, wood products, for-
estry products, shale, and other energy
supplies. But I think the fact that I do
know agriculture, do know farm families'
needs, and have an Agriculture Secretary
the same way, gives me a sense of judg-
ment that maybe I wouldn't have if I had
a different background.
So we've got, I think, a good thrust now
to resolve some of the longstanding prob-
lems. I disagreed very strongly with some
of the policies that Secretary Butz had
when he was in office. There are not any
easy answers. I would say that Bob Berg-
land has one of the most difficult jobs in
Washington. It's a tough proposition.
PRESIDENT'S SCHEDULE
Q. Mr. President, this question is on
behalf of my 12-year-old son who is a
newspaper publisher down in Plains,
Virginia.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Q. He looks at fathers as sort of an
example. And he had read that during
your first year in office, you had been
getting up at the hour you mentioned a
while ago, 5 o'clock in the morning, and
working until midnight. And he said that
since the end of the softball season and
tennis, that he's afraid you're not getting
enough exercise, either. [Laughter]
Would you share with us, after 10 or
11 months in office, the kind of a schedule
you keep now, and I can assure him that
you are getting enough rest and exercise?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay, I'd be glad to.
I have a permanent call-in to the Secret
Service at 6 o'clock. If I don't call them
the night before, they always wake me up
at 6:00. On Monday mornings, I have to
get up at 5:00, because in addition to my
regular work, I have a 2-hour Cabinet
meeting and I need to prepare myself for
the Cabinet meeting. I also have my
weekly senior staff meeting Monday
morning immediately before the Cabinet
meeting. I would say about three morn-
ings a week I get up at 5:00 or 5:30. I've
always done that. It's not a handicap for
me;
it's not a sacrifice or an extraordinary
thing for me to do. I prefer to work early
in the morning rather than staying up
late.
Most nights I go to bed by 11 o'clock,
and so does my wife. And I always
set aside some time to go home in the
afternoon, 5:30 or 6 o'clock, to be with
my daughter and to listen to her play the
2097
