Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 28
moderate or conservative or much more
inclined toward the employer's position
than it was in its original form because I
have the same concern that you do.
I am a businessman, I have been an
employer, and I want to be sure that both
the rights of workers and their employers
are protected. I consider the proposal to
be very modest in its scope, and the major
thrust of it is to expedite whatever deci-
sion is made.
I have seen in Georgia, for instance,
that when the application of the present
law was attempted, that because of sub-
terfuge or delay, a final determination in
the labor dispute might be dragged out 2,
3, 4 years. And I don't think it's right to
circumvent the law by unnecessary delay.
This would expedite it.
Also, I don't think that any worker
should be punished through immediate
discharge who tries to seek the rights that
are applicable in almost all parts of the
country for workers.
But I think if you would get the copy
of the law as it was proposed by us and
passed by the House and go over it para-
graph by paragraph, I would like very
much to have you communicate with me
directly, Mr. Joplin, and let me know
what your specific concerns might be.
I was concerned about the legislation
originally. The deeper I got into it, the
more I could see that it was fair, was
moderate, and had a primary thrust of
expediting decisions that ultimately had
to be dragged out through the courts for
several years and quite often hurt employ-
ment and hurt the economic stability and
strength and prosperity in the small com-
munities, in particular.
So, how about taking a look at the in-
dividual component parts and let me have,
either by telegram or direct letter from
you, how you feel about the individual
paragraphs?
Q. All right, sir, I certainly will, and
I appreciate the opportunity.
NATURAL GAS DEREGULATION
Q. Mr. President, this is Harold Hudson
from Texas. During the campaign, you
said you favored the deregulation of nat-
ural gas prices, and now you're opposed
to this. Why have you changed your posi-
tion?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said in my cam-
paign and also as I said to the Congress
when I made my energy speech in April,
we are working toward deregulation of
natural gas. I said in my speech that I
would work with the Congress toward
this ultimate goal. I don't think we ought
to do it all at once, Mr. Hudson. It would
just be too much of an impact on our
national economy.
The present price for natural gas, as
you know, is about $1.45. We advocated
raising it immediately to $1.75, which is
a substantial increase and, I think, about
600 percent higher than it was 5 or 6
years ago; also, that we provide a step-
by-step increase in the price of natural
gas from one year to another, bringing it
up to the equivalent price for interna-
tional oil and, I thought, with a fairly
liberal definition of what is new gas, to
have an incentive for the production and
exploration, particularly in the new gas
areas.
So, my goal is still to deregulate natural
gas. I believe that we made a major step
in that direction. I just don't want to do
it too rapidly, and I don't want to define
old gas which has actually already been
discovered and is being produced as new
gas.
I think that the House of Representa-
tives has gone along with our position. It's
been supported both publicly and pri-
vately by some Members who represent
gas-producing States, and I think it con-
firms my campaign promise and my speech
1925
