Sept. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
France, finally, is sensitive to the ab-
surd, dangerous, overly wasteful, ruinous
character of the unlimited accumulation
of armaments. If it is justifiable and nor-
mal, so long as reason alone does not rule
the world, for each country to seek to give
itself the means to carry out its own de-
fense, today we are witnessing an over-
equipping in armaments, which is fraught
with threats. And so the French Govern-
ment shall endeavor, within the prospect
of the next special session of the General
Assembly of the United Nations, to bring
her contribution to the common thinking
in order to lead towards genuine disarma-
ment.
Mr. President, I have dwelt upon four
fundamental issues for the future of the
world, but there are more immediate and
more tragic threats bearing down upon
peace in Africa, as in the Middle East.
We have devoted a thorough exchange
of views to these threats. I shall therefore
simply express with fervor and anguish
my wish that in these areas which could
break out into flames at any moment,
passions shall not rule out over reason.
We are aware of the efforts that you
have undertaken to promote peace. You
know that we shall not spare our own
efforts.
A world at peace must not only be a
world without war; it must also be a
world without violence and without
tyranny, where the furthering of the
human being is the prime objective of
society. Peace is not established only upon
the silence of man.
Mr. President, may I propose a toast
to yours and to Mrs. Carter's health, to
the prosperity and the happiness of the
American people, and the friendship be-
tween France and the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:45 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
The Prime Minister spoke in French, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
General Pulaski's Memorial Day,
1977
Proclamation 4520. September 16, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Exactly two centuries ago, in 1777, the
Polish patriot Casimir Pulaski arrived on
our shores to help secure the liberty of
the American colonies.
In exile from his native land, he fought
courageously at Brandywine and in other
battles. He formed and commanded the
Pulaski Legion, the famous cavalry unit
which contributed
contributed valiantly to the
achievement of our independence.
In October, 1779, General Pulaski died
of wounds received in the siege of Savan-
nah. In commemoration of his heroic
sacrifice on behalf of American inde-
pendence, our Nation has for generations
paid grateful tribute to him and to the
millions of Americans of Polish descent
who have played a role of enduring sig-
nificance in the life of our country.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate Tuesday, Oc-
tober 11, 1977, as General Pulaski's Me-
morial Day, and I direct the appropriate
Government officials to display the flag of
the United States on all Government
buildings on that day.
I also invite the people of the United
States to honor the memory of General
Pulaski by holding appropriate exer-
cises and ceremonies in suitable places
throughout our land.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
1606
