Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 6
aging and is the author of several articles
on aging in professional journals.
Department of Justice
Nomination of Benjamin R. Civiletti To Be
Deputy Attorney General. December 6, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Benjamin R. Civiletti, of
Baltimore, Md., to be Deputy Attorney
General. He would replace Peter F.
Flaherty, who has resigned.
Civiletti was born July 17, 1935, in
Peekskill, N.Y. He received an A.B. from
Johns Hopkins in 1957 and an LL.B.
from the University of Maryland in 1961.
He was admitted to the Maryland bar in
1961. He served as law clerk to U.S. Dis-
trict Judge W. Calvin Chestnut in 1961
and 1962.
From 1962 to 1964, Civiletti was as-
sistant U.S. Attorney for the District of
Maryland. He practiced law with the
Baltimore firm of Venable, Baetjer,
Howard from 1964 until March 1977,
when he was appointed Assistant Attor-
ney General for the Criminal Division.
U.S. Steel Industry
Announcement of a Report to the
President by an Interagency Task
Force. December 6, 1977
The President has received and ap-
proved the recommendations of the Inter-
agency Task Force report on steel pre-
pared by the Under Secretary of the
Treasury, Anthony Solomon.
The President indicated that the rec-
ommendations in the Task Force report
will help revitalize the health of the do-
mestic steel industry, will encourage its
modernization, and will assist workers,
firms, and communities that have been
disadvantaged by its current problems.
The President stressed that these pur-
poses would be achieved:
-with maintenance of existing en-
vironmental goals;
-within the framework of existing
antitrust laws;
-with a minimum of inflationary
impact;
-with modest Federal budget expendi-
tures;
-in a way which encourages greater
productivity and modernization in
the steel industry;
-consistent with competitive market
forces.
The President noted the rapidity with
which the administration had responded
to the problems of the steel industry and
applauded the expeditious work by the
Task Force and particularly by Under
Secretary Solomon.
NOTE: The 35-page report is entitled "Report
to the President-A Comprehensive Program
for the Steel Industry."
David K. E. Bruce
Statement on the Death of the Former
Ambassador. December 6, 1977
David K. E. Bruce was not only a dip-
lomat of uncommon character and in-
fluence, he was also a man whose breadth
of friendships, intellect, and empathy for
the feelings of others made him an ideal
representative of this Nation abroad. His
service as Ambassador to France, Ger-
many, and the United Kingdom fit-
tingly symbolized his personal commit-
ment to help reduce the age-old antago-
nisms of Europe and forge a bond of
Western unity. As our country's first envoy
2083
