Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 9
dollars, it will ensure that the money
which is spent produces superior results.
Therefore, my administration is working
to improve the management of Federal
aid and improve the partnership with
State and local governments, particularly
in the following five areas of grant man-
agement where experience has shown the
greatest problems exist:
Application, reporting, and planning
requirements
• Financial management practices
• Audit procedures
Requirements to fulfill national goals
Development of regulations
I. APPLICATION, Reporting, and
PLANNING REQUIREMENTS
Many existing Federal requirements are
confusing and unnecessarily difficult to
comply with. They produce mounds of
paper-some grant applications arrive in
Washington in crates rather than enve-
lopes-but the material they demand is
too often duplicative, unhelpful, and
sometimes even unread. To help relieve
State and local government of this exces-
sive burden, I am taking the following
actions:
Simplification of application and re-
porting requirements. By memorandum,
I am today directing the heads of all exec-
utive departments and agencies to:
-ensure that no State or local official
is required to provide, as part of a
grant modification or renewal, in-
formation which was provided in the
original application.
-use the standard application and fi-
nancial reporting forms now avail-
able from the Office of Management
and Budget.
-make reporting forms available no
less than 2 months before aid recip-
ients are required to use them or to
begin collecting data for inclusion in
them.
-give the public an opportunity to
comment on new application and re-
porting forms before the final version
is decided upon.
-ensure that no State or local govern-
ment is required to submit to the
Federal Government more than one
original and two copies of any grant
application or reporting forms.
• Reduction of the reporting burden on
the public. I have directed the heads of
executive departments and agencies to
combine reports where possible, eliminate
unnecessary reports, require less frequent
reporting, and share information among
agencies themselves instead of asking
grantees to provide such information re-
peatedly. By September 30, we will have
reduced paperwork by at least 7 million
hours a year, much of it in Federal grants.
For example, the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare has revised the
form which university administrators
must complete to apply for student finan-
cial aid. The revision will save almost
100,000 hours of work for the school ad-
ministrators. Similarly, the Department of
Transportation has simplified its Federal
highway program reporting system in a
way which saves State employees and pri-
vate contractors 67,000 hours a year.
• Reduction in the number of plans re-
quired from State and local governments.
In a memorandum dated July 19, 1977, I
directed the heads of all executive depart-
ments and agencies to perform a zero-
based review of all federally imposed
planning requirements with which State
and local governments must comply as a
condition for receiving grants. By No-
vember 30, I expect a substantial reduc-
tion in the number and duplication of
plans from the 80 now required.
1559
