Aug. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
mercial viability of breeder technology in
the United States.
Without wasting the taxpayers' dollars
on the Clinch River facility, we will be
able to implement a breeder research pro-
gram which will ultimately make this
country better prepared to build, if and
when we need to, a commercial breeder
reactor which is technically, economically,
and environmentally sound.
Finally, H.R. 7553 provides up to $14
million for such activities at the Barnwell
Nuclear Fuel Plant as the Energy Re-
search and Development Administration
Administrator determines are consistent
with the international nuclear fuel cycle
evaluation. No funds appropriated in this
act shall be used for the reprocessing of
spent fuel.
NOTE: As enacted, the Public Works for Water
and Power Development and Energy Research
Appropriation Act, 1978, is Public Law 95-96,
approved August 7.
The statement was released at Americus, Ga.
Red River Compact Commission
Appointment of Maj. Gen. Robert C. Marshall
as Federal Representative and Non-Voting
Chairman. August 11, 1977
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Maj. Gen. Robert C. Mar-
shall, Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, as
the Federal Representative and non-vot-
ing Chairman of the Red River Compact
Commission.
Marshall, 55, was nominated on July 28
to be a member and President of the
Mississippi River Commission. He is
Deputy Chief of Engineers in the Army
Corps of Engineers. He has served in the
Army since 1943.
Panama Canal Negotiations
Remarks on the Agreement in Principle
Reached with Panama. August 12, 1977
Good afternoon, everybody.
For 13 years, we have been engaged in
negotiations for a Panama Canal treaty
that would strengthen our security inter-
ests, be fair to ourselves and the people of
Panama, and insure free international use
of the Panama Canal in a spirit of co-
operation and friendship among all na-
tions in this hemisphere. In spite of dif-
ficulties and even bloodshed, each of my
predecessors since President Lyndon
Johnson has decided that this effort must
be continued. And I'm pleased that it will
now be completed during my own admin-
istration.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff and other
principal advisers of mine have been in-
volved in these talks at every stage. All of
us believe that these agreements are good
ones and that the implementation of the
treaties incorporating these agreements
are important to our long-term national
interests.
Under the canal treaty that will now be
prepared, we will have operating control
and the right to protect and defend the
Panama Canal with our own military
forces until the end of this century. Under
a separate neutrality treaty, we will have
the right to assure the maintenance of the
permanent neutrality of the canal as we
may deem necessary. Our own warships
are guaranteed the permanent right to ex-
peditious passage, without regard to their
type of propulsion or the cargo they carry.
And the treaties will be a foundation for
a new cooperative era in our relations with
all of Latin America.
As provided by our United States Con-
stitution, I will seek the advice and con-
sent of the Senate for the ratification of
1462
