Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
thank Senator Jennings Randolph for
coming here today. His wife had an oper-
ation yesterday, and I'm very thankful
that he's reported she came through in
good condition.
This is a good step forward, and I'm
very glad now to sign into law Senate bill
717, a new mine safety bill.
[At this point, the President signed S. 717 into
law.]
Now, to change the subject to one that
will be of growing importance during the
next 3 years and, I hope, without delay.
This is a bill which was originated in the
House, bill number 6010, which dereg-
ulates air cargo. I hope this is just the first
of many steps to get the Government out
of the regulatory business, which quite
often works contrary to the interests of
consumers.
This bill will, at the moment it's signed,
permit airlines, small and large, who haul
exclusively cargo, to operate without con-
straint and let the workings of the mar-
ket determine whether or not they enter
this competitive field.
If an airline is reliable and properly
and safely operated, it can begin to com-
pete. This is a major step forward, and I
hope that without delay this same general
principle can be applied to the carrying
of passengers.
This bill also helps with the first steps
toward deregulation of passenger carry-
ing. It permits the interrelationship be-
tween intrastate airlines and interstate
airlines, where passengers can now, with
a single transaction, change from one to
another. Intrastate airlines, in carrying
passengers, as you know, are not regulat-
ed by the Federal Government.
This also permits lower fares, if the
airlines desire to use this authority for
elderly people and for those who are
handicapped, on a seat-available basis.
And I'm sure that some airlines will now
begin to offer this extra service to those
who need special care in air transporta-
tion.
We have great work to do in this field.
And I'm particularly grateful that Sena-
tor Cannon and the Senate committee
have already reported out the air passen-
ger deregulation bill. This is going to be
a controversial measure, and I hope that
the House will soon follow suit and that
both Houses of Congress will move to
approve this legislation.
I'm particularly grateful to Congress-
man Glenn Anderson and to Howard
Cannon, the Senator, for this good work
just a preview of what's going to come
on air cargo deregulation and hope it is
with the deregulation of other transpor-
tation industries.
Thank you very much, gentlemen.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 6010
into law.]
Well, I'm very proud of all of you.
These are two good bills, and you've done
very good work. I know part of it is quite
controversial, and I think now you've got
hands.
a big responsibility on your
SENATOR RANDOLPH. And it will speed
up the processing of the cases that are
backed up.
THE PRESIDENT. I know. I hope you'll
all make sure that Ray does a good job
now. [Laughter]
We're very hopeful that we can have
a new stimulation of coal production in-
dustries.
Good luck to all of you. Thank you.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. That last bill,
Mr. President, the aid to the handi-
capped in travel, is very important.
THE PRESIDENT. I know. I hope some
airlines will immediately do that.
1988
