Oct. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Masters attended the National War
College in 1963-64. He served as coun-
selor for political affairs in Djakarta from
1964 to 1968, and as country director for
Indonesian affairs at the State Depart-
ment from 1968 to 1970. In 1970 and
1971, he was Director of the Office of
Regional Affairs at the Bureau of East
Asian and Pacific Affairs.
From 1971 to 1976, Masters was Dep-
uty Chief of Mission in Bangkok. Since
1976 he has been Ambassador to the
People's Republic of Bangladesh.
We then went into a time of at least
embryonic discussions of nuclear test
bans, and now we have one that still
permits the testing of weapons which
have the equivalent of 150,000 tons of
TNT. Even this has been recognized as
an achievement. And, of course, we are
discussing with the Soviet Union means
by which we can eliminate, sometime in
the future, our dependence upon atomic
weapons altogether. We've lived under a
threat which so far has not yet been
realized, and I pray that it never shall.
In the last 32 years, there have been
no people killed by the use of atomic
weapons. But with the rapidly increasing
International Nuclear Fuel Cycle price of oil and the scarcity of fuel which
Evaluation
Remarks at the First Plenary Session of the
Organizing Conference. October 19, 1977
About 25 years ago, I was a student
doing graduate work in nuclear physics
and reactor technology, not too many
years after the first atomic weapons had
been used to destroy human beings. My
study was the peaceful use of this tre-
mendous force, working under Admiral
Rickover in the development of atomic
submarine powerplants.
And now we've come to a time when
we can look back with a clear historic
perspective at what has transpired during
this quarter century. It's a great honor for
us to have you leaders come from, I be-
lieve, 36 nations and 3 international
organizations, to think back to 1945, to re-
member our own President Eisenhower's
proposal called Atoms for Peace, part of
which was adopted, the later establish-
ment of the International Atomic Energy
Agency, which has provided for us, so far,
a very effective mechanism by which
explosions could be reduced and power
could be produced.
we have taken for granted in years gone
by, there's an increasing pressure for ex-
panding atomic power use. And commen-
surate with that use is also the threat of
the proliferation of nuclear explosives
among nations that have forgone volun-
tarily that opportunity up until now.
We have seen regional actions taken in
the southern part of this hemisphere. The
Treaty of Tlatelolco is now being ratified
by the last nations, we hope, to prevent
the deployment of any atomic explo-
sions or explosives in that part of the
world. We hope that this will prevail in
many other parts of the world.
We've also seen progress made recently
between ourselves and the Soviet Union.
We are eager to see drastic reductions in
the deployment of nuclear weapons. And
we are now negotiating with the Soviet
Union and with Great Britain for a com-
plete elimination of the testing of atomic
explosions.
At the same time, the challenge pre-
sents itself to this group and to me, as
one of the world leaders, to find a means
by which the consuming nations who need
atomic power to produce electricity and
+
1812
