Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
July 30
10 percent of that allocation money being
guaranteed to minority business people.
And in addition to that, we have taken the
CETA jobs, the comprehensive education
and training jobs, and have multiplied
them by more than a hundred percent,
more than 200 percent.
We hope to increase those by 400,000
jobs between now and a year from now.
None of these programs have yet been felt.
Last week was the first week we ever were
able to get a public works project ap-
proved.
This week the Congress has completed
passing additional legislation on youth em-
ployment, above and beyond what I've
just described to you. And I think by the
time we feel the beneficial effect of all
these programs, we'll be able to observe
some improvements.
Obviously, we've got a long way to go
in law enforcement. I think, to a substan-
tial degree, the Law Enforcement Assist-
ance Administration funds have been
wasted in years gone by. We are trying to
bring a more narrow focusing on them to
prevent crime and to get out of the waste
of buying very expensive and fancy ma-
chines and so forth and actually concen-
trate in the areas where the crime rate is
highest.
I think I've seen statistics lately from
the FBI and others that show that there's
a general reduction in the crime rate. I
think there's a better tone in the country,
a little bit more trust in the Government.
This was certainly subverted by the evi-
dence in New York earlier this month.
But I think, in general, throughout the
country there's more of a respect being
built up for public officials—not because
of anything I've done, but just because
we've recovered partially from the embar-
rassment of Watergate and the CIA and
the Vietnam war and so forth.
But I think we ought not to give up on
our urban cities and our downtown de-
teriorating neighborhoods. And my whole
administration is focusing on this, and I
feel hopeful about it.
ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS IN OCCUPIED
LANDS
Q. Mr. President, do you have a com-
mitment from Prime Minister Begin be-
fore he left here that he would not for-
malize or legalize the three settlements on
the West Bank?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we did not dis-
cuss his legalizing those settlements. We
did discuss my concern about the adverse
impact of establishing new settlements.
He did not promise me anything on the
subject, and we did not even discuss the
legalization question.
Q. So that you weren't upset by the
fact that they did legalize these settle-
ments?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I was upset. As I
said I think it's an obstacle to peace. And
I let Mr. Begin know very clearly that
our Government policy, before I became
President and now, is that these settle-
ments are illegal and contravene the
Geneva conference terms.
Mr. Begin disagrees with this. But
we've spelled this out very clearly on sev-
eral occasions in the United Nations and
other places that these settlements are
illegal.
I think that it's accurate to say that the
Israeli Government has never main-
tained that they are permanent but, that
on a temporary basis, maybe extending
quite a while in the future in their view,
that they are legalized, but not as a per-
manent settlement.
Israel has never claimed hegemony
over the West Bank territory, as you
know. And I think that it would be a
1393
