Dec. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The President and the Prime Minister
will meet again tomorrow evening at 7
p.m.
Export-Import Bank of the
United States
Nomination of H. K. Allen To Be First Vice
President. December 16, 1977
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate H. K. Allen, of Tem-
ple, Tex., to be First Vice President of the
Export-Import Bank of the United States.
He will succeed Delio E. Gianturco, re-
signed.
Allen was born July 24, 1926, in Dallas,
Tex. He is a graduate of the University
of Texas and holds B.S., B.B.A., and
LL.B. degrees. From 1944 to 1946, Allen
was in the Navy Flight Officers Training
program. In 1951 he was recalled to active
duty and served 19 months sea duty.
After an honorable discharge, he re-
turned to Temple where he entered the
banking business. Since 1953 he has been
chairman of Temple National Bank. Allen
is chairman of the Farmers & Merchants
State Bank, Ballinger, Tex., and also the
chairman of the First State Bank, Rogers,
Tex. He is a member of the board of
directors of the American Founders Life
Insurance Co., Austin, Tex.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Michael Manley of Jamaica
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting. December 16, 1977
Prime Minister Manley of Jamaica and
President Carter met today for an hour
and 15 minutes in the Cabinet Room and
then proceeded to a working luncheon
for an hour and a half. They discussed a
wide
range of subjects of mutual interest.
Mr. Manley was invited to have lunch at
the White House by Mrs. Carter during
her visit to Kingston in May of this year,
and the December 16 date was selected
as the time most convenient to both the
President and Prime Minister Manley.
The Prime Minister and President Car-
ter discussed multilateral and bilateral is-
sues during their meeting and luncheon.
Jamaica, as Chairman of the Group of 77,
plays an important role as spokesman for
many developing countries. The Prime
Minister and the President reviewed the
general state of the North-South dialog,
as well as several individual issues of im-
portance including the assistance needs of
developing countries and the negotiations
on a common fund.
The two leaders also discussed certain
bilateral issues, including our efforts to
assist Jamaica resolve its economic diffi-
culties and Jamaica's contribution to a
broader hemispheric commitment to hu-
man rights. Several important regional
issues were discussed, including the ques-
tion of Belize. Prime Minister Manley
recently hosted a conference of seven
Latin American and Caribbean leaders to
discuss the future status of Belize, and the
Prime Minister related some of the con-
clusions of that conference to the Presi-
dent, and they explored in general terms
ways to ensure a peaceful and durable
settlement to that problem. The two lead-
ers also discussed the Panama Canal
treaties and regional cooperation in the
Caribbean.
The meeting was extremely cordial.
Attending on the Jamaican side were
Prime Minister Manley, Mrs. Manley,
P. J. Patterson, Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Trade and Tourism; Alfred
Rattray, Jamaican Ambassador; Richard
Fletcher, Minister of State, Ministry of
2128
