Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
dent in time of war or national emer-
gency."
H.R. 7738 is the result of a cooperative
effort by the Congress and this adminis-
tration. Its broad purpose is to differen-
tiate between those economic powers
available to the President in time of war
and those available in time of declared
national emergency. The bill is largely
procedural. It places additional con-
straints on use of the President's emer-
gency economic powers in future national
emergencies and ensures that the Con-
gress and the public will be kept informed
of activities carried out under these pow-
ers. Enactment of the bill will not affect
embargoes now being exercised against
certain countries, nor does it affect the
blockage of assets of nationals of those
and other countries.
In approving the bill, I must note my
serious concern over the provision con-
tained in Section 207 (b), which would
allow Congress to terminate a national
emergency declared by the President by
concurrent resolution.
Provisions such as these raise profound
constitutional questions, since Article I,
Section 7, of the Constitution requires
that congressional action having the force
of law be presented to the President for
his signature or veto. In addition, such
provisions have the potential of involving
Congress in the execution of the laws-a
responsibility reserved exclusively to the
President under the Constitution. This
feature of the bill may be unconstitu-
tional. I will therefore treat the provision
as requiring only that I "notify and wait"
with respect to national emergencies cov-
ered by Section 207 (b) of this act.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 7738 is Public Law 95-
223, approved December 28.
Conversation With the President
Remarks in an Interview With Tom Brokaw
of NBC News, Bob Schieffer of CBS News,
Robert MacNeil of the Public Broadcasting
Service, and Barbara Walters of ABC News.
December 28, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This year we have had
fireside chats and television programs and
telephone call-in shows and press confer-
ences twice a month and meetings with
editors from almost every State in the
Nation. And I've been very pleased to
stay in touch with the American people.
Tonight we have four distinguished
news reporters from the four major net-
works in our country. And I want to wel-
come you here as another opportunity for
me to speak to the American people with
tough interrogations from those who un-
derstand our country very well.
I understand Mr. Brokaw has the first
question.
THE PRESIDENT'S OVERSEAS TRIP
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, there are
a number of subjects that we want to
cover tonight, including some news de-
velopments that are going on even as we
speak. I want to begin, however, with a
you leave on
question about the trip that
tomorrow. It was originally postponed be-
cause you did not yet have the energy bill
passed. It still has not been passed.
My question is this: Aren't you playing
into the twin themes of
into the twin themes of your critics who
complain that your energy bill has not
been passed, that you have failed on the
major domestic priority of your adminis-
tration, and that your foreign policy has
no real definition, because this trip seems
to have no urgent theme to it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the only major
legislation that did not pass the Congress
this year and which I was expecting to
pass, was energy. Speaker of the House
Tip O'Neill said that it was the most pro-
2187
