Sept. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the original and two copies. Sometimes, in
the past, literally dozens of copies have
been required to be submitted.
A halt to the practice of asking for
duplicate information on a grant renewal
which has already been supplied as part of
the original application. There's just no
reason, annually, to repeat large collec-
tions of data that have already been sub-
mitted to the Federal Government and
which have not been changed since the
original application was made and ap-
proved.
And consolidation and simplification
of reports to reduce the amount of paper-
work by at least 7 million hours per year,
which will be implemented by the end of
this month. I know from personal experi-
ence, that Federal grant regulations are
often written in obscure, almost impene-
trable language. Many were developed
without adequate consultation with the
State and local governments or with the
public.
We will act to see to it that future
regulations do take into account the pub-
lic's interest and convenience from the
beginning of the grant request procedure.
I have also directed that old regula-
tions now on the books be reexamined,
abbreviated, and canceled when their time
has been served. All the executive depart-
ments and agencies will review their most
unpopular regulations, those which are
causing the greatest public outcry. We've
run surveys, along with committees in the
Congress, to determine which ones cause
the most problems for the American
people. Most of these will be either re-
formed or abolished altogether.
Making government work better is a
long, tedious, and unglamorous process,
but it must be done. It's been neglected
too long, and if we do nothing, the situa-
tion, of course, will continue to become
worse.
My own election, to a great degree, was
an expression of the public's frustration
at how government does its business and
of their desire to see changes for the better.
The measures that I am announcing today
represent a substantial step in that direc-
tion, and there will be more steps taken as
the months go by by me, by the members
of the Cabinet and other agency heads,
working with local and State government,
in particular, and with business and labor
leaders, to minimize paperwork, to make
government more comprehensible, and to
make sure that the expenditure of Fed-
eral moneys are made in the most advan-
tageous way to our people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:45 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Federal Grants-in-Aid
Statement on Reform of the System.
September 9, 1977
The Federal grants-in-aid system has
developed because of the importance, in a
country as large as ours, of dealing deci-
sively with national problems in a way
that preserves and encourages innovative
participation by State and local govern-
ments. In theory, the system is the basis
of a balanced national partnership, an
example of federalism at its best. Unfor-
tunately, in practice, as grants have pro-
liferated, it has grown increasingly irra-
tional, inefficient, and insensitive to the
various local needs and idiosyncracies it
was originally designed to accommodate.
With Federal grants to State and local
governments now amounting to $72 bil-
lion annually, the cost of administrative
inefficiencies and the paperwork itself are
staggering. Intelligent reform of this sys-
tem will not only prevent the waste of tax
1558
