Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 17
6. Foreign Intelligence Wiretapping- dural protection for children, subsidized
developed legislation that would, for the
first time, require court warrants for for-
eign intelligence wiretapping done by the
U.S. Government; passed Senate Judi-
ciary Committee.
7. Marijuana—supported the elimina-
tion of all Federal criminal penalties for
the possession of up to one ounce of mari-
juana.
8. Court Reform-developed legisla-
tion to reduce court delays by expanding
the jurisdiction of Federal magistrates;
passed the Senate.
9. Criminal Code—helped revise a bill
consolidating and sirnplifying the criminal
code.
10. Fraud-began using advanced
computer technology at HEW to uncover
Medicaid fraud by physicians and phar-
macists, as a result of which more than
2,000 cases of suspected fraud are now in
the hands of Federal and State prosecu-
tors; also began a nationwide effort to
identify Federal employees who are ille-
gally receiving welfare benefits.
Social Services
1. Food Stamps--proposed and signed
into law as part of the farm bill, major
reforms in the food stamps program sim-
plifying it, increasing participation by the
poor, and eliminating the purchase re-
quirement. As a result, 2.2 million more
people will become eligible for food
stamps.
adoptions for hard-to-place children, and
more money for child welfare children
services; passed by the Senate Finance
Committee.
5. Indochina Refugees-proposed and
signed into law an extension of the Indo-
china Refugee Assistance Act, which helps
the States resettle Indochinese refugees.
6. Handicapped-issued regulations
prohibiting discrimination against the
handicapped in any program receiving
money from HEW-similar requirements
will be issued by other departments; spon-
sored the White House Conference on
Handicapped Individuals.
7. Emergency Fuel Assistance-pro-
vided $200 million to help the poor pay
their fuel bills last winter; program ad-
ministered through CSA.
8. Welfare Reform-proposed a com-
substituting in place of existing programs
prehensive reform of the welfare system,
a Program for Better Jobs and Income,
which includes a consolidating cash as-
sistance proposal, 1.4 million public serv-
ice jobs, and $3.3 billion in tax relief for
the working poor.
9. Public Broadcasting-proposed leg-
islation to increase Federal support for
public radio and television, insulate them
better from political influences, and in-
crease the amount of public participation
in decisions affecting them.
Trade
1. Color TV's-negotiated an orderly
marketing agreement to reduce imports
of color television sets from Japan from
2.7 million in 1976 to 1.75 million annu-
2. Summer Food Service Program-
proposed and signed into law stricter re-
quirements for Summer Food Service pro-
gram sponsors, more assistance to poor
children, and harsher penalties for fraud.
3. Title XX-proposed a permanent ally for the next 3 years, a 35-percent re-
increase of $200 million for day care
services.
4. Child Care-proposed improve-
ments in the foster care program, proce-
duction.
2. Shoes-negotiated orderly market-
ing agreements to reduce imports of shoes
from Taiwan and South Korea from 200
2147
