Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 22
different questions that must be ad-
dressed today about this crucial question
of water in the West.
Governor Lamm.
PANEL DISCUSSION
COLORADO'S WATER SYSTEM
GOVERNOR LAMM. Mr. President, we
want you to know first and foremost that
we're pleased by your visit. We're hon-
ored by your visit. We are not unaware
of the political and personal courage that
it comes in the West to come here to talk
about water, which is truly our most sen-
sitive subject.
We further appreciate the whole forum
which you have given us, the idea of com-
ing and listening rather than making a
speech-of listening to our citizens. That
is very much appreciated, and we very
much honor you and respect you as our
President.
There are four brief points that I have
been asked to make, and I will make them
briefly, but they are in my mind and the
minds of a great many other people in
this State, sort of the heart of Colorado's
water system. First of all, it's important to
understand that Colorado and the West is
a semiarid State. For the first 50 years,
when mapping in this area was called the
Great American Desert, that water in fact
revolves—everything revolves
revolves around
water. I remember a very poignant scene
that I know is poignant to you, too, from
"Gone With the Wind," where Scarlett
O'Hara's father is standing there and says
land—that land is everything worth fight-
ing for, land is worth dying for, land is the
only thing. And you remember it well. I
think that basically that same picture is
a great part of our heritage here in the
West, except-except that it isn't land,
it's water, because we literally have hun-
dreds and millions of acres of land that,
in fact, only can bloom and grow and
produce and be made productive if it has
water. So, water in fact, as John Gunther
said, "Touch water in the West and you
touch everything."
Point number two is the way we get our
water, and it's extremely important to un-
derstand that because our water doesn't
come evenly over the year, but in fact it
comes-about 80 to 90 percent of it
comes, of our usable water, comes
through snow. It accumulates in our
mountains, and in one fast 60-day period
it runs off. And what we don't store we
don't use. And that is extremely central
to remembering the problems of the West,
that basically no great rivers, major rivers,
flow into Colorado. Only one flows in at
all, and all the rest flow out. We are the
mother of rivers. Some 16 States get their
water in whole or in part from Colorado.
But we have to store our water if we're
going to use it. Without it, cities and crops
both die.
In Colorado, for instance, of our 20
major cities, every one of them relies on
water storage-every one of them. Not
that some of them might not have some
direct stream flow rights, but without that
water storage, those cities would dry up
and people would have to leave.
A great part of our agricultural com-
modities, two-thirds of our agricultural
production related to irrigated agricul-
ture, water that is stored at some point in
that 60-day period and then is allowed to
be used in the other part. So, our ability
to produce crops and allow our civiliza-
tion to continue in this area is directly
related to this storage and irrigation of
water.
Point number three, Mr. President, is
we've historically had a good Federal-
State partnership, that the Federal Gov-
ernment has been very helpful to the
West and for which we are appreciative.
1863
