Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
great achievement who, in my opinion,
holds the key to the future of peace and
equality of treatment and opportunity
and freedom in Africa as dearly and as
closely as any person alive.
I'm very honored that he would come
and meet with me today and tomorrow
and to visit us in the White House to-
night. I've been talking to him about
ground nuts-[laughter]—and life in the
rural area and his struggle for a good
education and what his religious life
means to him and the impact of his
father on his social consciousness. And
I've learned a lot about him in the
process.
We have a need for advice and counsel
and cooperation and mutual support, be-
cause the tremendous power of our coun-
try can be felt in the region of the world
which is of great interest to President
Nyerere.
The southern part of Africa, as you
well know, is one that's troubled, where
people are struggling to escape from the
historical impact of colonialism and try-
ing to do it peacefully.
We, like Tanzania, were formerly sub-
jects of the British Crown, and we had
a military victory to achieve independ-
ence. Tanzania had a victory in a peace-
ful fashion.
We now see other nations struggling
for their own independence, where their
own people might make a judgment as
to who their leaders might be and the
form of their government and the policies
of their nation.
Rhodesia is one of those countries;
Namibia is another. And the national
leaders who hope to lead the new nation
of Zimbabwe in the future look to our
guest for counsel and for guidance and
for support and for leadership and for
inspiration.
He has joined with others for many
years in struggling for a peaceful solution
to the problems in Zimbabwe and Nami-
bia. That has not yet been successful.
And I think it's accurate to say that he
and other front line Presidents and some
of the leaders of the Western democracies
in Europe and in our continent—if we
are able to work in concert and to strive
for justice and fairness-might very well
bring a peaceful resolution to these ques-
tions in the southern part of Africa.
That's my hope and my prayer. And I
believe that this is the desire of the world.
Our Nation is blessed with great indi-
vidual riches. The people in President
Nyerere's country are relatively poor in
material things, but they are blessed with
a leader and officials of the government
who are stable and respected and beloved,
and justifiably so, by the people whom
they lead.
We are honored at your presence, Mr.
President, and I would like to propose
a toast to the free and independent and
lighthearted and hopeful people of your
great country and to you, one of the
leaders of the world.
PRESIDENT NYERERE. Mr. President,
this is the second occasion I've listened
to you talking about myself and my coun-
try. On both occasions, I feel a lump
coming here, and then I feel, well, my
notes are prepared, but I think the lump
will go down. [Laughter]
I do want to thank you very much,
Mr. President, for the encouraging words
you've been saying about myself and my
country, both this morning and now.
I have recently been reading some very
good books about President Washington
and his times. And I have come to the
conclusion that the problems of young
countries can be very similar. Although
your Nation came into existence some 200
years ago, I suspect that if the first Presi-
dent of your country returned to Earth
now, he might find it easier to understand
the problems of Tanzania-[laughter]—
better than he understands the problems
1424
