Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 30
Federal Civilian and
Military Pay
Announcement of Intention To Grant
an Increase. August 30, 1977
The President announced today that
he intends to grant Federal white-collar
employees and the military a pay increase
so that their salaries will be comparable
with salaries paid in the private sector for
the same level of work, as required by
the Federal Pay Comparability Act.
The President will make a decision on
the size and distribution of the pay in-
crease prior to October, when the increase
becomes effective.
In making his decision on the size of
the pay raise, the President is required
by the Federal Pay Comparability Act to
consider the recommendations of three
separate advisory panels. The President
has so far received two of the three neces-
sary recommendations.
One recommendation came from the
President's "Pay Agent," which consists
of the Secretary of Labor, the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget,
and the Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission, acting jointly. Their recom-
mendation is for a 7.05 percent across-
the-board pay increase.
A second recommendation came from
the Federal Employees Pay Council, a
five-member group of Federal employee
union leaders. They argued that an 8.8
percent increase was justified this year.
The third recommendation is to be
made by the President's Advisory Com-
mittee on Federal Pay, an impartial group
of private sector experts established by
law to advise the President on pay mat-
ters. The President has not yet received
the recommendation of the Committee.
A total of about 1.4 million white-collar
workers and approximately 2 million mili-
tary personnel will be covered by the Pres-
ident's decision. Blue-collar workers and
postal employees have their pay estab-
lished by separate systems.
The 7.05 percent pay increase recom-
mended by the Pay Agent would cost
about $3.4 billion. There is an allowance
currently provided in the budget to meet
this increase. The 8.8 percent recom-
mended by the Federal Employees Pay
Council would cost about $850 million
more than the Pay Agent's recommenda-
tion.
The Federal Pay Comparability Act
provides that the President shall annually
adjust the salaries of Federal white-collar
workers so that they are comparable with
salaries paid in the private sector for the
same level of work as measured by a
Bureau of Labor Statistics survey. The
act also provides that the President may
recommend an alternative plan to the
Congress by August 31 if he decides that
a "national emergency or economic con-
ditions affecting the general welfare"
would make the comparability increase
inappropriate. The President has con-
cluded that conditions warrant full com-
parability and he decided not to recom-
mend an alternative plan this year.
Panama Canal Treaty
Remarks During a Briefing on the Treaty.
August 30, 1977
I understand that Sol Linowitz was just
in the process of giving you the points
against the treaty. I'm not going to take
that side. [Laughter]
1525
