Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 21
done as rapidly as the bureaucratic struc-
ture can be established. Again, we want
this to be done as nearly as possible to the
children's natural living environment,
either in the Head Start program, the first
days when they attend the first grade, or
in the home or community structure.
So, we are moving very quickly to cor-
rect some of the defects that have existed
in the past and also to give special empha-
sis to those children who have special
learning disabilities. Thank you very
much.
SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Cleophus
Young. I am president of the Community
the utility companies. It has not really
helped us. Please take this into considera-
tion. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. The reason that the
agencies compartmentalize your clients is
because the agencies are compartmental-
ized in Washington. And there's no way
to make it possible at the community
level to have a client-family deal with one
key person who can take care of the needs,
without running all over the community,
unless we have some coordination coming
out of Washington. This is what we are
trying to do with our reorganization
proposal.
When I became Governor of Georgia,
we had this same problem. We did an
Action Agency in south Cook County. analysis and found that in some poor
They have over 60,000 recipients.
you
My problem is that-we commend
on your redesigning or reorganizing hu-
man services as they relate to Washington
and the fiscal control-our concern is that
if a community action agency is supposed
to be its clients' advocates, how can we
deal effectively when human service agen-
cies are compartmentalizing our clients?
We have a big problem with one has their
arms, one's got their legs, and there's never
a case conference. We, at this point in
time, demand some kind of vehicle that
we can determine and monitor and be a
part of the services that are given to our
clients. One social worker might tell him
to stand on his right foot, and a juvenile
officer will tell him to stand on his left
leg.
And please, in the winterization money
we have one big problem-the way the
paying agencies are taking their time to
pay the utility companies, which should
be sensitive to the problem, which they
are not. We help a low-income person by
paying the bill, but next week after the
bill is paid, they get a request for deposits.
So, you haven't helped them anyway.
This program has only helped, this year,
families we had seven different State
agencies going to that one family. Every
one of those agencies had a separate file
on that family. And there was no way for
the poor, sometimes ignorant people in
the family that didn't have a telephone
and didn't have an automobile to find the
right agency when they had a problem.
But we had what we called a one-door
policy that we established. We brought all
those agencies together in a human re-
sources department, and we arranged it
so that in every community there was one
place where a family could go for advice
or counsel or even services, themselves,
and for financial assistance. And we tried
to make sure that one lead agency per-
son-it might be a mental health worker,
it might be a social worker, or others-
would go into that family and get to be
friends of theirs. And that family had that
person's telephone number. And if an
aged person had a problem, and the social
worker that worked with that family hap-
pened to be a specialist in mental health,
they could call that person in the middle
of the night, and that person would know
who the aged counselor might be.
1851
