Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 4
fray certain expenses caused by the
presence of undocumented aliens. Those
receiving adjustments of status through
the actions I am proposing would be in-
cluded in the 1980 Census, so that the
allocation charges would have to be made
only through 1980.
Third, for those undocumented aliens
who entered the United States after Jan-
uary 1, 1977, there would be no adjust-
ment of status. The immigration laws
would still be enforced against these un-
documented aliens. Similarly, those un-
documented aliens, who are eligible for
adjustment of status, but do not apply,
would continue to have the immigration
laws enforced against them.
In addition, the INS would expedite
its handling of the substantial backlog of
adjustment of status applications from
those aliens entitled to an adjustment
under existing law.
Finally, those persons who would be
eligible for an adjustment of status under
these proposals must not be ineligible
under other provisions of the immigra-
tion laws.
TEMPORARY FOREIGN WORKERS
As part of these efforts to control the
problem of undocumented aliens, I am
asking the Secretary of Labor to conduct,
in consultation with the Congress and
other interested parties, a comprehensive
review of the current temporary foreign
worker (H-2) certification program. I
believe it is possible to structure this pro-
gram so that it responds to the legiti-
mate needs of both employees, by pro-
tecting domestic employment opportuni-
ties, and of employers, by providing a
needed workforce. However, I am not
considering the reintroduction of a bra-
cero-type program for the importation of
temporary workers.
IMMIGRATION POLICY
Our present immigration statutes are
in need of a comprehensive review. I am
therefore directing the Secretary of State,
the Attorney General, and the Secertary
of Labor to begin a comprehensive inter-
agency study of our existing immigration
laws and policies.
In the interim, I am supporting pend-
ing legislation to increase the annual
limitation on legal Mexican and Cana-
dian immigration to a total of 50,000,
allocated between them according to de-
mand. This legislation will help provide
an incentive to legal immigration.
I urge the Congress to consider
promptly, and to pass, the legislation I
will submit containing the proposals de-
scribed in this Message.
The White House,
August 4, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Intelligence Community
Announcement of Decisions on the
Organization and Functions of the
Community. August 4, 1977
Following consultations with the Vice
President, his principal national security
advisers, and congressional leaders, the
President has completed his review of the
NSC studies on the organization and
functions of the intelligence community.
The President's decisions provide for
needed changes while retaining the basic
structural continuity of the intelligence
community. The purpose of these changes
is to provide for strong direction by the
President and the National Security
Council and to centralize the most crit-
ical national intelligence management
functions under the Director of Central
1421
