Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 15
earn, and invest it back into additional
production, which I think is a very gross
distortion of the facts. Other than that, I
agree with them completely. [Laughter]
MISSILE SYSTEMS
Q. Mr. President, when Safeguard
went down the tube a few years ago when
we negotiated the SALT agreement, since
then the technology has become pretty
well obsolete. Is anything at all being
done in the area of ABM's, other than
some studies going on back in Huntsville?
I believe there's no hardware in produc-
tion. Are we putting all our eggs in the
basket of negotiation? How long would it
take us to gear up, for instance, if we
should discover that the other side is
putting an ABM system into place?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, we
have the right to build ABM's, if we
choose. In the original negotiation, both
sides agreed that they could build two.
Later, the Soviets decided to build one.
We almost finished one out in the
Dakotas.
About a year ago, before I went into
office, a decision was made to decommis-
sion the one in the Dakotas. The Soviets
still have an ABM system, antiballistic
missile system, around Moscow. I think
they feel that if they hadn't already built
it, that it would not be a warranted
expenditure.
I believe that because of the advent
of many technological improvements—the
MIRV'd weapon is the most obvious-
that an antiballistic missile system, com-
pared to its cost, is simply not effective.
So, we have an adequate means for veri-
fying compliance with nuclear agree-
ments—not perfect. We can accurately
assess the location of missile silos. We can
accurately maintain an inventory of sub-
marines that are used for ballistic missile
firing. We can count the number of mis-
siles that are on each submarine. We can
monitor their testing program and deter-
mine when missiles are improved. We
have fairly accurate estimates of their
range.
It's very difficult to discern when a mis-
sile has one warhead or multiple war-
heads on the same missile. But we've
reached an agreement with the Soviets
that, if they ever MIRV one missile of a
type, that all missiles in that type are
assumed to already have been MIRV'd,
so that we don't have to say, "You have
got 300 missiles of this kind-100 have
been MIRV'd and 200 have not." If they
MIRV the first group of those missiles,
we just assume that all of them have been
MIRV'd.
So, there are some things that you can't
confirm. But I would say that the balance
between those is of equal concern to us
and the Soviets.
The new era of cruise missiles is one
that opens up an additional difficulty of
verification. It's hard to look at a cruise
missile from a satellite and determine how
far it can go. And it's hard to look at a
cruise missile from a satellite to deter-
mine whether it's got a nuclear warhead
on it or a conventional warhead.
This is a new technological era that
we're just approaching, and this is one of
the difficulties of the present SALT nego-
tiations. But I would say that our verifi-
cation capability is adequate, that we do
not have a handicap in the inadequacies
that exceed the handicap of the Soviets.
Q. But there is no research and devel-
opment in any kind of a system based
upon these theories?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, there is a con-
stant research and development on better
means of verification. And, of course, if
we do get a comprehensive test ban in
effect that would prohibit any level of ex-
plosion of a military weapon, then that
would be much more difficult to discern
1807
