Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
a
consider this to be a major management
improvement effort, I trust you will share
my enthusiasm and cooperate to the full-
est extent possible.
In order to inform all affected parties
that this review is underway, I have di-
rected that this memorandum be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on November 15.
Visit of Mohammad
Reza Pahlavi, Shahanshah
of Iran
Remarks of the President and the
Shah at the Welcoming Ceremony.
November 15, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This morning, our Na-
tion and its people are indeed honored to
have visiting us from Iran His Imperial
Majesty and Empress Farah, long-time
friends of our country, historically bound
together. We are very delighted that the
Shah could come here with his beautiful
wife.
The first American President with
whom the Shah met was Franklin Roose-
velt, in 1943 at a Tehran conference.
He's met with seven Presidents. And this
is a great honor for me to have him come
this first year that I'm in office, to share
with me the historical ties that have
bound our nations together and the
pledges of friendship and cooperation and
mutual purpose, indeed, partnership as
we face the coming years.
When the Shah took over the leader-
ship of his nation 36 years ago, Iran was
occupied by foreign powers. Since that
time, the progress in his country and his
growth into a world leader has indeed
been remarkable and has aroused the ad-
miration of the world.
This is a time for a searching analysis
of the beneficial influence that can be ex-
erted upon the other people of the world
in energy, trade, and with us, a partner-
ship and a mutual defense which binds
our countries together and which pro-
vides us with an opportunity to preserve
the peace in the Middle East.
Iran is strong and it is at peace with its
neighbors. We now have working rela-
tionships between Iran and our country
within 50 different universities. There are
about 30,000 Iranian students here and
about 40,000 Americans in Iran. This is
a wonderful opportunity for us to share
experiences and to plan together for the
future.
Your Imperial Majesty, we welcome
you and the Empress Farah to
country.
THE SHAH. Mr. President, Mrs. Car-
ter, thank you very much for your very
warm words of welcome in describing the
close relations existing between our two
countries.
I remember the days when I first met
with President Roosevelt in our own capi-
tal city, in what, in those days, we
thought the future shape of the world
would be decided. Obviously, we had
hopes that those shapes would be for
peace, happiness, and prosperity.
History is not always as one plans it.
But this doesn't mean that those of good
will should not try again and again. What
we hope in our country is to see this new
leadership in the United States provide
and nurture the hopes that millions of
people have for a better future, and the
leadership that the United States of
America and the President of the United
States of America could give and bring
2026
