Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 13
the Secretary in providing independent ad-
vice to the President on international energy
negotiations. In addition, he will handle co-
operative international energy programs and
will maintain relationships with foreign gov-
ernments and international energy organiza-
tions.
ROBERT D. THORNE-Assistant Secretary of
Energy (Energy Technology), currently
Acting Assistant Administrator for Nuclear
Energy at the Energy Research and Develop-
ment Administration. Mr. Thorne will focus
on making new energy technologies available
for commercial application as early as pos-
sible. He will be responsible for research, de-
velopment, and technology demonstration
in all fields of energy. He also will administer
the Department's nuclear waste management
program. He will serve as the primary De-
partment source of energy technology infor-
mation.
JOHN M. DEUTCH-Director of the Office of
Energy Research, currently chairman of the
department of chemistry at the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology. Dr. Deutch will
advise the Secretary on the physical and en-
ergy research and development programs of
the Department, the use of multipurpose
laboratories, education and training for basic
and applied research activities, and financial
assistance for these activities. He will manage
the basic sciences program and support cer-
tain research and development projects not
performed elsewhere. He will advise on
budget priorities for research and develop-
ment projects. He will also chair the Depart-
ment's R&D Coordination Council, which
will ensure that the research and develop-
ment activities of all program Assistant Sec-
retaries are coordinated.
CHARLES B. CURTIS-member, Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission, for a term of
2 years. Mr. Curtis is currently Chairman of
the Federal Power Commission. Upon con-
firmation, the President will designate him
as Chairman of the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission.
GEORGIANA SHELDON-member, Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission, for a term of
3 years. Miss Sheldon is currently a Com-
missioner of the Federal Power Commission.
GEORGE R. HALL-member, Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, for a term of 3
years. Mr. Hall is currently a senior member
of the Energy Policy and Planning Staff,
Executive Office of the President.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission will be an independent organiza-
tion within the DOE. It will retain many
of the functions of the Federal Power
Commission, such as the setting of rates
and charges for the transportation and
sale of natural gas and for the transmis-
sion and sale of electricity and the licens-
ing of hydroelectric power projects. In
addition, the authority of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to establish rates
for transporting oil by pipeline will be
transferred to the FERC. While the initial
terms of the members vary from 2 to 4
years, the standard term of office for each
member is 4 years.
The Secretary of Energy announced
appointments of additional officers who
do not require Senate confirmation. They
are:
JAMES BISHOP, JR.-Deputy Assistant Secre-
tary for Public Affairs, currently serving as a
senior member of the Energy Policy and
Planning Staff, Executive Office of the
President, and also serving as Director of
Public Affairs, Federal Energy Administra-
tion. Mr. Bishop will serve as the adviser to
the Secretary on media and public informa-
tion matters and will direct the public affairs
programs of DOE.
ROGER D. COLLOFF-the Special Assistant,
currently serving as a senior member of the
Energy Policy and Planning Staff, Execu-
tive Office of the President. Mr. Colloff will
assist the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, and
Under Secretary in providing White House
liaison and in performing special projects as
assigned.
MERWYN C. GREER-Controller, currently
serving as Controller of the Energy Research
and Development Administration. Mr. Greer
will be the Department's principal budget
and finance officer and the program review
coordinator.
WILLIAM S. HEFFELFINGER-Director of Ad-
ministration, currently serving as Associate
Administrator for Management and Ad-
1585
