Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Dec. 28
one ever has before. He served two full
terms. And I thought it was time for us
to have new leadership there. I particu-
larly wanted to bring someone in, Bob,
from the business community.
I think there ought to be some change
in emphasis from time to time. I also
wanted to get someone that would have
the confidence of business and financial
leaders here and around the world. As a
matter of fact, when I informed Chair-
man Burns of my choice, he said that is
a wise and worthy choice. He has known
Bill Miller for years, and he said that he
had been making a list of those that he
hoped I might consider, and he had made
a list of some he hoped I didn't consider.
Fritz Mondale said, "Well, why don't
we share lists sometimes?" And he said,
"Well, I can tell you a few of those
that I was hoping you might consider."
And the first two or three names he men-
tioned were leaders in the business com-
munity.
So, these are the reasons that I thought
it was time for a change. It's certainly no
reflection on him.
MR. MACNEIL. But surely Dr. Burns was
the very symbol of what business wanted
in that job.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't deny that.
MR. MACNEIL. And if Mr. Miller's
philosophy is not very different from Dr.
Burns', it's difficult to see why it was
necessary to replace Dr. Burns.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that was not an
easy decision to make.
MR. MACNEIL. Or was it for personal
reasons?
THE PRESIDENT. No, not at all.
MR. MACNEIL. Personal antipathy?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I think it's
accurate to say—and Dr. Burns would
confirm this—that he and I have a close
personal friendship. We have never had
any sort of disagreements when we were
together. I have never criticized Chair-
man Burns either publicly or privately.
But I've already explained the reasons
why I thought it was time to make a
change. I think two full terms there is
adequate. That's as long as a President
can serve, and I think bringing in some
new leadership into the Federal Reserve
System will be beneficial.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, I want to
sketch a scenario for you if I can. If, as
the reports have it, you are considering
recommending a tax cut of about $25
billion to Congress when it reconvenes,
there are many who say that that will just
about offset the increased taxes that we
will have as a result of higher taxes on
energy and social security. So, it won't
stimulate the economy in the manner that
you might like it to, and then in 1979 or
1980 you'll have to come back and ask for
another tax cut, and if you do that, you
will surely have defeated your goal of bal-
ancing the budget by 1981. Do you have
trouble with that scenario?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the bene-
fits to be derived from tax cuts in 1978
and 1979 will exceed any tax burdens that
have been added onto the American
people's shoulders by the Congress.
We have had fairly good economic suc-
cess this year. The unemployment rate
has dropped from about 8 percent a year
ago to a little bit less than 7 percent now.
Still, pockets of high unemployment con-
cern me very much. We've added eight
million net new jobs this year, the most
we've ever added since the Second World
War. We have about 92 million people
employed now. In the last half of this
year, the inflation rate has dropped to
less than 5 percent, although the under-
lying inflation rate is still 6 or 6½ per-
2193
