Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oct. 27
your administration is inept. And as you
know, a lot of people have been suggest-
ing that you have not been able to cope
with all of these problems and with all of
these initiatives.
Assuming you don't think there's a
word of truth in any of that, would you
tell us why you think the perception is
abroad to that extent, and whether you
believe that there's anything to the idea
that people still think, as a Georgian, that
you don't belong here?
THE PRESIDENT. I remember in this
room last May someone asked me if my
administration was all image and no sub-
stance, or all style and no substance.
Lately the criticisms have been that
there's too much substance and not
enough style.
My own attitude toward leadership
and politics, when I was Governor of
Georgia and since I've been President and
during the campaign itself, was to try to
analyze the most difficult questions that
face our Nation and not to be timid or ret-
icent about seeking solutions for them,
recognizing that some of them are historic
in nature, some of them have very diffi-
cult aspects that almost defy solution, but
that they're all important to our country.
The Mideast question is maybe a thou-
sand years old or more, but we're work-
ing hard to try to solve it under the most
difficult of circumstances.
To put a limit on the spread of atomic
weapons is something that has defied so-
lution for the last 35 years. And to work
harmoniously with the Soviet Union in
reducing strategic weapons with which
we could destroy each other is one that
has been addressed by all of my predeces-
sors, not yet successfully by any of us.
The energy policy of our country has
escaped political decision for years be-
cause, perhaps, it is so difficult. The wel-
fare problem is predictably controversial.
The social security system was going into
bankruptcy, had not something been done
about it. Our Nation is now taking a lead-
ership role in Africa.
And I believe that any one of these
questions could be assumed difficult and
controversial and not easy of solution, but
I could not bring myself as President, re-
sponsible for our people's security and
for the welfare of our citizens, for the re-
dressing of some longstanding problems,
to delay them simply to avoid contro-
versy.
It might take us 3 or 4 more years to
reach a final conclusion on welfare re-
form or tax reform, but I think it's better
to get it on the table, have an open de-
bate, let the people be involved in it, let
the Congress start learning about it, let
me learn more about it, let the private
sector of our country become involved in
the debate, the universities, the econo-
mists, the business leaders, the labor lead-
ers. And I don't see anything wrong with
it or anything that I would have done
differently.
The fact that the easy solutions have
not come forward immediately don't con-
cern me, because they are not questions
that can be resolved easily.
But I think that in the long run, cer-
tainly in retrospect after this year goes by,
there will be a general realization that
none of these questions should have been
delayed.
I was thinking the other day about
what new major innovative proposals
might be forthcoming next year and the
year after. I can't think of any. I think
we've addressed all of the major problems
already. There may be some new ones
that evolve in an unpredictable way that
we'll have to address. But I think most
of the major debates now have already
been initiated, some will be concluded this
year, some have already been concluded
1913
