Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 1, 1977
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With a
Group of Publishers, Editors, and
Broadcasters. June 24, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me for inter-
rupting you. I just wanted to come in and
spend a little time. I won't cheat you out
of the time. We had a half hour set up.
And I was having lunch with Congress-
man Jim Wright from Texas. He's been
very helpful to us, and we have a big
legislative agenda, as you know.
I'd like to spend a few minutes outlining
to you some of my own thoughts about
current circumstances in our adminis-
tration's programs-domestic and foreign
affairs. And then we'll spend the balance
of the time answering your questions.
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS
We've got a heavy agenda, both in the
Congress and in our international nego-
tiations. We've already had good success
in establishing a firm ethical standard,
initiated by the House and Senate. We've
got authority now to reorganize the struc-
ture of Government and to implement
some improvements in the management
capabilities of myself as President, others
who work with me. We approved six
major projects yesterday for reorganiza-
tion, and we'll have additional groups of
them approved from one week to another.
We are arriving at a point now of estab-
lishing a new Department of Energy. I
think the conference committees will meet
to resolve their remaining differences
probably before the Fourth of July. This
is extraordinarily rapid action on the part
of the Congress in bringing so many dis-
parate agencies together in one major
department.
When President Johnson proposed the
Department of Transportation, when he
was supposed to have complete control of
the Congress, it took him 2 years, and the
final version of his proposal was hardly
recognizable as related to his original pro-
posal. But we'll have that done.
We have also gotten a good package
together of economic stimulation, work-
ing on public works programs, training
and development, summer youth pro-
grams, and others. And now we are work-
ing on an energy policy which will have
far-reaching impacts and probably is the
most difficult, comprehensive congres-
sional assignment undertaken that I've
ever known about. Maybe there have been
others. I can't recall them. We'll present
a comprehensive welfare reform package
to the Congress before they go home in
August, and before final adjournment of
the Congress, which I hope will be the
1165
