Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 9
III. AUDIT PROCEDURES
There is a substantial need for im-
proved cooperation on audits. Since many
grant recipients receive Federal funds
from more than one program, many State
and local governments often must submit
to repeated audits of the same set of ac-
counting books by several Federal audi-
tors-each of whom represents a different
funding source. Many grant recipients are
audited by State and local auditors as
well.
To make the audit process more order-
ly and predictable-and to help increase
coordination among Federal, State, and
local auditors-I am today ordering Fed-
eral executive departments and agencies
to make their audit schedules systemati-
cally available to grant recipients and to
State, local, and private auditors; to con-
duct single Federal audits wherever pos-
sible; and to increase their reliance on
State and local audits.
IV. REQUIREMENTS TO FULFILL
NATIONAL GOALS
In an effort to achieve certain worthy
national goals, Federal agencies have
sometimes required grant recipients to
satisfy burdensome and overlapping re-
quirements. There is room to simplify
these requirements considerably without
impeding progress toward the goals them-
selves.
The most chronic problems exist in
three areas: environmental protection,
citizen participation, and civil rights.
Nearly every Federal department has pro-
duced its own Federal aid regulations,
guidelines, and forms to assure that those
who receive Federal money satisfy these
national goals. The problem is that
neither the departments, the Congress,
the public, nor State and local govern-
ments know all the requirements govern-
ing the hundreds of Federal aid programs.
We need to determine whether the reg-
ulations are achieving their purpose,
whether good-faith compliance with them
involves unnecessary duplication of effort,
and how the public can best use them to
monitor the Government's performance.
In pursuit of those objectives, certain
agencies are now gathering together for
the first time the most important environ-
mental, civil rights, and citizen participa-
tion requirements. During the next sev-
eral months, they will be publishing (in
plain English) explanations of:
• Citizen participation grant require-
ments-prepared by the Community
Services Administration;
• Federal legal requirements prohibit-
ing discrimination in employment by
State and local governments-pre-
pared by the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission;
• The National Environmental Policy
Act (NEPA) requirements and
other environmental review statutes
-prepared by the Council on Envi-
ronmental Quality.
The next step will be to identify redun-
dancy and gaps in coverage so that we
can develop simpler, uniform require-
ments.
Pursuant to my environmental message
of May 23, 1977, CEQ is preparing a
single set of binding regulations which
will ensure a uniform approach for pre-
paring all environmental impact state-
ments.
V. DEVELOPMENT OF REGULATIONS
Whether they determine application or
reporting procedures, set standards for
the fulfillment of national goals, or es-
tablish financial management practices,
Federal regulations are all too often writ-
ten in obscure and confusing language.
They can be, and frequently are,
sarily burdensome. Some of them have
been changed so often that recipients find
unneces-
1561
