Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
SEC. 8. Establishment of the United
States Advisory Commission on Interna-
tional Communication, Cultural and
Educational Affairs
(a) There is hereby established an ad-
visory commission, to be known as the
United States Advisory Commission on
International Communication, Cultural
and Educational Affairs (the "Commis-
sion"). The Commission shall consist of
seven members who shall be appointed by
the President by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate. The members of
the Commission shall represent the pub-
lic interest and shall be selected from a
cross section of educational, communica-
tions, cultural, scientific, technical, public
service, and business and professional
backgrounds. The members shall be ap-
pointed on a nonpartisan basis. The term
of each member shall be three years ex-
cept that of the original seven appoint-
ments, two shall be for a term of one
year and two shall be for a term of two
years. Any member appointed to fill a
vacancy occurring prior to the expiration
of the term for which a predecessor was
appointed shall be appointed for the re-
mainder of such term. Upon the expira-
tion of a member's term of office, such
member may continue to serve until a
successor is appointed and has qualified.
The President shall designate a member
to chair the Commission.
(b) The functions now vested in the
United States Advisory Commission on
Information and in the United States
Advisory Commission on International
Educational and Cultural Affairs under
sections 601 through 603 and 801 (6) of
the United States Information and Edu-
cational Exchange Act of 1948,
amended (22 U.S.C. 1466-1468, 1471
(6)), and under sections 106(b) and 107
of the Mutual Educational and Cultural
Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22
U.S.C. 2456(b), 2457), respectively, are
hereby consolidated and vested in the
Commission, as follows:
The Commission shall formulate and
recommend to the Director, the Secretary
of State, and the President policies and
programs to carry out the functions
vested in the Director or the Agency, and
shall appraise the effectiveness of policies
and programs of the Agency. The Com-
mission shall submit to the Congress, the
President, the Secretary of State and the
Director annual reports on programs and
activities carried on by the Agency, in-
cluding appraisals, where feasible, as to
the effectiveness of the several programs.
The Commission shall also include in such
reports such recommendations as shall
have been made by the Commission to the
Director for effectuating the purposes of
the Agency, and the action taken to carry
out such recommendations. The Commis-
sion may also submit such other reports
to the Congress as it deems appropriate,
and shall make reports to the public in
the United States and abroad to develop
a better understanding of and support
for the programs conducted by the
Agency.
(c) The Commission shall have no au-
thority with respect to the Board of For-
eign Scholarships or the United States
National Commission for UNESCO.
SEC. 9. Abolitions and Supersessions
(a) The following are hereby abol-
ished:
(1) The United States Information
Agency, including the offices of Director,
Deputy Director, Deputy Director (Policy
and Plans) (5 U.S.C. 5316(67)), Associ-
ate Director (Policy and Plans) (5 U.S.C.
5316(103)), and additional offices cre-
ated by section 1(d) of Reorganization
Plan No. 8 of 1953 (22 U.S.C. 1461 note),
of the United States Information Agency,
provided that, pending the initial appoint-
ment of the Director, Deputy Director
and Associate Directors of the Agency
1770
