Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Sept. 19
Panama Canal Treaties
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaties. September 16, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the purpose of
receiving the advice and consent of the
Senate to ratification, the Panama Canal
Treaty and the Treaty Concerning the
Permanent Neutrality and Operation of
the Panama Canal, which I signed on be-
half of the United States at the head-
quarters of the Organization of American
States on September 7, 1977. I also trans-
mit, for the information of the Senate, the
report of the Department of State with
respect to those Treaties.
When ratified, the Treaties will estab-
lish new arrangements for operating and
defending the Panama Canal, and for en-
suring its continuing neutrality and ac-
cessibility to all shipping. These objectives
will be achieved through a new, coopera-
tive relationship between the United
States and Panama under which the
United States will continue to operate the
Canal until December 31, 1999. After this
period of preparation, Panama will as-
sume control of Canal operations, with
the United States sharing permanent re-
sponsibility for maintaining the Canal's
neutrality.
The Treaties serve the essential interest
of the United States in an efficient and
safe Canal. They permit a new relation-
ship with Panama based on friendship
and mutual respect. Moreover, they re-
move a major obstacle to the betterment
of our relations with the countries of
Latin America and the Caribbean area,
and will substantially improve our stand-
ing with other nations, particularly those
of the developing world.
I believe that these Treaties are fair to
both countries, consistent with our herit-
age, and right for our times. They protect
United States interests in the Panama
Canal for the future better than the 1903
Convention which they will replace. Un-
due delay in ratification could cause seri-
ous problems for our foreign relations and
jeopardize our long-term interests in the
Canal and in the Hemisphere. Accord-
ingly, I urge the Senate to give these
Treaties early and favorable considera-
tion.
The White House,
September 16, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was released
on September 17.
United Nations
Nomination of U.S. Representatives and
Alternate Representatives to the 32d Session
of the General Assembly. September 19, 1977
The President today announced the
persons he will nominate as Representa-
tives and Alternate Representatives of the
United States to the Thirty-second Ses-
sion of the United Nations General As-
sembly, which will be held in New York
from September 20 to December 17. They
are:
Representatives:
ANDREW J. YOUNG, U.S. Representative to
the United Nations;
JAMES F. LEONARD, JR., Deputy Representa-
tive of the United States to the United
Nations;
LESTER L. WOLFF, U.S. Representative from
New York, member of the House Interna-
tional Relations Committee;
1625
