Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
port program will not be abolished while
I'm President.
THE NATION'S DEFENSE
MR. THOMPSON. In view of your de-
cision to stop production of the B-1
bomber, I'm sure a lot of our listeners in
the Fort Bragg area would like an assess-
ment from you on our Nation's defense
stature. It seems to have been slipping a
bit at a time when the Russians are still in
a position to capitalize on expansion of
their own defense posture. How, in a few
words, do you assess our country's mili-
tary readiness in terms of present and im-
mediate needs?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact,
during the years immediately following
the Vietnam war, our defense effort did
decrease. But under President Ford and
continuing under me, the contribution for
our defense effort has gone up in real
dollars. In other words, we've compen-
sated for the inflation rate and then
added on top of that an additional
amount to increase our defense spend-
ing quite a reversal of what had been
done in the past.
This is a nationwide commitment. We
are trying to focus our attention on the
elements of our defense posture which I
think were in most serious need, immedi-
ate strike forces on hand in this country,
as is the case with Fort Bragg. We are
strengthening our forces in NATO. We're
trying to encourage our NATO partners
to do the same, whereas in previous years,
I think their commitment to NATO had
been decreasing somewhat both in finan-
cial contribution and also in attitude.
So, our defense posture will be kept
strong. We have a very fine research and
development and testing and evaluation
program going on with new weapons.
And in technology, in competence, I
think that our military forces are unex-
celled in the world.
The Soviets do have a superiority in
some respects the number of tanks, for
instance, in Europe. But as you know,
we're trying to make sure that those tanks
are vulnerable, and also, we're develop-
ing new weapons of our own. So, I don't
think anyone needs to worry about the
United States being second in total mili-
tary strength to anybody.
ACCESS TO THE PRESIDENT
MR. THOMPSON. In contrast to recent
past administrations, you have continued
your campaign image of being very ap-
proachable. Has it paid off for you? Do
folks feel there is an open door at the
White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope so. It
pays off not just in that respect that
you've described, but also it gives me a
sense that when I make a final decision
on a very controversial issue, that the
American people have been included in
the debate, that they have been aware of
the developing decision. And whether it's
the Middle East issues or defense or ag-
riculture programs or whatever, we've
tried to get a maximum amount of con-
tribution and advice and counsel, support
and, sometimes, criticism from people all
around the Nation.
For instance, just to give you an ex-
ample, I've met with editors and radio
and television executives from 47 States
this year and I think a total of about 450
of them at different sessions—every 2
weeks I meet with 35 or 40 of the top
news leaders of the country to answer any
question they ask me. Quite often, these
are questions that are important just on a
local area. And in that process not only
do they learn about their President and
their Government's attitude, but I also
learn about their attitude, which makes
it much more likely that when I make a
final decision it's compatible with what
the American people want.
2134
