July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have had some major disagreements
with the Congress. One is to try to put at
least a partial quietus on what I consider
to be an unwarranted expenditure of
moneys for water projects and the liquid
metal fast breeder reactor production
model at Clinch River, and so forth. We're
trying to work that out to my satisfaction.
This year is one when we've addressed
many problems that had been delayed for
decades. I hope we can make progress in
some of the international affairs that we
face. We've got, I think, a very encourag-
ing relationship with the Soviet Union in
spite of the fact that some of the items are
so controversial. But as I said at my last
news conference, we are raising issues
jointly with them which have not been
addressed so substantively in the past.
We are working toward a comprehen-
sive test ban treaty to prohibit the testing
of all nuclear explosives, both military and
peaceful. We now have no constraint on
peaceful nuclear devices for underground
explosions, and we have a 150-kiloton
limit on military weapons. So this is quite
a liberal restraint.
We've also put forward, as you know,
the hope that we might begin demilitariz-
ing the Indian Ocean, freezing our present
level of deployment there, which is quite
modest on both sides, and working on
prior notification of missile test launch-
ings, a prohibition against an attack of
observation satellites by either country.
We've made two basic optional pro-
posals to the Soviets on SALT talks. One
is to ratify those items that were definitely
agreed upon between Kissinger, Ford, and
Brezhnev, and a much more deep series of
cuts in nuclear weapon launchers and
MIRV'd missiles, with a freeze on further
deployment of the development of more
advanced technology weapons.
We are trying to move, and we are
working with the Soviet leaders. And al-
though we haven't been successful in
these efforts yet, there are study groups
working, and I think the tone of their own
relationship is good within the study
groups themselves. There have been some
polemical discussions on their part, par-
ticularly about the absence of progress,
but I think this is just a difference of
interpretation.
I don't want to take up any more time.
I would rather answer your questions
about specific items, and I'll start-
QUESTIONS
MANDATORY RETIREMENT
Q. President Carter, I'm Linda Glazer
from Saratoga Springs. How do you feel
about efforts in Congress to abolish the
mandatory 65 age requirement?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's a good
principle to evolve. There are still some
details in the legislation that have to be
worked out, with the rapidity with which
the Federal laws have changed, the degree
of interference of the Federal Government
in private industrial, manufacturing, and
professional agreements that involve long-
standing terms between the employees
and employers.
We have not yet done an adequate
assessment of the impact on the Nation's
economy. But, in general, I favor the
relaxation of mandatory retirement laws.
I think the first step would obviously
relate to the Federal Government. But
we've got superb people working in the
Federal Government now on an excep-
tional extension-which I am authorized
to pursue along with the Cabinet officers,
themselves-which I think vividly dem-
onstrates that when they reach 65, they
still have a lot of production years ahead
of them.
HOSPITAL COST CONTAINMENT BILL
Q. Mr. President, hospital costs con-
tainment bill-I'm aware of a proposal by
1270
