June 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
powerplants as an energy source. Of
course, the siting of those plants is some-
thing that basically has to be resolved
by local power companies, State legisla-
tures, which can prevent action by the
power companies and the evaluation of
land values.
In Georgia-we worked with North
and South Carolina—we did a very early
study of siting, and we have identified
places where we would like to see atomic
powerplants built, oil refineries built, and
any oil that might be discovered in the
Atlantic Ocean brought ashore.
And I would hope that all States would
do that. Our State legislature participated
along with power companies, but I think
that the actual site is one that has to be
determined by local people.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Mr. President, you have now been
in the Presidency about 6 months. What
have you found to be more different, more
complex, and more frustrating perhaps
about being the President than you had
ever anticipated before you took the
office?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is hard to
say. I might begin by stating clearly that
I have enjoyed being President. It's been
gratifying, challenging, and not unpleas-
ant. I've had my family together most of
the time. And the working conditions are
good. The proximity of my office to my
home is quite advantageous. [Laughter]
And I've chosen a Cabinet-most of
whom I did not know ahead of time-
who are superb. There's not a single mem-
ber of my Cabinet that I consider to be
weak or whom I would replace if I had
a free option to do so. The same thing,
obviously, applies to my White House
staff. They've been very good. My work-
ing relationships with Congress have been
good.
The complexity of some of the prob-
lems has been surprising. I can see why
no previous President had been successful
in evolving an energy policy or reforming
the welfare system nor initiating zero-
based budgeting or reorganizing the ex-
ecutive branch of Government or solving
the depletion of the social security reserve
funds or having basic tax reform. These
things are enormously complicated, much
more so when you get involved in actually
making a final decision, than they are
from a distance as viewed by a candidate.
I feel, also, that some of the interna-
tional questions are going to take more
time to resolve, if they are solved, than I
had previously thought. Many of them,
though, have been extant for decades or
even generations.
There has been a surprising, adverse
reaction in the Soviet Union to our stand
on human rights. We've never singled
them out. And I think I've been quite
reticent in trying to publicly condemn
the Soviets. I've never said anything ex-
cept complimentary things about Mr.
Brezhnev, for instance, but apparently
that's provided a greater obstacle to other
friendly pursuits of common goals, like in
SALT, than I had anticipated.
We've had to do more traveling in for-
eign countries than we had thought—I
haven't; I've only made one trip out of
the country, to London. But the Secretary
of State has found that because of past
expectations built up, primarily under
Secretary Kissinger, that foreign govern-
ments expect the American Secretary of
State to come there, and his refraining
from doing so and staying here in Wash-
ington is not well accepted by foreign
nations. So, that's been one of the sur-
prises, not particularly unpleasant.
COAL
Q. Mr. President, your energy pro-
gram places heavy emphasis on coal.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it does.
Q. The United Mine Workers Union-
the state of that union at present is at best
1168
