Oct. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
world, but if you don't have any rain or
snow, you're not going to have any irri-
gation water. And I am not criticizing you
on that point. [Laughter]
I know that some of the dams were
dropped off. I believe that you should go
ahead and in light of the fact, in order to
keep peace in the family, all over the
country, go ahead, when these dams or
reservoirs or flood protection dams that
are in the process of being formulated-
you should go ahead and put them on and
finish them up, because the cost is getting
higher all the time.
But in the future, I think we should
look deeper into this and all the aspects of
safety as well as economic feasibility for
any more projects. So, in other words, we
should declare a moratorium of a few
years on any new projects.
This weather modification point I am
trying to bring out, you say I know you
have 40 to 70 inches of rainfall in Georgia.
You lose a lot of it. But we get moisture
here. And if we could just figure out some
way to wring it out of the clouds and in-
crease our moisture content by 3 or 4
inches in the West, it would really make
a great deal of difference.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
president of the Colorado Water Con-
gress.
Ralph Atkins.
POLLUTION CONTROL
MR. ATKINS. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I would like to start with a comment in
regard to the matter of water use versus
waste that has been referred to earlier
and move now to the Arkansas River,
which is in the southeastern part of the
State of Colorado, with which I am most
familiar.
The Arkansas River, many years in the
spring and in the fall, goes dry at Pueblo.
The only water that is in that river east of
Pueblo is the return flow from the CF&I
Steel Corporation and from the city of
Pueblo. At the present time, we return
from the steel plant 85 percent of the
water which we divert originally from the
river. That water meets the 1977 best
practical technology standards and also
meets the drinking water supply standard.
As that water flows east from Pueblo, it
is used and reused, and what may be
thought by some to be waste is the next
downstream irrigator's sole supply that he
has for his crops. Salinity has been men-
tioned here, but let me say to you on the
Arkansas River we have a viable agricul-
tural economy which is irrigating with
water that is four to five times in salinity
what we are supposed to deliver to the
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Republic of New Mexico at the border.
Alvey. That's a great statement.
MR. ALVEY. Another thing: They are
worried about the neutron bomb. But I
believe that a nation that controls the
weather in the future won't need any
neutron bombs.
I think we have had the question of
energy production and commercial use of
water raised several times. And I would
like to call on Ralph Atkins to comment
on this. He's raised his hand earlier. He is
the director of the water operations of
Colorado Fuel & Iron, which is a steel
company, as you know, and he also is the
Now, in connection with this matter of
use and return flow, we have some serious
concerns dealing with the Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, better
known as Public Law 92-500, which calls
for best practical technology level July of
this year. It calls for the best available
technology in 1983, and then, in Section 1,
of course, it calls for zero in 1985.
1872
