July 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Visit of Chancellor Schmidt of the
Federal Republic of Germany
Toasts of the President and Chancellor
Schmidt at a Dinner Honoring the
Chancellor. July 13, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I'd like to
welcome all of you here to the White
House on this very exciting and enjoy.
able evening for us.
In 1973, when I was still Governor of
Georgia, my wife and I made our only
trip to Europe. One of the obvious des-
tinations that we chose was West Ger-
many, the Federal Republic, and I
wanted to see the leaders of the nations
when I arrived there. In fact, long be-
fore I got there, they told me that it was
not possible for a Governor to see the
Chancellor, which-
THE CHANCELLOR. It was not me.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. They said that the
only one available was just a Finance
Minister. [Laughter]
So, while we were in Bonn, I went by
and was received by my friend, Helmut
Schmidt. Although he was very busy, he
spent about an hour and a half talking to
me about Germany-its economic
growth, the interrelationship between his
nation and our own.
He asked me why I was making the
trip, and I told him we were on a trade
mission, trying to strengthen our ties with
manufacturers of goods, with those who
were experts in technology and those who
might come to our own country with
trade and investment opportunities.
One of the prospects that we had was
Volkswagen, and I told him I had not
been able to get an appointment with the
Volkswagen people, and he said, "Well,
why don't you let me give you some help."
[Laughter]
So, when I arrived in Wolfsburg a
couple of days later, having changed my
itinerary, the entire board of directors
was there waiting for me. We had a very
productive visit.
I had left Rosalynn in Heidelberg. One
of her favorite songs is "Student Prince"
and we picked out Heidelberg because of
that. And I had a chance to look at the
nation of Germany, both on that trip and
with my wife in other ways. We saw the
tremendous rebirth of Germany, its hard-
working farmers and factory workers. We
talked to them and listened to them.
We had an opportunity to learn about
their deep commitment to basic human
freedom and the principles of democracy
and the struggles that they had made suc-
cessfully, since the Federal Republic was
formed, to reconstitute their legitimate po-
sition as one of the leading nations of the
world, admired and emulated by many,
and having a special relationship that
binds us together in many ways.
Those of us who have had some back-
ground in science have seen the preemi-
nent scientific discoveries originate in
Germany, in physics and mathematics, in
space exploration. It's a very exciting
realization of the origins of knowledge and
innovation there.
There are very few families in our
country who don't have a relative who
has lived in Germany and served there in
the combined armed forces that are dedi-
cated to the mutual purpose of maintain-
ing peace and the protection of home-
lands and the preservation of stability in
one of the regions of the world which is
still under a threat, the threat being as-
suaged and to some degree alleviated by
the constant mutual commitment of many
nations bound together in NATO.
And our young men, and some women,
who have been there to serve with their
families have formed ties of knowledge
1244
