Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Aug. 27
point where about half the oil we use in
this country is being imported. A lot of
that is caused by waste. I think no matter
how hard we try for new exploration, and
there's a great incentive in the new energy
bill for increased exploration, the pro-
duction of oil in the continental United
States is going to go down. It has been
going down in spite of heavy exploratory
efforts in the last 6 or 7 years about 6
percent a year.
We are heavily vulnerable to em-
bargoes. We are trying to put a million
barrels in the ground in salt dome storage
to tide us over if there is such an embargo.
I think we have a need to recognize
that we use about twice as much oil per
person as other nations that have an
equivalent standard of living, like Ger-
many or Sweden or Japan. We've got an
inclination on the part of the American
people to do something about the energy
problem until you get down to specifics.
By an overwhelming majority, they want
the Nation's Government to take a strong
position on a new energy policy, but then
when you ask specific questions—are you
willing to sacrifice here or there—the an-
swer quite often is no.
So, I think that the only approach to it
is twofold: One is to have a department
in the Federal Government, one entity,
within which comprehensive decisions can
be made and to which the American
people can commit their questions or sug-
gestions or criticisms. That's the Depart-
ment of Energy that's already been done.
The other one is to have a comprehensive
policy on energy that will have to be im-
proved year by year. It is weaker than
I would have hoped for already, but I
think it's going to take repetitive demon-
strations of shortage that can be proven
to the American people-and this is un-
fortunate to arouse enough support to
give us a strong enough energy policy in
the future.
So, conservation of oil and natural gas,
a shift toward other sources, including ob-
viously coal-these kinds of things must
be encouraged by legislation.
Q. Things don't look too good for this
winter, though, in your estimation?
THE PRESIDENT. It depends on the
weather. I think if we have a winter as
severe as we did this past winter, we are
going to have another shortage as severe
as this past winter.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. You said there'll be great disillusion-
ment if progress toward the Middle East
peace settlement isn't achieved by the end
of the year. What will the United States
do next-
THE PRESIDENT. Do next or
Q. —if there isn't progress and if
talks between Vance and the Middle East
foreign ministers next month do not ac-
complish anything?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that our
determination to bring about progress in
the Middle East is as fervent as it has ever
been. We're not going to slacken our
effort. I'm convinced that the Congress
and the American people can have their
commitment to a peaceful settlement
aroused even more than has been the case
in the past.
We have found a growing impatience
among the other nations of the world,
in the European Community for instance,
with a lack of progress. So, I think that
any nation in the Middle East that
proved to be intransigent or an obstacle
to progress would suffer at least to some
degree the condemnation of the rest of
the world. That's a persuasive thing in
itself.
1515
