Sept. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
reserves, particularly in the frontier re-
gion to the Mackenzie Delta area.
We have agreed in principle not to
build the route diversion to Dawson origi-
nally required by the Canadian National
Energy Board. But in exchange, the
United States has agreed to share the cost
of a Dempster Highway lateral from
Dawson to Whitehorse if and when it is
constructed. This lateral line would con-
nect at Whitehorse with the main pipe-
line so that additional gas from the
Mackenzie Delta could be brought to
market.
The exact share of the U.S. cost for the
extension will be determined by the per-
centage of cost overruns on construction
of the main pipeline in Canada.
This formula will provide incentives
for the most efficient construction of the
pipeline. Both countries recognize the
benefits from increased cooperation in de-
veloping our energy supplies. This agree-
ment brings great benefits to both coun-
tries. We will continue to cooperate to
our mutual benefit in many other matters
of importance to our two nations as has
always been the case between ourselves
and Canada.
Once the agreement is signed, probably
next week, Prime Minister Trudeau and
I will then seek approval of the Alcan
project from our respective legislative
bodies. I hope the U.S. Congress will ap-
prove this critical energy project before
the close of the session.
Once approved, I believe the project
will be expeditiously built consistent with
sound environmental practices.
Under the provisions of the Alaska
Natural Gas Transportation Act passed
by Congress last year, I will appoint a
strong Federal construction coordinator
and inspector to insure effective project
design and management,
Again I want to express my deep appre-
ciation to Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau
and to the negotiators, and I look forward
to another opportunity to demonstrate to
the world and to our own people that our
sharing of mutual projects and mutual
purposes and a common philosophy about
the future is a very valuable thing to our
people and constantly demonstrates the
good neighborship that exists across our
borders.
Pierre, I do thank you very much for
your cooperation. And I believe that when
the details of the agreement are described
within the next few days, that the Ameri-
cans and Canadians will be pleased at the
progress that we have made. It's a dra-
matic breakthrough, thanks to you and
the cooperation of the Canadian Govern-
ment.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Thank you,
Jimmy.
I do want, Mr. President, to associate
myself with these feelings. It's certain that
what we have done and agreed upon in
principle this morning is certainly in line
with the spirit of good neighborliness
that our countries have always attempted
to practice.
We were successful in one other giant
project a generation ago on the Seaway.
This one is even bigger. In terms of
energy, it's certainly more important.
And I am very happy to say that the
spirit that you and I defined last February
at our meeting of attempting to solve all
these problems-not to one's greatest pos-
sible advantage at the disadvantage of the
other, but so that both sides get the maxi-
mum amount of advantage-I am very
glad that that spirit has underlined all the
negotiations, and that I think in the
process of them there was only one phone
call that you and I had to make to insure
that our people were negotiating in a
spirit of complete openness, that both
sides were endeavoring to make sure that
the other side was operating on the same
facts.
1548
