October 28
[194]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
the United States. Under the authority provided by the bill they will (1) con-
duct “benchmark" surveys of all existing foreign direct and portfolio invest-
ment in the United States; (2) analyze the effects of foreign investment on the
U.S. economy; (3) review our existing reporting requirements that apply to
foreign investors; and (4) make recommendations on means for us to keep our
information and statistics on foreign investment current. These surveys will be
conducted early next year and cover data for 1974; an interim report of the re-
sults will be submitted to the Congress 12 months after the date of enactment
of this act and a full and complete report, together with appropriate recommen-
dations, within 18 months of the date of enactment.
When this study is completed, we will be in a position to know better how to
conduct ongoing monitoring of foreign investment activity in the United States.
Earlier, this Administration had opposed new reporting systems which would
have lacked the benefits of the information which will be generated by the
actions under S. 2840. We are not opposed to keeping a watch on foreign invest-
ment, but we do want to do it in the most efficient and helpful way, with the
aid of the greatest possible amount of data.
As I sign this act, I reaffirm that it is intended to gather information only.
It is not in any sense a sign of a change in America's traditional open door policy
towards foreign investment. We continue to believe that the operation of free
market forces will direct worldwide investment flows in the most productive
way. Therefore, my Administration will oppose any new restriction on foreign
investment in the United States except where absolutely necessary on national
security grounds or to protect an essential national interest.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2840, approved October 26, 1974, is Public Law 93-479 (88 Stat. 1450).
194
Statement on Signing the Motor Vehicle and Schoolbus
Safety Amendments of 1974. October 28, 1974
I HAVE signed S. 355, the Motor Vehicle and Schoolbus Safety Amendments
of 1974.
This act renews our national commitment to the promotion of highway safety,
a goal shared not only by the Congress and my Administration but by every
American. Last year, more than 56,000 people lost their lives on America's
479
