September 24
[99]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
long, long way. I had the privilege and honor of serving with her husband,
John Sullivan, from 1948 until 1952. Leonor became a Member, as all of you
know, in 1952, and ever since then, for 22 years, Leonor, we have been good
friends. And I have valued and have been most grateful for that friendship.
We have discussed legislation on the floor of the House, and we have dis-
cussed it in the corridors, and we have discussed it in committee. We have
shared thoughts and ideas on many other matters in the Longworth Building
and in the Members dining room.
And so, after all these years, I come to this ceremony with a very special
message. And Leonor, let me put it this way: Leonor, we can't go on meeting
like this; Betty is getting suspicious. [Laughter]
But in this very busy day, I am particularly proud to be here, and I have
looked forward to attending this ceremony, this very special and very well
deserved occasion in your honor.
I think most of you know that I don't pretend to be an expert in the field of art.
In fact, back in my hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan, we have a very large,
modernistic piece of sculpture by the great Alexander Calder. He has several
here in the District of Columbia. And every time I try to describe it to some-
body or interpret it for somebody, poor Mr. Calder doesn't know whether to
smile or sue. [Laughter]
But you don't have to be an expert to appreciate this wonderful portrait of
Leonor. I have been impressed by what I have seen on the program, and I can't
help but admire it in reality.
I have heard that a good painting is a mirror held to the soul of the subject.
And Charles Fox, the portrait painter, has certainly captured the richness of
Leonor Sullivan's character and her wonderful personality.
I understand that Mr. Fox has previously painted three Presidents-Eisen-
hower, Kennedy, and Nixon—as well as many other very prominent people
in public life, and I know that his portrait of Leonor will be a credit to his
career as much as the career of Leonor Sullivan has been a credit to the Con-
gress of the United States.
I don't have to repeat here all of the achievements, the accomplishments, the
superb record of Leonor. She has been an outstanding chairman of the Com-
mittee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries.
I think it is significant to point out, however, that—I think it was last year,
Leonor-when the American maritime industry awarded her for her dedication,
her success on behalf of the maritime industry, and made her an admiral of the
191
