[46]
September 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
46
Statement on the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974. September 2, 1974
DRAMATIC growth in recent years has thrust private pension plans into a
central role in determining how older Americans live in their retirement years.
From 1960 to 1970, private pension coverage increased from 21.2 million em-
ployees to approximately 30 million workers. During this same period, assets of
these private plans increased from $52 billion to $138 billion. And they are now
increasing at a rate of $12-15 billion a year. It will not be long before such as-
sets become the largest source of capital in our economy.
Yet, this same growth in pension plans has brought with it a host of new
problems. Many workers have ultimately lost their benefits—even after relatively
long service because when they left jobs, they thereby gave up rights to hard-
earned pension benefits. Others have sustained hardships because their com-
panies folded with insufficient funds in the pension plan to pay promised pen-
sions. In addition, some pension funds have been invested primarily for the
benefit of the companies or plan administrators, not for the workers. It is essen-
tial to bring some order and humanity into this welter of different and some-
times inequitable retirement plans within private industry.
Today, with great pleasure, I am signing into law a landmark measure that
may finally give the American worker solid protection in his pension plan.
Under this law, which is entitled the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, the men and women of our labor force will have much more clearly
defined rights to pension funds and greater assurances that retirement dollars
will be there when they are needed. Employees will also be given greater tax
incentives to provide for their own retirement if a company plan is unavailable.
It is certainly appropriate that this law be signed on Labor Day, since this act
marks a brighter future for almost all the men and women of our labor force.
There are seven essential parts to this legislation:
—first, it establishes major standards for employee participation in private
retirement plans, standards which encourage earlier participation by work-
ers, and longer periods over which benefits can be earned;
—second, and perhaps most important to those already under private pension
plans, the new law establishes equitable standards for the "vesting" of
retirement benefits. The standards under this law will assure to the greatest
possible extent that a worker who participates in a plan actually receives
78
