October 9
[127]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
GASOLINE TAXES AND RATIONING
[5.] Q. Mr. President, some people think—a great many people, in fact—
think that your proposals were not tough enough, or at least tough on the wrong
people. In view of your somewhat apocalyptic vision of what will happen to this
country if we don't lick inflation, why didn't you propose mandatory gasoline
taxes or gasoline rationing in order to conserve fuel, for example ?
THE PRESIDENT. We believe that the surtax charges that we have recommended
are a more equitable approach to the achievement of greater income so we
could give some relief to the less well-off, the people who are suffering greater
hardship.
We took a look at the gasoline tax recommendations, and we found that this
might be harmful to people, and it would be more harmful to the people less
able to pay. And in balancing out all of the tax proposals, we came to the conclu-
sion that what we have recommended, which affects only 28 percent of the per-
sonal income tax payers in this country, was the appropriate way to raise the
revenue and dampen inflation.
Q. If the purpose is to conserve fuel, because oil being such a large factor in
inflation, why not gasoline rationing now?
The President. We believe that the American people will respond to our
volunteer program. In my recommendations yesterday to the Congress, I said we
would cut the foreign importation of fuel by 1 million barrels per day, which is
1 million out of the 6 million that is currently imported per day.
Now, the American people last year, in a much greater crisis where we had
the embargo, responded very, very well and did as well, if not better, than we
are asking them to do now.
So, I don't think we have to put a tax on gasoline users to achieve our objec-
tive. And if we can do it by volunteer action, I think it is far preferable and
more in the tradition of the American system.
PROJECT INDEPENDENCE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, in June of last year, President Nixon recommended a
program. He called for $10 billion for 5 years in the hope of making the United
States self-sufficient in energy.
Now it is 16 months; can you update that for us?
The President. I must confess that we haven't done as well in Project Inde-
pendence as I think most of us had hoped. This concerns me, and one of the
247
