October 19
[172]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
from the Fifth Congressional District in the great State of South Carolina, and
Len Phillips will be that on November 5.
During the day, I have had an opportunity to talk to Len. I know that Len
Phillips has worked to develop his own business, and in the process of making
that business successful, he has learned that you have to pay your bills. He has
learned that you have to run a business effectively, that you have to take in
more than you spend. And Len Phillips also knows that that is the way you ought
to run the Federal Government.
Strom Thurmond was telling me on the way over here today that in the last
23 years, the Federal Government has balanced its budget, I think, 5 out of
the 23. That is not a very good record. You couldn't run your household, your
church, your business, your Boy Scout organization, your schools with that kind
of record.
Now what we need in Washington to win the battle against inflation, among
other things, is Members of the House as well as Members of the Senate who
will stand up and be counted and spend less, so we can win the battle against
inflation.
And Len Phillips will help Strom Thurmond and me in that most important,
vital, essential responsibility.
I came down here for the purpose of renewing my acquaintanceship with
many people of South Carolina. I came down to make some new friends. I came
down here also for the purpose of enlisting all of you in the battle against
inflation.
Now Strom and Len Phillips and I, we can do part of the job, but if we are
going to win this battle against inflation, with those words up there-WIN-
and with that button that I have—and I see many on others, "Whip Inflation”—
we have to have your help.
About 10 days ago, I gave a speech to the Congress of the United States, and I
laid out in cold turkey 31 proposals whereby we could have a plan and a pro-
gram to WIN. The Congress has a part of it, the President has a part of it, and
all of you have a part of it with 213 million other Americans.
One hundred thousand-plus have written to the White House in the last week
or so and enlisted. I urge you, every one of you, to join with Strom and Len Phil-
lips and myself, enlist in the battle against inflation so that we can win for
America.
I have said, and I think we all must concede, that inflation is public enemy
number one. The plan and the program that I have suggested, that I have pro-
posed, recommended, will put the lid on inflation. At the same time, it will do
I
393
