[240]
November 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
COMPETITION
Activities which are illegal under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act disrupt the
natural competitive forces in the marketplace and invariably result in higher
prices to the American consumer. The Justice Department's antitrust efforts
against monopolies and activities which operate in restraint of trade must be
strengthened.
The maximum allowable penalties for violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act should be increased from $50,000 to $1 million for corporations and from
$50,000 to $100,000 for individuals. Maximum prison sentences for individual
violations should also be increased to five years.
Current estimates by the Immigration and Naturalization Service indicate
that there are some 4 to 7 million illegal aliens in the United States. Prompt
action on a pending illegal alien bill would help solve this critical problem by
providing sanctions against the hiring of illegal aliens. This would make more
jobs available for our own citizens.
STOCKPILING
The General Services Administration has submitted stockpile disposal bills
for silver, lead and tin. These would permit sale of stockpile quantities that
clearly exceed our national security needs. This additional authority will assure
adequate supplies of these commodities and also dampen excessive price fluctua-
tions. The additional disposal authority for silver, lead, and tin would also
provide potential budget receipts of $1.4 billion, of which about $150 million
could be realized in fiscal year 1975 if legislation is enacted by the end of this year.
HOUSING
I thank the Congress for promptly enacting housing legislation making con-
ventional mortgages eligible for purchase by the Government National Mort-
gage Association. This is giving the housing and real estate industry much
needed support, even though the Act did not cover apartments and con-
dominiums. I urge you to consider legislation to correct this omission.
ENERGY
In addition to my deep concern over the economy, I am committed to resolv-
ing the problems of achieving sufficient energy supplies for ourselves and our
children. I repeat my earlier requests for action during this session on several
energy bills under consideration.
622
