[207]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
I cannot help but make a comment, Lyman, about that Calder that you gave
me. I was in Chicago a couple of days ago, and some of my friends over there
were kidding me about Grand Rapids being a small town. And some of the
commentators and writers were kidding me about, perhaps, the lack of culture
in Grand Rapids. Well, I happen to think-if my memory is correct—we had a
Calder in Grand Rapids before Chicago thought of it.
And then I have had some friends from various parts of the country tell me
that, well, Grand Rapids was a little on the conservative side. Well, I cannot
help but ask them in good conscience what they mean. Do they mean the
people here have a healthy skepticism of quick and easy solutions? If that is a
definition of conservatism, yes, we are skeptical. We are a little conservative
about some of these superficial answers that some people try to sell us.
But if they mean that Grand Rapids and its environs are skeptical about new
ideas, the answer is no. We are broadminded; we have a good outlook. And
when a new idea comes along that is constructive, that is fair to everybody, we
in Grand Rapids embrace it and make it work. And that is what we have done
all my lifetime.
Let me reminisce a moment, if I might. Some of us in the audience here can
remember when the old B. F. Keith Theater was down here on Lyon Street, and
some of us can remember when the Regent Theater was right over there, just
where the Federal Building was, I guess, and some of the other old broken-down
business places that needed to be removed and this wonderful Vandenberg
Center constructed.
And in honor of one of Grand Rapids' outstanding citizens, in my judgment,
probably the outstanding Senator that I have known in Washington, we built
this Vandenberg Center in honor and in tribute to Senator Arthur H.
Vandenberg.
And you know that Federal Building-I used to have an office right up there
in the corner. I used to look down here, and I could see at various times of the day
there would be periodic meetings and wonderful luncheon gatherings. Occa-
sionally we had a demonstration or two, and sometimes in the moonlight I could
look down and see a few friendly people holding hands. And what is wrong
with that?
But the point is that this great Vandenberg Center with the Calder stabile is,
in my opinion, a tribute to a great Senator. It is a tribute to a great people. It is
the product of a community that had the vision and the foresight to do some-
thing for themselves in conjunction or in partnership with the Federal
Government.
508
