[273]
December 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
constant source of strength and confidence for me. You have my thanks and
my lasting gratitude.
Betty joins me in wishing you and your family the very best in the
Sincerely,
[The Honorable William E. Timmons, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: Mr. Timmons' letter of resignation, released
with the President's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I respectfully submit my resignation as your As-
sistant for Legislative Affairs effective December 31,
1974.
My decision to leave public service after twenty-
two years has not been easy, but pressing personal
affairs now require my attention. I will depart your
service with immense gratitude for being given the
opportunity to participate in our national Govern-
ment.
I regret I will be unable to share the many excit-
ing challenges and opportunities the future holds for
years
ahead.
JERRY FORD
you. However, I will leave with the greatest confi-
dence in your leadership, comforted by firsthand
knowledge of your abilities, and with warm affection
for you, the First Lady and family.
Your character, philosophy and commitment will
remain a source of inspiration and strength to me.
Best wishes for the accomplishments I know you'll
enjoy.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM E. TIMMONS
Assistant to the President
[Honorable Gerald R. Ford, The President, The
White House, Washington, D.C.]
274
Remarks to the American Conference on Trade.
December 3, 1974
Distinguished members of the Cabinet, public officials, dedicated American citi-
zens, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of partici-
pating in this American Conference on Trade. And at the outset, let me assure
you that I thank you and I congratulate you on the magnificent efforts that you
have made during the day and previously, and I exhort you to continue your ef-
forts until we are successful in the achievement of the objective that has been
determined, which is in the best interest of our country.
Within the last several weeks, I traveled about halfway around the world.
I met leaders of Japan, Korea, and the Soviet Union, and I am here tonight to
call on you, my fellow Americans, to come with me on an even greater journey,
a journey that could be, without a question of a doubt, the most important in our
lives, yours and mine, and will affect countless of Americans for many, many
years to come.
It is, very simply put, to redefine, to reshape the role of the United States in
world trade. Those of you who are serious and cognizant—and all of you are—
694
