October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
here to testify as to the specific facts, as I know them, but what the subcommittee
does is a judgment for the subcommittee and not me.
CONGRESSMAN KASTENMEIER. The Chair has advised that the House is in recess
waiting for the conclusion of this hearing before reconvening, so if I might, I
will yield to Mr. Hogan for a question at this point, and then to Ms. Holtzman
for a question, and we will then conclude.
Mr. Hogan.
CONGRESSMAN HOGAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. President, on page 20 [page 348] of your statement you talk about the
health issue and that you had not gotten any official reports from physicians
that were controlling in your decision. You state that observations were reported
to you from others.
Now, there have been press reports that Dr. Kissinger is alleged to have said
to you that he feared that former President Nixon would commit suicide. That's
appeared in several news accounts. Is there any truth to that?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no truth to it whatsoever as far as I know.
CONGRESSMAN HOGAN. It appeared in the New York Times, the Washington
Post on two occasions, and is alluded to in a research paper prepared for the
subcommittee.
THE PRESIDENT. There was no discussion between Dr. Kissinger and myself
that included any such comment.
CONGRESSMAN HOGAN. I think if I might add a gratuitous comment, Mr.
Chairman, that much of the controversy has been generated by the press, by just
such erroneous statements that have been given wide circulation.
Thank you, Mr. President.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. I will ask for one concise question because we want
to respect the time.
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, what were
the precise instructions given to Benton Becker by you when he went to San
Clemente to negotiate Mr. Nixon's acceptance of the pardon?
THE PRESIDENT. The precise instructions given to Mr. Becker were actually
given by my Counsel, Mr. Buchen. In general I knew what they were. They
were instructions to negotiate the protection of those documents, including the
tapes, for the benefit of the Special Prosecutor in whatever use he felt was essen-
tial, and at the same time to keep them inviolate during a period of time which
we felt was a proper one.
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. But not to offer the pardon unless that agreement
had been negotiated?
369
