[244]
November 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
244
Toast at a Luncheon Hosted by Prime Minister Kakuei
Tanaka of Japan in Tokyo. November 19, 1974
Mr. Prime Minister, Excellencies, gentlemen:
The reception that I received upon arriving in Japan and the warm reception
received during the day today is further proof of the great hospitality that the
Japanese people have for the Americans.
This very kind and gracious hospitality, this warm reception is typical of the
attitude of the Japanese Government and the Japanese people. When I stopped in
Anchorage on the way to Japan, the last words I said to my fellow Americans
were that although Japan and the United States were separated by the broadest
of oceans, they were, on the other hand, the warmest of friends.
Mr. Prime Minister, you spent many years in your parliament, and I spent
better than 25 years in the Congress of the United States. I have a great liking
for the Congress. I called it my home outside of the home.
I can't speak with any personal relationship to the Congress a hundred plus
years ago when they were alleged to be lacking in civilization, but I would have
to say in defense of the Congress today: Whether I agree with what they do or
not, they are better behaved. [Laughter]
Let me assure you, Mr. Prime Minister, that Mrs. Ford deeply regrets that she
is not with me on this trip. She had long looked forward to visiting Japan, meet-
ing the Japanese people, and she is terribly disappointed that it is impossible for
her to be here on this occasion. I spoke with her on the telephone this morning.
That didn't help any, because of her desire to be here. But I can say that she is
here in spirit if not in person, and she will come on some other occasion.
Mr. Prime Minister, the United States is a nation of citizens with many back-
grounds, many ancestries. Some of our very finest citizens have a Japanese an-
cestry. We are proud of the tremendous contributions that they make to a better
America. We are proud of them because of the significant contributions they
have made to our culture, to our industry, to our trade, to our education, and
to our government.
Mr. Prime Minister, the dialog that we began in Washington and which we
have continued here in Tokyo indicates that we have many, many basic ties
and many areas of common purpose. We have many problems, but the frank and
open discussions that we have had and will continue to have involving areas of
634
