December 5
[282]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
It goes back as far as Baron von Steuben, who was probably the finest mili-
tary training officer as well as a fighting officer, who took a pretty ragged Ameri-
can outfit at Valley Forge and made it capable and competent to meet the
challenges in the next spring.
And of course, Abraham Lincoln had a very outstanding German who was a
member of his Cabinet, who contributed significantly to our history in that day
and that era.¹
1
Of course, the contribution by people from Germany to our country also in-
cludes the arts, it includes science, it includes literature, and as Larry Brown 2
and I know, there are some outstanding Germans who have contributed to our
proficiency in athletics. One who may come to mind for some of us in the older
age group, Lou Gehrig, was probably a legendary baseball player in our athletic
history, and his ancestry, of course, was that of your country.
But with the people who have helped to make America great and those that
are working with us today in the field of the military, the economic areas, the
rapport I think is good for not only each of us but for the world at large.
Twenty-five years of your history has been a period of 25 years of close per-
sonal relationship to the United States, and vice versa.
We seem to have the same philosophical views, the same ideological opinions
as to how you can move ahead. We tend to subscribe in America to the views of
one of Germany's greatest minds-one of the world's greatest, I am told, as
I read history-Goethe. He once wrote that we can only earn our freedom and
our existence by struggling for it every day.
For 25 years, day in and day out, the Federal Republic and the United States
have worked together for a freer, better world in a spirit of mutual friendship
and great mutual respect.
So, it is my privilege, Mr. Chancellor, in the spirit of our friendship and co-
operation and mutual interest, to offer a toast to you and all that you embody and
that of your great country.
To the Chancellor and to the Federal Republic and its people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Chancellor
Schmidt responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
I would like to thank you, Mr. President, for the
kind and warm words you have addressed to my
party and to me. I think one of the two of us has
to confess to this distinguished gathering that, de-
spite the fact that we did not intend to solve any bi-
lateral problems between ourselves, because we don't
have any bilateral problems-[laughter]—neverthe-
less we did make a bilateral agreement just tonight
¹The President was referring to Carl Schurz, Minister to Spain and Union Army general in the Lincoln
administration, and Secretary of the Interior 1877-81.
2 Running back for the Washington Redskins professional football team.
719
