October 7
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
time, and some of you who heard it I am sure would appreciate it, as I did. Thank
you very, very much.
About 35 years ago I was at Yale Law School, and I tried to learn to ski. And
I spent a good bit of my time in New England, Vermont particularly, in the old
equipment and the old roads and the rope tows and some of the old Harold Burke
techniques which I have been trying to forget for the last several years.
But all of you who were there at the time, who were then skiing, I thank you
for your hospitality as well as your warm welcome tonight. It is wonderful to be
here in Burlington.
Before I begin, I want you to know that I am not exactly a stranger here, not
only from the skiing a few years ago but I have been in Vermont, and I was
here on this precise campus. As a matter of fact, I was here on a very similar
function 9 years ago almost to the day, October 2, 1965.
Now, I know that you Vermonters have a great reputation for being honest,
for being direct, but I never knew just how honest and direct you were until
that visit.
On that occasion, I gave a little talk and then I was taken to a reception in
another part of the town. And at the reception a very sweet, very nice grand-
mother came up to me and put her gloved hand in mine and said, “I heard you
gave a speech here tonight." And trying to be a little modest, I said, "Oh, that
was nothing." And she said, "That's just what I heard." [Laughter]
So, with that thought of that sweet grandmother that was so kind rather
fresh in my mind, I want you to know I am standing here tonight with all the
confidence and self-assurance of the man who sells life insurance to Evel
Knievel. [Laughter]
But it is a real pleasure to be here. I have had many wonderful times in Ver-
mont, and I have thoroughly enjoyed my association with your Members of
the Congress that I have known so well.
I do have fond memories of skiing up here a long time ago, and as you know,
I pledged an open and honest Administration when I was sworn in, and I have
tried to apply that honesty to all aspects of my life. So, I was in a little bit of
trouble when Bob Stafford asked me if I was much of a skier. I said, "Well, let's
just say I can ski for hours on end," and you know which end I am talking about.
[Laughter]
I am particularly pleased, and I say this very sincerely, to have an opportunity
to participate in “George Aiken Day." There is an old expression—at least we
out in Michigan knew, and I think it is pretty widely known in the country:
219
