November 18
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Forty-three other nominations pending before the Senate lapsed with the
election recess. I request that my re-submissions be given expeditious considera-
tion so that vacancies in key executive branch posts may be filled with approval
of the Senate at the earliest possible time.
I will also transmit to the Senate the names of other candidates for major
Administration positions and urge their speedy confirmation. Good government
makes it imperative that all pending nominations be acted upon during this
session of the Congress.
ECONOMIC ISSUES
No single issue has a higher priority than the economic health of our country.
Prices rise while production lags and unemployment increases. It is a severe
problem requiring specific corrective actions to start the recovery and to check
inflation.
EXPENDITURES
I am gratified that recent deliberations of the House and Senate have recog-
nized the need to restrain Federal spending for fiscal year 1975. I am confident
that this action reflects the strong desire of the American people.
Accordingly, for fiscal year 1975, I will recommend to the Congress next week
more budget rescissions and will report on budget deferrals and administra-
tive actions to hold down expenditures. I will also request the Congress to make
changes in existing authorizations and in pending appropriation bills. I urge
the Congress to support these actions and move quickly to enact the required
legislative changes.
I have already reported on a number of budget deferrals totalling more than
$23 billion and requested seven rescissions of over $675 million. Failure to sup-
port these actions would increase outlays by over $660 million in 1975, $2.2 bil-
lion in 1976, and even more in subsequent years. I urge the Congress to accept
these deferrals and take prompt action on the over $675 million in rescission
proposals that have been submitted.
EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
In addition to Government belt-tightening, I also indicated in my economic
message of October 8th that special legislation was needed to assist citizens who
are particularly hurt by increases in unemployment. On that same day, I sent to
the Congress my proposed National Employment Assistance Act. Under this
plan, employment assistance programs would be triggered into action whenever
619
