[240]
November 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
are necessary. But while acknowledging our great debt to those who served
during the Vietnam era, I must insist on a fiscally responsible bill on behalf of
all Americans. I object to the inflationary 22.7 percent rate increase, retroactive
to September 1, 1974, the direct loan program which the Congress has added and
the extension of educational benefits allowing Vietnam era veterans to attend
school for 45 instead of the present 36 months. This extra entitlement goes
beyond the standard for World War II and Korea veterans.
The Energy Transportation Security Act of 1974 would require a percentage
of imported petroleum to be carried on U.S. vessels. Although I fully support a
strong U.S. merchant marine, I am seriously concerned about problems which
this bill raises in the areas of foreign relations, national security, and perhaps most
significantly, the potential inflationary impact of cargo preference.
Administration officials have testified during congressional hearings on our
concerns about the impact of this bill.
The House-Senate conferees adopted new language concerning the waiver
provision so that the requirements of this bill "may be temporarily waived by
the President upon determination that an emergency exists justifying such
a waiver in the national interest." However, the legislative history of the waiver
does not expressly demonstrate that the Congress intends it to be broad in scope.
The potential problems which could arise if this bill becomes law require a
provision which will permit the President to waive its requirements for economic
as well as foreign affairs and national defense reasons. Since the waiver language
in the bill is not explicit, the Conference Committee Report should make it clear
that the Congress intends to grant broad waiver authority.
Other provisions in the bill which concern me are: the narrowness of the
definition of which ships are eligible to participate in this trade, the rebate of oil
import fees and the unnecessary anti-pollution requirement that vessels serving
certain ports be built with expensive double bottoms.
Another measure on which action is required is comprehensive health in-
surance. I will continue to seek agreement with the Congress on legislation cen-
tered on principles incorporated in the Comprehensive Health Insurance Plan.
To keep this program from feeding inflation, however, the Congress will have
to join with me in cutting Federal expenditures before we can afford this pro-
gram.
Included in the Military Construction Authorization and Appropriation bills
now before the Congress are funds for completing projects and initiating new
ones at installations in 42 States and the District of Columbia. I reiterate my
628
