September 5
[54]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
We are looking for action that is practical, possible, and as rapid in its
effect as we can reasonably expect.
I don't have to tell all of you experts that there are many answers, most of
which have been tried at some historic time. But before this conference ends,
I would like to see and to have set before the American people a consistent and
considered package of the most promising answers that you can find, some of
which, or all of which, will restore economic stability and sustain economic
growth in these United States.
If our country is economically healthy, the whole world will be economically
healthier. Inflation is a world-wide epidemic and we will quarantine it in colla-
boration with our friends abroad.
As you test your answers against the hard rock of economic law, as you dis-
card beguiling, instant cures for reliable remedies, as you try to treat the cause
rather than the symptom, I ask you to bear in mind that no solution will work
without a lot of willpower and individual sacrifice. America has plenty of both—
a capacity for both.
Sacrifice is easy to ask of others. It is harder to demand of ourselves. Burdens
never fall equally on everybody's shoulders, but we must seek to share them
as widely as the prosperity we hope will follow. The burdens of battle against
inflation will be lighter if every American, all 210 million of us, lends a hand.
There will be 10 more specialized meetings over the next few weeks cul-
minating in a final 2-day session on Sepetember 27 and 28. When we are done,
there will be some things we can agree on.
I hope these areas of agreement will be greater than the areas of disagreement.
But it is a fact that our economic system, like our political system, is based on
competition in the honest conflict between different interests and different
opinions. So there will be some things about which we cannot reach a consensus.
This would be a dull country without dissenters. But fortunately that is not
a foreseeable danger in this case. Where we disagree, it will be necessary for
the President and the Congress to make some very hard decisions. Our political
system is designed to do exactly that, relying in the end on the ultimate good
sense of the American people.
That is why these conferences must be open to the public. After all, it is
their business we are really talking about.
So, ladies and gentlemen, let's get to work.
At this point I would like to ask our newly sworn-in Chairman, Mr. Alan
Greenspan, to give his outlook on the economy.
89
