[257]
November 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
4. The new agreement will include a provision for further negotiations begin-
ning no later than 1980-1981 on the question of further limitations and possible
reductions of strategic arms in the period after 1985.
5. Negotiations between the delegations of the U.S. and USSR to work out the
new agreement incorporating the foregoing points will resume in Geneva in
January 1975.
November 24, 1974
NOTE: The text of the joint statement was released at Vladivostok, U.S.S.R.
258
Joint Communique Following Discussions With General Secretary
Brezhnev of the Soviet Union. November 24, 1974
IN ACCORDANCE with the previously announced agreement, a working
meeting between the President of the United States of America Gerald R. Ford
and the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of
the Soviet Union L. I. Brezhnev took place in the area of Vladivostok on Novem-
ber 23 and 24, 1974. Taking part in the talks were the Secretary of State of the
United States of America and Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, Henry A. Kissinger and Member of the Politburo of the Central Com-
mittee of the CPSU, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the USSR, A. A. Gromyko.
They discussed a broad range of questions dealing with American-Soviet rela-
tions and the current international situation.
Also taking part in the talks were:
On the American side Walter J. Stoessel, Jr., Ambassador of the USA to the
USSR; Helmut Sonnenfeldt, Counselor of the Department of State; Arthur A.
Hartman, Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs; Lieutenant General
Brent Scowcroft, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
and William Hyland, official of the Department of State.
On the Soviet side A. F. Dobrynin, Ambassador of the USSR to the USA;
A. M. Aleksandrov, Assistant to the General Secretary of the Central Commit-
tee of the CPSU; and G. M. Korniyenko, Member of the Collegium of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the USSR.
I
The United States of America and the Soviet Union reaffirmed their deter-
mination to develop further their relations in the direction defined by the funda-
658
