[109]
September 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions and to assure that we never again experience worldwide and interacting
inflations and deflations.
There are more difficult decisions ahead for me and for the Congress. From
the many alternative policies which we have heard here, given in good faith,
listened to in good faith, we can and will fashion a coherent and consistent pro-
gram. I will present my recommendations to the Nation and to the Congress
within the next 10 days.
Finally, you will understand my two compelling reasons for canceling all
but my most essential appointments and travel plans in order to be here in Wash-
ington. I will devote every minute that I can to forge the mass of evidence and
the evaluations generated by this conference into concrete action-into concrete
plans and legislative proposals.
A great leader of this country—of this century, I should say—in whom the
unbeatable willpower of his American heritage combined with English elo-
quence, rallied his embattled countrymen from almost certain defeat by a blunt
promise of blood, toil, tears, and sweat.
I trust we can avoid blood and tears, and we will. But I do offer you plenty
of toil and plenty of sweat. I will roll up my sleeves and work every bit as hard
as you do, starting this weekend, until every American is enlisted as an inflation
fighter and as an energy saver until this job is done.
Thank you and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:37 p.m. in the International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
His remarks were broadcast live on radio and television.
110
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of Boards of Governors of
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank
Group. September 30, 1974
Secretary Simon, distinguished officials, representatives of many, many govern-
ments, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of
making some preliminary remarks on this gathering here in the Nation's Capital
of our country.
I extend to each and every one of you a very, very warm welcome. I and all
Americans want your continuing friendship, and we welcome your constructive
and thoughtful observations and recommendations. And I assure you at the
210
