October 22
[184]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Now, I have had a lot of advice from people who say I should sit in the
Oval Office and contemplate and listen to advisers who, in the main, send things
into the office, and to a substantial degree they are pretty much permanent
residents of Washington, D.C.
I don't think that is the role of a President. In the first place, as I travel, I
find that I get a tremendous amount of beneficial input from people, whether
it is in Oklahoma City, whether it is in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, or whether
it is in Cleveland, Ohio.
Your views are important to me—as vital, as critical as the views I get from
those who are in Government in Washington. And to sit there and be shielded,
to be barricaded, in my judgment is not what a President ought to do. And in
addition, a President ought to be out trying to sell what he, at least, believes is
the right course of action for our policies, whether they are those policies
involving our problems at home or our problems abroad.
We have just 14 days, and we have got some very critical decisions to make.
You can have an impact, not just on a 1-day basis but for another 24 months,
on the kind of Government you are going to have.
You want Senators and Representatives who won't go over the hill in the
battle against inflation. You want Members in the United States Senate and in
the House of Representatives who will cut redtape, who will cut the budget,
and more importantly, cut the mustard.
Yes, Congressional elections are what our elections are all about in America—
certainly this year. Every 2 years in the House and every 6 years in the United
States Senate, these Members go before you to have their record looked at,
analyzed, compared to the promises made by those who are challenging them.
I happen to think, after knowing intimately the records of our candidates,
that ours deserve your full, unequivocal, unhesitating support. And it would
please me tremendously to see a tremendous Republican 'victory in the great
State of Ohio.
There is one thing we cannot forget. There is no weapon so mighty, no force
so powerful as the quiet, symbolic voice of the American citizen spoken in
the privacy of the voting booth on election day. And that voice is not only heeded
but heard, heard by your elected officials, and they won't forget it in the next
few years.
I hope that you will send a message to the Congress. You represent the con-
sumer, the working man and woman, the housewife, the plain citizen. Tell
them that you are sick and tired of rising prices, that you want something done
about it.
445
