[233]
November 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
the environment and at a lower cost to the U.S. economy than any other alter-
native. We must proceed with a program that is designed to develop these
resources.
Legitimate concerns have been expressed about O.C.S. leasing and develop-
ment. Let me briefly address myself to these concerns.
First, concern has been expressed that industry does not have the manpower
and equipment necessary for exploration and development of 10 million acres
of O.C.S. lands and that this could lead to the sale of leases at bargain prices.
We believe that industry can make the manpower and equipment available.
And I might note that although the 10 million acres has been a useful planning
objective, we are not wedded to this particular goal. Our primary objective is to
produce oil and gas where we can do so safely. But in any case, we will insure
that leases are not sold below fair market values. I have directed Secretary Mor-
ton to insure that these objectives are attained.
Second, concern has been expressed that we should not lease any new areas of
the U.S. continental shelf until the coastal States have completed detailed plans
to accommodate the onshore impact of offshore production.
Coastal States have only begun to establish the mechanisms for coastal zone
planning, and that activity must proceed rapidly. But the steps needed now to
prepare for a leasing program need not await completion of these detailed plans
by the States. The prolonged delay would only postpone the date when we will
learn whether substantial reserves can, in fact, be produced from our O.C.S. and
would lengthen the time that we will have to rely on costly imported oil.
Furthermore, the shoreside impact will not occur for several years following
institution of a leasing program. That period will enable State and local govern-
ments to prepare for the shoreside impact. To help insure effective, cooperative
action, State and local officials will be asked to participate in the process of select-
ing tracts to be considered for detailed environmental and resource study.
In order to facilitate coastal State participation in this effort, I plan to request
an additional $3 million in the current fiscal year for the coastal zone manage-
ment program to accelerate State planning efforts. I have also directed Secretary
Morton and Secretary Dent to consult with coastal Governors regarding any ad-
ditional steps that might be required to plan adequately for onshore development
associated with offshore leases that are actually issued.
Third, concern has also been expressed that our proposed leasing program can-
not be conducted without unacceptable risks to the environment. We are taking
the steps necessary to reallocate additional funds during the current fiscal year
588
