[183]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is essential to every working man, every housewife, every citizen that we
have a Congress in the great tradition of our political history, a Congress that
respects the common sense of checks and balances, the common sense of pro-
tecting your pocketbook and your job. From my experience, a veto-proof Con-
gress for 1975 and 1976 could literally run the country through a lopsided power
over legislation and spending. It could mean a Congress so deficient, so lacking
in internal balance through a huge influx of a group of freshmen Democrats—
unfortunately, the probability is they would be the most liberal spenders, more
liberal in spending your tax dollars than even those who have been there—that
a mandate for more spending will be what many will read on November 5.
Let me refresh your memory just a moment, if I might. Think back to what
happened in 1964. The Democrats gained 38 House seats giving them a total
of 295 to 140 on our side of the aisle. For 2 years, unsound legislation was pushed
through the Congress by a vigorous President and a rubber-stamp House and
Senate. Interest rates climbed; the value of the dollar began to decline.
We have been trying ever since to repair that damage. We have recovered
some ground in 1966. The American people saw the mistake they made in 1964.
There was a net gain of 47 Republicans in the House. To this extent, this righted
that imbalance. We prevented, as a consequence, the unsound legislation being
further pushed, and we, to some extent, recaptured and held the lid.
But let me say this as I look at the past: The Republican Party is resilient, it is
strong—because of the sound principles that I have learned in my time in politi-
cal life—it is in the great tradition of our great country. We have good people,
good candidates. And we as a party have the capability and the ability to come
back to start from your own 2-yard line and score on November 5.
The man- and womanpower in this audience here today, if you will rally
around the great candidates that you have, if you explain the true legislative
issues and the differences between one candidate and another, the difference
between an inflation fighter and an inflationary spender, I am sure that your
friends and your fellow Oklahomans will understand and make the right
decision November 5.
I must repeat a point with great emphasis: A veto-proof Congress could
roadblock vital legislation, including measures that I have recommended to
increase energy on the one hand and stifle and handicap the anti-inflation
proposals that I have made on the other. A veto-proof Congress would under-
mine the philosophy of revenue sharing which gives to local people far more
control in the use of their tax dollars. A veto-proof Congress would mean a flow
434
