October 31
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
We cannot, however, in fairness, ask our farmers to produce, produce more
from their soil and from their labor, unless all of us are willing to share at least
a part of the production risk.
And furthermore, there are certain things that we must do and, I will promise
you, that we will do. Fuel and fertilizer, especially fertilizer, adequate to supply
farm needs, continue to be a very serious problem. And as I have stated before,
I will ask authorities from the Congress to assure farmers all of the fertilizer
that you need for your farms. And I will make certain and positive that you will
have all of the fuel that you need to do the job for all of us and consumers
throughout the world.
And may I repeat for emphasis, I will not ask Congress to increase gasoline
taxes. That is one tax that is high enough, believe me.
I could not come to Sioux City, the heart of the slaughter and livestock indus-
try, particularly the cattle-feeding business, and not say a word about the
production of meat. Livestock producers, particularly cattle feeders, have called
to the attention of responsible officials in the Federal Government many, many
times in the past year the financial wringer that they have been put through.
Adjusting to higher feed costs and the increased supply of beef animals is a
very painful process.
And so, today, despite a headline that I read in the newspaper here in Des
Moines-not the one in Sioux City, but Des Moines—I will make an announce-
ment—not one, but two, and reaffirm a third, and perhaps give you some other
information concerning farming in 1974.
I think these announcements will relieve some of the anxiety and possibly
restore some of the confidence among producers so that this great part of
agriculture, which is centered in Sioux City, can become again profitable.
First, this Administration intends to carry out precisely the intent of the meat
import law.
And let me be quite specific. If imports of meat, subject to the meat import
law, threaten to pick up markedly during the next year, and the Agriculture
Department's estimate of 1975 imports exceeds the trigger level under the
meat import law, I will impose meat quotas or negotiate volunteer agreements
with foreign suppliers.
Second, no action will be taken to change the present system of dairy import
quotas, which means that dairy quotas for imports will not be increased unless
and until there has been a thorough review of the overall problem and full
opportunity for our dairy producers to be heard at that time.
523
