October 24
[191]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I know of his quality and his caliber now. Chuck, you need to go with you
the kind of a Senator that George Burditt can give in the United States Senate.
I have listened to a lot of 5-minute speeches, and those of us who served in
the House of Representatives know that we have a 5-minute limitation, but
George Burditt gave one of the finest, I think, soundest speeches on the funda-
mental issue that faces us in this country that I have ever heard, and I congratu-
late you, George.
Needless to say, I thank Dan and Bill Croft. They work in the trenches every
day and get little or no recognition, and a word from me, I hope, will be some
benefit to the hours and hours of sacrifice that you have made. We are all very,
very grateful.
Since this campaign began and since I became President roughly 2½ months
ago, I have traveled a good bit in America—according to my staff about 128,000
miles—and I am going to travel some more, primarily because I happen to be-
lieve that a President of the United States, if he has conviction and dedication,
if he believes in the principles and the policies, ought to get out and try to sell
them.
He should not sit in the Oval Office barricaded from the reaction of people,
citizens—Republicans, Democrats, or Independents. A President of the United
States who has some belief and real down-to-earth feeling about what ought to be
done for America ought to come out and say something, speak up for what he
believes, and in reciprocity, listen to the people of this great country.
So, I have traveled, and I am going to travel. I think people are concerned
about the quality of our government. People are worried about where we are
heading as a nation and what is being done about the problems that we face,
both home and abroad. And people are fed up about corruption in government,
whether it is graft at the local level or abuse of power at the top.
I think it is up to those of us in political life to give the kind of leadership, the
kind of example that Americans can honestly and truly believe in, and that is
what the Illinois GOP has done here in Cook County, as well as throughout the
State.
Now, I know there are some political prophets throughout the United States,
a good many of them in Washington, who think the game is up, that we ought
to quit, that people are going to stampede blindly into the Democratic column
for no good reason, but just for some inward reaction that they have.
When the chips are down, I don't think that is going to happen, and that is
why I am here tonight. I have been in political life in the Congress and in the
469
