October 11
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
trol technology and assessment of environmental and health effects of energy
technologies.
8. It will continue strong basic research programs in such areas as physics,
environmental and biological sciences and extend these scientific capabilities
to support all energy areas― not just nuclear energy.
ERDA must and will become a lot more than the sum of its present parts.
What is envisioned is nothing less than a complete energy research and develop-
ment organization. It will be one which will fill in the gaps in our present
research efforts and provide a balanced national research program. It will give
proper emphasis to each energy source according to its potential and its readiness
for practical use. It will closely integrate our energy research and development
efforts with overall national energy policy.
In addition to creating ERDA, H.R. 11510 also creates a new Nuclear Regula-
tory Commission (NRC) which will assume the licensing and regulatory
responsibilities previously carried out under the Director of Regulation within
the Atomic Energy Commission. The highly technical nature of our nuclear
facilities and the special potential hazards which are involved in the use of
nuclear fuels fully warrant the creation of an independent and technically
competent regulatory agency to assure adequate protection of public health and
safety.
NRC will be responsible for the licensing and regulation of the nuclear
industry under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act. This means that NRC
will be fully empowered to see to it that reactors using nuclear materials will be
properly and safely designed, constructed, and operated to guarantee against
hazards to the public from leakage or accident. NRC will also exercise
strengthened authority to assure that the public is fully safeguarded from
hazards arising from the storage, handling, and transportation of nuclear
materials being used in power reactors, hospitals, research laboratories, or for
any other purpose.
With the creation of ERDA and NRC, the Federal Government has acted in a
timely way to participate in the national effort to meet our future energy research
and development needs. This action has been feasible through the very best kind
of cooperation between the Congress and the executive branch. I want especially
to express my appreciation and gratitude to those Members of both Houses who,
by their leadership, brought this legislation to reality.
289
