October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Mr. President, I would like to join, too, in commending you for your statement
and your openness and candor in coming in this very historic event.
Frankly, I am concerned at some of the questioning by my colleagues, asking
questions, if all men are not equal under the law, because certainly, being the
outstanding lawyers that they are, they know that the pardoning power itself is
inherently inequitable, but for a larger purpose, it grants to the Chief Executive
of the Federal Government or the State, in the case of State crimes, to pardon
individuals who may or have been indicted or convicted of crimes.
So, we should not expect this to apply as if there were a trial of these criminal
offenses. And furthermore, we also know that in our system of criminal justice,
even the prosecutors themselves exercise prosecutive discretion. There is no ques-
tion whatsoever that the Constitution gives to the President of the United States
broad and absolute power to pardon individuals of criminal offenses.
We also know, from the debates of the framers of the Constitution, that they
specifically rejected including in the Constitution the words "after conviction."
They also, in the debate at that time, indicated situations where it might be
necessary or desirable to grant a pardon even before indictment, as was the case
in this instance.
Mr. President, I know that you followed very carefully the deliberations of
this committee during the impeachment inquiry, and I know you are also aware
that this committee unanimously concluded that the President was guilty of an
impeachable offense growing out of obstruction of justice.
So, in a sense, couldn't we not say that this was at least the basis for a possible
criminal charge which was already spread on the record with ample evidence to
justify it? So, those who say you should have waited until there were formalized
charges really are overlooking the fact that there was a very formalized charge
and indictment, if you will, by this committee.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the unanimous vote of the House Committee on the
Judiciary, all 35 members, certainly is very, very substantial evidence that the
former President was guilty of an impeachable offense.
There is no doubt in my mind that that recommendation of this full com-
mittee would have carried in the House, which would have been even more
formal as an indication of criminal activity, or certainly to be more specific, an
impeachable offense. And, of course, the prospects in the Senate with such a
formidable vote in the committee and in the House would have been even more
persuasive.
CONGRESSMAN HOGAN. Mr. President, referring to the memorandum from Mr.
Ruth to Mr. Jaworski enumerating the 10 possible criminal offenses, it is true
365
