[293]
December 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
departed those distant shores. And our planes have long ago flown their last
mission on the war across those faraway jungles.
Let us, individually and collectively, fervently pray that Vietnam was, indeed,
the last-our last war.
We are, however, reminded of Vietnam today-of that long and painful
time-by two men who lived it and whose actions will never die in the annals
of the United States military history. For the Nation they served bestows on
them today the Congressional Medal of Honor for their acts of courage above
and beyond the call of duty.
United States Army Warrant Officer Louis Rocco-Sergeant First Class in
Vietnam-and Army Staff Sergeant Jon R. Cavaiani, by the courage of their
acts, carried forward the long and very proud military tradition of selfless
dedication to the cause of freedom.
Army Warrant Officer Louis Rocco distinguished himself on May 24, 1970.
He volunteered to help evacuate eight critically wounded South Vietnamese
troops under attack. His helicopter crashlanded at the evacuation site under in-
tense enemy fire. Ignoring a fractured wrist and broken hip and severely bruised
back, Warrant Officer Rocco pulled the unconscious survivors from the burning
wreckage. His hands were severely burned, causing him excruciating pain. He
nevertheless carried each of his unconscious comrades more than 20 yards
through enemy fire to friendly positions. Trained in first aid, he administered
to them before collapsing into unconsciousness.
Warrant Officer Rocco's bravery was directly responsible for saving three of
his fellow soldiers from certain death. His gallantry, disregarding his own
pain and injuries, is in the highest tradition of self-sacrifice and courage in our
military service.
And I say to his family here today, you also walk in the respect and admiration
of your country and of your President.
Sergeant Cavaiani was believed to have been killed in action when recom-
mended for the Medal of Honor. It was only later learned that he had been cap-
tured. He was a prisoner of war for more than 2 years and was repatriated on
July 10, 1973.
On June 4 and 5, 1971, he served as a platoon leader, providing security for an
isolated radio relay site within enemy-held territory. The Sergeant's unit was
attacked by a superior enemy force. For those 2 days, firing with different
weapons, Sergeant Cavaiani directed the evacuation of some of his platoon by
helicopter while ordering the others to escape. Many were able to do so. He
742
