October 19
[174]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
You know, the first election I ever participated in, boy, it taught me a good
lesson, and it wasn't a lesson taught me by a Republican. It was a lesson that I
learned from a good Democrat, Harry Truman. He was man enough, strong
enough, convinced enough to come out here and fight for what he believed was
right, and we are.
Harry Truman didn't win in 1948 by sitting in the Oval Office looking at all
the polls. He came out here and fought and won. And America, under his
leadership, had a great, great next 4 years.
I want your help right here in Greensboro, and I want your help in Charlotte,
in Raleigh, and I want it everyplace else, in Winston-Salem. You have got an
obligation, and so do I, and we don't achieve it by sitting on our hands and wring-
ing our hands and saying, “Gentlemen, the polls look terrible." What is the
matter with us? Have we lost that old fighting spirit? Have you?
All right, now let's talk about the issues. The issue is very clear. We have got a
problem in the economy. We have got inflation that is too high, resulting from
spending too much money for the last 20 years.
Look, the sun is even coming out!
We spent too much money for the last 20 years, and if my figures are right,
you know who controlled the Congress for 19 out of the last 25 years? Our
Democratic friends. They are the ones that made all the money available to be
spent, and if we spent too much money, it is on their shoulders, not on ours.
But let's be reasonable and responsible about what we ought to do about it. I
presented to the Congress about 10 days ago a good economic package that will
whip inflation and keep our economy growing and constructive so young people
will have jobs and older people will be taken care of. Now, how can you beat
that?
Now the problem is on the shoulders and on the backs of Congress. I have
heard some criticism of my plan, but I haven't heard any solution. You know, a
lot of talk is cheap, but a program presented for action will save America, and
a lot of talk won't do much good.
And so,
I urge you to put pressure on the Congress-Democrats and a few
Republicans, too. They have to step up and bite the bullet, because the chips are
too high. The chips are so high for the future and the preservation of this
country.
We have got to lick inflation. If we don't, it will tear our Government asunder.
It will destroy all the principles we believe in. It will weaken us in our resolution
to keep peace abroad.
403
