[78]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
78
Proclamation 4313, Announcing a Program for the Return
of Vietnam Era Draft Evaders and Military
Deserters. September 16, 1974
By the President of the United States of America a Proclamation
The United States withdrew the last of its forces from the Republic of Vietnam
on March 28, 1973.
In the period of its involvement in armed hostilities in Southeast Asia, the
United States suffered great losses. Millions served their country, thousands
died in combat, thousands more were wounded, others are still listed as missing
in action.
Over a year after the last American combatant had left Vietnam, the status of
thousands of our countrymen-convicted, charged, investigated or still sought
for violations of the Military Selective Service Act or of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice-remains unresolved.
In furtherance of our national commitment to justice and mercy these young
Americans should have the chance to contribute a share to the rebuilding of
peace among ourselves and with all nations. They should be allowed the oppor-
tunity to earn return to their country, their communities, and their families,
upon their agreement to a period of alternate service in the national interest,
together with an acknowledgement of their allegiance to the country and its
Constitution.
Desertion in time of war is a major, serious offense; failure to respond to the
country's call for duty is also a serious offense. Reconciliation among our
people does not require that these acts be condoned. Yet, reconciliation calls
for an act of mercy to bind the Nation's wounds and to heal the scars of
divisiveness.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States, pursuant
to my powers under Article II, Sections 1, 2 and 3 of the Constitution, do hereby
proclaim a program to commence immediately to afford reconciliation to
Vietnam era draft evaders and military deserters upon the following terms and
conditions:
1. Draft Evaders—An individual who allegedly unlawfully failed under the
Military Selective Service Act or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder,
to register or register on time, to keep the local board informed of his current
138
