November 18
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
First, we need legislation to help increase the supply of natural gas and permit
competitive pricing of these new supplies. Our worsening shortages are directly
attributable to more than 20 years of unsuccessful Federal regulation of natural
gas. Unless we remove Federal regulatory impediments with respect to new
sources, supplies of environmentally clean natural gas will remain in the
ground. The shortage of natural gas is already forcing curtailment of service to
industry in many areas, resulting in increasing unemployment and greater use
of imported oil. New homes are being denied natural gas service, forcing the use
of alternative fuels that are more costly and far less clean.
I urge the Congress to complete action quickly on legislation to establish a
system of permits for the construction and operation of deepwater ports. This
system is a far superior means—from both a cost and environmental point of
view—for handling that portion of oil which we cannot avoid importing for
some years ahead. I have asked the Secretaries of Interior and Transportation to
work with the Senate and House conferees to develop a bill that I can sign within
the next few weeks.
Last March, legislation was proposed to speed the licensing and construction
of nuclear plants, allow more meaningful public participation at early decision
points relating to their design and siting and encourage standardization of new
nuclear plants. I urge that the Congress pass this bill to speed the development of
domestic energy supplies, reduce dependence on imported oil, and help hold
down electrical power costs.
The House and Senate conferees are now addressing the difficult issues in the
proposed Surface Mining Act. I am still hopeful that the conferees can agree on
provisions which strike a reasonable balance between our desire for environ-
mental protection and reclamation and the need to increase the production of
domestic coal supplies.
I must emphasize that some provisions of the bills now in conference are not
acceptable. I have asked the Secretary of the Interior to continue working with
the conferees to develop a bill which I can sign.
As a necessary step toward conserving fuel and saving lives, I urge the Congress
to make permanent the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit. I also ask the House of
Representatives to approve an extension of the carpooling provisions in the
Emergency Highway Energy Conservation Act which expires December 31,
1974.
I have asked the Secretaries of Interior, Defense and Navy to work with the
Congress in finding satisfactory ways of dealing with our emergency petroleum
reserves to balance our domestic energy needs. We must proceed with develop-
623
