[328]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
With regard to Title III of H.R. 16596, I believe that its provisions would create
an unnecessarily complex and unwieldy administrative mechanism involving
program and project reviews by all Federal agencies, regional commissions,
and units of general government. I will, therefore, request that the Congress
transfer appropriations from this title to title I of the act so that needed employ-
ment can be provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
In sum, however, I commend the 93d Congress for its action on these two vital
measures and am confident that the spirit of cooperation and conciliation which
marked their passage will carry over into the new year and the new Congress.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 16596 and H.R. 17597, ap-
proved December 31, 1974, are Public Law 93-567
(88 Stat. 1845) and Public Law 93-572 (88 Stat.
329
1869), respectively. The statement was released at
Vail, Colo.
Statement Announcing Presidential Clemency Decisions.
December 31, 1974
I HAVE signed pardons under the clemency program for 18 civilians who have
never served in uniform-nine of these effective immediately, and nine of them
conditional upon the recipients earning their way back into society by alternate
service. In addition, I have formally approved the [Presidential Clemency]
Board's recommendations for clemency for 29 former servicemen, including
26 whose pardons will be conditional on their completing alternate service.
These former servicemen still have available to them military appellate
mechanisms for review of their earlier convictions. Since I do not intend to
impair or prejudice their access to that legal process, I have not signed the formal
instruments of clemency at this time. I will not do so until and unless the
convictions will have become final, and the resulting punitive and undesirable
discharges will have been executed.
Each of these cases involves an individual—a judgment of his past and a deter-
mination of his future. The responsibility in each decision is a grave one. The
Board and I have carefully considered each case on its individual merits. I believe
we have acted with both justice and mercy.
NOTE: The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
784
