[307]
December 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
In my judgment, the Willow Creek Project should be considered for construc-
tion on the basis of current evaluation principles and standards. Any other course
would be indefensible at a time when the Congress is being asked to defer fund-
ing for numerous other water resources projects.
The White House,
December 17, 1974.
NOTE: The text of the veto message was released December 18, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
308
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Claude S. Brinegar
as Secretary of Transportation. December 18, 1974
Dear Claude:
I have your letter of December 17, and it is with deep gratitude for your
dedicated service to our Nation that I accept your resignation as Secretary of
Transportation, effective February 1, 1975, as you requested.
In doing so, I want you to know of my personal appreciation for the many
improvements in the Nation's transportation system that have occurred in your
tenure as Secretary. The Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 and the
National Mass Transportation Act of 1974 are but two of many legislative
achievements of truly historical significance. Under your capable leadership, we
have for the first time since the creation of the Department articulated a National
Transportation Policy, and I particularly want to commend you for this impor-
tant achievement.
As you now return to the private sector, I am confident you will continue your
interest in government. It is only through the willingness of people such as you
to serve that our system can receive its needed breadth of views and talents.
Betty joins me in extending to you and to your family our warmest good
wishes for continued success and happiness in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
JERRY FORD
[The Honorable Claude S. Brinegar, Secretary of Transportation, Washington, D.C. 20590]
NOTE: Secretary Brinegar's letter of resignation,
dated December 17, 1974, and released with the
President's letter, read as follows:
My dear Mr. President:
I would appreciate it if you would accept my
resignation as Secretary of Transportation, effective
February 1, 1975. In the interest of a smooth tran-
sition, I would be willing to serve for a brief time
longer if my successor is not confirmed by that date.
My two years as the third Secretary of Trans-
762
