November 22
[255]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
greatly touched, Mr. President, by the outpouring of good will from the countless
thousands and thousands of people who greeted me so warmly. Their cheers, I
am sure, were not only for me as an individual but for the United States of
America and our 213 million of which I have the honor to represent.
I wish to thank every Korean that I saw today on behalf of all of the American
people.
Today, I visited a very beautiful cemetery and the monument to the brave
Koreans who fell in battle. They fought side-by-side with Americans. And let
the continued friendship of our two nations pay tribute to the memory of the
supreme sacrifices of your courageous men and our own.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rise and to join me in a toast to my dis-
tinguished host, President Park, and to the great people of the Republic of Korea.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:12 p.m. in the Banquet Hall at the Capitol Building. No transcript was
issued of President Park's toast.
255
Joint Communique Following Discussions With President
Park of the Republic of Korea. November 22, 1974
AT THE invitation of President Park Chung Hee of the Republic of Korea,
President Gerald R. Ford of the United States of America visited the Republic
of Korea on November 22 and 23, 1974, to exchange views on the current inter-
national situation and to discuss matters of mutual interest and concern to the
two nations.
During the visit the two Presidents held discussions on two occasions. Present
at these meetings were Prime Minister Kim Chong Pil, Secretary of State Henry
Kissinger, Foreign Minister Kim Dong Jo, Presidential Secretary General Kim
Chung Yum, Ambassador Richard L. Sneider, Ambassador Hahm Pyong
Choon and other high officials of both Governments. President Ford also visited
American forces stationed in the Republic of Korea.
President Ford laid a wreath at the Memorial of the Unknown Soldiers. He
also visited the grave of Madame Park Chung Hee and expressed his deepest per-
sonal condolences to President Park on her tragic and untimely death.
The two Presidents reaffirmed the strong bonds of friendship and cooperation
between their two countries. They agreed to continue the close cooperation and
regular consultation on security matters and other subjects of mutual interest
which have characterized the relationship between the Republic of Korea and
the United States.
653
