[59]
September 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the Russian language, if you would introduce-well, I will try, but if I
don't do very well, then he will have to correct me.
First, this is the Ambassador from the Soviet Union, Mr. Anatoly Dobrynin.
And the next is Major General Vladimir Shatalov-General Shatalov. And
Colonel Aleksei Leonov-Colonel Leonov. And Mr. Valery Kubasov-Mr.
Kubasov.
I think your warm welcome to them is indicative of the kind of friendship
we have between peoples from the Soviet Union and the United States.
Now, I would like to introduce our three astronauts. First, Brigadier General
Tom Stafford. Secondly, Deke Slayton. Where is Deke? And then Vance
Brand. Where is Vance?
So, next July, I want you young people to understand this, next July the
people you have met-one group being launched from the Soviet Union and
the other group being launched from the United States of America—will meet
way up in the heavens some place—where is it going to be? They are going
to meet over Spain-I am sure for some technical reason, not for any other.
We have some other guests here. General Brent Scowcroft, who is the Deputy
Director of the National Security Council, and Mr. Low, who is the deputy
director of our National Aeronautics and Space Agency.¹
Well, we enjoy the opportunity to be here. We look forward to some of
that good crab. He said he would open the shells, or whatever you call them.
Out in Michigan, we don't have crab. We have a few crabby people but not any
crabs. [Laughter]
SGT. JOHN V. STREETER (picnic chairman). Mr. President, we have an officer
on our police department that is a very talented artist. It is Officer Ned Thomp-
son, and he has taken the time to draw this for you. If I may describe it to the
people out here, because they have not seen it either.
It shows President Ford. He is standing there, and there is a poor, sad little
fellow there with a sign. In one hand, he is holding the world, and it is all
cracked up. And then in the other hand, he is holding a sign that says, “Fix it.”
[Laughter]
Mr. President, God bless you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Well, I hope all you young people, particularly, will get to know our astro-
nauts and the Soviet cosmonauts. The astronauts have learned to speak some
¹ George M. Low was Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
100
