October 29
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I have considered carefully the merits of this case, and can find no reason to
approve H.R. 6624. Equitable considerations growing out of Governmental
actions have traditionally been the basis for private relief awards where no legal
remedy is available. But the record clearly establishes that no such considerations
are present in this case.
Approval of H.R. 6624 cannot, in my view, be justified by invoking terms such
as “gratuity,” as the awards are characterized in the bill, or "broad moral con-
siderations," the basis used by the Court of Claims panel. To adopt such an ap-
proach could easily set a precedent for the payment of a myriad of claims in-
volving financial hardship to selected individuals simply on the grounds that
they lack legal redress. Once we start down this road, it will be difficult, if not
impossible, to turn back.
I urge that in the future Congress adhere to the traditional equity basis for
awards, whether or not they have been recommended by the Court of Claims
under congressional reference procedures.
The White House,
October 29, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained the President's veto on November 20, 1974.
204
Veto of Legislation for the Relief of Nolan Sharp.
October 29, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am withholding my approval of H.R. 7768, a bill for the relief of Mr. Nolan
Sharp. I am advised by the Attorney General and I have determined that the
absence of my signature from this bill prevents it becoming law. Without in any
way qualifying this determination, I am also returning it without my approval
to those designated by the Congress to receive messages at this time.
H.R. 7768 would authorize retroactive service-connected disability payments
to Mr. Sharp, because of multiple sclerosis, for the period from January 16, 1956,
to October 1, 1962. Under the bill, these payments would have to be offset
against certain non-service-connected benefits Mr. Sharp received during the
same period.
Mr. Sharp had honorable Army service from December 1, 1942, to June 5,
501
