October 21
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
we have reviewed this matter, and we have come to realize and accept that the
responsibility belongs to Mexico.
In Mexico, we need to increase the sources of employment. We need to send
more resources out into the countryside. We need to organize the farmers in a
better way. We need to keep them within the land. I do not know if President
Ford has anything to add, because we analyzed this point jointly.
PRESIDENT FORD. As you can see, we discussed this matter in great depth. It
has a long history. It has current problems. In fact, we have some new prob-
lems. And in order to get an up-to-date reading on what should be done, how
we can best help, we have decided to reanalyze-through a commission that will
bring up the data that involves those going from Mexico to the United States
and will update data that will involve individuals who are in the United States
seeking employment, trying to find the right answer. And this revitalized com-
mission, I think, will give both of us, and our countries, better answers to solve
the problem.
PRESIDENT ECHEVERRÍA. Now, however, there is a point that Mexico insists
upon in reference to the migrant workers-whether they are legally in the
country or illegally in the country. That is, Mexico insists that they enjoy the
rights and prerogatives that is granted by the law to any person.
When a person is contracted legally and comes to work in the United States,
this person under contract has certain rights—the right to a decent salary, the
right to social security, and that is to say all the rights that are granted by the law.
This is when the person comes to work legally.
Now, if the migrant worker comes in illegally, he still has some rights that
must be observed-this is basic.
CUBA
[5.] Q. I have a question for President Ford. I would like to ask President
Ford whether the hemispheric problems were taken up, and if they did take
up the hemispheric problems, what is the attitude of the United States with ref-
erence to Cuba and if this attitude is to be maintained at the next Conference of
Foreign Ministers.
PRESIDENT FORD. We did take up the question of the United States' attitude to-
ward Cuba. I indicated that we had not seen any change in the attitude of Mr.
Castro or any of the other individuals in the Cuban Government, and inasmuch
as there had been no change, no attitude that was different regarding the United
States, it was not expected that our attitude would change toward Cuba.
We did discuss the meeting that is to be held in Quito, I think, on Novem-
419
