October 15
[149]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
the outside who had a significant impact in urging the Congress and the
White House to be forthcoming.
So, I think this is a good day for 213 million Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his remarks, the Presi-
dent referred to Representative Wayne L. Hays,
chairman of the Committee on House Administra-
tion and member of the Committee of Conference
on the legislation.
As enacted, the bill (S. 3044) is Public Law 93-
443 (88 Stat. 1263).
149
Statement on the Federal Election Campaign Act
Amendments of 1974.
October 15, 1974
TODAY I am signing into law the Federal [Election] Campaign Act Amend-
ments of 1974.
By removing whatever influence big money and special interests may have on
our Federal electoral process, this bill should stand as a landmark of campaign
reform legislation.
In brief, the bill provides for reforms in five areas:
-It limits the amounts that can be contributed to any candidate in any
Federal election, and it limits the amounts that those candidates can expend in
their campaigns.
-It provides for matching funds for Presidential primaries and public financ-
ing for Presidential nominating conventions and Presidential elections through
use of the $1 voluntary tax checkoff.
-It tightens the rules on any use of cash, it limits the amount of speaking
honorariums, and it outlaws campaign dirty tricks.
—It requires strict campaign financial reporting and disclosure.
-It establishes a bipartisan six-member Federal Election Commission to see
that the provisions of the act are followed.
Although I support the aim of this legislation, I still have some reservations
about it—especially about the use of Federal funds to finance elections. I am
pleased that the money used for Federal financing will come from the $1 check-
off, however, thus allowing each taxpayer to make his own decision as to
whether he wants his money spent this way. I maintain my strong hope that the
voluntary contribution will not become mandatory and that it will not in the
future be extended to Congressional races. And although I do have reservations
about the first amendment implications inherent in the limits on individual
303
