August 30
[42]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
laboratory of life. As President, I invite students and graduates and faculties to
contribute their energies and their genius to the solution of massive problems fac-
ing America. I invite your ideas and your initiatives in fighting inflation, in
providing realistic education, in making sure our free enterprise system continues
to give freedom as well as enterprise.
Show us how to increase productivity. Show us how to combine new lifestyles
with old responsibilities. Show us how universities can work with industry and
labor unions to devise a whole new community of learning across this great land.
Show us how work-study programs can become a part of the ongoing educational
process. Show us how new skills can improve technology while humanizing its
use.
A French statesman once observed that war is much too important to be left to
generals. Our Nation's future is far to important to be left only to Presidents
or other officials of the Federal Government.
I like the phrase of a former great President, Theodore Roosevelt: "The Gov-
ernment is us; we are the Government, you and I.” Oh yes, your vote and your
voice are essential, as essential as mine, if each American is to take individual
responsibility for our collective future.
As you move into that job that makes sense and money to you—and you will
find it—you move from a position of strength. With the war over and the draft
ended, your duty now to your country is to enlist in the campaigns currently
being waged against our urgent domestic threats, especially inflation which is
public enemy number one.
Abroad, we are seeking new peaceful relationships, not only with the Soviet
Union and the People's Republic of China but with all peoples—industrial, un-
derdeveloped nations, every nation, if we possibly can. There will be continuity in
our foreign policy and continued realism in our self-defense.
At home the Government must help people in doing things they cannot
achieve as individuals. Accordingly, I have asked the Secretaries of Commerce,
Labor, and HEW to report to me new ways to bring the world of work and the
institutions of education closer together. For your Government as well as you,
the time has come for a fusion of the realities of a work-a-day life with the teach-
ings of academic institutions.
As a starter, the Department of Labor will shortly announce a pilot program
to improve occupational information for graduates and others in making career
choices. There will be grants for State and local initiatives to provide data on
occupations available and to help channel the potential employees into positions
which are not only personally satisfying but financially rewarding.
71
