[68]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
in reference to pardoning of her husband and similar public statements on behalf
of others.
Such a study is, of course, made for any request concerning pardon of an
individual.
However, no inference should be drawn as to the outcome of such study in
any case. Nor is my pardon of the former President, under the unique circum-
stances stated by me in granting it, related to any other case which is or may
be under study.
NOTE: The statement was read by Senator Hugh
Scott at the White House at a news briefing by
Senator Scott and Representative John J. Rhodes
following the President's first meeting with the
Republican Congressional leadership.
The statement refers to Deputy Press Secretary
John W. Hushen's answer to a reporter's question
at his news conference at the White House on Sep-
tember 10, 1974. The exchange follows:
"Q. Mrs. Dean is now talking about a pardon for
John Dean; what is the President's feeling about
pardon for any of the other people involved in the
whole Watergate thing?
"MR. HUSHEN. I am authorized to say that that
entire matter is now under study."
69
Remarks at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina.
September 11, 1974
THANK YOU very, very much for coming out in such great numbers. I am
very, very grateful.
It is a particular pleasure to be here in the great State of North Carolina. It
is a pleasure to be—or have come down with me, Senator Jesse Helms, and it
is always nice to see an old friend of mine like Congressman Earl Ruth, who I
knew a long, long time ago back in the days when both he and I were in the
Navy. I guess that is not a good thing to say here with all of you. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, I got to know Congressman Ruth when we were both
stationed here in the Navy over at Chapel Hill. So, I spent a bit of my military
career in Chapel Hill before going to sea with the Navy.
It is nice to be in North Carolina because I have had the privilege and pleasure
of knowing so many, many good people from this State.
But in addition—and this is the main point I would like to make—this air base,
which is so vitally important, is not one that just belongs to the State of North
Carolina but it belongs to all of us.
I come from the State of Michigan. We are as proud as all of the North
Carolinians are of Pope Air Force Base and the people who are here, and Fort
Bragg and the others.
118
