[August 9
E
1]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Even though this is late in an election year, there is no way we can go for-
ward except together and no way anybody can win except by serving the peo-
ple's urgent needs. We cannot stand still or slip backwards. We must go forward
now together.
To the peoples and the governments of all friendly nations, and I hope that
could encompass the whole world, I pledge an uninterrupted and sincere search
for peace. America will remain strong and united, but its strength will remain
dedicated to the safety and sanity of the entire family of man, as well as to our
own precious freedom.
I believe that truth is the glue that holds government together, not only our
Government but civilization itself. That bond, though strained, is unbroken at
home and abroad.
In all my public and private acts as your President, I expect to follow my
instincts of openness and candor with full confidence that honesty is always the
best policy in the end.
My fellow Americans, our long national nightmare is over.
Our Constitution works; our great Republic is a government of laws and not
of men. Here the people rule. But there is a higher Power, by whatever name
we honor Him, who ordains not only righteousness but love, not only justice but
mercy.
As we bind up the internal wounds of Watergate, more painful and more
poisonous than those of foreign wars, let us restore the golden rule to our politi-
cal process, and let brotherly love purge our hearts of suspicion and of hate.
In the beginning, I asked you to pray for me. Before closing, I ask again your
prayers, for Richard Nixon and for his family. May our former President, who
brought peace to millions, find it for himself. May God bless and comfort his
wonderful wife and daughters, whose love and loyalty will forever be a shining
legacy to all who bear the lonely burdens of the White House.
I can only guess at those burdens, although I have witnessed at close hand
the tragedies that befell three Presidents and the lesser trials of others.
With all the strength and all the good sense I have gained from life, with all
the confidence my family, my friends, and my dedicated staff impart to me,
and with the good will of countless Americans I have encountered in recent
visits to 40 States, I now solemnly reaffirm my promise I made to you last De-
cember 6: to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me to see
the right, and to do the very best I can for America.
God helping me, I will not let you down.
Thank you.
2
