[173]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
problem develop. But let me say, as I left this morning, she said to say hello to
everybody from South Carolina. She is feeling great. Thank you very, very
much.
We had an interesting experience over at Rock Hill. They had a little 7- or 8-
year-old girl come up and give the Pledge of Allegiance. I was sitting next to
Len Phillips, and on Len's right was Senator Thurmond.
This young lady, after leading the Pledge of Allegiance, came by, and
I thanked her, and Len Phillips thanked her, and then Strom Thurmond, he
kissed her. [Laughter]
Well, this sort of makes me think of the motto of the great sovereign State of
South Carolina: "Prepared in Spirit and Resources." You know, Strom Thur-
mond certainly exemplifies that.
I think there are 2 days in particular every year which prove that Strom has
really been prepared in spirit and in resources. One is election day, and the other
is Father's Day. [Laughter]
But all kidding aside, one of the great experiences that I have enjoyed in the
26 years that I have been in Washington, almost all of it in the Congress, was
getting to know an outstanding Senator like Strom Thurmond-courageous, a
man of character, dedication, devotion. You are just lucky to have him in the
State of South Carolina.
Well, it is great, especially to be here in Greenville. They tell me it is the tex-
tile capital of the world. On the other hand, I would have been not at all surprised
if I had found nobody here today. I thought everybody would be at the Clem-
son homecoming, and I apologize if I have kept you from it.
I am grateful for the sacrifice that you have made, and I am also indebted to
you for being here to join with me in paying tribute to one of your fellow South
Carolinians, the Secretary of Commerce, Fred Dent, who has done a superb job
as the head of the Department of Commerce.
Fred, we are grateful.
Next Monday, I understand, the Southern Textile Exposition opens here in
Greenville, which will be another reminder of the great contribution that this
area, this State, makes to a healthy American economy.
The textile industry, the apparel industries, are important to this State, but
they are equally important to our country as a whole. And I am fully aware of
the competitive situation that is facing the textile industry and the apparel in-
dustry. But let me say that if we win the battle against inflation, if we get
through the Congress, with the help of the American people, the economic pro-
396
