[98]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Maybe this is telling tales out of school—and I have been accused of that
before--but I once overheard a lady who was trying to get in to see her Senator,
without too much success. The administrative assistant was, you know, as they
always do, trying to smooth the obviously unhappy constituent. He said,
“Madam, perhaps I could help you. I am his AA.” She gave him a sympathetic
nod and said, “Don't feel bad. If I worked for him, I would drink, too.”
[Laughter]
Needless to say, in closing, I do want to thank all of you most sincerely for
the wonderful job you have done over the years that I had something to do with
the Republican Party on Capitol Hill. Your talents, your cooperation, your dedi-
cation, the endless hours that all of you have given so freely, I deeply appreciate.
And I have found that words alone don't very adequately express this appre-
ciation, and so I have written a little poem. It is called “A Toast to Congressional
Staffers." It goes like this:
A toast to Congressional staffers:
They listen, write and edit.
They work and work and work and work,
And we take all the credit. [Laughter]
So, let me thank all of you again. I have done it on many occasions, but I
say it most sincerely tonight, because I know firsthand the effort, the result, and
all of the good things that flow from what you have done for me and all others
in the Republican leadership and the principles for which we stand.
I thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:49 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
99
Remarks at the Unveiling of a Portrait of Representative
Leonor K. Sullivan, Chairman of the House Merchant
Marine and Fisheries Committee. September 24, 1974
Dick, Mr. Speaker, our honored guest, Leonor, my many, many former col-
leagues and friends:
I have been accused of coming up to Capitol Hill so frequently lately that
some people have suggested I was trying to build up my attendance record.
[Laughter]
I think all of us know that my friendship with Leonor Sullivan goes back a
190
