[247]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
One of my very top staff members, a number of years ago—Mr. Rums-
feld-initiated with members from your parliament, an exchange between
Japanese parliamentarians and legislators from our Congress. It is my judgment
that this exchange is a very, very important way of building a constructive rela-
tionship between your country and our country.
I was never privileged to participate in the Japanese-American interparlia-
mentary group or exchange group, as I understand it is called. I did have an
opportunity as a Member of the House of Representatives—our Congress—to be
a member of the Interparliamentary Union delegation on three or four occa-
sions. And I found this exchange between parliamentarians of great benefit, a
tremendous asset, and I hope and trust that in the years ahead this exchange be-
tween members of parliamentary groups will broaden, will be more extensive. It
will be very helpful to each country, to all countries.
Let me conclude by saying that I am honored to be among a group that I grew
up with in politics in my country. I understand your problems, I understand each
and every one of you. I was always in the minority in our Congress. We always
were trying to challenge the majority. We had many differences, but I have
found that in the differences in a parliamentary group in our country—and,
I believe, in yours-that you can disagree without being disagreeable, which in
my opinion is a true test of the strength and the character of a parliamentary
body.
The discussions that I have had with your Government have been construc-
tive in seeking to solve problems-domestic, international.
The great opportunity that I had to meet with your Emperor and Empress, His
Majesty and Her Majesty—it has been a great experience for me, and I thank
them and the people of Japan for being so warm in their welcome. I will report
to my people in the United States that they have great friends in Japan, that our
Governments are working together to seek solutions to the problems on a world-
wide basis and between us, as two governments.
We are friends, we will work together, and we have a great future-the
United States with the Government of Japan. And it is, therefore, my privilege
and honor to offer a toast to your Government and to your people on behalf of
my Government and the American people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:27 p.m. in the
Akebono Room at the Hotel Okura in Tokyo. In his
opening remarks, the President referred to Shigesa-
buro Maeo, Speaker of the Diet's House of Repre-
sentatives, and Kenzo Kono, Speaker of the Diet's
House of Counsellors.
642
