[234]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
mendations for the reduction of Federal spending in 1975. These have been hard
decisions for me. They will be equally hard decisions for the Congress.
But it is my strong and firm conviction that Uncle Sam must slim down to
what I consider fighting trim for the battle ahead of us, all 213 million.
But even though Uncle Sam tightens his own belt, he should not tighten the
noose on vital industry such as yours.
Earlier, I mentioned that the Administration has made $3 billion available
for commitments to purchase mortgages on new single family homes. As you
know, I have sought to curtail and cut additional Federal financial outlays as
inflationary. At the same time, we have targeted expenditures under this new
program to counteract the declines in production and employment in new home
construction.
However, there is authority under this new act to purchase mortgages on
existing homes as well.
As you know better than I, because purchase of a new home often depends
on the sale of an existing home, and for other reasons, we have concluded that
provision should also be made for existing homes under this program.
Therefore, I have an announcement for you this morning. Effective today, up
to 10 percent of each of the $3 billion in commitments under this program can
be used for mortgages on existing homes—[applause]—thank you very much.
That is, the Federal Government under this plan or program will strengthen
the existing home mortgage market by about $300 million, assisting both the
buyer and the seller. This will ease the burden somewhat, but I emphasize that
the real solutions, the ultimate solutions will not be provided by the Government.
The victories must and will be won in the free marketplace, and you know it
better than I.
Without question, mortgage credit is the lifeblood of the real estate industry.
Today, after a long drought that began in the spring of this year, we are seeing a
reversal in the outflows from the savings institutions. If money is available to
the savings and loan associations, there will be more money available for mort-
gages. If money is available for mortgages, home sales will rise. It is just that
simple.
There are, however, other hopeful signs of a greater availability of credit.
Interest rates have started downward. Even more significantly, rates on forward
commitments have begun to decline.
For instance, the average yield of a 4-month commitment to purchase FHA-
VA mortgages was 9.9 percent in Fannie Mae's [Federal National Mortgage
Association] auction of November 4, compared to 10.6 in September of this year.
592
