November 13
[233]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
So, at this point Betty will sign the first pledge, and I will join her.
Reporter. Mr. President, what are you going to do to carry out this plan?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the things that I buy, I will be very careful in purchas-
ing. I think we have got to increase our productivity-that includes me. We have
to be Yankee traders when we buy, and we have to cooperate individually and
collectively. And Mrs. Ford has pledged to me, as well as here, she will do the
same.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:13 p.m. in the Cabi-
net Room at the White House. The texts of the
WIN pledges follow:
Consumers:
I pledge to my fellow citizens that I will buy,
when possible, only those products and services priced
at or below present levels. I also promise to conserve
energy and I urge others to sign this pledge.
Businessmen and Businesswomen:
I pledge to my customers that to the very best of
my ability I will hold or reduce prices and will buy
whenever possible from those who have pledged to
do the same. I also pledge to be an energy saver.
This signed pledge is evidence of my participation
in, and support of, the WIN Program.
Workers:
I pledge that I-through my union-will join
with my fellow workers and my employer in seek-
ing ways to conserve energy and eliminate waste on
the job. I also promise to urge others to sign this
pledge.
233
Remarks at a Meeting With Coastal State Governors on Outer
Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Development.
November 13, 1974
THE IMBALANCE between our Nation's demand for oil and gas and our
domestic production of these resources is one of the most serious problems we
face. The rapid increase in energy costs in the past years has been a major driv-
ing force behind today's inflation.
The essence of this problem is that while we produce about 11 million barrels
per day, we consume about 17 million. Domestic demand is increasing, but
domestic production is dropping because most of our onshore oil fields are being
depleted.
We must adopt rigorous conservation measures, but it is clear that regardless
of what conservation steps we take and what eventual long-range energy policy
we adopt, in the near term we must increase our domestic production of oil and
gas.
I believe that the Outer Continental Shelf [O.C.S.] oil and gas deposits can
provide the largest single source of increased domestic energy during the years
when we need it most. The O.C.S. can supply this energy with less damage to
587
