October 17
[156]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
plain the background and the decisionmaking process. And I hope, as I said in my
opening statement, Mr. Chairman, that I have at least cleared the air so that most
Americans will understand what was done and why it was done.
And again I trust that all of us can get back to the job of trying to solve our
problems, both at home and abroad.
I thank you very, very much.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Mr. President, on behalf of the subcommittee, we
express our appreciation to you for your appearance here today and recognition
of the responsibility we all have to complete this work and get on with the busi-
ness.
The transcripts will be furnished as quickly as possible to members of the
subcommittee.
The subcommittee will adjourn subject to call of the Chair.
156
Veto of Second Continuing Appropriations Resolution
Providing for Suspension of Military Aid to Turkey.
October 17, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I greatly regret that for the second time I must return without my approval the
Continuing Resolution granting funds for the operation of several departments
and agencies and for the temporary continuation of our foreign aid programs,
H.J. Res. 1163.
My previous veto message and my public statements on this matter have clearly
expressed our objectives with respect to the resolution of the Cyprus dispute as
well as the dangers posed by legislative restrictions destroying our ability to as-
sist the parties involved. The Congress, despite the best efforts of the bipartisan
leaders of both Houses, has for the second time refused to recognize the realities
of the situation.
While the language of this new bill is different, its effect is similar to the ear-
lier Continuing Resolution which required my veto on October 14. I need not
reiterate the extensive comments which I made at that time and which again
compel a veto. The provisions of this bill as they would apply to Turkey would do
nothing to bring an end to the suffering of the Cypriot people, would do nothing
to encourage the two sides to resolve the dispute peacefully, and would bring a
further deterioration of the posture of the NATO alliance in the crucial Eastern
371
