October 29
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
should be extremely interested in the kind of Members of the House and Sen-
ate that are elected or defeated.
One of the reasons that I am campaigning is to try and get the voters off of
apathy and on to interest. I happen to believe that a big public showing of voter
participation would be very helpful, and I am disturbed that these forecasters
say that only 42 percent of the eligible voters are going to vote on November 5.
So, if I can in any way stimulate voter interest, I intend to do so.
Q. That leads to my second question. Do you think you are breaking through
this apathy, are you shaking up this interest? What is your finding?
THE PRESIDENT. From my contacts with Members of Congress or candidates
who are in the various places where I have stopped, they tell me that voter inter-
est has been stimulated by my appearance. I suspect we will get a few who don't
approve of my appearance in a certain community, but I believe overall there
has been an increase in voter interest as a result of my visits. And as I said, that
is one reason why I intend to continue them.
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE ROCKEFELLER
[4.] Q. Mr. President, do you think that Nelson Rockefeller will be con-
firmed as Vice President, and when?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that Nelson Rockefeller will be confirmed. I strongly
support him today as I did when I nominated him in August. I hope and trust
that the Senate and House committees, as well as the two bodies themselves, will
act promptly on the nomination. I think he would make a very good Vice
President.
Q. Then you don't think the financial problems that have suddenly cropped
up will affect the outcome? ยน
THE PRESIDENT. I do not.
THE PRESIDENT'S CONGRESSIONAL VOTING RECORD
[5.] Q. Mr. President, the Democratic Study Group, in an analysis they
made of your voting record over the last 3 years you were in the House, showed
you voted 86 percent of the time in support of spending proposals beyond the
Nixon budget, and it amounted to some $16.9 billion. How do you square that
with your campaign argument that the Democrats are the big spenders?
THE PRESIDENT. I think their own survey, Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago
ยน See Item 127 [16].
483
