December 4
[275]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
sion of the bill. The burden is now on the United States Senate to do exactly
the same.
And let me conclude with these final observations, if I might. I happen to
believe that a society is great if its people think greatly, if its people act greatly,
and this is a moment for greatness in America.
The journey which we together have started here tonight has no end, for the
labor we undertake will never be complete: to help build a world economy that
will contribute to the health and prosperity of people everywhere throughout
this globe.
Every nation must carry its share of that great burden to uplift itself on the
one hand and others as we move ahead.
Every nation must reach out, out to others, to work together, to share in
sweat and in sacrifice, secure in the knowledge that none will have to go it alone.
This truly, as I see it, could be one of the world's finest hours. With your help,
with our cooperation, and with the dedication of everybody, we can make it so.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:42 p.m. in the
Sheraton Hall at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. The con-
ference in support of enactment of the trade reform
act was sponsored by a number of business, agricul-
ture, consumer, and civic organizations.
275
Remarks at the Rockefeller Public Service Awards Luncheon.
December 4, 1974
Mr. Rockefeller, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, let me congratulate Mr. Rockefeller again for his generosity
and support of a very, very worthwhile program.
Secondly, let me compliment Princeton University and the Woodrow Wil-
son School of that great university for its participation in this program.
Naturally, I am very pleased and honored to have a part in this awards pro-
gram and to join in your salute to the five outstanding public servants who are
being rewarded here today.
For as long as there has been government-government among men, I should
say—it has been fashionable to attack bureaucracy and bureaucrats, sometimes
for good and sufficient reason. And I have to confess that in the over 25 years
that I served in the House of Representatives, I have, on occasion, joined in
701
