[295]
December 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
295
Letter Accepting the Resignation of William B. Saxbe as
Attorney General of the United States. December 13, 1974
Dear Bill:
I have your letter of December 12 and, for the purpose of keeping the records
straight, I will, of course, accept your resignation as Attorney General of the
United States, effective upon the appointment and qualification of your suc-
cessor or your own appointment and confirmation as Ambassador to India,
whichever occurs earlier.
Nearly a year ago, you assumed the duties of Attorney General under the
most difficult circumstances. At that time you wisely set as your goals the re-
kindling of public confidence in the law and the rebuilding of morale within
the Department of Justice. You offered then as your watchwords a verse from the
Book of Micah, "To do justice and love mercy and walk humbly with thy God."
The impressive record you have compiled as Attorney General has in large
measure brought fulfillment of those goals, adding new luster to your already
distinguished career and further testifying to your superb leadership and un-
swerving devotion to the public good. You have truly earned the admiration
of your colleagues in government and the thanks of your fellow citizens through-
out the Nation.
It is with these high qualities in mind that I look forward to your continued
service to this Administration and to our Nation as my Ambassador to India. I am
wholly confident you will bring to your new responsibilities the same skills,
energy and dedication to responsible government that you have demonstrated
throughout your public life.
Betty joins me in wishing Dolly and you our best wishes for every continued
happiness and success.
With my appreciation and warmest personal regards.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable William B. Saxbe, The Attorney General, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: Attorney General Saxbe's letter of resignation,
dated December 12, 1974, and released with the
President's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I hereby submit my letter of resignation as Attor-
ney General of the United States of America so that
I may accept the new responsibility which you have
JERRY FORD
assigned to me as United States Ambassador to the
Republic of India, subject to confirmation by the
Senate of the United States.
As we agreed, it is my intention to make my resig-
nation effective upon my appointment as Ambassa-
dor, or, in the alternative, upon the appointment of
my successor as Attorney General, whichever occurs
earlier.
746
