December 4
[276]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
GEORGE M. Low, Deputy Administrator, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration-award
for administration;
ROBERT M. WHITE, Administrator, National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, Department
of Commerce-award for physical resource de-
velopment and protection; and
MAURICE J. WILLIAMS, Chairman, Development As-
sistance Committee, Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development-award for in-
tergovernmental operations.
276
Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of
the House Transmitting Proposals To Establish New
National Wilderness Areas. December 4, 1974
PURSUANT to the Wilderness Act of September 3, 1964, I am pleased to trans-
mit herewith proposals for thirty-seven additions to the National Wilderness
Preservation System.
As described in the Wilderness Message that I am concurrently sending to the
Congress today, the proposed new wilderness areas cover a total of over nine
million primeval acres. In addition, the Secretary of the Interior has recom-
mended that Congressional action on five other areas which include surface
lands suitable for wilderness be deferred for the reasons set forth below:
A. Three areas which are open to mining might be needed in the future to
provide vital minerals for the Nation, but these areas have not been ade-
quately surveyed for mineral deposits. The areas are the Kofa Game Range,
Arizona; Charles Sheldon Antelope Range, Nevada and Oregon; and,
Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Range, Montana.
B. One area is subject to withdrawals for power purposes and additional study
is needed of the West's potential energy needs before a wilderness decision
can be made. This is Lake Mead National Recreation Area, located in Ari-
zona and Nevada.
C. Certain parts of one area are subject to selection by the village of Mekoryuk
under the terms of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act and a wilder-
ness recommendation should be made only after the completion of the
Native selection process. The area in question is the Nunivak National Wild-
life Refuge in Alaska.
Four other possibilities considered by the Secretary of the Interior in his re-
view of roadless areas of 5,000 acres or more were found to be unsuitable for
inclusion in the Wilderness System: Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge,
Oregon and Idaho; Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge, Maryland; Mam-
moth Cave National Park, Kentucky; and, Upper Mississippi River Wildlife
703
