[7]
August 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
A bill substantially similar to this legislation was passed by the Congress and
then pocket vetoed by President Nixon in October, 1972. Since that time various
departments of the executive branch have consistently argued that such legisla-
tion would be unwise and discriminatory.
That opposition has been based upon the view that by singling out deputy
United States marshals for significant salary increases, the Government would be
creating serious pay inequities with other Federal law enforcement personnel,
thus violating fundamental principles of fairness. In addition, H.R. 5094 would
severely disrupt existing grade and pay relationships among the deputy marshals
themselves. In some cases, under this legislation, junior marshals would be paid
$1,150 a year more than their senior colleagues. Some deputies doing identical
work would be placed in different pay grades, while deputies performing dif-
ferent jobs would be placed in the same pay grade.
I fully appreciate the fine service performed by our deputy U.S. marshals, and
I am aware that the Congress was prompted by a desire to ensure that their pay
matched the increasing responsibilities they have assumed in recent years. But
I also believe that this legislation would run directly counter to the principle of
equal pay for equal work that underlies our civil service system. Our policy has
been and must continue to be one of fundamental fairness to all Federal em-
ployees. For that reason, I am returning this legislation without my approval.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
August 12, 1974.
NOTE: The text of the veto message was released August 13, 1974.
8
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
Special International Exhibitions. August 13, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by law, I transmit to the Congress the Eleventh Annual Report
on Special International Exhibitions conducted during fiscal year 1973 under
the authority of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961
(Public Law 87-256).
This report covers exhibitions presented abroad by the U.S. Information
Agency at international fairs and under East-West Cultural Exchange agree-
14
