[13]
August 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
act disturb me, especially those provisions relating to Presidential discretion in
formulating annual budget requests for our national forestry programs. But
the benefits of this legislation far outweigh any potential drawbacks, and I am
confident that the Congress and the executive branch, working together, can and
will manage, develop, and improve our priceless natural legacy of forests and
rangelands.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2296, approved August 17, 1974, is Public Law 93-378 (88 Stat. 476).
14
Joint Statement Following Discussions With King Hussein
of Jordan. August 18, 1974
HIS MAJESTY King Hussein I of Jordan paid a visit to Washington August
15-18, at the invitation of the President. The President and His Majesty con-
ferred at the White House and the President hosted a dinner in honor of His
Majesty and Queen Alia. The President expressed his pleasure that His Majesty
was the first Head of State to visit Washington in the new administration. His
Majesty also conferred with the Secretaries of State and Defense and met with
members of Congress. His Majesty was accompanied by the Prime Minister of
Jordan, Mr. Zaid Rifai.
The talks were held in the atmosphere of friendship and understanding
traditional in relations between the United States and Jordan. The President
and His Majesty pledged that the two countries will continue to work closely
together for the achievement of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.
The President stressed the continuity of United States' policy in this regard as
in all other aspects of American foreign policy and affirmed his commitment that
the United States would continue its determined efforts to help bring a peace
settlement in the Middle East. The discussions between His Majesty and the
President and Secretary of State were a constructive contribution to the con-
sultations now underway looking toward the next stage in negotiations for a
just and durable peace in the Middle East. It was agreed that these consultations
will continue with a view to addressing at an appropriately early date the
issues of particular concern to Jordan, including a Jordanian-Israeli disengage-
ment agreement.
The President and His Majesty reaffirmed the close ties of friendship between
the United States and Jordan and pledged to continue their efforts to strengthen
the bonds which join the two countries in mutually beneficial cooperation.
20
