October 17
[158]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
enclosed report of the Department of State provides additional information
concerning the amendments.
The amendments represent significant improvements in the standards for ship
safety. I recommend that the Senate give its advice and consent to acceptance of
the amendments by the United States.
The White House,
October 17, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the amendments to the convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate
Executive K (93d Cong., 2d sess.).
158
Message to the Senate Transmitting the International
Telecommunication Convention.
To the Senate of the United States:
October 17, 1974
For advice and consent to ratification, I herewith transmit to the Senate the
International Telecommunication Convention reached at Malaga-Torremolinos
on October 25, 1973. This transmittal also includes the Annexes and Final Pro-
tocol to the Convention, as well as a report by the Department of State.
This new Convention will abrogate and replace the International Telecommu-
nication Convention of 1965. It generally follows the provisions of the 1965
Convention with a considerable number of minor improvements and a few ma-
jor modifications to take account of technical developments in the field and
developments in international organizations.
One notable change from the 1965 Convention is the deletion of the separate
membership of the territories of the several member States, including the United
States. Although this change will deprive the United States of its vote on behalf
of the territories, the redistribution of financial obligations which accompany
this change will result in a relatively lower financial contribution from this
country.
The International Telecommunication Convention constitutes the procedural
and organizational framework for the orderly conduct of international telecom-
munications, and it is in the public and commercial interest of the United States
to continue to play an active role within this framework. I recommend that the
Senate give early and favorable consideration to this new Convention, and
373
