September 11
[70]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
We feel that the contribution made by the Defense Department-the 2,200,000,
roughly, men and women in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, the
people who are civilians and work for the Defense Department are an extremely
vital part of our security and the security of the free world.
And when we talk about security today, we are talking not only about
security from attack but we are talking about a deterrence against war. And
one major part of my service in the Presidency is to be sure that the Defense
Department is strong enough to deter war and to protect our great country from
any aggression.
I know there are people who think that we can slash the money for the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, Marines, and spend money for other programs. I don't
think we can hurt our military establishment without hurting our security.
And so, to the extent that I have any influence, I am going to make sure that
we have adequate funding for the weapons system, research and development,
operations and maintenance, personnel, so that all of you feel that the service
you are performing is with the best of equipment, in the best of environment,
and for the best interests of every one of 211 million Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:47 p.m.
70
Remarks at a Ceremony Opening the World Golf Hall of
Fame in Pinehurst, North Carolina. September 11, 1974
Honored inductees, Governor Jim Holshouser, Lieutenant Governor Hunt,
ladies and gentlemen:
Back in late July of this year, I participated in the induction ceremonies for
four or five professional football players in Canton, Ohio, at their Hall of Fame.
It was a little more logical for me to participate in that even though I was
never good enough on the gridiron to play professional football, but I did play
at the University of Michigan and coached at Yale, and it was a very important
part of my life for a substantial part of my youth.
Shortly after that, I got a letter of invitation, while I was still the first instant
Vice President, to come and participate in these ceremonies. Well, I think my
record is clear. I have no background that would justify my professional appear-
ance here, but I thought maybe by coming, it would be helpful to me to get a
119
