November 1
[213]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
guides it through the House of Representatives. That is the committee that has a
direct connection with the Department of Agriculture, and with Bob Mathias in
that high-ranking, number two position on the Committee on Agriculture, you
will have a voice at the top, a voice of experience instead of a person at the bottom
with a big voice but no communication.
Let me tell you something else about Bob. When I was the minority leader
in the House of Representatives, I had the opportunity of working intimately,
very closely with Bob Mathias on a number of legislative matters. But what was
important in that relationship to all of you was that when I wanted some
straight answers, some sound suggestions about agriculture, one of the finest,
most helpful voices, to me, was the observations, the recommendations, the advice
from Bob Mathias.
He advised me then and he advises me on agriculture as the occupant of the
White House, and I thank you, Bob, for your help then and your assistance
now.
I have heard, Bob, about the hard campaign that you are running, working
literally night and day to communicate your positions, your achievements to
the 400,000-plus people that live in the 17th Congressional District. And I won't
try to repeat all the things that you can speak up about, what you have done,
how you voted.
I do know—and let me mention very quickly—some areas that ought to be re-
emphasized. For example, you have introduced a number of important, very
vital pieces of legislation that affect all the young people, as well as the old; legis-
lation to protect our natural resources and our environment, preserving the
beauty of our national parks—and I saw some of them as I flew from the Los
Angeles area here this morning.
I think it is vitally important for everybody, the young as well as the others,
to know that you have introduced and pushed legislation to provide new jobs
for all of the people in the central valley.
I think people ought to know what you have done in the way of legislation
to open the flow of energy resources to our people, and if we are going to grow
and prosper and to provide jobs and homes and opportunities for these young
people, particularly—and I am looking right at them and talking to them di-
rectly—we need energy. We need energy to make a better America.
And I know, Bob, of your personal interest in education. You are interested
in health legislation. So you have had not only great experience in the field of
agriculture but you have had an interest in environment, our ecology. You have
539
