October 17
[160]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
First, I remain concerned that our military or intelligence secrets and diplo-
matic relations could be adversely affected by this bill. This provision remains
unaltered following my earlier letter.
I am prepared to accept those aspects of the provision which would enable
courts to inspect classified documents and review the justification for their classi-
fication. However, the courts should not be forced to make what amounts to
the initial classification decision in sensitive and complex areas where they have
no particular expertise. As the legislation now stands, a determination by the
Secretary of Defense that disclosure of a document would endanger our na-
tional security would, even though reasonable, have to be overturned by a dis-
trict judge who thought the plaintiff's position just as reasonable. Such a pro-
vision would violate constitutional principles, and give less weight before the
courts to an executive determination involving the protection of our most vital
national defense interests than is accorded determinations involving routine
regulatory matters.
I propose, therefore, that where classified documents are requested the courts
could review the classification, but would have to uphold the classification if
there is a reasonable basis to support it. In determining the reasonableness of the
classification, the courts would consider all attendant evidence prior to resorting
to an in camera examination of the document.
Second, I believe that confidentiality would not be maintained if many mil-
lions of pages of FBI and other investigatory law enforcement files would be sub-
ject to compulsory disclosure at the behest of any person unless the Government
could prove to a court-separately for each paragraph of each document—that
disclosure “would” cause a type of harm specified in the amendment. Our law
enforcement agencies do not have, and could not obtain, the large number of
trained and knowledgeable personnel that would be needed to make such a
line-by-line examination of information requests that sometimes involve hun-
dreds of thousands of documents, within the time constraints added to current
law by this bill.
Therefore, I propose that more flexible criteria govern the responses to
requests for particularly lengthy investigatory records to mitigate the burden
which these amendments would otherwise impose, in order not to dilute the pri-
mary responsibilities of these law enforcement activities.
Finally, the ten days afforded an agency to determine whether to furnish a
requested document and the twenty days afforded for determinations on appeal
are, despite the provision concerning unusual circumstances, simply unrealistic
in some cases. It is essential that additional latitude be provided.
375
