October 24
[190]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
190
Remarks at Ceremonies Honoring Representative
Leslie C. Arends in Melvin, Illinois. October 24, 1974
Betty Arends, Louella Dirksen, my dear friend Charlie Halleck, Bill Springer:
We are kind of old-timers, but then there are some new ones-Cliff Carlson,
George O'Brien, Ed Madigan, George Burditt, your candidate for the Senate,
Bill Scott ¹—well, a number of outstanding, wonderful servants of the people of
the great State of Illinois.
It is almost unbelievable for me to be in Melvin and see this magnificent
crowd. You would not think it could happen anyplace in the country, except
you know and I know and Charlie Halleck knows and Louella Dirksen knows
what a great, great guy Les Arends is. And that is why all of us are here.
I am sure that many of you made a much bigger effort than I, but we are here
because you know and I know and literally thousands of other people know that
Les Arends gave 110 percent in anything he ever did. He did it for you all in this
Congressional district. He did it for the State, and he did it for the country. He
did it for his family, his friends. Les Arends, on each and every occasion that he
ever undertook to do anything, made the most maximum effort, and that is why
you love him—we do; why you respect him, and why we do.
Les, I can't thank you enough for those years that we worked in tandem try-
ing to lead the minority to do a responsible and constructive job with the help of
many, many others. But, I think we developed a close, warm, deep, personal
relationship that has not been matched by any that I have ever had in the Con-
gress, or almost anyplace. And for that experience, Les—a very personal one—I
thank you very much.
It has already been alluded to, but aside from the reasons I have just given for
being here on behalf of Les, there are not many Ford Counties in the whole
United States. We don't have one in Michigan, so I am here just to get acquainted
with a lot of people from Ford County. I don't know whether any of my ances-
tors ever settled here, but if not, obviously they should have, with one exception:
If they ever had, and Les Arends had been in Congress, I would never have
made it to Washington, D.C.
¹ Cliffard D. Carlson was the Republican candidate in the 15th Congressional District of Illinois; Repre-
sentative George M. O'Brien was the Republican candidate in the 17th Congressional District; Representative
Edward R. Madigan was the Republican candidate in the 21st Congressional District; and William J. Scott
was attorney general of Illinois.
463
