[109]
September 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Second, I have established by Executive order [11809] a White House [Presi-
dent's] Labor-Management Committee whose counsel and recommendations
will not only be sought by me but given to me man-to-man and face-to-face.
Eight distinguished labor leaders and eight distinguished business executives
comprise its membership. The objective of this Committee is not only to serve
as advisers to me on major economic policies but to help assure effective collec-
tive bargaining, promote sound wage and price policies, develop higher stand-
ards of living, boost productivity, and establish more effective manpower
policies.
Dr. John T. Dunlop, a dedicated public servant and professor of economics at
Harvard University, has agreed—and we are very thankful to serve as coordi-
nator of this Committee.
Representing labor on this Committee will be President George Meany of the
AFL-CIO; Secretary-Treasurer Lane Kirkland of the AFL-CIO; President
I. W. Abel of the United Steel Workers of America; President Murray H. Finley
of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America; President Paul Hall of the
Seafarers International Union of North America; President Frank Fitzsimmons
of the Teamsters International Union; and President Leonard Woodcock of the
United Auto Workers; and President Arnold Miller of the United Mine
Workers.
Representing management on the Committee will be John Harper of the
Aluminum Company of America; Reginald H. Jones of General Electric; Steve
Bechtel of the Bechtel group; Richard Gerstenberg of General Motors; Rawleigh
Warner of the Mobil Oil Company; Walter Wriston of the First National
City Bank; Arthur Wood of Sears, Roebuck and Company; and R. Heath Larry
of U.S. Steel.
I am proud to announce this group of 16 distinguished, outstanding Ameri-
cans.
A third announcement: The Council on Wage and Price Stability, recently
established by Congress at my request and with my deep appreciation, is another
arm I will use in the fight on inflation. I have asked Dr. Albert Rees, a distin-
guished economist and professor of economics at Princeton, to direct the Coun-
cil's work. We are fortunate to have Dr. Rees with us.
And may I express to all the people—those that I have mentioned and others
that will help—their willingness to step in and help the country and 213 million
people.
But nobody knows better than I that councils and committees cannot win this
war. The most important weapon in the fight against inflation is the spirit of
208
