October 16
[154]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Thank you very much, Doc.
If I can take just a minute or two and speak from personal experience, from
the bottom of my heart, and the appreciation that I really feel. I served 25 years
plus in the House of Representatives in Washington. It was the greatest experi-
ence of my life for many reasons.
But one of the reasons that it meant so much to me was the opportunity to be
associated with, to depend on, to rely on the Indiana delegation. And I want to
express my utmost gratitude and appreciation to people like Bill Bray, Earl
Landgrebe, John Myers, Roger Zion, Dave Dennis-men I can count on as
President to win the battle against inflation. They are good fighters for good
programs, and they deserve your support down the line.
But there are some that are right in this area—I have spoken about those that
are a little farther away from Indianapolis—right in the Marion County area,
you have a special obligation, you who come from this particular part of this
great State.
Bill Bray—gosh, he is a great guy and a first-class Congressman. Bud Hillis, a
relative newcomer, but a darned fine Member of the House and one you should
send back. And then we are right in the heartland of Bill Hudnut's district, and
believe me, he deserves to be reelected, and I mean it.
Whether it is Bill Bray, Bud Hillis, or Bill Hudnut, they are real inflation
fighters and they deserve your entire, your total dedication if we are going to win
this battle against inflation in the years ahead.
You know, speaking of Bill Hudnut, Bill is a great friend of mine, but you also
know he is an ordained minister, which isn't a bad thing in politics today.
[Laughter]
Frankly, I never knew Bill Hudnut was a minister until one day I saw him
pick up a phone and call "Dial-A-Prayer," collect. [Laughter]
Well, in Bill's first term in the House of Representatives, he and I developed a
very special relationship because our oldest son is going to theological school,
and I was trying to get some advice and counsel. Yes, in the time that I served
with Bill as a Member of the House when he was, I learned to have that sort
of inward rapport, that close feeling that here was a person who had all the
qualifications to be a first-class Member of the Congress.
And so I am particularly pleased to be in Indianapolis, which is the heartland
of his district, and to add my voice—and if I could vote here—my vote for Bill
Hudnut to be reelected to the Congress of the United States.
And Bill, I understand this is your 42d birthday. Congratulations.
Now, speaking of birthdays, I can't help thinking back to my 42d. Some of us,
333
