November 26
[261]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
It is a pleasure and a privilege to see all of my old friends in the Congress and
some of the mayors and some of the Governors.
On this occasion, the news of the passage of this legislation reached me over-
seas. And I consider this legislation a top priority of the 93d Congress, and I con-
gratulate the Senate and the House for acting so quickly and so decisively.
This marks a long-term and vital major Federal commitment to mass trans-
portation. This legislation represents a compromise in the best sense of the term.
Although different positions were set forth in the beginning—the views of the
Administration, the Congress, Governors, mayors, and others—we were able to
reconcile our differences and develop legislation to meet our most urgent needs
in mass transportation at a cost which is not inflationary.
This legislation is significant in our fight against excessive use of petroleum, in
our economic battle, and in our efforts to curb urban pollution and reduce con-
gestion. It assures that $11.8 billion in Federal assistance will be available to
States and to cities to meet transit needs for the rest of the decade.
This assurance of steady and predictable support for public transit for the
first time will enable localities to plan intelligently for their long-term needs.
Also for the first time, this legislation will permit the Federal Government to
provide limited assistance toward the operating expenses of transit systems.
Provisions of the bill will minimize possible adverse effects of Federal involve-
ment in such deficits. The act contains funds, again for the first time, which can
be used for rural public transportation.
Many in the Congress and elsewhere worked very hard to develop this legisla-
tion, and I am pleased that so many of you could be here today. Secretary
Brinegar, Frank Herringer, John Tower, Pete Williams, Joe Minish, Bill Wid-
nall, Garry Brown, Jim Delaney, John Anderson, Ray Madden—and I could
go on-deserve special mention. So do many mayors who made numerous
journeys to Washington, all for a good cause.
I am encouraged here and now [by] the use, the excessive use of certain energy;
that is, the kind of energy expended to enact this legislation by the Congress
and by its supporters around the country. Let us put more and more of this
personal energy into the effective solution of the important problems facing the
Nation today. We surely will find solutions at a price that is right.
It is with a great deal of personal pleasure that I sign the National Mass
Transportation Assistance Act of 1974.
Thank you all again. It is so nice to see so many of you, and I compliment in
665
