[131]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
who was good and who was bad, and you sort of develop a capability of saying,
"Gee, that fellow has got it," or "This fellow does not have it."
I have known Drew Lewis over the last 4 or 5 years, and let me say to each
and every one of you in this State: If you elect Drew Lewis to be your next
Governor—and I think you will—you will elect one of the finest Governors I
have had an opportunity to see, and I hope you do.
When I was privileged to come to the great city of Philadelphia in September,
I pledged then that with the help of the American people we would win the
battle against inflation. Yesterday, before the joint session of the House and
Senate, in trying to speak to the American people I outlined what I think was a
fair and equitable plan to win this battle, and I asked the Congress and the
American people to join me in this struggle. It has been a great experience that
in the last 24 hours, the American people have responded tremendously.
And the response of the Congress, basically, has been good. We have had some
who have been critical, but I think they, in their own heart, know-as Hugh
Scott said they either buy this total plan or concept or design, or they have
to come up with something else, because America cannot afford to lose this
struggle.
As I said yesterday, I fully understand the reaction to some extent, or the
criticism that a portion of the voters of this country might rise up in righteous
wrath and turn them out of office if they would not face up to the tough decisions.
I tried to express yesterday, and I reiterate it tonight: I have an infinitely greater
faith in the American people than those that want us to play politics with the
economy and the strength of the political fabric of our country.
The American people want us to do what is right, not what is politically
expedient. Some of you may have heard or watched—I had a press conference
today, and one of my friends in the press made some comment or asked a ques-
tion, well, wasn't this tax proposal that I suggested unfair and inequitable?
I am not sure this is the best audience for me to make the argument, but let me
just take one or two examples, and I think you will agree with me when you
see the facts. For a family with a gross income of wages of $20,000 per year, the
5 percent surtax that I think is essential to provide the revenue that we can do
other things that will indicate compassion for those that are less fortunate—for
that family of four and gross income of $20,000 a year, under this proposal they
will pay $42 more a year in Federal income taxes, which is about 12 cents a day.
This new tax will affect some 28 percent of the total Federal personal income
tax payers in this country. And I happen to think that those 28 percent—good
Americans, dedicated to the preservation of those things that are so essential
268
