[240]
November 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
the average national unemployment rate rose to six percent for three consecu-
tive months.
In that event, these programs would provide special jobless compensation and
work opportunities in those labor market areas where the rate averages six and
one-half percent for three consecutive months.
These programs should be enacted immediately, since rising unemployment
indicates they will very likely be needed before the 94th Congress convenes. I
hope this Congress will recognize its responsibility in this important area.
TRADE
Action is urgently needed on the Trade Reform Act which I consider abso-
lutely essential to our economic health. Our trading partners in the industrial
and less-developed world are waiting to see whether we can negotiate multi-
lateral solutions to the common economic problems which plague us, as well as
make much-needed improvements in the trading system. The unacceptable alter-
native is economic warfare from which no winners would emerge.
I urge the Senate to move as quickly as possible to adopt the Trade Reform Act,
and to forego any encumbering amendments. If the Senate acts promptly—and
only if it does—there will be sufficient time remaining in this Congress for both
Houses to agree on a final measure.
TAXES
The Congress has before it the tax reform proposals sent up in April 1973;
the windfall profits tax proposals submitted in December 1973, and the economy
strengthening and stabilizing proposals which I recommended last month.
The economic proposals of last month include surtaxes on all corporations and
on individuals with well above-average incomes. They call for change in the in-
vestment tax credit and in the tax treatment of certain limited kinds of pre-
ferred stock.
My individual surtax proposal, I must emphasize, would apply only to fami-
lies and single persons whose incomes exceed $15,000 and $7,500, respectively,
and only to that portion of their actual income above those levels. It is a very
progressive tax proposal which takes much more from high bracket taxpayers
than middle income taxpayers. Low bracket taxpayers would be exempt. With
a $16,000 income, for example, a family of four would pay a surtax of only $3.
On the other hand, a family of four with a $50,000 income would pay $482 of
surtax.
620
