[263]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
In addition to the 23 percent benefit increase, this bill extends entitlement for
GI bill benefits from 36 to 45 months for undergraduates. I believe the present
entitlement of four academic years is sufficient time to permit a veteran to obtain
his baccalaureate degree and to enable him to adjust to civilian life.
In addition, the bill contains other objectionable features despite my urging
that they be eliminated. It establishes a new direct loan program for veteran
students which departs from the sound objective of providing student aid
through one department-Health, Education and Welfare—rather than through
various Federal agencies. A direct loan program is also inefficient compared to
available guaranteed loan programs, which provide substantially more assistance
to the veteran at less cost to the Federal taxpayer.
I am returning this bill with reluctance, but it is my earnest hope that the
Congress will demonstrate its willingness to join the executive branch in taking
the difficult actions needed to hold down spending by the Federal Government
while being equitable with our veterans.
The White House,
November 26, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: H.R. 12628 was enacted over the President's veto on December 3, 1974, as Public Law 93-508 (88
Stat. 1578).
264
Veto of Zinc Tariff Legislation Containing Tax Riders.
November 26, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my approval H.R. 6191, "To amend the Tariff Sched-
ules of the United States to provide that certain forms of zinc be admitted free
of duty, and for other purposes."
This bill would suspend until June 30, 1977, the present duties on zinc ores
and concentrates and zinc-bearing materials.
Unfortunately, the Congress attached to this desirable provision unacceptable
tax riders which would grant windfall benefits to individuals already compen-
sated for property losses resulting from certain disasters in 1972. Moreover, the
most costly of these riders was added by the conference committee; and the
significance of this rider was not explored during adoption of the conference
report by the two houses.
670
