October 16
[151]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
laying the foundation for NATO, an alliance with our friends in Europe that
has maintained the peace in that continent for better than a quarter of a century.
And right now, a Republican President is having some trouble with a Demo-
cratic Congress in almost the same way. I want to say here and now that the
Democratic leadership in both the House and the Senate agree with me, but
unfortunately, a majority of the Congress do not understand that some of the
efforts that are being made are hurting Greece, precluding the possibility of a
legitimate settlement of the problem of Cyprus, and undermining NATO which
has given us peace in Western Europe for better than a quarter of a century.
And what we need in the Congress right now is Members who understand
that the United States, if it has flexibility, if it has leadership, if it has unity be-
tween the Executive and the Congress, can continue to give the guiding hand
for the maintenance of peace not only in Western Europe but in the Mediter-
ranean and in other parts of the world.
And I know that I can count on people like Tom Curtis when he is there to
help and assist in this great struggle for peace, not only on a temporary basis
but on a permanent basis.
And one final comment: I have been reading the polls lately. If you read
them, I guess, in my position—and some others who feel so strongly about our
party—they are a little discouraging. Well, the polls have been wrong in the
past. But let me point out that if the polls are right—and I don't assume they
are—you could have what some of the most partisan members of the opposition
say, a veto-proof Congress.
Now, what does that mean? It means that you will have a concentration of
power in one of the three branches of the Federal Government. In effect, you
will have a legislative dictatorship. One of the basic strengths of America for the
last 200 years has been balance-checks and balances.
Our forefathers put together in that Constitution a system predicated on a
strong President in the White House, a strong Congress in the legislative branch,
a strong judicial system in the Supreme Court, one checking on the other, and
that finely tuned balance has given us the great blessings that we have had for
almost 200 years.
Now if you have a veto-proof Congress, you in effect have one branch of the
Government dictating to at least one of the others.
Americans don't like dictatorships. They like a system of checks and balances.
And so in order to maintain that balance, I think we have got to go out and
make a massive effort aimed at a Congress that will cooperate to beat inflation, to
strengthen our economy; a Congress that will give us the tools to maintain the
peace and not handicap and hamstring us with restrictions that interfere with
317
