[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Mayne, I have thought about that a great deal because
there has been criticism of the timing. But as I reviewed my thoughts prior to
the granting of the pardon, I had to look at this factual situation: If I granted
the pardon when I did, it would, as quickly as possible, achieve the results that
I wanted, which was to permit our Government, both the Congress and the Presi-
dent, to proceed to the solution of the problems.
Now, some people say in their criticism—and I understand it and I am not
critical of the points they raise-I should have waited until Mr. Nixon was
indicted, inferring that I should have then pardoned him, if I was going to do so.
Well, other people say that I should have waited until he was convicted, if he was
convicted, and at that time, I should have pardoned him.
Others have indicated that I should have waited for a conviction and a jail sen-
tence, if that were the result. Now, all of that process, whether it is the indict-
ment, the possible conviction, a conviction plus a jail sentence, would have taken,
as I have tried to explain, at least a year and probably much longer.
And during that whole period of time, Mr. Mayne, all of the things that
I wanted to avoid, namely the opportunity for our Government, the President and
the Congress, and others, to get to the problems we have, would have been, I
think, deeply upset and roadblocked.
So, I am convinced, after reflection, as I was previously, that the timing of the
pardon was done at the right time.
CONGRESSMAN MAYNE. Thank you, Mr. President.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The Representative from New York, Ms. Holtzman.
CONGRESSWOMAN ELIZABETH HOLTZMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and
Mr. Ford, I too, wish to applaud your historical appearance here today. At the
same time, however, I wish to express my dismay that the format of this hearing
will not be able to provide to the American public the full truth and all of the
facts respecting your assurance of a pardon to Richard Nixon.
Unfortunately, each member of this committee will have only 5 minutes in
which to ask questions about this most serious matter, and unfortunately, de-
spite my urging, the committee declined to provide sufficient time for each com-
mittee member to ask the questions that were appropriate.
The committee declined to prepare fully for your coming by calling other
witnesses, such as Alexander Haig, Mr. Buchen, Mr. Becker, and has failed to
insist also on full production of documents by you respecting the issuance of this
pardon.
I must confess my own lack of easiness at participating in a proceeding that
362
