November 2
[219]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
American? Is that what our country was founded on, what is the concept of
our whole system?
We want people to get out and vote and to express themselves, to make a deter-
mination. And if we do, we will accept it, and it will be better for all of us. And
you in Colorado know that if that is done you will reelect your fine Governor,
who has done much to make your State healthy economically, burgeoning in
activity, and yet who has done a great job in keeping the right balance in-between
growth and our environment. And I am glad to be here, John, to participate in
something that is a tribute to you and your leadership in the statehouse.
Something I have been interested in for a long time is reorganization of the
executive branch. We are going to do something about it in the Federal Gov-
ernment, but your fine Governor has already done something about it in
the State government. And I congratulate you and compliment you for this
achievement.
Now, let me say something about your Congressional delegation. You have
got, in Jim Johnson, you have got a person who represents this district with
great capability, character, and dedication. Now, Jim-when I was minority
leader in the House—did not always agree with me. We always disagreed with-
out being disagreeable. But I respected his independence; but I also appreciated
his willingness to be a teamplayer when he could move and be strong and
helpful. So, I express to you, Jim, my deep gratitude not only for your team-
work but your independence. It is good for our country.
Bill Armstrong, another one of your fine Members of the House of Repre-
sentatives—I think he is great. He came when Jim did. He represents a little
different part of your great State, but it is an important, an integral part of our
great State of Colorado. And I congratulate him, and I hope you will support
him in this reelection campaign.
I had the opportunity of knowing Don Brotzman for a number of years,
and Don-I have skied with him and I also served with him-he is a little better
in both respects, and I therefore recommend him to be reelected by the people
of Colorado.
Well, you have got some challengers, some candidates, that I hope you will
support. Keith Records —I hope you will give him the best support, and the
biggest help that you possibly can. He has got a good, sound approach to the
problems that I think are important to our country.
Then you have Frank Southworth. I know Frank. I know the problems, some
¹Republican candidate in the Third Congressional District of Colorado.
Republican candidate in the First Congressional District of Colorado.
565
