[237]
November 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Council on International Economic Policy, you have served your nation with the
highest distinction. You can be justly proud of the critical role you played in help-
ing to shape our country's vital trade and economic policies under the most chal-
lenging circumstances. Your efforts won you the highest respect of your col-
leagues in government and the esteem of the international community for the
substantial contributions you have made. You deserve the heartfelt thanks of your
fellow citizens, and I want to take this opportunity to express my own lasting
gratitude.
I am also deeply grateful for your generous offer of continuing assistance in the
future, and you can be sure if the occasion arises we will not hesitate to take
advantage of your talents. In the meantime, Betty joins me in extending to
Brigid and you our very best wishes for every continuing happiness and success.
With my warmest personal regards.
Sincerely,
NOTE: Mr. Flanigan's letter, released with the Presi-
dent's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
To serve as your Ambassador to Spain would be
a great opportunity to work for the Nation as well
as a great honor. For that reason I accepted with
pleasure your offer of the post. And also for that
reason it is with the deepest regret that I now ask
that you not resubmit my name.
During the past weeks I have weighed, on the
basis of all the information that could be developed,
the prospects for my confirmation by year-end. It
had been my belief that five years as Assistant to the
President and Director of the Council on Inter-
national Economic Policy provided a record which
would command prompt Senate support. Unhappily
the distortion of that record, despite the affirmative
report given to the White House by Mr. Jaworski,
throws that belief into serious question. Though the
false charges and insinuations have already been
fully answered, I must now conclude that the con-
firmation process would not be completed by the
GERALD R. FORD
end of the year and the 93rd Congress. This long
delay in the confirmation of your nominee would
not be in the best interest of your relations with
the Congress nor the Country's relations with Spain.
I will never forget the continued strong support
given to me by you and Secretary Kissinger. My
purpose in coming to Washington has been to serve
the President-not to burden him. Given the current
political climate, I can best do this by asking that
you not resubmit my nomination.
I am deeply grateful for the honor you did me in
offering me the Ambassadorship to Spain. I look
back with satisfaction at the past five years of work-
ing with you in the Congress and in the White
House. If in the future I can be of assistance to you
in any way, you know that I would be very pleased
to do so.
With warm personal regards, I remain,
Sincerely yours,
PETER M. FLANIGAN
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
614
