[234]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Enactment of this bill would do a great deal to moderate these cyclical swings
in housing credit. For one thing, it would reduce the structural differences be-
tween commercial banks and thrift institutions and help them to compete more
effectively during periods of high interest rates, and it would provide, also, a
broader range of financial services for consumers.
In addition, it would offer a higher rate of return for savers. But even more im-
portantly to the real estate business in particular, it would attract greater investor
interest in the mortgage market through the mortgage interest tax credit. This
would offer investors a tax credit of 12 to 3% percent, depending, of course,
on the percentage of their portfolio in mortgages.
Significantly—and this is quite important—unlike other tax proposals, the
benefit under the mortgage interest tax credit must go to the mortgagee. In
short, I believe that the passage of the financial institutions act would provide
very, very significant benefits for the housing industry. In particular, it would
moderate the traditional boom-and-bust cycles in your great industry, and I will
press for enactment when Congress returns next week.
Let me leave you with this final thought. You come from all parts of this vast,
vast Nation. You represent its length and breadth, its diverse people, and its dif-
fering viewpoints. And indeed, you individually and collectively reflect the aspi-
rations and the inspirations of all Americans. You, as salesmen and saleswomen,
see daily the workings of this great, free society that we have. You see it in your
communities every day of every year. And all of this activity can be summed
up in one word in your business-sales. And sales are the result of both aspira-
tion and inspiration, not to mention just a little perspiration.
Somehow the word has gone out that the best way to defeat inflation and to
revitalize the economy is to curtail buying. Nothing could be further from the
truth, and I strongly oppose that point of view.
I believe a free society means precisely that—a free market—and sales are the
heartbeat of a free market. Instead of curtailing purchases, I say to consumers
quite simply: Buy wisely, shop smarter. To you in sales, I say: Sell harder, sell
more aggressively.
What we need at this time in this country are more tough Yankee traders and
more supersalesmen, and I am sure you are in the latter category.
Even while dealing with these very practical matters, a nation must never
lose its vision. I remember a story about Michelangelo. The sculptor was chisel-
ing a block of marble. Every day a very small boy came and shyly watched his
labors. He never said a word to Michelangelo.
Then one day, the magnificent figure of David appeared. The astonished boy
594
