[6]
August 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
determined to see the observance of the Paris agreement on Vietnam and the
cease-fire and negotiated settlement in Laos. We hope to see an early compro-
mise settlement in Cambodia.
-To the Soviet Union, I pledge continuity in our commitment to the course
of the past 3 years. To our two peoples, and to all mankind, we owe a continued
effort to live and, where possible, to work together in peace, for in a thermo-
nuclear age there can be no alternative to a positive and peaceful relationship
between our nations.
-To the People's Republic of China, whose legendary hospitality I enjoyed,
I pledge continuity in our commitment to the principles of the Shanghai com-
munique. The new relationship built on those principles has demonstrated that
it serves serious and objective mutual interests and has become an enduring
feature of the world scene.
-To the nations in the Middle East, I pledge continuity in our vigorous efforts
to advance the progress which has brought hopes of peace to that region after
25 years as a hotbed of war. We shall carry out our promise to promote continuing
negotiations among all parties for a complete, just, and lasting settlement.
—To all nations, I pledge continuity in seeking a common global goal: a
stable international structure of trade and finance which reflects the interde-
pendence of all peoples.
-To the entire international community—to the United Nations, to the
world's nonaligned nations, and to all others—I pledge continuity in our dedi-
cation to the humane goals which throughout our history have been so much of
America's contribution to mankind.
So long as the peoples of the world have confidence in our purposes and faith
in our word, the age-old vision of peace on Earth will grow brighter.
I pledge myself unreservedly to that goal. I say to you in words that cannot
be improved upon: "Let us never negotiate out of fear, but let us never fear to
negotiate."
As Vice President, at the request of the President, I addressed myself to the
individual rights of Americans in the area of privacy. There will be no illegal
tappings (tapings), eavesdropping, buggings, or break-ins by my Administra-
tion. There will be hot pursuit of tough laws to prevent illegal invasion of pri-
vacy in both government and private activities.
On the higher plane of public morality, there is no need for me to preach
tonight. We have thousands of far better preachers and millions of sacred scrip-
tures to guide us on the path of personal right-living and exemplary official
12
