August 21
[27]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
think I would probably be out of order, and I certainly shall respect the rules or
traditions of the Senate in that regard.
As we go ahead, we must look not only at our problems at home but also at
our problems abroad.
I believe we have a good team in the executive branch of the Government, and
I can assure you that that team will be working with this team, the House and
the Senate, in the months ahead.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 2:40 p.m. His remarks as printed above follow a text
printed in the Congressional Record.
27
Remarks in the Chamber of the United States House
of Representatives. August 21, 1974
Mr. Speaker and my former colleagues of the House of Representatives:
You do not know how much it means to me to come back and see all of you
and to be so warmly welcomed. It makes one's political life a great, great
experience to know that, after all of the disagreements we have had and all of
the problems we have worked on, there are friends such as you. It is a thing
that in my opinion makes politics worthwhile. I am proud of politics, and
I am most grateful for my friends.
Mr. Speaker, I was glad to see that the rules of the House of Representatives
have been changed. I was expecting, knowing that the House was consider-
ing a bill from the Committee on Banking and Currency, that I would have
to go to my old friend, the chairman of the Committee on Banking and Cur-
rency [Representative Wright Patman], and get a couple of minutes.
But let me say after 10 days of the honeymoon, Mr. Speaker—and I recall
the old adage, “out of sight, out of mind”—I just wanted to drop by my old
home to say "hello."
Mr. Speaker, as most of you know, my wife, Betty, and I packed up our
belongings and moved across the Potomac earlier this week. We were re-
minded of what Harry Truman said when he moved out of the White House
in 1953: “If I had known how much packing I would have to do, I would have
run again."
I did better than Harry did. I went to Chicago.
39
