September 2
[46]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
some benefits from that plan and does not lose them because of punishing
forfeiture standards or inadequate pension fund resources;
-third, the act requires that the fiduciaries who control the pension funds act
as reasonable and prudent men, discharging their duties solely in the inter-
ests of protecting the beneficiaries of the fund;
—fourth, the law will impose a high standard upon the operation of plans
by making mandatory full disclosure of all information concerning the
operations of the employer's retirement plan;
-fifth, the tax laws will be revised to provide more nearly equal treatment
to different kinds of plans. The new law will encourage the self-employed
to provide for their retirement by raising the limits on the amount of their
income which may be contributed on a deductible basis to a retirement fund.
It will also allow the one-half of American employees not covered by private
pension plans to enjoy equivalent tax advantages if they set up individual
retirement accounts;
—sixth, as a final backstop to private pension plans, a federally sponsored,
privately financed Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation will be set up to
pay an adequate retirement benefit to those whose private pension funds
have foundered and are not adequate for the beneficiaries; and,
-seventh, the act will establish a limited form of portability of pension bene-
fits by allowing workers to transfer some of their pension benefits to other
plans or to their individual retirement accounts.
Together these seven points add up to a better deal for American workers than
they have ever known before in private pension plans.
I believe this act is a model of what can be done by the Government to improve
the lives of Americans within the private sector without harming the dynamics
of our free enterprise system.
I also believe that its passage is a model of cooperation and hard work between
the executive and the legislative branches.
The act has its genesis in a message to the Congress by President Nixon on
December 8, 1971. The legislation was and is extraordinarily complicated. It was
worked on relentlessly by four Congressional committees: House Ways and
Means, House Education and Labor, Senate Labor and Public Welfare, and
Senate Finance.
Individual members have devoted enormous effort to this bill. I believe we can
all be proud that the Government has now taken action to make workers' lives
more secure.
79
