[195]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Daily News], showed that I had a much better record of saving than the
Democrats did in the House of Representatives.
In other words, their own document showed that the Democrats were much
bigger spenders than I was and that I was a much better saver than they were.
So, I will rely on their document to prove that I am a saver and they are spenders.
Q. Mr. President, do you know how you came out net?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my recollection that I was about 8 percentage points
better than the Democrats as a whole, so even using their figures or their docu-
ment, I am a saver and the Democrats are spenders.
VETERANS EDUCATION BILL
[6.] Q. Mr. President, sir, I want to know if you are going to sign the
veterans G.I. education bill that has been left at the Senate so you would not
pocket veto it, but they are ready to send it down if you are ready to say today
you will sign it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I worked very closely, Sarah [Sarah McClendon,
McClendon News Service], with the members of that conference committee in
trying to find a solution to a bill that I want to sign. The bill has not come down.
It has not been staffed out by my staff. Until it arrives at the White House, I am
not going to prejudge what I am going to do. I hope that we can find a way for
me to sign it, because I want to help the Vietnam veterans, particularly, but until
it comes down to the White House, I think it is premature for me to make
any decision.
Q. Sir, it calls for an 18 percent cost-of-living increase, plus up to 23 percent,
and that additional would pay for the cost of going to college. Would that be
agreeable to you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I recall, that compromise is 20 percent.
Q. Twenty-three percent.
THE PRESIDENT. But in addition, they did add a $600 loan provision to the
veteran. They did add 9 more months of eligibility beyond what either World
War II or Korean veterans got in the way of educational benefits.
So when they, the Congress, send the conference report down to me, we will
staff it out. I will make an honest judgment. I hope it is a piece of legislation that
I can sign.
BUDGET REDUCTIONS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, in your speech before Congress on the economy, you
said you would do the hard work of making decisions where to cut. Could you
484
