October 19
[170]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Competition is good for everybody. And so I am proud to be here and to say
that in Jim Edwards, Carroll Campbell, you have good candidates for the two
highest State offices in South Carolina.
They are the kind that believe in reform. They have experience in State gov-
ernment. And I think all of you would be proud to support their candidacy.
But I am also delighted to be in South Carolina to speak up with pride for
Gwen Bush, Marshall Parker, Len Phillips, Bob Watkins. These are candidates
who come from you, the people of South Carolina, who want to represent you.
And it seems to me that it is important in South Carolina, as it is in every one
of the other 49 States, that we develop this competition, a strong two-party sys-
tem, that will give to all of you in this great State an opportunity to make a
choice.
And as I said a moment ago, I am proud of the people that my party has
fielded to give you that choice.
I happen to know Floyd Spence and Ed Young from your State who served
with me in the House of Representatives-fine, fine Members of Congress.
They represent your State with the kind of forward-looking attitude, the kind of
voting record, that is good for your State and good for our Nation.
And of course, it has been my privilege over a long period of time to know
your great Senator, Strom Thurmond, who has the same point of view, the
same strength.
So, let me just say that in Strom Thurmond, Ed Young, Floyd Spence, we
have given you the kind of people that I think are good for your State, are good
for our country. And I hope and trust, as you meditate and contemplate between
now and November 5, you will feel, as I do, the pride in the kind of candidates
that are represented by the party that is headed by Strom Thurmond in the great
State of South Carolina.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:22 a.m. at the
Greenville-Spartanburg Jet Airport. In his opening
remarks, the President referred to Gen. William C.
Westmoreland, USA (Ret.), United States Army
Chief of Staff 1968-72, and John Baehr, mayor of
Spartanburg, S.C.
2 State Senator James B. Edwards was the Republican candidate for Governor of South Carolina, and
State Representative Carroll A. Campbell, Jr., was the Republican candidate for Lieutenant Governor.
3 Republican candidates for United States Senator and for Congress from the Third, Fifth, and Fourth
Districts of South Carolina, respectively.
387
