[195]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
of getting into semantics, is to offer constructive proposals to meet the problem.
Whether it is a recession or not a recession is immaterial. We have problems. The
plan I submitted is aimed at solving these problems. And therefore, I really do
not care what the name is. We want solutions. And my proposal, I think, will
offer that opportunity.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION TALKS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, since Secretary Kissinger has been to Moscow, do
you have any optimistic outlook now on the SALT agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the Secretary's discussions with the General
Secretary, Mr. Brezhnev, were very constructive. Some of the differences, as I
understand it, between their view and ours, have been narrowed. And as a result
of the progress that was made in Moscow, the announcement was made [on
October 26, 1974] that I would meet with Mr. Brezhnev in Vladivostok the
latter part of November. We hope that each step will mean more progress and
that we will end up with a SALT Two agreement.
OIL IMPORTS
[15.] Q. Mr. President, your Press Secretary, Mr. Nessen, has hinted or im-
plied that you may be considering limiting oil imports; that is, limiting imports
of Arab oil, if necessary, to make your goal of cutting oil imports by 1 million
[barrels] a day, perhaps in the form of a dollar figure, a dollar limit on imports.
Are you considering it? Is this a live possibility?
THE PRESIDENT. Our first objective is to cut the 6 million barrels per day im-
ports of crude oil by 1 million barrels. We believe that, with the energy conser-
vation recommendations we have made, that objective can be accomplished.
However, if there isn't the saving of 1 million barrels per day of oil imports
by voluntary action, we will, of course, move to any other alternative, including
the possibility of mandatory limitations, to achieve that result.
That is essential from the point of view of our economy, our balance of pay-
ments, et cetera.
THE VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE
[16.] Q. Mr. President, if Rockefeller is confirmed, would you ask him to
refrain from giving gifts as he has given in the past to public officials and other
politicians?
THE PRESIDENT. My judgment would be that Mr. Rockefeller would use ex-
cellent judgment in the future in however he wishes to dispense the funds that
488
