September 27
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
there are countless trees, literally millions and millions of flowers that were
planted across this land thanks to her efforts and are a true reflection—as I know
her and many of you know her infinitely better than I—a true reflection of her
warm, wonderful personality, who was a very great First Lady.
Lyndon Baines Johnson, long before he entered the White House, had al-
ready made his mark-his mark on history as a very great Member of the House
of Representatives, subsequently the United States Senate, not only a Member
but an inspirational and effective leader of the United States Senate.
As Senate minority and subsequently as Senate majority leader during former
President Eisenhower's administration, whenever America's welfare was con-
cerned, Lyndon B. Johnson always put his country above his party.
His cooperation with the Eisenhower administration—and I knew it some-
what intimately—on matters of foreign policy and national security was an out-
standing one. It seems to me as I recollect—and I sought to last night—it was a
model of bipartisan statesmanship.
But aside from his skill and his achievements in the field of the Congress and
his relationship to a President, we all knew Lyndon Johnson as a big man, a
strong man. And it was that strength, coupled with his faith in himself and his
even stronger faith in America, that saw him through his Presidency.
nor,
Now, as much as Lyndon Johnson loved his great State of Texas, Mr. Gover-
and as much as he loved that great land, his ranch along the Pedernales,
I think part of his heart and a part of his spirit, that indomitable spirit, never left
Washington, D.C.
Now it has a home in this beautiful setting overlooking Washington, adjoin-
ing the Potomac. From this peaceful, inspiring location, we can see the great
dome of the Capitol where Lyndon Johnson rose to his first prominence. We can
see the Jefferson Memorial, a monument to the great author of the Declaration
of Independence. We can see the Lincoln Memorial, the shrine of a man of
vision, a vision of freedom, a vision of human dignity. For all of this was an
integral part of Lyndon Baines Johnson's own life.
One of the great heroes of the War Between the States, General Stonewall
Jackson, expressed the feeling, I think, of this very moment. He expressed this
feeling that we can use in this very occasion, and it was something like a hundred
years ago, and let me quote: "Let us cross over the river," Stonewall Jackson
said, "and rest under the trees."
For those of us who knew the former President personally, this will always
be a very special place. But for millions of Americans of this and, more impor-
203
