[303]
December 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
can people. No one knows better than you how difficult a challenge this has
been and continues to be.
With your assistance, however, I believe we have been able to shape effective,
workable Federal budgets. I am particularly and personally grateful for your
unhesitating support over the past four months and for your willingness to see
through to completion our budget for 1976. I am confident it, too, will be respon-
sive to the needs of our citizens and to their desire for fiscal restraint.
Your leadership and sound judgment will be sorely missed but it is some
consolation to know we can call on your expertise again when the occasion
arises. In the meantime, please know that Betty joins me in sending to Lila and
you our warmest best wishes for every success and happiness in the future.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable Roy L. Ash, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: Mr. Ash's letter of resignation, dated De-
cember 10, 1974, and released with the President's
letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
In just four months, you have gone a long way
toward restoring the faith of the American people
in their system of government and confidence in its
executive leadership. As our great country nears
the finish of its second century and begins the third
with a need for renewed inspiration and strength,
it is fitting that it do so under the exemplary
leadership you provide.
JERRY FORD
I am grateful for the opportunity to have been a
part of the Administration you lead. As we dis-
cussed shortly after you took office, it has been my
intention to serve two years in government, which
time is now concluding. As a matter of fact, those
two years are completed this very day. Thus, I am
hereby submitting my formal resignation to take
effect at your convenience.
Mr. President, you will have my continued sup-
port. With it goes my personal admiration for you,
Mrs. Ford and your wonderful family.
Sincerely yours,
ROY L. ASH
304
Christmas Message. December 17, 1974
MRS. FORD and I send our warmest holiday greetings to all our fellow citi-
zens. We hope that each of you will share the traditional joys of this Holy season
with your family and friends. And we pray that the Christmas spirit of generosity
and renewal will be with you throughout the coming year.
We begin 1975 in the midst of many serious challenges. As we work to re-
solve them, let us be encouraged by counting the blessings we have gained from
those who have met similar challenges in the past. Let us draw strength from
our unity of purpose and hope from our past resourcefulness. And let us work
together to ensure that the good which we have achieved will be strengthened
and preserved for our children and future generations.
GERALD R. FORD
758
