December 6
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
alternative sources. They stressed the need for cooperation in the field of research,
notably in relation to coal processing and gasification.
Despite cooperative efforts to reduce dependence on energy imports, the
President and the Chancellor recognized that in the coming year there will
continue to be large scale imbalances in trade among nations and a correspond-
ing necessity for large international flows of funds. They recognized that these
flows for the most part have been, and in all probability will continue to be,
handled by existing private and official channels. At the same time they agreed
on the necessity of close cooperation among the financial authorities to insure
the continued safe and orderly functioning of financial institutions in their
expanding international roles. They agreed on the importance of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund and other multilateral financial agencies being in a
position in 1975 to provide flexible responsive financial assistance to any member
nation facing international payments difficulties arising from the rapidly chang-
ing world economic situation. In addition, to insure that industrial countries
which follow prudent and cooperative economic and energy policies have access
to adequate financial resources in case of need, the President and the Chancellor
agreed that early consideration should be given by these nations to the establish-
ment of a supplementary financial safety net in the framework of the OECD.
The President and the Chancellor also stressed their determination to improve
cooperation with the oil-producing countries. They expressed the conviction that
further economic progress in the world, both in the developing and the developed
countries, can only be resolved by means of world-wide cooperation.
The United States and the Federal Republic of Germany recognize the
necessity of international cooperation to improve the international food situation.
They will undertake prompt discussions on an international system of nationally-
held grain reserves, increased global food production and substantial growth in
food output in developing countries in order to prevent the recurrence of major
food problems in the future. Both recognize the need for cooperation between
food producers and consumers to ensure equitable adjustment to shortages and
deficits.
The discussions on political questions centered on the North Atlantic Alliance,
the evolution of East-West relations, and the situation in the Mediterranean and
in the Near East.
The President and the Chancellor reviewed the progress of matters before the
Alliance on the eve of the NATO Ministerial meeting to be convened next week
in Brussels. They agreed on the continuing importance to the Allies of main-
taining their political cohesion and strong defenses as the indispensable pre-
723
