[184]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion of the Taft family. And Bob, I know you are not a candidate, but you cer-
tainly are the kind of a person that I would want representing me in the United
States Senate, and I congratulate you.
Of course, Chuck Mosher, over here, I have known all the time he was in the
House, does a superb job; Bill Stanton, sitting next to him; two of the fine, fine,
outstanding Members of the House of Representatives. I know because I worked
with them on a day-to-day basis. I have to concede they did not always agree with
me, but I will also confess I am not always right. And I can assure you that when
they take a position, whether it is with me or against me, I respect their judg-
ment. And you—and I say this from the very bottom of my heart—Chuck
Mosher and Bill Stanton are the kind of Representatives that I know do a first-
class job for their constituency, and believe me, you need them back in the
House of Representatives.
Then, in the great delegation that you have in the House there is Del Latta,
Sam Devine, Don Clancy, John Ashbrook, Bill Harsha, Bud Brown, Chuck
Whalen, Chalmers Wylie, Clarence Miller, Ralph Regula, and Tenny Guyer. It
is an outstanding group. It is big in numbers but strong in character and respon-
sibility. The State of Ohio should be proud of every one of them.
But I think it is important if you make your effort to increase the numbers,
and in the Cleveland area you do have some excellent candidates. Kent has in-
troduced them. There is George Mastics, Bill Franz, Bill Mack, Bob Franz.Ⓡ I
am convinced with a little extra effort you can help add to the quality as well as
the quantity in the Ohio delegation in the House of Representatives.
I am pleased to have a telegram that was delivered to me out in Oklahoma
City this morning. I was out there making a plea to reelect a great United States
Senator, George [Henry] Bellmon. But on the way I got a telegram from my
very dear friend, Bill Minshall. I will paraphrase it, and I will paraphrase it with
some interpolation on my own.
What Bill says is he endorses, supports every Republican candidate on the
ticket and he specifically speaks of those candidates for the House of Repre-
sentatives. I hope Bill's good, sound advice will be supported as the voters go to
the polls this coming November 5. Bill—I am sorry he is leaving—he was a dear
friend and a darned good Member of the House. But it is my judgment that
George Mastics will be an outstanding successor to Bill Minshall.
I never had the privilege of serving in the State legislature. Whether it was
right or wrong, I ran for Congress in the first instance. But I have learned, over
* Republican candidates for Congress from the 23d, 22d, 21st, and 20th Districts of Ohio, respectively.
440
