October 31
[211]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tions in the House of Representatives, and I see two or three of my former col-
leagues in that delegation here in this room.
You have had a great Republican Governor and a Republican administration
in Sacramento which has practiced as well as preached a progressive but fiscally
sound policy of good government, in political terms.
There used to be a saying that "As Maine goes, so goes the Nation.” The fact is,
during my lifetime, it is the polls in California that the Nation has turned to
every election night, and it is becoming more so as you grow in population and
power. This is the way it will be next Tuesday, because what happens in this great
State next Tuesday will be a bellwether as to what might happen in 1976.
If it is true that there is great voter apathy across the Nation-and the polls
seem to indicate—then, in my judgment, there is time to change it, and we had
better do it.
If only 42 percent of the eligible voters are going to turn out next Tuesday
on the tremendous issues and the candidates that are involved-and this is what
the experts are predicting or forecasting—that means that a slight fraction of
over 21 percent of the eligible voters in this country can determine how this
Nation will operate for the next 2 years in Washington, D.C.
Let me, in all sincerity, ask this question: Do you want that kind of minority
rule in the United States of America? I do not think you do.
So, I say to my friends in California—to Republicans, Independents, and what
President Eisenhower used to call "discerning Democrats,” and you have plenty
of them here in California-let's prove that the pessimistic pollsters are totally
wrong. Let's prove that you care what kind of government you have in Sacra-
mento and in Washington, that you appreciate the kind of leadership that you
have had with Ron Reagan, John Harmer, Hugh Flournoy, Ev Younger, what
they have given to you in California for the past 8 years, and that you want an
even stronger Congressional delegation to represent you in the Nation's Capital
and to protect your paycheck and your savings in the Congress of the United
States.
Very frankly, if you do just that, California will have won one-tenth of the
battle against inflation and will once again set an example for the rest of the
Nation.
As I indicated in the economic message that I submitted to the Congress and
to the American people about a month or so ago, if we are to win against
inflation, we must enlist the efforts of every individual American and every unit
of government across this great country.
We need teamwork. We need cooperation between the Federal Government
531
