September 8
[61]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
book. My conscience tells me it is my duty, not merely to proclaim domestic tran-
quillity but to use every means that I have to insure it.
I do believe that the buck stops here, that I cannot rely upon public opinion
polls to tell me what is right.
I do believe that right makes might and that if I am wrong, 10 angels swearing
I was right would make no difference.
I do believe, with all my heart and mind and spirit, that I, not as President
but as a humble servant of God, will receive justice without mercy if I fail to
show mercy.
Finally, I feel that Richard Nixon and his loved ones have suffered enough and
will continue to suffer, no matter what I do, no matter what we, as a great and
good nation, can do together to make his goal of peace come true.
[At this point, the President began reading from the proclamation granting the pardon.]
“Now, therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford, President of the United States, pursuant
to the pardon power conferred upon me by Article II, Section 2, of the Constitu-
tion, have granted and by these presents do grant a full, free, and absolute par-
don unto Richard Nixon for all offenses against the United States which he,
Richard Nixon, has committed or may have committed or taken part in during
the period from July (January) 20, 1969 through August 9, 1974."
[The President signed the proclamation and then resumed reading.]
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of Septem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-
ninth."
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House, where he signed Procla-
mation 4311 granting the pardon.
61
Proclamation 4311, Granting Pardon to Richard Nixon.
September 8, 1974
By the President of the United States of America a Proclamation
Richard Nixon became the thirty-seventh President of the United States on
January 20, 1969 and was reelected in 1972 for a second term by the electors of
forty-nine of the fifty states. His term in office continued until his resignation
on August 9, 1974.
103
