[50]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The reports are entitled:
"Traffic Safety '73, A Report on the Activities of
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
and the Federal Highway Administration Under the
Highway Safety Act of 1966" (Government Printing
Office, 48 pp. plus appendixes).
"Traffic Safety '73, A Report on the Activities of
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
Under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1966" (Government Printing Office,
60 pp. plus appendixes).
51
Statement on the Death of Gen. Creighton W. Abrams, Jr.
September 4, 1974
GEN. CREIGHTON ABRAMS was an American hero in the best tradition.
In the heat of battle and in the gray corridors of the Pentagon, he proved that
he was that rare combination—a man of action who was also a first-class
administrator.
He was also a colorful, courageous leader who won the admiration and
respect of enemies as well as allies and subordinates. His 38-year military record
spanned three wars, as he rose from first lieutenant in 1936 to Chief of Staff in
1972. He has left us an example of service and a memory of heroism that future
generations of Americans, in and out of uniform, will long cherish. We will miss
him very much.
Mrs. Ford joins me in extending to his wonderful wife and family our deepest
condolences.
NOTE: General Abrams, 59, died at Walter Reed
Army Medical Center, Washington, D.C.
On the same day, the President signed Execu-
tive Order 11802 directing the flag to be flown at
half-staff until the day of interment as a mark of
respect for General Abrams.
On September 6, 1974, the President attended
funeral services for General Abrams at the Memo-
rial Chapel, Ft. Myer, Va.
52
Remarks at the Swearing In of Alan Greenspan as Chairman
of the Council of Economic Advisers. September 4, 1974
THIS IS a very, very auspicious occasion. It is my first opportunity to participate
in the swearing in of a Chairman of the Council, and, of course, I am pleased and
honored to have the opportunity to do it with a man as outstanding as Alan
Greenspan.
And it is so nice to have you here and to participate as well. If my recollection
is correct, about the time I came to the Congress, our distinguished guest, who is
84
