[277]
December 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Montana-contain surface lands suitable for wilderness designation. However,
because the areas are open to mining and may contain minerals vital to the
national interest and because they have not been subjected to thorough mineral
surveys, I am recommending that action on these proposals be deferred pending
the completion of such surveys.
In addition, Lake Mead National Recreation Area, contains surface lands suit-
able for wilderness designation. However, virtually the entire area is subject to
withdrawals for power purposes. In view of the potential energy needs of the
West, I cannot recommend that any part of the area be designated wilderness at
this time. I have directed that the area be given additional study and that a
further recommendation be submitted within three years.
Finally, Nunivak National Wildlife Refuge also contains surface lands suit-
able for wilderness designation. Because of the uncertainties of land ownership
and their future management which is peculiar to Nunivak, I cannot rec-
ommend that any part be designated wilderness at this time. I have directed that
future recommendations be guided by native land uses and native land selections
pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
After a review of roadless areas of 5,000 acres or more and roadless islands, the
Secretary of the Interior has concluded that four areas are not suitable for
preservation as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System. These are:
Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge, Oregon and Idaho; Blackwater National
Wildlife Refuge, Maryland; Mammoth Cave National Park, Kentucky; and
Upper Mississippi River Wildlife and Fish Refuge, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa,
and Illinois. As to the latter two areas, however, I am directing that a wilderness
reevaluation be conducted at such time as management prerogatives and other
prospective uses of the areas are better defined.
In addition to this message, I am transmitting herewith to the Congress letters
and reports from the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture
regarding these proposals. I concur with the recommendation of the respective
Secretary in each case.
As noted above, the Executive Branch has now carried out the original provi-
sions of the 1964 Wilderness Act. Additional surveys will be undertaken on a
case-by-case basis, but the Congress now has before it the major recommendations
of the Executive Branch, as compiled over a 10-year period. I urge the Congress
to give early and favorable consideration to all of these proposals.
Concurrent with the wilderness proposals, I am also transmitting the Tenth
710
