[127]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
reasons that I indicated yesterday that I was appointing Secretary of Interior
Morton to head up the energy council was to get this moving. We are going to
concentrate in this area.
Now all of the blame can't be placed on the executive branch. There have been
a number of legislative proposals before the Congress that would increase domes-
tic supplies. Unfortunately, in too many cases the Congress has not responded,
so the Congress has to share some of the blame with the executive branch.
But I can assure you that with Rog Morton heading this new organization, we
are going to do a better job, and I think we will get the cooperation of the Ameri-
can people.
MEETINGS WITH SOVIET LEADERS
[7.] Q. I am sure you have other questions on economics, but let me ask
just one on international affairs. There are reports that you are planning some
sort of a summit conference with Chairman Brezhnev of the Soviet Union. Can
you give us some details on that?
THE PRESIDENT. When I took the oath of office, I indicated that I would con-
tinue our country's efforts to broaden and to expand the policies of détente with
the Soviet Union.
Since I have been in office, I have had a number of discussions with responsible
leaders in the Soviet Union. About 10 days ago, I met with their Foreign
Minister, Mr. Gromyko.
Dr. Kissinger is going to the Soviet Union the latter part of this month to
continue these discussions.
Now, as you well know, Mr. Brezhnev has been invited to come to the
United States in 1975. If there is a reason for us to meet before that meeting in
the United States, I will certainly consider it.
ARMS PROPOSALS FOR SOVIET UNION
[8.] Q. To follow up a little, do you expect the United States to have any
kind of a proposal on arms to present to the Soviet Union before the end of the
year?
The President. We are resolving our position in this very important and
very critical area. When Dr. Kissinger goes to the Soviet Union the latter part
of this month, we will have some guidelines, some specific guidelines, for him
to discuss in a preliminary way with the Soviet Union.
248
