[81]
September 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
sake of narrow national or bloc advantage. The attempt by any nation to use one
commodity for political purposes will inevitably tempt other countries to use
their commodities for their own purposes.
Fourth, the nations of the world must assure that the poorest among us are not
overwhelmed by rising prices of the imports necessary for their survival. The
traditional aid donors and the increasingly wealthy oil producers must join in
this effort.
The United States recognizes the special responsibility we bear as the world's
largest producer of food. That is why Secretary of State Kissinger proposed
from this very podium last year a world food conference to define a global food
policy. And that is one reason why we have removed domestic restrictions on
food productions in the United States.
It has not been our policy to use food as a political weapon, despite the oil
embargo and recent oil prices and production decisions.
It would be tempting for the United States-beset by inflation and soaring
energy prices—to turn a deaf ear to external appeals for food assistance, or to
respond with internal appeals for export controls. But however difficult our own
economic situation, we recognize that the plight of others is worse.
Americans have always responded to human emergencies in the past, and we
respond again here today. In response to Secretary General Waldheim's appeal
and to help meet the long-term challenge in food, I reiterate: To help develop-
ing nations realize their aspirations to grow more of their own food, the United
States will substantially increase its assistance to agricultural production pro-
grams in other countries.
Next, to ensure that the survival of millions of our fellow men does not
depend upon the vagaries of weather, the United States is prepared to join in a
worldwide effort to negotiate, establish, and maintain an international system
of food reserves. This system will work best if each nation is made responsible
for managing the reserves that it will have available.
Finally, to make certain that the more immediate needs for food are met this
year, the United States will not only maintain the amount it spends for food
shipments to nations in need but it will increase this amount this year.
Thus, the United States is striving to help define and help contribute to a
cooperative global policy to meet man's immediate and long-term need for food.
We will set forth our comprehensive proposals at the World Food Conference
in November.
Now is the time for oil producers to define their conception of a global policy
160
