[16]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I don't like redtape. As a matter of fact, I don't like any kind of tapes.
Our great veterans hospitals, which will not lose their identity, must be the
very best that medical skill and dedication can create. VA hospitals have made
many great medical breakthroughs in the past. One of America's great chal-
lenges today is the older veteran. The VA medical and nursing care system for
older people must become a showcase for the entire Nation. We can work
together to achieve that end and humanize the VA.
But to achieve such progress, I intend to improve the management of the
VA. We must get the most for our tax dollars. While supporting the new
Administrator in maximum efforts to make the best use of funds available,
I want Roudy to take a constructive new look at the VA's structure and the
services that it renders to our veterans.
I think it is about time that we should stop thinking of veterans in terms of
different wars. Some may march at a different pace than others. But we all
march to the same drummer in the service of our Nation. I salute the men of
many campaigns-of World War I, World War II, Korea, and Vietnam.
As minority leader of the House and recently as Vice President, I stated my
strong conviction that unconditional, blanket amnesty for anyone who illegally
evaded or fled military service is wrong. It is wrong.
Yet, in my first words as President of all the people, I acknowledged a Power,
higher than the people, Who commands not only righteousness but love, not
only justice but mercy.
Unlike my last two predecessors, I did not enter this office facing the terrible
decisions of a foreign war, but like President Truman and President Lincoln
before him, I found on my desk, where the buck stops, the urgent problem of
how to bind up the Nation's wounds. And I intend to do that.
As a lawyer, I believe our American system of justice is fundamentally sound.
As President, I will work within it.
As a former naval reservist, I believe our system of military justice is funda-
mentally sound. As Commander in Chief, I will work within it.
As a former Congressman who championed it, I believe the concept of an all-
volunteer armed force is fundamentally sound and will work much better than
peacetime conscription.
Accordingly, in my first week at the White House, I requested the Attorney
General of the United States and the Secretary of Defense to report to me per-
sonally, before September 1, on the status of some 50,000 of our countrymen con-
victed, charged or under investigation, or still sought for violations of [the]
24
