November 2
[220]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
ones--but what I am concerned about is the kind of strength in programs and
policies.
Let me take the problem of inflation and strengthening our economy, saving
energy, 31-point program.
I think it is good. I believe it will meet the challenges that we face. One of the
important ingredients is to hold down Federal spending. There are other parts
of it, but I know that Bob Dole, Larry, Joe, Garner, and the others are the kind
of people who will be most effective in holding down unnecessary spending,
and you and I know that Federal spending of the magnitude that we have had
over the last 10 or 15 years has been a significant cause of the inflation that we
have today.
So, when you go into that voting booth next Tuesday, take a look at the voting
record of those individuals on this issue. It is important to you if we are going
to win this battle to save our economic system from the disasters of others his-
torically and to give us the strength to meet the challenges of some of the weak-
nesses in our economy.
But let us turn, if I might, to the problem of building, strengthening, expand-
ing peace. When I went to the Congress 26 years ago, or almost that, a great,
great Democratic President working with a fine Republican Congress—the
80th-laid the foundation for the rehabilitation of Europe and the broadening
of our free world throughout the total globe. It was started with the Greek-
Turkish aid and the Marshall Plan and some of the other programs imple-
mented by a military capability and strength that is aimed at deterrence, not
at aggression.
And you in Wichita have a significant part of it with the Boeing operation
here. Strength means peace, and weakness means war.
Well, anyhow, this combination of strength in the diplomatic field and the
military has given to us in this great country, and to our allies, this kind of op-
portunity worldwide. And it has given us the opportunity to open the doors of
greater and broader relationships with some of our potential adversaries, whether
it is the Soviet Union or the People's Republic of China.
We, at this moment, have a unique opportunity, both at home and abroad, to
do something to give us for the next decades—not one; two or maybe three-a
brighter America and a better world. And when you look at this next election-
and I don't mean in a partisan sense-what you have to decide is who, what
Members of the Congress, what candidates are best qualified to give us strength
here and vision and strength abroad.
573
