[179]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
at the market price in the world market. We sell our surplus oil. I hope that we
can drill for more oil in Mexico in order to be able to export a greater amount.
We have sold to the United States, to Uruguay, to Brazil, and to Israel, and we
hope to continue to sell without making any differences among the buyers in
order to contribute to satisfy the demand.
TRADE REFORM LEGISLATION
[3.] Q. I would like to know, President Ford, if, during your talks, there
was any mention made of the trade reform act, and if so, what are the repercus-
sions that this will have for Mexico?
PRESIDENT FORD. I am very happy and very pleased that you raised the question.
The new trade legislation, which I hope will pass the Congress this year, will
significantly increase the trade relations between Mexico and the United States,
helping to balance the trade between Mexico and the United States.
This trade legislation which I have worked very hard to promote, which I
believe will pass the United States Senate and I believe the Congress, will be
very helpful in making good trade relations between the United States and
Mexico.
MIGRANT FARMWORKERS
[4.] Q. Can you tell us whether any progress has been made on a new
approach resolving the question of migrant farmworkers from Mexico and the
related questions involved in that?
President ECHEVERRÍA. Yes. Yes, we did discuss this point and I brought up
in the name of Mexico, I told the President of the United States that we have
definitely desisted from our intention of signing an agreement, and this is due
to the fact that we made a revision of the previous agreement, and we saw that
in practice, in the way it works, it is not good. It gives opposite results from the
ones we want.
What happened at that time was that, attracted by this agreement that we had
with the United States, the migrant workers, or the would-be migrant workers,
would come to the border cities of the United States. And then it happened that
they did not receive a contract, and then they stayed at the border city and in-
creased the number of the population or else they went illegally into the United
States.
Now, with the policy of self-criticism that at present prevails in Mexico,
418
