October 19
[175]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Yes, I plead with you, I beg of you, not for yourselves, not for me, but for our
country: Do your best.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:54 p.m. at the Greensboro-High Point-Winston-Salem Regional Airport.
175
Remarks in Louisville, Kentucky. October 19, 1974
John Sherman Cooper, Thruston, Gene Snyder, Tim Lee Carter, Governor
Nunn:
You know, all of them have been so nice and so great. They have said some
→ awfully nice things. They all call me Mr. President now. If you only knew
what they used to call me. But it is nice to have them a bit circumscribed—at
least publicly. [Laughter]
But it is wonderful to be here, and the truth is, I have had a super day. I went
to the great State of South Carolina, and we had four unbelievable, stupendous
meetings. There were 5,000, 10,000, 12,000. They had a wonderful fundraising
gathering—can you imagine—in the State of South Carolina. Then we went to
the State of North Carolina, and they had an unbelievable airport gathering.
And here tonight you have so many great people. I think it is indicative of the
reaction of the American people to some things I will try to discuss later on.
Now it would be terribly remiss for me not to express my appreciation to
Marlow Cook. I got into this situation where I find myself—not by any choos-
ing of my own-but when I was nominated, it was Marlow Cook who said,
"I want everything on the record. I want everything you have done, everything
you have said laid out." And that is typical of Marlow. He wants it on the record.
And I expressed to him and expressed to the Senate committee and subse-
quently to the House committee the record as it was. This Administration is
open, candid, forthright. It may not be popular in some respects because we
have to call them as we see them.
But the thing that I admire most about Marlow Cook is that he is straight-
forward, he is honest, he is strong, he is dedicated, and he is a darned good Mem-
ber of the United States Senate. He sort of follows in the pattern of John Sher-
man Cooper and Thruston Morton. We are a little different, you know. We all
405
