[209]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
business or on the production line or on a farm or in the service or in a service
organization, the people of this district understand the sound fundamentals of
how to run a business, a church, a school, a PTA, or the Government.
I want to, if I might, address a few observations and comments to what I
believe, and I hope you believe, is public enemy number one—inflation. With
your help and with the election of a cooperative Congress, I am confident that
we can whip inflation, and this button, WIN, means Whip Inflation Now. And
we can with a good program, which I have submitted to the Congress, and with
the cooperation of 213 million Americans, we can do it, but we need the Congress,
and we need the help of all of you.
And as I look around here, I see a great many people who have the WIN
button on them, and if you don't have one, write us, and the White House will
see that you get it as long as you enlist in that army to Whip Inflation Now.
But let me make this observation: When I talk about a cooperative Congress, I
am talking about a Congress that will be conscientious about how they handle
your tax dollars.
In the Congress, from 25 years experience, I could pick out the big spenders
and the savers, and the record clearly shows that in the Congress of the United
States, the majority of the big spenders are on the Democratic side of the aisle.
The majority of the savers are on our side of the aisle. It is just that simple.
Now, I admit there are a few crossovers on one issue, or perhaps on the overall.
But I am talking to you very pragmatically, that this district has consistently
had a Congressman who is in the category of a saver, not a spender. And if you
want to restore that reputation, you darn well better vote for Paul Goebel in the
next election.
Now, I have been reading newspapers and listening to some of the com-
mentators recently, and I have noticed that everybody is predicting the worst
possible results from the Republican point of view. They say we are going to be
clobbered, we are going to be wiped out, there is going to be a catastrophic
defeat for the Republican Party, we are going to have a terrible time in this
election.
Well, I respect those who want to vote for a legislative dictatorship. I don't
agree with it, because the balance in our Government is predicated on what our
forefathers wrote in the Constitution and what we have adopted by practice over
the last 200 years, of a balance between the executive, the legislative, and the
judicial branches, so that no part of our Government, no individual could control
the destinies, the fate of people in this great land.
And this system of checks and balances, this finely tuned system of balance
516
