[37]
August 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
brave, sincere patriot. Nearly half a century has passed since his courageous solo
flight across the Atlantic, but the courage and daring of his feat will never be for-
gotten. For years to come, we will also remember the selfless, sincere man himself,
Charles A. Lindbergh, one of America's alltime heroes and a great pioneer of
the air age that changed the world.
On the occasion of his death, Mrs. Ford and I extend our sincere condolences
to Mrs. Lindbergh and the family.
NOTE: General Lindbergh, 72, died at his home on the island of Maui, Hawaii.
38
Remarks at a Farewell Party for Herbert Stein, Chairman
of the Council of Economic Advisers.
August 26, 1974
Herb and Mrs. Stein and all of your many, many friends, both professionally and
socially and politically and otherwise:
I think all of us are here tonight to say goodby to a trusted friend and a very
valued adviser.
Herb, as most of you know, has been with the Council, I think, since 1969,
and both economically and politically Herb has been through periods of both
good times and bad. It is obvious to a non-economist like myself that economics
is something of an inexact science.
I think an economist has been described as a person who tells you there will
definitely not be a hurricane and then shortly thereafter helps you repair and re-
build the roof. [Laughter]
But through fair weather or foul, Herb Stein, in my judgment, from my view,
when I was in the House as minority leader, when I was Vice President, and
now as President, has been a model helpmate, adviser to public servants. He has
advised Presidents to the very best of his outstanding ability, and on occasions
when Herb's advice was not necessarily taken, he stayed loyal to a constituent, the
only one under the law that he had, the President of the United States. And to me
that kind of loyalty is invaluable.
Herb came to the Government, as I recollect, when the economy was going
through a very difficult time. Obviously he is leaving when the economy is going
through a very difficult time. But I think we shouldn't lose sight of the fact that
while Herb was here the economy went through an enormous expansion and re-
54
