December 3
[274]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
about the problems we face on this globe, you know that it is a new world out
there. We are witnessing today a worldwide economic revolution.
New, acute economic problems and concerns have moved onto the world
scene with startling swiftness. Nations-large as well as small-are redefining
their national interests. Some talk in terms of economic bloc or area advantages.
And there are those who face the increasing threat of a simple, very stark
reality-survival.
The United States and most nations face the most serious economic challenge
of the postwar period. Problems of energy, food, inflation, recession pose un-
precedented threats in all parts of the world. They threaten employment; they
threaten income; they jeopardize international economic cooperation; and they
menace political and security relationships that the United States has taken a
generation to construct.
Unless we approach these problems constructively and cooperatively with our
principal trading partners, we in the world may face a crisis of the most serious
proportions.
These times call for positive, constructive American leadership. The United
States cannot afford to drift in a sea of international uncertainty at a time when its
highest economic interests call for very decisive actions. We cannot honestly
claim leadership of the free world if we do not influence—with practical policies
and real purpose-greater economic cooperation.
We must be under no illusion that we can go it alone. I think that is why all
of you are here tonight and why I am here. And that is the reason the journey
we undertake here must go on vigorously, effectively, and constructively. The
word must go out from here tonight to the American people and to the people
of other nations and especially our friends in the Congress, that America has
made a very serious decision: We must pass the trade reform act—now. It is
essential to the future of the United States trade policy and that of the world as
well. The health of our domestic economy and the strength-yes, the very
structure of our international economic relations are deeply involved.
The Congress must act—and I say this with the utmost seriousness—or its in-
action will gravely affect my efforts or anybody else's efforts to turn our economy
upward. It will severely limit my ability, or the ability of anybody else, to work
for international economic cooperation abroad.
You and I know that this legislation will, in all probability, be long delayed,
possibly stymied forever, if it is not passed in the current session of this Congress.
From a very practical point of view, it means that for the next year or more when
the economic situation calls for decisive decisions, I will serve as your President
695
