December 18
[309]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
portation have been exciting, educational, and, at
times, hectic. I believe that, on balance, I have made
progress in a number of ways toward improving
the Nation's transportation system, although I well
recognize that it's a job that will never be finished.
But now it is necessary for me to return to the
private sector.
I would like to add that I have especially en-
joyed serving under you. Please accept my very
best wishes for good health and continued success.
Respectfully,
CLAUDE S. BRINEGAR
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C. 20500]
309
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Tom C. Korologos as
Deputy Assistant to the President. December 18, 1974
Dear Tom:
It is not only with the deepest regret but also with a personal sense of loss that
I accept your resignation as Deputy Assistant to the President, effective Decem-
ber 31, 1974, as you requested.
For more than three years, you have served as the President's representative in
the Senate with brilliance, loyalty and the kind of political acumen that is the
hallmark of the true Washington professional. I know from my own long
experience in the Congress that your understanding of the complexities of our
legislative system and your ability to work with and within that system is unsur-
passed. On numerous occasions in recent months I have greatly valued your
sound counsel and assistance on the difficult legislative issues which have come
before us. You have given me your full, unhesitating support throughout the
period of transition. For this and for your many, many contributions to my
Administration and to our Nation you have my unqualified admiration and
heartfelt gratitude.
I deeply appreciate your kind comments and expression of confidence as you
prepare to depart the White House staff. I know that in the months and years
ahead you too will be devoting your skills and energies to the future strength
and prosperity of our Nation.
Betty joins me in extending to your family and to you our very best wishes for
every future success and happiness.
Sincerely,
JERRY FORD
[Mr. Tom C. Korologos, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: Mr. Korologos' letter of resignation, dated
December 12, 1974, and released with the Presi-
dent's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
After almost four years in the Congressional Re-
lations office in the White House, personal consider-
763
