[182]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
182
Remarks at a Republican Fundraising Breakfast for
Senator Henry Bellmon in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
October 22, 1974
Dewey Bartlett, Happy Camp, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great privilege and a very high honor for me to have the opportunity
of joining with you this morning for a cause that I think is of great, great na-
tional significance.
It has been a good morning. I don't know what I have enjoyed more—seeing
so many good, loyal Sooners on the one hand, or sitting down to a breakfast
that I didn't have to make myself. [Laughter]
It is a particular pleasure, as I indicated at the outset, to participate in some-
thing that pays honor to Henry Bellmon. You know, Henry is known as a very
tightfisted Member of the Congress. He really looks after your tax dollars.
To be perfectly honest, however, I didn't know how tightfisted Henry was
until the waiter came up and gave me the check a few minutes ago. [Laughter]
But it is significant for me to come to the great State of Oklahoma and to see
what has happened and transpired in the years that I have been in politics in
Washington, to see the Republican Party in this State grow from a political party
that had literally no organization, very few winnable candidates, to a party that
has an organization, that has won with good candidates. And the net result is
that you have in the United States Senate, in Henry Bellmon and Dewey
Bartlett, two of the very, very best Members of the Senate that I have been able
to observe.
And of course, both Henry and Dewey served as superb Governors of your
State, and it is a pleasure and a privilege to me to meet Jim Inhofe¹ and to see
the quality of the candidate that you are offering to the citizens of Oklahoma in
Jim, and I congratulate you.
If I might, I would like to say a word or two about a two-party system. In
January of 1949 when I came to the United States Congress, there were a good
many States in this Union that had no two-party system, and Oklahoma was one
of them.
Because you developed people as fine, fine candidates, and because you have
developed an organization, you have now made Oklahoma a two-party sys-
¹ State Senator James M. Inhofe was the Republican candidate for Governor of Oklahoma.
424
