[271]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. And for how many years do you expect this to continue, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Until we are able to negotiate a reduction below the 2,400
delivery systems and the 1,320 MIRV systems.
[17.] Q. Although you have repeatedly said that you will not recommend a
gasoline tax increase, your advisers on energy seem to be lobbying for this as if
we are going to be in a very bad economic situation, very bad in regard to the
drain of our assets overseas. Now, will you reconsider your objection to this?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not been persuaded that a 20-cent increase in the gas
tax is the right answer. I was interested in a poll that was published today which
indicated that 81 percent of the American people agree with my position.
Well, if 81 percent of the American people agree with my position, I really
don't think a 20-cent-a-gallon increase in the gasoline tax will go through the
Congress, even if I recommended it.
So, it is my judgment that if we have to, by taxation, cut down on consump-
tion, there must be a better way to do it rather than a 20-cent-a-gallon increase
in the gas tax. If 81 percent of the American people agree with me and don't
agree with the various people who are advocating this, I think I am on pretty
solid ground.
[18.] Q. The American Conference of Mayors has put as their number one
priority the renewal and continuance of the revenue sharing program. Do you
plan, in your State of the Union Message to Congress, to ask for a renewal of that
program on its present basis?
THE PRESIDENT. I have indicated while I was Vice President, since I have been
President, that I think the general revenue sharing program has been a good one.
It is now provided from the Federal Treasury around $16 billion to State and
local units of government. I had an hour-plus meeting with the Domestic Coun-
cil and others several days ago, and we analyzed the program. I think it ought
to be extended.
I think it has produced a great deal of good at the local level as well as at the
State level. Now, we are in the process of analyzing any internal changes, but
overall, I think the program is good, and I want to work with the mayors and the
Governors and the county commissioners to make sure that the Congress extends
this sound program.
[19.] Q. Mr. President, does the Justice Department suit to break up AT&T
have your full approval, and are you satisfied as to the impact that such a
breakup would have on the efficiency and cost of telephone service in the United
States?
688
