[271]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. You wouldn't describe that as an arms race?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is an attempt, if our military wanted to achieve an
equality in this particular area. We have equality on delivery systems and the
right to MIRV from those delivery systems. In the other, if it is our choice, we
can go up in throw weight.
Yes, Sarah [Sarah McClendon, McClendon News Service].
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I want to ask you, what about conventional weap-
ons? We have heard from Senator Goldwater and we have heard from Admiral
Zumwalt¹ that we are very weak on conventional weapons and we need more
of those, rather than the kind that you have in your agreement.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, this agreement, Sarah, was limited to strategic
arms. We hope, as I indicated a moment ago, to continue our negotiations for the
mutual balanced force reductions in Europe. That, of course, would have a limit
on the conventional weapons.
In the meantime, I think it is of mandatory importance for the United States
to maintain its conventional capability—the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the
Marines because the United States, through a responsible military program, can
maintain the peace.
If we cut back our defense in conventional weapons, I think we will have
weakened our position for the maintenance of peace. I don't intend to propose a
budget in that regard.
Q. Mr. President, do you think that we can do both of these, then?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so.
[12.] Q. To follow up on Frank Cormier's question, did you and Mr.
Brezhnev discuss some kind of a trade-off whereby Israel would deal with the
PLO and the PLO would recognize Israel's right to exist as a state?
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't get into that detail. Israel has indicated that it
would not negotiate with the PLO. We have no way of forcing them to do so.
The discussion between Mr. Brezhnev and myself, as far as the Middle East
was concerned, was to state our position and their position, and as we discussed it,
I think we came to a higher degree of agreement in that our position was under-
stood by them and the prospects of a Geneva agreement was understood by us.
MR. CORMIER. I understand you would like to devote about half of the news
conference to domestic affairs, and I think we are about at the halfway point.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Mr. Cormier.
¹ Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt, Jr., USN (Ret.), Chief of Naval Operations 1970-74.
684
