[94]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
The energy crisis is the clearest example of the world's interdependence. The
industrialized nations need the oil produced by a few developing nations, and
all developing nations need the technology, the services, and the products of
industrialized nations.
The opportunity for a great advance for the whole world is tantalizingly ap-
parent, but so is the danger that we will throw away this very, very rare op-
portunity to realize mankind's hopes. Let us build and implement a global
strategy for energy.
If I may, I call on this World Energy Conference and other international
organizations to accept the challenge of formulating Project Interdependence, a
comprehensive energy program for the world to develop our resources, not just
for the benefit of a few but for all mankind.
This task is surely monumental, but the United States believes that it is pos-
sible, that it is essential. To help you in the beginning to take the first steps,
let me propose some principles that could guide a global approach:
First, all nations must seek to increase production, each according to its re-
sources and its level of technology. Some can develop known and available re-
sources; others can try to improve methods of extraction or intensify exploration;
and others are capable of developing new sources of energy appropriate to their
own circumstances. But all nations can and should play a part in enlarging and
diversifying the sources of usable energy. Diversification can help deter na-
tions from resorting to monopolistic prices or practices.
Next, the rate of increase in consumption of energy must be reduced and
waste eliminated. Americans will do their part in this necessary effort. But all
nations can contribute to discovering new ways to reduce the energy we con-
sume, partly through common sense, partly through self-discipline, and partly
through new technological improvements. Whatever energy-saving methods are
developed anywhere must be communicated quickly to all concerned. Energy-
saving possibilities are promising, especially for the short term, as production
increases.
Third, a cooperative spirit, a cooperative conduct are essential to success in a
global energy program. Nothing, in my judgment, could be more harmful than
policies directed against other nations. If we lapse into confrontation of exporters
on the one hand and consumers on the other, or an unseemly scramble of con-
sumers being played off one against another, all hopes for a global solution will
be destroyed.
Fourth, we must be especially attentive to the situation of the poorest nations
which will suffer drastically if the energy problem does not come under control.
182
