[127]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
too tightly and precipitate us into some economic difficulty. And at the same
time, we had to have provisions and programs that would meet the challenge of
inflation.
I am convinced if the Congress responds, if the American people respond in
a voluntary way, that we can have, hopefully early in 1975, some meaningful
reduction in the rate of inflation.
Yes, Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press].
INCOME SURTAX
[3.] Q. Mr. President, no one that I know of has suggested that inflation
can be licked within a year, and yet the surtax you seek is only for one year. Is
there a pretty good chance you will next year have to go back and ask for it
all over again, assuming you get it this time?
The President. I do not think that the surtax requested to be applicable in
calendar year 1975 will have to be extended beyond December 31, 1975. We are
in a temporary situation. And the surtax on both personal and corporate income
will provide us sufficient income to meet the additional expenses for our com-
munity improvement program and, at the same time, will help to dampen
inflation by reducing the amount of money of 28 percent of the taxpayers of this
country.
And you might be interested—I checked on it this morning—there has been
some criticism of this surtax, both political and otherwise: For a family of four,
with a $20,000 gross income, that is wages, the 1-year extra tax will amount to
$42, which is 12 cents a day.
For a person on a $15,000-a-year income, family of four, there is no extra tax.
And if you take it to $16,000 a day—a year, I mean—the added cost of the 5
percent surtax is $3, which is less than one cent a day.
FURTHER ECONOMIC MEASURES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, following up on Dick Lerner's question, if your eco-
nomic program does not have the impact that you hope it will by early 1975,
what other measures might be necessary? What proposals do you have in mind
to follow on this program if it indeed is unsuccessful?
THE PRESIDENT. I am confident, in the first instance, that if all 31 of the rec-
ommendations are implemented, including those that I have asked the Congress
to give me, that the program will work. We are going to concentrate on making
it work. I, therefore, don't think we should speculate about something that I
don't think will take place.
246
