September 23
[95]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Actually, they are the chief victims, even now, of the uncontrolled inflation
driving world prices up, far beyond their reach for all the goods and all the
services they must import to survive.
Finally, a global strategy must seek to achieve fuel prices which provide a
strong incentive to producers, but which do not seriously disrupt the economies
of the consumer. We recognize the desires of the producers to earn a fair share
or a fair price for their oil as a means of helping to develop their own econ-
omies. But exorbitant prices can only distort the world economy, run the risk
of a worldwide depression, and threaten the breakdown of world order and
world safety.
It is difficult to discuss the energy problem without lapsing, unfortunately,
into doomsday language. The danger is clear. It is very severe. Nevertheless,
I am very optimistic. The advantages of cooperation are as visible as the dangers
of confrontation, and that gives me hope as well as optimism.
But good intentions will not be enough. Knowledgeable people, like all of
you at this important conference, are needed to give understanding, analysis,
technical competence, and solutions for the people and the leaders to consider.
I call on all of you to respond to the challenge and to propose to the world
your recommendations for a global energy strategy. Whether you call it Project
Interdependence or some other name is not the essential point. What is essential
is the challenge be accepted and the job be done quickly and well.
Ladies and gentlemen, I now declare the Ninth World Energy Conference
officially open, and thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in Cobo
Hall. In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Octaviani Groza, president of the conference;
Stephen D. Bechtel, Jr., chairman of the conference's
organizing committee; Walker Cisler, chairman of
the board of Detroit Edison Company; and Donald S.
Macdonald, Canadian Minister of Energy, Mines,
and Resources.
|
95
Message to President Oswaldo Lopez Arellano of Honduras
About Hurricane Disaster. September 23, 1974
Dear General Lopez:
On behalf of the Government and people of the United States, I extend our
profound sympathy to you and the Honduran people on the tragic loss of life
and suffering caused by the hurricane which struck your country. The close
bonds of friendship between our countries evoke particularly strong feelings of
solidarity with the Honduran people at times like these. You may be assured of
183
