October 24
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Therefore, I urge you today, I urge all Americans to vote with your heads as
well as your hearts, but most important, vote. Don't let that most precious liberty
ever devised by man disappear because it was ignored. Pull the lever and cast
your vote a week from Tuesday for candidates of the political party that brought
peace to this country and stability to the world.
Cast your vote for the party that will, with a cooperative Congress, restore
stability to America's economy and inject some commonsense into its Govern-
ment.
With God's help and your hand we will go down that path together with
confidence, understanding of the greatness that still lies before us. We can say
honestly with conviction that we are proud to be Americans, proud of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. at the Val Air Ballroom.
189
Statement on Signing the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Act of 1974. October 24, 1974
I AM pleased to announce that I have signed into law H.R. 13113, the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974.
This act will provide the first major overhaul of the existing Commodity
Exchange Act since its inception by establishing a new regulatory structure to
apply to all commodity futures trading. This is an objective which I fully
support.
This legislation was prompted by increasing concern that Federal regulation
of commodity futures trading is too narrow in scope and that the present regu-
latory system is inadequate. In the past few years, the Federal Government has
disposed of large accumulations of minerals and agricultural commodities. But
present stocks are not large enough to stabilize prices. The recent market situ-
ation has been characterized by widely swinging prices. The futures markets
have become increasingly important to our marketing system-with the value
of futures trading now totaling $500 billion annually.
The increased trading has attracted more speculators and vastly increased
the potential for unethical and illegal practices. This has resulted in failures
of financial firms and losses by innocent investors.
Consumers also have suffered, since the gyrations of the futures markets have,
in some cases, driven up prices to consumers.
461
