December 2
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. I was kept informed, but I don't think I should pass judgment
on every antitrust suit that is contemplated by the Department of Justice.
If they think they have a case, I think they ought to take the initiative within
broad guidelines that I firmly believe in personally.
Now in this case, as I understand it, it is not a suit aimed at AT&T simply
because of its size. It is aimed at AT&T because of its alleged activities that result
in noncompetition.
Now the Antitrust Act says, in effect, that the elimination of competition is
grounds for antitrust action by the Department of Justice. If that is the basis---
and I understand it is—then in my opinion the Department of Justice was acting
properly.
[20.] Q. Mr. President, would you continue to favor your national employ-
ment assistance act even if Congress did not pass a tax program to raise the
revenue necessary to pay for it?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope the Congress would be responsible and pass
legislation that would provide the revenue to pay for the Unemployment Act
extension that I recommended and the public service employment program that
I recommended.
I think this was a sound balance we proposed, or I recommended, that we
ought to tax the wealthier people, the top 28 percent of the American people, to
spread the difficulties of a recession and inflation.
I think it would be irresponsible for the Congress to add expenditures and
not provide any additional revenues.
Q. Mr. President, a followup, please. If you can get the one without the other,
would you take it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I will pass judgment on that when that alternative is on
my desk.
[21.] Q. Mr. President, is it wise, is it fair to concentrate much of your
budget-cutting recommendations on health, education, and welfare, and vet-
erans—what we might call the human fringe suffering from inflation most—
while not recommending at all any increased stringency in military weapons?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that is a fair challenge to my program. What
I did at the time I looked at the budget was to take into consideration the reduc-
tions that the Congress had made in the defense budget, and the Congress had
already cut the defense budget $2.6 billion. I recommended an additional $400 to
$500 million cut, making it roughly a $3 billion total cut in the proposed expendi-
tures of the Department of Defense.
689
