[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
have to pay an additional $42, or 12 cents a day. I think somebody making
$20,000 a year would be willing to make that kind of sacrifice if that would be
helpful in whipping inflation and if that would be helpful in helping the people
who are less fortunate who need some help during this transition phase from a
recession to a healthier economy. It is a good proposal. I hope the Congress does
take affirmative action.
PRESIDENTIAL PARDON AND AMNESTY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Bernie Wynn of the Arizona Republic.
In light of the GOP disasters at the polls, Tuesday, would you rather have
waited maybe until after November 5 to pardon Mr. Nixon, to have granted
amnesty to draft dodgers?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I think the timing in both instances was right.
I could see no justification for another 2 months of delay in the action in pardon-
ing President Nixon. I did it because I think we had very important business to
get on with, both domestically and internationally, in the United States. And it
was obvious to me that with the prospective court action and all the controversy
that would be stimulated by it, that it was wise for me to exercise the right of
pardon when I did, and waiting 2 months would have made no difference.
In the case of earned amnesty for draft dodgers and draft evaders, I think the
sooner we acted in that case the better, and I am glad to say that from where
I have had an opportunity to examine it, it has worked well, it has not given a
free ride to individuals, and it has given those who wanted to earn their way
back a second opportunity, and we have had quite a few who have applied.
I think in both instances I acted right, and in both instances the timing was
correct.
CHANGE IN AMERICAN LIFESTYLE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Johnson, WHAS, Louisville.
A number of critics say that the people in this country are going to have to
adopt a far simpler lifestyle than they have shown their willingness to do volun-
tarily, something that goes beyond cleaning their plates, eating a great deal less,
driving a great deal less.
Do you agree that this will be necessary, and if so, how is it going to be done?
What type of leadership are you going to offer?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we may have to tighten our belts a little bit. I think
buyers will have to be better Yankee traders, and salesmen will have to be more
aggressive salesmen. In other words, we have got to restore some competition
606
