September 16
[80]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Mr. Mollenhoff [Clark R. Mollenhoff, Des Moines Register and Tribune].
THE PARDON DECISION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, at the last press conference you said, “The code of
ethics that will be followed will be the example that I set." Do you find any
conflicts of interest in the decision to grant a sweeping pardon to your life-long
friend and your financial benefactor with no consultation for advice and judg-
ment for the legal fallout?
The President. The decision to grant a pardon to Mr. Nixon was made
primarily, as I have expressed, for the purpose of trying to heal the wounds
throughout the country between Americans on one side of the issue or the
other. Mr. Nixon nominated me for the office of Vice President. I was confirmed
overwhelmingly in the House as well as in the Senate. Every action I have
taken, Mr. Mollenhoff, is predicated on my conscience without any concern or
consideration as to favor as far as I am concerned.
CONDITIONAL AMNESTY AND THE PARDON DECISION
[10.] Q. If your intention was to heal the wounds of the Nation, sir, why
did you grant only a conditional amnesty to the Vietnam war draft evaders while
granting a full pardon to President Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. The only connection between those two cases is the effort
that I made in the one to heal the wounds involving the charges against Mr.
Nixon and my honest and conscientious effort to heal the wounds for those who
had deserted military service or dodged the draft. That is the only connection
between the two.
In one case, you have a President who was forced to resign because of circum-
stances involving his Administration, and he has been shamed and disgraced by
that resignation. In the case of the draft dodgers and Army and military deserters,
we are trying to heal the wounds by the action that I took with the signing of
the proclamation this morning.
REPORTS ON WATERGATE INVESTIGATION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, another concern that has been voiced around the
country since the pardon is that the judicial process as it finally unwinds may
not write the definitive chapter on Watergate and perhaps with particular re-
gard to Mr. Nixon's particular involvement, however total, however it may have
been in truth. My question is, would you consider appointing a special commis-
153
