November 14
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
to strengthen our preleasing environmental assessment and monitoring activities.
If our studies show that development cannot occur in a particular area without
unacceptable risk, then we will not hold a lease sale. The step that must now be
taken is to begin the detailed studies to identify risks in specific areas to be con-
sidered for leasing.
We have made great strides in our O.C.S. safety program thus far, and we will
work closely with the coastal States so that they understand and have a part in the
further development of regulations that govern these operations off their coast.
I also recognize the concern about oil spills. Our energy and environmental
experts have concluded that the greatest danger to our coasts from oil spills is
not from offshore production but, instead, from the greatly expanded tanker
traffic that would result from increasing imports.
To assure that any spills that might occur do not cause uncompensated harm,
however, I have also asked Secretary Morton and Chairman Peterson to prepare
a proposed comprehensive liability statute governing oil spills. This bill will be
ready for introduction in the next Congress.
In summary, the resources of the Outer Continental Shelf represent a potential
contribution of major proportions to the solution of our energy problem. I am
confident that concerns about leasing exploration and development of the Outer
Continental Shelf can be addressed openly and fairly, that planning can proceed
in an orderly, cooperative way, and the problems confronting us in opening new
areas can be resolved.
I pledge the cooperation of my Administration in this task.
NOTE: The President met with the officials at 5 p.m.
in the Cabinet Room at the White House. Attending
the meeting were the Governors of Connecticut, Del-
aware, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Mississippi,
New Hampshire, and New Jersey; the Governors-
elect of Maine, Georgia, and New York; the Lieuten-
ant Governors of Maryland and Rhode Island; and
the Lieutenant Governors-elect of Alaska, Connecti-
cut, Massachusetts, and South Carolina.
In his remarks, the President referred to Rus-
sell W. Peterson, Chairman of the Council on Envi-
ronmental Quality.
234
Remarks to the Annual Convention of the National Association
of Realtors, Las Vegas, Nevada. November 14, 1974
President Doherty, President-elect Leitch, ladies and gentlemen:
It is truly a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of
appearing before this convention of the National Association of Realtors, and I
589
