September 20
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
mentation of new laws, there are questions as to what the law may require of
the executive branch and what the Congress may expect. In this instance, the
Attorney General has determined that this act applies only to determinations
to withhold budget authority which have been made since the law was
approved.
However, I am including in today's submission to the Congress reports on
some actions which were concluded before the effective date of the act. While
these items are not subject, in the Attorney General's opinion, to congressional
ratification or disapproval as are those addressed in the recent law, I believe
that it is appropriate that I use this occasion to transmit this information to the
Congress.
Reasonable men frequently differ on interpretation of law. The law to which
this message pertains is no exception. It is particularly important that the execu-
tive and legislative branches develop a common understanding as to its opera-
tion. Such an understanding is both in keeping with the spirit of partnership
implicit in the law and essential for its effective use. As we begin management
of the Federal budget under this new statute, I would appreciate further guid-
ance from the Congress. The added information on the status of funds not sub-
ject to Congressional action is being made available with this in mind. It will
also permit a better understanding of the status of some funds reported pre-
viously under the earlier impoundment reporting law.
Virtually all of the actions included in this report were anticipated in the 1975
budget, and six of them were taken before July 12, when the new procedures
came into effect. Failure to take these actions would cause more than $20 billion
of additional funds to become available for obligation. The immediate release
of these funds would raise Federal spending by nearly $600 million in the cur-
rent fiscal year. More significantly, outlays would rise by over $2 billion in 1976
and even more in 1977, the first year in which the new procedures for congres-
sional review of the budget will be in full effect.
The deferrals of budget authority being reported today total $19.8 billion.
The major deferrals are:
-Grants for waste treatment plant construction ($9 billion). Release of all
these funds would be highly inflationary, particularly in view of the rapid
rise in non-Federal spending for pollution control. Some of the funds now
deferred will be allotted on or prior to February 1, 1975.
-Federal aid highway funds ($4.4 billion for fiscal year 1975 and $6.4 billion
for fiscal year 1976). Release of these funds would also be highly inflationary
171
