September 18
[82]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
on energy to meet the growing need and to do this without imposing unaccept-
able burdens on the international monetary and trade system.
A world of economic confrontation cannot be a world of political cooperation.
If we fail to satisfy man's fundamental needs for energy and food, we face a
threat not just to our aspirations for a better life for all our peoples but to our
hopes for a more stable and a more peaceful world. By working together to
overcome our common problems, mankind can turn from fear towards hope.
From the time of the founding of the United Nations, America volunteered
to help nations in need, frequently as the main benefactor. We were able to do
it. We were glad to do it. But as new economic forces alter and reshape today's
complex world, no nation can be expected to feed all the world's hungry
peoples.
Fortunately, however, many nations are increasingly able to help. And I
call on them to join with us as truly united nations in the struggle to produce,
to provide more food at lower prices for the hungry and, in general, a better
life for the needy of this world.
America will continue to do more than its share. But there are realistic limits
to our capacities. There is no limit, however, to our determination to act in
concert with other nations to fulfill the vision of the United Nations Charter,
to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, and to promote social
progress and better standards, better standards of life in a larger freedom.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. at United
Nations headquarters in New York City. The ad-
dress was broadcast live on radio and television.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, President of the
29th Session of the United Nations General Assem-
bly, and Kurt Waldheim of Austria, Secretary Gen-
eral of the United Nations.
82
Statement Urging the Senate To Sustain the Deferral of a
Federal Pay Increase.
September 18, 1974
I HAVE LABELED inflation fighting as my number one priority. To win will
require the cooperation of all branches of Government and all of the American
people.
Tomorrow, the Senate will consider a vital part of this effort-my decision
to defer a pay increase for Federal employees from October 1974 to January
1975. This deferral will save the American taxpayers $700 million and will
help the Federal Government in its campaign to bring inflation under control.
161
