December 2
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
the primary issue of a limitation of strategic arms. In the end, we agreed on the
general framework for a new agreement that will last through 1985.
We agreed it is realistic to aim at completing this agreement next year. This is
possible because we made major breakthroughs on two critical issues:
Number one, we agreed to put a ceiling of 2,400 each on the total number of
intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarine-launched missiles, and heavy
bombers.
Two, we agreed to limit the number of missiles that can be armed with
multiple warheads-MIRV's. Of each side's total of 2,400, 1,320 can be so armed.
These ceilings are well below the force levels which would otherwise have
been expected over the next 10 years and very substantially below the forces
which would result from an all-out arms race over that same period.
What we have done is to set firm and equal limits on the strategic forces of each
side, thus preventing an arms race with all its terror, instability, war-breeding
tension, and economic waste.
We have, in addition, created the solid basis from which future arms reductions
can be made and, hopefully, will be negotiated.
It will take more detailed negotiations to convert this agreed framework into a
comprehensive accord. But we have made a long step toward peace on a basis of
equality, the only basis on which an agreement was possible.
Beyond this, our improved relations with the other nations of Asia developed
on this journey will continue to serve the interests of the United States and the
cause of peace for months to come. Economy, energy, security, and trade rela-
tions were discussed, which will be of mutual benefit to us all.
I would like to repeat publicly my thanks and gratitude for the hospitality
extended to me by all of my hosts and, through me, to the American people.
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International], I am glad to
respond to your question.
QUESTIONS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, this pact permits the nuclear buildup to go ahead.
Since you want to cut Government spending, how many billions of dollars will
this cost the American people over the years, and also, do you think that the
Russians stalled last July because they knew that Mr. Nixon was doomed in the
Presidency and preferred to deal with his successor?
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to correct, if I might, one impression. This does
not permit an agreed buildup. It puts a cap on future buildups, and it actually
reduces a part of the buildup at the present time.
It is important, I should say, however, in order for us to maintain equality,
679
