[187]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
time in any off-year election for the last 20 or more years. I don't believe that
is going to happen. You won't, through apathy, let a minority make a decision
for the majority. I only hope that instead of the 42 percent that they are fore-
casting who will actually vote, that it will be 50 or 60 percent-so that we get a
true reflection of what people want done; so the majority makes a decision, not
the minority making a determination.
Yes, Congressional, State, and local elections are what it is all about. I say
as strongly and as sincerely as I can, there is no weapon so mighty, no force so
powerful as the silent vote in the privacy of the voting booth.
It is the duty as well as the opportunity of every eligible voter in Iowa and
the other 49 States to balance the ledger sheet on good government.
So, I say to all this wonderful group of Iowa friends, get out this time, vote as
you have never voted before. The future of our American political system
depends on your participation. It does in 1974, and it will in the years to come.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:50 a.m. on the east steps of the Iowa State House.
188
Remarks at a Luncheon for Republican Candidates
in Des Moines. October 24, 1974
Governor Bob Ray, Lieutenant Governor Neu, Dave Stanley, my former col-
leagues in the House, Wiley Mayne, Bill Scherle, all of the other fine Republican
candidates, and all of you wonderful citizens of the great State of Iowa, thank
you very, very much:
You know, when I saw this grand old ballroom, it brought back to my mind,
anyhow, so many happy memories of Tommy Dorsey, Woody Herman, Benny
Goodman—some of you can remember it.
As a matter of fact, when my wife Betty and I used to go courting, we would
go dancing to the music of those old big bands, as we called them. We had a
problem, though. Betty had studied modern dance, and I was a former football
player. [Laughter]
She was very polite, never really came right out and said I was a lousy dancer—
she was much too kind for that—but she did have a rather interesting theory as
1
¹ David M. Stanley was the Republican candidate for United States Senator from Iowa.
454
