[119]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
119
Remarks of Welcome to First Secretary Edward Gierek of
Poland. October 8, 1974
MR. FIRST SECRETARY, it is a very distinct pleasure for me to welcome you
and Mrs. Gierek to the United States. As you know, Mr. First Secretary, the
family ties that bind our two peoples together in a very special way are very,
very old, indeed older actually than the United States itself.
You have already visited Jamestown, Virginia, where the first Poles arrived
in 1608, only 1 year after it was first settled. From that day to this day, large
numbers of your countrymen have helped to build this country and to mold
our great American traditions.
America treasures these contributions to our growth, to our culture, and to our
history. During your stay in this country, Mr. First Secretary, you and Mrs.
Gierek will be able to see for yourself the character of our country and the role
that men and women from Poland have played in America's history.
Our two nations have thus a fine foundation upon which to build. I have
watched with very great interest the substantial growth of our bilateral trade in
the last 2 years since the establishment of the joint Polish-American Trade Com-
mission. And continuing expansion of contacts between officials and private
citizens, in the fields of such activities as science, technology, and the arts is
another evidence of the dynamic development of Polish-American relations.
You, Mr. First Secretary, will surely agree with me that we must not allow
our satisfaction with past progress to slow our pace or slacken our efforts in the
future. We must use the opportunity your visit affords to seek new avenues of
bilateral cooperation in many, many fields, including energy and environmental
areas.
In many other areas of common interest, for example, our participation in the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and our participation in the
force reduction talks, we are engaged in common endeavors for peace.
Today, economic problems almost everywhere are very, very severe. That
stability of the world is in danger, and almost everywhere it develops, as well as
in developing countries, the welfare of people on a global basis unfortunately is
actually threatened.
Mr. First Secretary, Poland knows too well, perhaps better than any other
nation, the fearful experience of war and its very painful consequences. A
226
