November 29
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I wish to thank each of you here for sharing this ceremonial moment, and I also
wish to thank the Clemency Board members for their very hard and effective
work.
Signing ceremonies often mark the end of a project, but today these sign-
ings represent the beginning of the difficult task of administering clemency. In-
stead of signing these decisions in a routine way, I wish to use this occasion to
underline the commitment of my Administration to an evenhanded policy of
clemency.
When I initiated the policy, I detailed the reasons for my decision in this very
difficult problem. I consider them as valid today as when I first announced
them. We do not resolve difficult issues by ignoring them. There are honest dif-
ferences that will continue to be discussed, but discussions must not over-
shadow the need for action and fair and open resolution of the clemency problem.
Of the 18 recommendations the Board has made to me, I have reviewed each
one and have personally approved each one. Information on these cases will be
made available by the Press Office.
I believe this more detailed information will help to explain the basis for my
decision in each instance. Of course, considerable more information was made
available to the Board, and to me, on which to base these decisions. But to make
public the complete files on each individual would be a negation of his right to
privacy.
In each case, however, the law was violated, and each has received punishment.
The power of clemency can look to reasons for these actions which the law
cannot. Unlike God's law, man's law cannot probe into the heart of human be-`
ings. The best way we can do this is to offer clemency and to provide a way for
offenders to earn their way back into a rightful place in society.
Last week, I traveled overseas in search for peace. Yet, we cannot effectively
seek peace abroad with other nations until we have made peace at home. While
America reaches out to those whom we have disagreed with in the past, we must
do no less within our own Nation.
Sometimes it seems easier for us to forgive foreign enemies than fellow
Americans at home. Let us continue to search for a softening of the national
animosity caused by differences over the Vietnam war. We will not forget the
sacrifices of those who served and died in Vietnam.
In their honor, America must seek ways to live up to the ideals of freedom and
charity that they fought to preserve. These first few decisions do not end the un-
finished business of clemency, but the task of formal forgiveness is underway.
673
