[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
with such a move, and might those plans include a possible change in our
relations over there, either with Israel or the PLO [Palestine Liberation
Organization]?
THE PRESIDENT. Our plans are aimed at trying to get the Israelis to negotiate
a settlement or additional settlements with the Egyptians and the other Arab
nations. Those are the plans we have which are affirmative and plans that I
think, if we continue constructively, can bring about some success.
Until we have failed, and I don't think we will, in trying to get the parties to
work together, I don't think it is appropriate to discuss what we will do if we
don't achieve success.
Q. Are you suggesting, Mr. President, that Israel should deal directly with the
PLO? It has been the Israeli objection all along against recognizing the PLO as
a bona fide political organization.
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't say that. I did say that the Israelis should negotiate
with the Egyptian and other Arab parties. The Israelis have said they will never
negotiate with the PLO. We are not a party to any negotiations. I think we have
to let the decision as to who will negotiate to be the responsibility of the parties
involved.
THE PRESIDENT'S FIRST HUNDRED DAYS
[21.] Q. Gene McLain, KTAR Television and Radio, Phoenix.
Mr. President, you are approaching your first hundred days in office. How do
you size up your pluses and minuses, your major disappointments and successes?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best things we have done-number one, nominat-
ing Nelson Rockefeller; number two, the conducting of the economic summit
meetings, I think 12 all over the country, with two in Washington; and the
formulation of a good, sound economic plan that meets the problems of a
weakening economy and inflation.
I believe that we have laid additional groundwork for success in the Middle
East. We have redirected some of our policies in the subcontinent areas. We
have, in addition, enhanced the possibility of strategic arms limitation agree-
ment number two, which I think will be enhanced by the meeting I am going
to have in Vladivostok in about 12 days, hopefully to be followed by a meeting
in Washington some time in the summer of 1975.
Some of the disappointments—we had a few bad breaks. I think the Congress
was dead wrong when they handicapped myself and Secretary Kissinger in the
efforts that we could make in the settlement of the Cyprus question between
Greece and Turkey. I think that was a terrible disappointment, and some of the
610
