[187]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me just say from my observations that the weather, the people, the can-
didates, the Governor-you have a great State, and I think all of you should be
very proud of it.
During the 25 years that I was in the Congress, I will say without any hesi-
tation or qualification that I have always been impressed with the men, frankly,
from both parties that were sent to the Congress of the United States.
They have been strong men, independent individuals, men of integrity, men
of action—like your Governor, Bob Ray. I happen to believe that he has provided
the sort of independence and the leadership that we have come to expect from
Hawkeyes in whatever office they serve, and I congratulate you for the three
terms that Governor Ray has already had, and I urge you from the bottom of my
heart to make sure that he is your first Governor elected for a 4-year term.
I think that you have in this great State something that the rest of us could
well use. Iowa is solvent. You have a long history of stable government, par-
ticularly under Bob Ray. You even have a balanced budget, which is progress by
any standard. I have to admit that I was bit startled when the Governor told me
that the budget was not only balanced but had substantial surplus of something
like $200 million. I was startled because it has been years and years and years since
I have heard of a surplus back in Washington in the Federal Treasury.
Yes, these are open spaces out here in Iowa, which give all of you room to
move, to bring up your children. I think you have achieved in this great State
that urban-rural balance that is the envy of every State in the Union.
I was most impressed with the figures that your Governor cited on stemming
migration out of Iowa for the first time since the 1890's. I am told people are no
longer pouring out of Iowa. They are no longer pouring off the farms, leaving
the State, and this is a pattern that I hope we can develop—that we can develop
not only in a few States but all States; a pattern that we can develop across the
Nation.
The problems that we have been experiencing with our economy since the
end of the involvement in Vietnam—including shortages, including scarcities—
have brought home, it is my judgment, some of the basic lessons that our people
have to remember, have to recall, and have to build on. It is my judgment that we
have to simplify our lifestyles. We must return to some of the basics. We must
make the best use of what we have. We must cut out the waste. We must strip
away the nonessentials. In short, we have to return to the state of mind and the
way of life that made us the greatest nation in the history of mankind.
If we will sit back and look, reflect just a bit, we can see ourselves as part of
a community with people directly influencing things that shape their individual
450
