Appendix D
Before I left, I spent a great deal of time carrying
out a commitment I had made for the submission
of this package for the reduction of expenditures
in the current fiscal year. I cannot give you the pre-
cise figure, but I must have spent at least twelve
hours or more in detailed analysis with Roy Ash
and his people.
They had to put the package together, predicated
on my decisions. There was not any need for me
to be here to make any other decisions. The de-
cisions were made. The mechanics were in their
hands.
When I came back, of course, I had to approve
it in its final form. So, from that point of view,
there was no need for me to be here.
We had prepared and submitted, or I had pre-
pared and approved the message to the Congress
for the lame-duck legislative program. We had out-
lined about 40 some items that we had refined, that
I felt the Congress had to do in this five or six weeks
that it is going to be here, so that work was done.
The burden was really on the Congress to get
moving. I had made a number of personal contacts,
individually, and also by letter on something that I
felt was of most urgent necessity, and that was
getting Nelson Rockefeller confirmed, and I think
my phone calls, my personal letters, plus part of
the message, I think, has gotten that off dead center.
I just finished talking to [House Judiciary Com-
mittee Chairman Peter] Rodino before you came in,
and Pete pretty well assures me as best he can that
in the week, I think, of Dec. 16-they will vote
probably on the 20th of December-so I had done
everything that I felt could be done to get the Con-
gress going again, and that was all done before I
left.
So, the question is, what more could I have done
by staying here?
Q. The focus of much of the criticism has to do
with what people perceive as being an inadequate
leadership role on the energy front, in particular.
A. On that we have had two Cabinet meetings
where we went around the table, and we had them
at a two-week interval. As you recollect, I sent up on
Oct. 8 a 31-point program which included the things
we felt were needed and necessary for the energy
program, as well as the economic program.
What I have started with the Cabinet is a score-
card, and every member of the Cabinet has to re-
port when they come to the Cabinet meeting on
what has been done in their field of responsibility
and whether it is the economic front or the energy
front, and we have a scorecard up there where the
bills are, and a progress report.
And on the energy front, of course, [Interior
Secretary Rogers] Morton is now the chairman of
the Energy Committee. [Treasury Secretary Wil-
liam] Simon was moved from that over to the
Economic Committee, so Rog has the principal
responsibility to give us at these meetings a run-
down on every bill that we think is necessary, every
administrative action, and quite frankly-I said it
directly to them-their performance on this is go-
ing to be the basis on whether to put it quite
bluntly-whether they stay or not. It is a scorecard.
Q. We have heard reports that you were plan-
ning a speech either for the beginning of December
or in January which will take a much tougher line
than you have taken in the past on the whole sub-
ject of energy and conservation. We hear among
those things that may be proposed is a 20 per cent
cut in domestic consumption. Is that in the works?
A. Let me add one thing. Prior to my departure,
I made the decision to withdraw Andy Gibson's
name as head of the Federal Energy Administra-
tion, for reasons that are unfortunate, but be that as
it may, I made that decision and decided that Frank
Zarb should be transferred from the Office of Man-
agement and Budget over to FEA.
So, we do have an organization now because I am
sure Frank will be confirmed. I don't foresee any
problems as far as Congress is concerned.
I think you have been misled as to rumors-in-
accurate about a speech of that kind. What we do
intend to do is on the basis of this scorecard proce-
dure, if we find that our voluntary program, which
is a reduction of 1 million barrels per day, is not
successful, we certainly have a fallback position,
which we will not hesitate to implement, which is a
mandatory embargo on the importation of 1 mil-
lion barrels a day of foreign crude oil.
And we also have the capability of moving into a
mandatory allocation system, allocation of the 5 mil-
lion barrels per day [we import] plus our domestic
of about 10 or 11 million barrels a day, which we
produce here. So, the actions we take will be based
upon the success of the present program.
Q. What is the deadline you gave yourself for
the testing of the voluntary program, Mr. Presi-
dent?
A. We are having a Cabinet meeting next
week... That will give us a much better feel
on whether or not the voluntary program is proceed-
ing satisfactorily. Of course, we run into a couple
of paradoxical circumstances.
For various reasons, we have more gasoline and
more fuel oil in storage today than we had a year
ago. I was talking to a man who is an expert in this
field, a nongovernmental expert. He tells me that
as of a couple of days ago, we have 45 million more
barrels in storage today than we had a year ago. So,
you are in a difficult situation.
You want to talk about conservation and yet you
have got more crude oil on hand and gasoline stocks
on hand than you had a year ago. So, it is pretty
hard to sell that individual who goes to a gasoline
station or to a distributor and say, "You have to use
805
