[135]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Party. I am confident that our candidates will do well at the State level, the
Federal level.
Why? Because they have good principles, they have done a good job. They
deserve the support of the people of Michigan, but more importantly, it is
important to preserve the strength, the fiber of a political system that has done
more for more people in freedom, material things, and God's blessings—the
political system of the United States.
Thank you very much.
[The President spoke at 8:55 p.m. at Cobo Hall. In his opening remarks, the President referred to Max M.
Fisher, chairman of the dinner.
Following the President's remarks, Lt. Gov. James H. Brickley of Michigan presented the President with
the Michigan American Revolution Bicentennial Medallion. Their exchange of remarks, beginning at 9:31
p.m., follows.]
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR BRICKLEY. Mr. President, on behalf of the Michigan
Bicentennial Commission, I am very proud to present to you, the 38th President
of the United States, Michigan's Bicentennial Medallion, the 38th one to be
struck, containing a caricature on the back that was designed for the President
by a Michigan high school student who won a statewide high school contest for
that purpose.
We are going to be doing many things, hopefully, in Michigan to celebrate
that birthday, but I think we of the Bicentennial Commission, and all of us
here, and certainly all of Michigan's citizens, will be most proud that of all the
things, that you will be the President of this Republic on its 200th birthday in
July of 1976.
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Lieutenant Governor Brickley-
Jim, as I know him. It is a wonderful, wonderful little object that I will have
on my desk in the Oval Office. It will remind me of the great State that means
so much to me and the people who mean so much to me.
Thank you very much.
136
Statement Following a Meeting With the President's
Committee on Mental Retardation. October 11, 1974
THREE years ago, America committed itself to cutting the rate of mental
retardation in half by the end of the century. That is a notable goal, worthy of a
284
