[211]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
stood up and fought to be cooperative and to be helpful are regrettably retiring
voluntarily this year. And so, who they are replaced by is critical and crucial.
Now, I am sure that virtually every Member of the Congress has only the very
best interests of our Nation at heart, and it depends on how he or she sees it.
Generally, when we differ, it is not so much as to the goals but the road by
which you achieve it. The question we face right today—it will be reemphasized
and reiterated when Congress comes back on November 18-what is the best
way to beat inflation? I have labeled it public enemy number one. A lot of dif-
ferent people have a lot of different views, and as I think most of you know, we
had this summit meeting on the economy that was the result of 12 mini-summits
that were held all over the United States where we had labor, management,
economists, bankers, housewives, and others participating.
I, at least, had an open mind and was the beneficiary of the suggestions that
were made by this broad-based cross section of America. There was one point,
however, on which there was substantial, almost unanimous agreement on which
a majority of Americans seemed to agree: that excess Government spending has
been, and will continue to be, a root cause of inflation.
No government, no government that I have read about, studied about, partic-
ipated in, can keep on spending more than it takes in without driving down the
buying power of its currency and driving up the cost of living for its people.
In the short haul, it is very easy for government to yield to the temptation to
give people what they want or what the politicians tell them that they ought to
have, but keep this in mind: In the long haul, a government big enough to give
us everything we want is a government big enough to take from us everything
we have.
So, when you come right down to a very basic subject, we must curb Federal
spending as far as the Federal Government, the Congress, the President are
concerned. In the economic message that I submitted to the Congress just before
the recess, I proposed that we establish a spending ceiling this year of some $300
billion, or some $5.5 billion less than the budget as it was submitted last January.
But the current Congress has not yet approved that spending ceiling. The House
of Representatives did act, but the Senate did not.
There are some other proposals in that economic package which is aimed at
tightening the screws on inflation and yet giving some help and assistance as far
as the economy is concerned to strengthen it.
I hope when Congress reconvenes in the month or the weeks between No-
534
