October 16
[152]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
every other department in the Federal Government the reports that I can look
at and analyze, and I will meet very shortly at the White House with fair
representation of the farmers and ranchers to get their solutions from them
directly.
I am disturbed by the disparity between the reduced earnings of the cattle-
growers and the higher prices charged to consumers throughout the Nation
on the shelves of the supermarkets. And I am asking the new Council on Wage
and Price Stability to examine the reasons behind this gap which is paid to the
farmer and what must be paid on the other end of the line by the individual
consumer.
Something is obviously wrong, and I intend to do what I can to find out the
cause and do something about it.
Our livestock producers here in South Dakota obviously cannot tolerate a
situation in which calves cost more to raise than they bring at the marketplace,
but there certainly is a better way of redressing these legitimate grievances than
by the drastic and wasteful destruction of our food supply.
Now there is another problem which equally concerns me—the tremendous
cost-price squeeze in which America's dairymen find themselves. I met last
Friday in Washington in the Cabinet Room with a representative group of
dairy farmers on the one hand and a group of Democratic and Republican Con-
gressmen and Senators on the other. And they outlined to me the practical
problems that the dairy producers in their respective States are faced with.
I am very sympathetic to the problem. I understand the concern of those dairy
producers that the United States dairy price system should not be allowed—and
this is very important—that this price system should not be allowed to be
undermined by efforts of foreign dairy producers.
Now some of these foreign dairy producers, as we know from the sampling
that we have taken, are seeking to shift the burden of their own cost-price
problems to the United States market, aided by artificial incentives from their
own government.
And because of my own concern about the economic problems dairymen are
facing, I intend today announcing that no action will be taken to change the
present system of dairy import quotas without a thorough review of market
conditions and full opportunity for our dairy producers to be heard at that time.
I think the record proves that our farmers can compete with any group of
farmers or the farmers from any nation throughout the world. And I am looking
forward to those negotiations where we can equalize our opportunities to
compete with foreign markets around the world.
323
