September 9
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I think last winter's serious energy crisis drove home a message to our fellow
Americans. The net result is we must make major progress in improving urban
transit. We must move promptly, we must have a well-planned, a well-coordi-
nated action, an action program.
Priorities at the local level must be very carefully laid out. If there is to be a
renaissance of urban transportation, that renaissance must be built on solid,
defendable concepts.
We must, in this conference, address ourselves to the high priority need for
action to halt the decline which has developed over the past decade in existing
or traditional urban transit systems. And time is of the essence.
Progress, fortunately, is being made. The approximately 750 separate capital
grants, totaling more than $3 billion since 1970, which the Federal Urban Mass
Transportation Administration made to our cities to buy buses and to add urban
and commuter rail systems has certainly helped.
It was encouraging, I think, to find that mass transit ridership in the United
States this past year has risen above last year's level. And I think it should be even
more encouraging, this is the first time such an increase has taken place since the
end of World War II.
Our Nation has to develop urban mass transit systems that people want to use.
Until we develop those systems that offer convenience, comfort, and reliability
expected from the automobiles that Americans have been traditionally using,
transit service, even in our most congested urban areas, will continue to be under-
used.
That is why I believe this conference, with its accent on transit marketing,
is exactly on the right target.
We know that most Americans for a wide variety of reasons have simply not
bought the concept of public transit. Unlike the appealing and heavily used
mass transit of cities like London, Paris, Montreal, Munich, and Moscow, public
transportation in America is considered by most of our fellow Americans as a
painful last resort.
There is a terrible reluctance to go from what they were brought up to use,
to something that is new and different. There has to be something extra if we are
going to achieve a viable mass transit system in most of our urban metropolitan
areas.
But let's take a look, or a leaf, I should say, from the book of the automotive
industry. They have done quite well with the product that they have promoted
in our country. We must compete with the automakers in the effective promo-
tion of products, in their imagination, enterprise, and marketing skills.
109
