[171]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
171
Remarks at the Dedication of the Anderson Independent and
Anderson Daily Mail Building in Anderson, South Carolina.
October 19, 1974
Governor West, Senator Thurmond, Senator Hollings, John Ginn-distin-
guished president and chairman of the board-the owners of these two fine
newspapers, the wonderful citizens of the Third Congressional District in the
State of South Carolina:
It is a very high privilege and a great honor for me to have the opportunity of
being in Anderson on this occasion, and I thank you for your warm and very
friendly welcome. It is just nice to be here.
I am here for four reasons, and let me indicate them at the outset.
I am here because I like the people of South Carolina. I am here because I like
the philosophy, the political philosophy of the people of South Carolina. I am
also here to do a little selling on a program that I think will strengthen America
and make us stronger and better and make us even more proud of a great coun-
try, the United States of America. And I am here to participate in an auspicious
occasion, the dedication of this fine facility for these two outstanding newspapers.
As I said at the outset, I am here because I like the people of South Carolina.
And I think, since I have been in South Carolina four times in the last 12 or
13 months, I have some individuals on the platform who can attest-Governor
West, Senator Thurmond, Senator Hollings, they have been with me on several
or all of these occasions—and they know from firsthand experience that the
people of South Carolina have a deep affection in my heart. I like what they
believe, and I like how they react, and you are just darned nice people. I thank
you for your hospitality.
I also indicated that I have a great sympathy for and adherence to the philos-
ophy of the people of South Carolina. I know that you in South Carolina be-
lieve that it is important to have strong local government and to have strong
State government, and you also believe in the freedom and independence of the
individual.
You also recognize that the Federal Government is important, but you want
your Federal Government to be a partner and not the dominating force as the
problems arise and the solutions are sought.
You believe in a partnership between State, local, and Federal government.
And that is the kind of philosophy in which I believe.
388
