[213]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have been asked many times why have I traveled extensively in the last few
weeks, candidly asking American voters to return men like Bob Mathias back to
Congress. People have asked why, and let me give you the answer. It is very
simple. I am here because the issues are far, far too important. It is far, far too
vital for me to sit on the sidelines. I never have, and I don't intend to, when I feel
strongly about people and about issues. The stakes are far too high to be a side-
line sitter when we have got people like Bob Mathias out in the hustings.
And there is another answer, too. I do it because the people of Fresno, the
340,000 or 350,000 people in this 17th Congressional District, in my judgment,
deserve to see their President and deserve to see a President who believes with
conviction and dedication in the issues and in the solutions that I think can make
America a bigger, better, stronger, finer country for all of us—particularly these
fine young people down here in the front rows.
Public service, public responsibility are far too important for me to sit in
that beautiful Oval Office in a mystic seance in Washington, D.C., when I can
come out here to Fresno in the 17th Congressional District and have an oppor-
tunity to see the wonderful faces, the enthusiasm.
I enjoy being on the banks of the Potomac, but I get a big thrill and a big
shot in the arm coming to Fresno on an occasion like this.
I am out here—I am particularly here because there are some issues that, in my
judgment, deserve to be talked about, to be discussed, so that the problems we
have can be communicated to you with the solutions and the answers that we
have.
We do have a serious problem of inflation. We have some other economic prob-
lems, but the answers can be gotten by all of you and by all of us in the executive
as well as in the legislative branch.
To solve those problems, I need people like Bob Mathias who, in my opinion,
from his past record, can be extremely helpful. He is a big man, but he is a big
man in action. He is not a big man of talk. He is a big man as a problemsolver,
and that is what you want in the 17th District representing you.
And let me give you if I can, very seriously, an extremely practical reason why
I think Bob ought to be sent back next Tuesday, for you, for me, for the country.
I could not help but notice as we flew in and saw the beautiful fields and the
people working in them-Bob Mathias, when he is returned to Congress will be
the second man on our side of the aisle on the great Committee on Agriculture,
and agriculture is important to all of you.
That is the committee that drafts the legislation. That is the committee that
538
