[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
to require Congress to take a hard, second look at legislation which the Presi-
dent, who is obliged to faithfully execute the law, considers to be unwise or
unworkable in whole or in part.
I really don't think my veto suggests "a discredited policy of cover-up as usual.”
Uncovering coverups has to be done without the help of any law but by tough
reporters and tough editors.
However, before you write all your Congressmen to override my veto, I would
like to tell you my side of the story.
I do support the Freedom of Information Act and most of the reforms con-
tained in the current amendments. There are, however, three amendments that
bother me both on principle and practicality, and these were the basis of my veto.
I have written the leaders of both the House and Senate to express my hope
that when Congress returns, instead of trying to override the veto, they will make
three small but very significant changes in these three sections and send me
another bill which I can and will sign.
My first objection is to that section that would allow any Federal judge to
examine privately or in camera the classified records of any Government agency,
including our most sensitive national security and diplomatic secrets, and re-
move the agency's classification if he found the plaintiff's position to be reason-
able. In other words, no credibility was given to the Government's initial deci-
sion. I think that is wrong. As a matter of fact, this change in the proposed law
would overturn a 1973 Supreme Court ruling which limited judicial review to the
determination of whether or not in the initial classification there was, in fact,
a classification according to law.
With all due respect, I do not believe many Federal judges are experts in the
complex weighing of defense and intelligence needs for security or secrecy. I also
think that the transfer of this judgment from the executive to the judicial branch
of Government may be unconstitutional. My proposed modification, which
I think is reasonable, would accept judicial review, but require judges to uphold
the original classification if there is a reasonable basis to support it.
My second objection is far less dramatic. In my view, one section sets un-
realistic time limits on the Government's response to a request for a specific
document. I have proposed that a 30-day deadline in contested cases be increased
to a total of 45 days with extra time for complex cases at the option of the court.
The third reason for the veto was an amendment granting public access to
investigatory files such as the so-called raw data reports of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. For example, I am told there was actually pending before the
598
