[118]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
"Let George do it." And for more than 40 years, the citizens of Vermont have
let George do their bidding in the statehouse, in the Governor's mansion, and
in the United States Senate.
I say to each and every one of you now, you have been fortunate to have
such an outstanding public servant represent you in any and every public office.
I congratulate you.
I think you can best summarize it by saying that George was a public servant
for all seasons. He has the enviable ability to cut through the chaff and get to the
very heart of any and every matter. We who served with him in the Congress,
even though I was on the other end of the Capitol, know that he was noted for
his strong independence of mind. Some have criticized him for that charac-
teristic. Frankly, I praise him for it, and all of you should, too.
George has given the Nation the benefit of his down-to-earth wisdom, his
leadership, and his guidance in many, many areas. You in Vermont know those
areas infinitely better than I—education, electric power development, better-
ment of rural America, and more importantly today, foreign relations. This very
different, this wide spectrum of legislative expertise and activity—I think they
only suggest the breadth and the depth and the greatness of this man.
Those who served with him a part of the time of this exemplary tenure in
the Congress, we are in debt for 34 years of senatorial service to America as
well as to Vermont. And I think it is very safe to say, and it ought to be said, that
he, George Aiken, is in no one's debt.
I understand it is unbelievable that in George's last campaign 6 years ago, he
spent the grand total of $17.04 for his reelection. Can you imagine anyone spend-
ing that much for a political campaign in this day and age?
I think George Aiken is the only man that I know who could go to a super-
'market today to buy 5 pounds of sugar with a dollar bill and come back with
some change. [Laughter]
George, with your understanding and forgiveness, I don't think those of us
who know her can forget Lola Aiken's service to Vermont in her own right. You
know as well as I, and probably better, her great and long service on George's
staff, and then his wife who has given her life in dedicated service to the State
of Vermont, to your senior Senator. And I think it might be said that whatever
Lola wants, Lola gets.
Driving from the airport, George and Lola were in the car with me, and I said
to her-which Betty had asked me to indicate to her—how grateful my Betty was
for the thoughtful card and note and the kind message that Betty received from
220
