November 20
[246]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tell
you
Japan.
of the very high value that all Americans attach to our partnership with
It is the American custom for the President to make a report every year to
the Congress on our state of the Union. In the same spirit, I thought the people in
Japan might welcome a report on the state of another union—the unity of
American and Japanese mutual aspirations for friendship as Americans see that
relationship.
In my hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan, a Japanese company is now
assembling musical instruments. Not only are the instruments harmonious in
the melodies that they produce but the labor-management relationship followed
by the Japanese created a model of harmony between workers and business.
In a nearby community, Edmore, another Japanese firm is manufacturing
small electrical motors. This is yet another Japanese enterprise that has injected
new energy, new good will in our industrial life. There are similar examples
throughout America, and we welcome them.
The time has long passed when Americans speak only of what we contributed
to your society. Today, traffic flows in both directions. We are both learning from
each other.
To signify the value the United States attaches to partnership with Japan, I
chose this to make my first overseas trip. I also met with your Ambassador to the
United States on the first day that I assumed office, August 9.
I have long admired the richness and the diversity of Japan's culture, the
products of your industry, the ingenuity, creativity, and the energy of your peo-
ple, your courage as a fountain of resourcefulness in a very troubled world.
My only regret is that Mrs. Ford could not join me on this visit in response
to your very kind invitation. We both hope that she can come at some later date.
Americans are very proud of the way that we and the Japanese have worked
together during the postwar period. We have had some disagreements, but we
have remained friends and we have remained partners. Together we created
conditions under which both nations could prosper. Together we expanded our
relations in trade and in travel.
The reality of America's economic, political, and strategic interdependence
with Japan is very obvious. America is Japan's greatest customer and supplier.
Japan is America's greatest overseas trading partner. Japan is the best foreign
customer for America's agricultural products.
The total trade between our two nations has doubled since 1970. It will sur-
pass $20 billion in 1974. American investments in Japan are the largest of any
637
