December 3
[274]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
These exports add up to many jobs for Americans in all parts of our country
and in all sectors of our society. Some 3 million American workers owe their
livelihood to our American exports—from stevedores to aircraft machinists to
white collar workers staffing American corporations.
Even the smallest of our business organizations in this country-three out of
five successful American exporters have fewer than 100 employees. More than
20 percent of American farm income derives from sales abroad.
Trade-everybody in this room knows-is the bread and butter issue to
workers and businesses in our communities, large, small, in all parts of our 50
States. That means farms on the one hand, business on the other, and industry.
as a whole.
Over the years the effect of trade on our economy has been highly favorable.
The U.S. economy-consumers, workers-benefits from imports as well as
exports. The explanation is relatively simple: Our total imports for the first 10
months of this year amounted to approximately $83 billion. About $37 billion
of that figure were essential to American production-metals, foods, chemicals,
minerals, including oil.
Many American businesses are heavily dependent on imported materials. Let
me offer just a couple of specific examples of how imports help us as an industrial
nation.
We are almost entirely dependent on foreign countries for such vital materials
as chromium, platinum, titanium, manganese. More than 85 percent of our
aluminum comes from overseas; so does most of our bauxite.
When we add the vigor from these imports to the strength of exporting, we
can see the significance of trade to America's economic health. Trade adds to
the income, the income of the American labor force, and to our economic
preeminence in the world at large.
There will be no plus in our balance of trade this year because of the severe,
high cost of importing oil. Otherwise, we could be and would be very much
in the black.
Naturally, I consider the price we are paying for oil as much too high. It is
raising havoc on our domestic economy. If you deduct the increased cost of oil
imports, the U.S. exhibits a favorable trade balance of nearly $8 billion during
the first 6 months of 1974.
Oil price increases are upsetting the entire international economic system. The
adjustments, the answers must come from international bargaining, from inter-
national cooperation, and that is the top priority of this Administration.
697
