[287]
December 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
years do transcend the aisle. The relationship, we all know that have served in
the House, goes well beyond the handshake. The relationship, really, as I found
it, was an abiding trust, a total understanding, a person-to-person relationship
that bridged the gap of partisanship or any of the other things that we hear
or read about so often.
You know, it is an interesting fact that the second week after I became Presi-
dent—I should say the second weekend—George Mahon, Les Arends, Mel Laird,
and I played golf together out at Burning Tree. I won't say how I did on that
day, but I think it was a veto-proof foursome. [Laughter]
A lot of people subscribe to the theory that when you play golf with the
President you don't try too hard to win. I have some news for you. I don't think
George Mahon ever heard of that theory. But come to think of it, I haven't
found anyone that I have ever played with that did either. [Laughter]
But my respect and my admiration for George Mahon goes far, far beyond
the golf course. George may have an interlocking grip on his putter, but he
has a hammerlock grip on unnecessary Federal spending.
I was blessed in the House to have the opportunity of serving 14 years on the
House Committee on Appropriations with George Mahon. We all know that
George Mahon has served 10 years as chairman of that great committee. And
from my perspective as a Member of the House, as a Republican leader, as Vice
President and President, I know that George Mahon has done a super job.
Now, I have to concede he is not quite like Clarence Cannon or John Taber.¹
Many of you didn't have the privilege of knowing those stalwart characters.
But let me assure you that although his style is different, he learned a great deal
from both of those historic characters.
I think we know from the record that George has devoted his total energies,
his boundless resources, to keep America morally, militarily, and fiscally strong.
He is one man that I have found in my years in the Congress and elsewhere
who, in all sincerity and with deep conviction, did put his country above his
party.
If I were to describe somebody that I served with who would deserve the acco-
lade of a statesman, I certainly would pin that label on George Mahon.
I can't tell you how many countless hours I spent with George, not only in the
full Committee on Appropriations but on the Defense Subcommittee on Appro-
priations and various other subcommittees of the Committee on Appropria-
tions. But I don't think I can think of a single person that I served with who was
1
¹ Clarence A. Cannon, United States Representative from Missouri 1923-64, and John Taber, United
States Representative from New York 1923-63.
728
