[220]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
thing like this: “Let's put Bob Bennett in the driver's seat and keep Vern Miller
in the trunk." [Laughter and applause]
It is obvious from the reaction that you have a great candidate in Bob Ben-
nett. His honesty, reliability, complete and total integrity-the only thing that
Bob has ever covered up is his chin. [Laughter]
But speaking of things that, you know, get at a little different perspective once
in a while, a long time ago when I was at the University of Michigan, I played
center on the football team. And normally, of late at least, I have been getting
some very stately and dignified introductions. But I can remember quite vividly
an introduction I got about a month ago from an old teammate of mine. He was
a quarterback. And in the process of the introduction he said, "I played center
on the same football team with Jerry Ford. I was a quarterback, but I want you
to know I got a little different perspective of the President than most of you."
[Laughter]
Well, as I have looked at the great Republican slate that the party has put up
here for the Senate, State offices, Congress, I must say that I am proud to be a
Republican, and I hope you will all support it.
Having said that, let me add this as a postscript: I am not here just because of
party labels. And as Bob said, I suspect there are many in this audience who are
here who are Democrats, Independents, Republicans, but I am here to say a word
of personal support for those individuals that I know and who I know, over the
past years, have done a super job in working in the Congress for Kansas, for you,
and for our country.
I come because of a personal affection that I have for everyone whose name
I mentioned and a respect for a group of people that I have known since all of
them came to the Congress, because I came before any one of them.
And I have seen them come. I have seen them grow. I have seen them assume
great responsibilities far beyond that of others in comparable seniority.
Bob Dole, for example. I got to know Bob when he came and spent 8 years
in the House of Representatives-all of it I was not the minority leader, but a
part of it was, and the rest of the time I was a senior member of the House Com-
mittee on Appropriations. And I learned then, in that capacity, in these respon-
sibilities, that Bob was smart, hard working, independent, and I can assure you
that when he disagrees with you, it is firm; it is a little friendly, but it is firm.
He can disagree without being disagreeable. But what I want you to know is
that his independence is predicated on conscience, and his support, when he
can and does, is based on teamwork. You just could not get a better combination.
So, if I were in Kansas, I know who I would vote for.
570
