October 22
[183]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I am deeply honored to be introduced by one of the most independent men
in the United States Senate, and I refer to your distinguished Senator, Henry
Bellmon, who is so highly regarded in Washington—and I say this with some
authority and great respect. He is respected by both Democrats as well as
Republicans. I have heard that Henry Bellmon is the only honest-to-goodness
dirt farmer in the United States Senate. He calls the shots as he sees them.
And a person with that strength of independence obviously, on some occa-
sions, will differ with me, but I respect that independence of thought, that
independence of action, as well as his total dedication to honesty and candor
and forthrightness serving in the United States Senate. You must reelect Henry
Bellmon.
In the 25-plus years that I served in the House of Representatives I found
that it takes some courage to make unpopular decisions. It takes some courage
to be your own man. And I say with the depth of my conviction that I respect
individuals who have those qualities.
Henry, because of his background, is a top authority on agriculture and the
expansion of food production. He is, therefore, a person of utmost importance
in our battle against inflation.
In addition, Henry is sought on both sides of the political aisle for his knowl-
edge about oil and energy. And I am glad to know that Henry Bellmon is
energetically seeking a vast new nuclear development park through the Atomic
Energy Commission near Muskogee, and I commend and congratulate you,
Henry, for that effort.
A man who served 4 years in the statehouse as Governor, a man who has served
almost 6 years as the United States Senator does not have to prove his devotion
to the people of Oklahoma. It is obvious that he has their best interests at heart,
and as a team, he and Senator Dewey Bartlett represent, in my judgment, Okla-
homa's finest, especially in the areas of food and energy, the State's leading in-
dustries. And both of them are vitally important to us in the other 49 States.
Since all but one of Oklahoma's delegation, Happy Camp, are Democrats,
a balance is provided by keeping these two Republican Senators in the Senate
delegation. But Happy needs some help in the House, and we have some good
Republican candidates on the ticket in other districts.
In the First District, George Mizer, Jr., of Oklahoma Cherokee heritage, is a
forthright, courageous man. A former U.S. Navy pilot, he has shown brilliance
in management as well as in business. He has acquired a reputation of integrity,
and he has accumulated considerable political experience. I think you and Okla-
homa need George in Washington.
431
