October 29
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
you have to disappoint some and, hopefully, please a few others. But what I am
pledged to do—to you and to millions of others—I am going to do it as I see best
from the point of view of anybody and everybody.
I think most of you knew my working schedule when I was around Grand
Rapids and the surrounding area. It started very early and ended very late. Well,
it has not changed, and it is not going to change. I love it. I thrive on it. And the
net result is that you can get a lot more work done in 12 and 14 hours than you
can in 8, and we are going to keep working at it, and we are going to do the
very best we know how. And we are going to call them as we see them.
There are some tough decisions, but I happen to believe, despite some of the
comments, that we are making headway overseas. I have gotten not one but
several reports from Henry Kissinger every day he has been gone. We are en-
couraged, whether it is in Moscow, whether it is in India. And I am confident
that we are going to continue to make progress in the solution of the difficult
problems in the Middle East, between Greece and Cyprus and Turkey.
I am confident we are going to strengthen and solidify the Western alliance.
We are looking forward to the trip to Vladivostok to meet Mr. Brezhnev. We
hope to have a successful—and I believe we will—meeting in Japan as well as
South Korea.
All of this is aimed at peace, not only for this year but for a long, long time.
And that is what our objective is.
Now, I am not going to stand here in front of so many of you and deny that
we are having some troubles, economically, at home. I never tried to kid anybody
when I was campaigning on 13 different occasions. I am going to tell you the
truth. We have some problems at home, economically, both because the economy
is a little soft on the one hand and inflation is a little high on the other.
But the program that I submitted to the Congress-if it is enacted, if it is imple-
mented in its entirety—will get over both problems, will strengthen the economy,
and will whip inflation. So, let's work for that kind of a program.
Now, if I could conclude with one political observation. I have known the
Goebel family a long time. I first knew that family when Paul Goebel, Sr., was
officiating high school games around Grand Rapids and I was a beginner in the
football arena in this area.
I have to tell you a personal story. Paul, one time when he was officiating a
game-this is Paul, Sr., who is about 5 inches taller than I—I must have made
some infraction of the rules, and he grabbed me and said, "Ford, you did this."
I did not argue with him.
511
