[218]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Nation has its own needs, its own priorities, and the priorities of Salt Lake are
different than those of Miami, and the ones of Seattle are quite different from
those of Baltimore.
So, these unique, these unusual needs and priorities cannot be understood and
dealt with from a very, very remote vantage point in the Nation's Capital.
The day is past, in my honest judgment, when an octopus-like Government in
the Nation's Capital can stretch its tentacles across the Nation and literally
squeeze into itself more and more power.
In my judgment, we have to chop off those tentacles, and as each of those
tentacles wither, we have to return the power and the revenue that they have
grasped back to the States and to the local communities where they honestly
belong—back to the taxpayers, the local taxpayers who made the funds available
in the first place.
As we carry out this decentralization process, it is absolutely essential that we
have men in Washington who can tell us precisely what their constituents want
and how they want it done.
And that is why, without any hesitation, reservation, or qualification, I urge
you to send Jake Garn to the United States Senate.
As a local official, Jake has a unique and firsthand knowledge of what the
people of Utah really want. As a Senator, he will be able to put that knowledge
to use, firsthand.
Now, one of my primary goals as President is to return governmental control
to the American people, and I need Jake in Washington to help me achieve and
realize that very important goal.
It will not be an easy job. I am not standing here trying to kid you. It is never
easy to dismantle a rickety structure that has been reinforced in a patchwork way
for decades. If you knock out the wrong section, the whole thing could or is
liable to fall and hurt a lot of innocent people.
We do not want that. But the job has to be done. For too long, politicians have
operated on the principle that you can bring heaven to Earth by piling Federal
programs like layer cake and frosting them with Federal money. It won't and
it has not worked.
The result or the consequence has been a huge, cumbersome, totally unrespon-
sive central government that increasingly threatens to assert control over nearly
every aspect of our personal lives.
The intentions of the people who have helped build the Federal layer cake
are noble ones. I do not challenge their motives or their intentions. They actually,
sincerely believe that if the Government ministers to every need and to every
558
