[109]
September 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Nation's 200th birthday with our economy healthy and strong, with prosperity
as well as peace that brings the solid realities of a great republic.
Thousands and thousands of dedicated men and women have come together
in this series of inflation conferences to map the strategies and the tactics of our
all-out war against America's domestic enemy number one. All of you will be
the Founding Fathers—if we succeed. If we fail, then certainly we will all hang
separately.
General George Washington's words at the start of our Nation are equally
appropriate at this time, and I quote: Let us raise a standard to which the wise
and honest can repair; the rest is in the hands of God.
And God helps those who help themselves. On this principle, Americans in
two centuries have astonished the world and, time and time again, have con-
founded the pessimists and the cynics who said it couldn't be done.
You have discussed many ideas. You have spoken candidly. And as a result, I,
along with other Americans, have gained a far better understanding of our
economic problems. Perhaps we have caught glimpses of the political problems,
and we understand those, but even in our controversies, we have all developed a
super sense of direction. You have done your homework well. Now it is my turn.
In the days immediately ahead, I will offer to the American people and to the
Congress a program of action which will help bring balance and vitality to our
economy. This program could not be formulated without your participation and
without the support of millions of other Americans who have given us their
ideas. I think all agree on one point: Inflation must be stopped. But this Admin-
istration will respond not with words but with action and with programs.
As your President, the only special interest I have, the only special interest I
represent is the American people—housewives struggling with rising grocery
prices, workers whose real purchasing power has eroded because of inflation,
businessmen trying to control rising costs, families needing new homes but
unable to find mortgage money to buy them, those thousands of unemployed who
want work, the elderly locked into pension programs earned years ago—indeed,
all 213 million Americans.
I pledge to you that I will not shrink from the hard decisions needed to meet
the problems facing each and every one of us. This is a critical hour in America's
history. It requires that Americans once again rise above petty partisanship or
factional interests in any segment of our society. The very future of our political
and economic institutions, indeed our whole way of life, is literally at stake.
A fundamental fact of human history is precisely this: Nations which cannot
impose on themselves a disciplined management of their fiscal and monetary
206
