Appendix D
less," when you have more on hand than you had
a year ago.
Q. Would you argue for the gas tax that your
namesake [Henry Ford II] is recommending?
A. I don't foresee that as a possibility. I do get
arguments or I do get people who advocate it. I do
have to say to them-not only the substantive argu-
ments that I think are reasonable, equally balanced-
but most of the people who argue for it do not
realize the vigorous opposition on the Hill to any
program.
You may recollect when the program was first
discussed there was the inference, I think, from
John Sawhill or maybe John and two or three others
that this was going to be recommended by me at
the time we were going through the [economic]
summit process.
Bill Timmons, our legislative liaison, tells me he
got more telephone calls from Capitol Hill, Demo-
crats, Republicans, leaders, troops, saying, "Don't,
under any circumstances, recommend that because
it will not go anyplace, period."
Is that important? Well, you have to be realistic.
Is there any point in submitting something where
you get substantive arguments from both sides.
that at least in the environment that existed in late
October there was absolutely no possibility of any
affirmative action on Capitol Hill?
Q. Did the same conditions apply to your sur-
tax?
A. No, because the surtax-I think if Congress
understood it or made an effort to understand it, or
if we had sold it better-and I must confess, I don't
think I, and others, sold it as well as we should-
is a far more equitable, less regressive, tax than a
tax of say 10 or 20 cents per gallon additional on
gasoline. Now, maybe the vigor with which it was.
opposed in October was predicated on the election or
the prospective election.
But my judgment at that time was clear. A gas-
tax increase would have fallen like a lead balloon up
on Capitol Hill. And this word came from people
whose judgment I really respect, not only on sub-
stance, but on the political realities.
So, I still think the surtax at that time, and even
today, was a good approach. Maybe it ought to have
been [set at an income level of] $20,000 to make it
more applicable to a greater degree on higher-in-
come people, but even at the figure we used it was
applicable only to 28 per cent of the tax returns, so
that is hitting a very narrow part of the spectrum.
But I just wish Congress, if it does not like what
we propose, comes up with a plan of their own, and
I have not seen any plan yet.
Q. Mr. President, the polls show that while you
yourself remain personally popular, the American
people would like to see a greater sense of urgency
in meeting the energy problems and in meeting the
economic problems in this country. Do you see truth
in the polls, and how do you intend to respond?
A. Let's take the energy problem as a whole. Even
before I took this office there were a dozen or more
bills up there that President Nixon had recommended
for action that did involve the energy problem and
the solutions. We submitted some extra ones. The
scorecard on the Hill is really minor league on pas-
sing bills related to energy.
Q. By minor league, you mean Michigan's field-
goal kicker?
A. [Laughter.] Don't pick on that poor kid. He
missed two last year. He did not go to the Rose
Bowl, and he missed one this year. That kid must
have had nightmares every night.
No. How much more can a President do than to
recommend legislation, have his people do their very
best to talk to committee members, to chairmen, to
the leaderships?
I have talked to them. I have met with the leader-
ship. There are just roadblocks up there that are
apparently unbreakable until we get a real crisis.
And I am being very practical now. I do not
think you are going to get a breakthrough in legis-
lation in the field of energy until you get a brownout
or a blackout. I think it is just that pragmatic.
You won't get deregulation on natural gas until
the cutbacks in natural gas in Washington and in
New York and New England start to hurt people
or hurt jobs. That is a bad commentary on our sys-
tem, perhaps, but that is the way we act, right or
wrong.
Q. Is the Congress out of step in this case? Do you
think the people would be more open to initiatives
than the Congress is willing to show?
A. Very definitely. I really think so.
Q. Would that include gasoline rationing? The
polls show people would approve gasoline rationing.
A. In this case, I think the Congress is showing
better judgment than the people who have been
polled. Most people who have been polled I suspect
never went through gasoline rationing.
Many members of Congress remember it, and
it was not a very satisfactory system. Of course, the
circumstances are different today than they were in
World War II.
Q. In terms of the economy, would you sketch
for us what kind of crisis stage would perhaps force
Congress to act? Or that you yourself might recom-
mend additional action other than what you al-
ready recommended?
A. I think we have a plan that we submitted in
October that fitted the circumstances as we saw them
then and as we envisaged them over the horizon.
I must confess that there has been a more rapid
deterioration in the economy since Oct. 8.
In the last two months unemployment has risen
more rapidly. The deterioration in the automotive
806
