October 8
[119]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
thorough review of all the dangers to peace for ourselves and the world must
surely be a matter of highest priority.
We seek a peaceful world and a more prosperous world. Poland is a world
leader in coal production and coal research. Poland has a very major role, a role
to play in contributing solutions to the world energy problem, and you, Mr.
First Secretary, with a lifetime of expertise, are able to make a very important
personal contribution in this specific area. I look forward to exchanging views
with you on the energy problem.
Mr. First Secretary, we, all of us in America, are pleased that you and Mrs.
Gierek are here. I am confident, Mr. First Secretary, that our meetings will
deepen the friendship of our two peoples and broaden the cooperation of our
two nations.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where Mr. Gierek,
First Secretary of the Central Committee of the
Polish United Workers' Party, was given a formal
welcome with full military honors.
First Secretary Gierek spoke in Polish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and
gentlemen:
I wish to thank you for your words of cordiality
which you, Mr. President, have addressed to me,
to Mrs. Gierek, and to members of my delegation.
I take these words of yours as being directed to the
people of Poland and to the Polish State on behalf
of which and upon your invitation I am visiting
the United States.
I am pleased to have made this visit, as it adds
new testimony to the friendly ties that have linked.
our two nations since the times of George Wash-
ington and Tadeusz Kosciuszko.
I rest assured that it is the desire of both our
peoples not only to preserve these traditional rela-
tions but also to strengthen them through closer and
broader cooperation in the world of today.
Indeed, Socialist Poland, dynamically developing
her new potential and creating as she does new liv-
ing conditions for her people, is vitally interested in
this. I trust that the talks we shall hold and agree-
ments we shall conclude will greatly contribute
towards this end, that they will open up broader
prospects for cooperation between our countries.
I am pleased to have made this visit, also, because
it represents yet another reaffirmation of interna-
tional détente which my country views as extremely
significant and to which we try to make our utmost
contribution.
That process which originates from the very
essence of the contemporary world, from the need
for and necessity of peaceful coexistence among
states with differing political systems has been
considerably enhanced in recent years.
We of Poland can only welcome it in our profound
conviction that it is in the interest of all nations to
make that process further extend universal and irre-
versible. Precisely for this reason there is wide appre-
ciation today that it is you, Mr. President, who is
steering the United States policy towards this di-
rection.
I am pleased to have made this visit, as it will
enable me to get to know the United States, to
acquaint myself with the outstanding accomplish-
ments of the progress of civilization of the American
people, whose history and achievements have since
the very outset been and continue to be so much
enriched by the Americans of Polish extraction.
Mr. President, I am profoundly convinced of the
propitious conditions today and the right time for
expansion of Polish-American cooperation in its new
dimensions and in all fields of endeavor.
Mine is also a firm belief that we can work closer
together for the great cause of peace. That is the
purpose of my visit here, and I am happy that you
too share these aspirations of ours.
Please accept, Mr. President, the best wishes from
Poland to the United States, from the Polish people
to the American people.
227
