October 22
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Yes, we need the kind of cooperation in the Congress to make sure that we
do what is right in Latin America, that we try to help Africa to become an
emerging continent, raising the levels that are so essential for them as well as for
others.
We need the kind of cooperation between the Congress and the President to
see that the Pacific does not have another kind of conflagration that lasted for
10 years in Vietnam.
I am worried. This last Congress, in my judgment, despite the leadership on
both sides of the aisle, began to tear apart that cooperation between a President
and the Congress. I happen to think if you work, if you do what you can, we can
have a Congress in the next 2 years that will stand with the President who wants
the peace, who believes we have a unique opportunity in this time in history to
build for peace, not for a year but for longer.
Now, I ask for your help. I ask for your support—not just for me, not for the
Republican Party, but for the country and millions and millions of people all
over the world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. at a dinner for Republican candidates in the Gold Room at the
Sheraton-Cleveland Hotel.
185
Veto of National Wildlife Refuge System Legislation.
October 22, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am withholding my approval from H.R. 11541, a bill which would amend
the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966. I am advised
by the Attorney General and I have determined that the absence of my signa-
ture from this bill prevents it from becoming law. Without in any way qualify-
ing this determination, I am also returning it without my approval to those desig-
nated by Congress to receive messages at this time.
This bill would amend section 4(d) of the Act of October 15, 1966, by adding
a new standard in determining the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to
allow certain rights-of-way across lands of the National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem. This new standard would require the Secretary to review all reasonable
alternatives to the use of such area, and then make a determination that the
447
