October 12
[139]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
MR. ROUDEBUSH. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
Certainly, I want to first say how very deeply grateful I am to you, sir, for
your confidence. I am also deeply grateful that you take the time from a schedule
that must be backbreaking to have this public ceremony here today in the
beautiful Rose Garden of the White House.
I am deeply grateful that my daughter could come out from Indiana—
Karen—and be with me today. I am sure the President is aware of the fact that
my father is in very bad condition, and my wife had to remain in Indiana and
could not be present with us today. So, Karen appeared in her behalf.
I want to acknowledge the presence of my former colleagues in the Congress,
in both bodies, and may I say to them I appreciate them coming. My comrades
of the veterans organizations, I am very deeply grateful to you.
Mr. President, the charge you have given me is a tremendous one. I am
aware of this. The task before the Veterans Administration, administering bene-
fits for more than 29 million of our citizens—and when you take into account
the families of those 29 million veterans, a total, an aggregate you might say, of
over 100 million of our citizens, nearly half of our population—it is a tremendous
undertaking.
But, Mr. President, I am happy to report to you today, although I have actually
been aboard as the acting Administrator only a very short period of time, I think
we have a new feeling at the Veterans Administration.
I think we have a great increase in our morale down there, and we appreciate
your support, sir, and the support of our great veterans organizations, and I
know that we are going to solve all the problems that do lie in front of us.
I am so happy that my colleagues from the VA, men like Odell Vaughn,
could be here today, our Chief Benefits Director; Rufus Wilson, who runs our
cemetery system, Mr. President; and Dr. Jack Chase, who, of course,
heads up
the greatest hospital system in the world, all 171 of our hospitals, and I am just
so happy that they could come down today.
So, Mr. President, I believe that is all I have to say at this time, but thank you
all for coming. And to you, sir, I offer again my sincere thanks, my appreciation,
and I assure you, sir, I will never let you down.
Thank you so much.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, thank you all for coming. It is wonderful to have you
here on this beautiful day. We are proud of Roudy, and we know he will do a
first-class job.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:51 a.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
291
