September 6
[58]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
“Resolved, that all manufactures of this country be sold at reasonable prices,
so that no undue advantage be taken of a future scarcity of goods."
I continue the quote from this document: Such as are vendors of goods or
merchandise will not take advantage of the scarcity of goods, that may be occa-
sioned by this association, but will sell the same at the rates we have been respec-
tively accustomed to for the last 12 months past.
And then follows some good advice, and I quote again: And if any vendor
of goods or merchandise shall sell any such goods on higher terms, . . . no
person ought, nor will any of us deal with any such person, or his or her factor
or agent.
hope you noticed the last phrase in that last quote, and I say this to our liber-
ated women: Please note, "His or her factor or agent." [Laughter]
We have heard an awful lot—a lot of talk about our Founding Fathers. Let's
not forget our Founding Mothers. Obviously they didn't.
But these resolutions continue, and again I quote: That a committee be chosen
in every county, city, and town, by those who are qualified to vote for the rep-
resentatives of the state legislature, whose business it shall be attentively to
observe the conduct of all persons touching this association.
It goes on, and again I quote: We will, in our several stations, encourage
frugality, economy, and industry, and promote agriculture, the arts, and the
manufactures of this country . . . and will discountenance and discourage
every species of extravagance and dissipation.
These are the conclusions of the First Continental Congress. These were
chosen at random, but they convey the sense of urgency and unity which existed
here, right here, two centuries ago.
I happen to believe there is the same sense of urgency and unity in America
today. I have encountered it in Washington and throughout our country. I know
it is the reason for this distinguished gathering here tonight in the shadow of
Independence Hall.
You who are Governors, Senators, Representatives, mayors, and other public
officials elected by the people have told me individually and collectively that you
share this sense of urgency, this sense of unity. So, I have come here tonight to
ask your help and the help of some 211 million Americans, not only in celebrat-
ing what is right about America but in correcting what is wrong about America.
The tyranny of the British Parliament and Crown in 1774 animated our an-
cestors. The tyranny of double-digit inflation is our common enemy in 1974. I
think everybody in this wonderful audience tonight knows as well as I do that
inflation is the cruelest kind of taxation without representation.
97
