October 19
[175]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
on the other side of the aisle, I can tell you what will happen in the way of spend-
ing. Let me put it just as bluntly as I can. If you get a veto-proof Congress, boy,
tighten your seatbelts. You are going right through the roof of the United States
Capitol as far as the Federal Treasury is concerned.
They have spent too much already, and if they get another 40 or 50 or 75 in
the House of Representatives and another 7 or 8 in the United States Senate
like they are talking about, the key to the Treasury will be thrown away and
the money will pour out unbelievably. That is the record. I mean, we can lay
it out.
And speaking of excessive Federal spending, let me talk about the second
point. Ten days, eleven days ago, I submitted to the Congress and to the Amer-
ican people a 31-point program aimed with three basic objectives: one, to save
energy; number two, to tighten the screws on inflation; and number three, to
keep our economy moving in a healthy, constructive way, so that in the years
ahead we would be able to compete overseas, we would be able to provide jobs
at home, and that we would be strong and capable of meeting any competition
anyplace else in the world.
I happen to think this was a sound, finely tuned program that calls upon the
Congress to react favorably in a number of areas, and the American people to
react.
I followed it up with a speech in Kansas City last Monday or Tuesday night,
asking the American people to respond, to respond to what I call WIN-"Whip
Inflation Now."
You can do something about it; the Congress can do something about it. One
of the basic ingredients of that program is to hold the lid on Federal spending,
and it has been said here tonight that the Congress in the last 25 years has had
some 19 years of deficit spending. You couldn't run your family, your church,
your business, your schools, with that kind of a record. And we can't win the
battle against inflation with that kind of a record.
We have in the months ahead, between now and next June 30, to save about
$5.4 billion. I can count on Marlow Cook; I can count on Tim Lee Carter; I can
count on Gene Snyder. They will hold the lid, but if you elect their opponents,
there is no hope, there is no prospect, there is no possibility. Their opponents will
do just the opposite.
So, if you want your Government to set an example so that when I or others
ask you to sacrifice just a bit, you ought to have people like Marlow and Gene
and Tim Lee Carter in the Congress. I can't ask you in good conscience, I can't
409
