[207]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
of Betty and myself, I pledge you nothing but all I can do for all of you and
many like you.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:35 p.m. at Calder
Plaza. In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Jackson Root, chairman of the Kent County Board
of Commissioners.
208
Remarks at a Reception for Republican Candidates
in Grand Rapids. October 29, 1974
MAY I say just a word, and it will be very, very short, because it has been a
long day, but a wonderful day, and there is no way that I can express in words
or sentences or in paragraphs or a speech the appreciation that I have for all of
the wonderful people who are here.
I look at so many of you, and I cannot help but be appreciative of what you
have done for Betty and for me over the 13 past elections where, you know,
without your support, I could not have been in the Congress and therefore could
not have been in a position where I finally got where I am today.
But without all that you have done and I don't mean financially, because I
know how hard most of you have worked in the vineyards as precinct people, as
party workers, as well as donors, and this kind of just deep feeling, whether you
agreed with me on every issue-and as I look around the room, I see some peo-
ple who have written some critical letters from time to time, but at least you had
an open door then, and the truth is you will have an open door now.
So, on behalf of Betty-and I will say to you that she is deeply apologetic;
that is not quite the right word—that she is not out here, but she is doing great,
she is just coming along fine. She is giving me a few harsh words, and I know
that is the fact that she is getting better and better. And I am being silenced
more and more, and that is a sign that I am noticing that she is better and better.
So, on behalf of Betty and myself, I thank you all for coming.
Now, let me make one quick observation. I used to be, as an outside observer,
as minority leader in the House of Representatives, going down to talk with
Democratic Presidents and Republican Presidents. And I wondered how the
office operated. Well, I am learning.
And as Harry Truman once said, "The buck stops here." And the trouble is
that you have to say yes or no, you cannot say maybe. And the net result is that
510
