[76]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
By the same token, I suggest it might be profitable for you who work outside
Washington to spend a few months in our Capital every so often. We all would
benefit from such an exchange of ideas, attitudes, and experiences.
As you may know, most of our White House press staff are experienced
journalists. One of them, Bill Roberts, served as president of your organization.
I know that to the best of their abilities they will do what they can to help you.
And while some people say that government and the news media are in a
sense adversaries, I hope we can always remain friendly adversaries.
I trust your conference will prove stimulating and professionally helpful. I
congratulate your president, Tom Frawley, on completion of a successful year,
and wish your new president and officers well in meeting and surmounting the
challenges and the concerns of the broadcast journalists.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded for use at the conference in Montreal, Canada, on September 13,
1974.
77
Remarks Announcing a Program for the Return of Vietnam Era
Draft Evaders and Military Deserters. September 16, 1974
Good morning:
In my first week as President, I asked the Attorney General and the Secretary
of Defense to report to me, after consultation with other Governmental officials
and private citizens concerned, on the status of those young Americans who
have been convicted, charged, investigated, or are still being sought as draft
evaders or military deserters.
On August 19, at the national convention of Veterans of Foreign Wars in the
city of Chicago, I announced my intention to give these young people a chance
to earn their return to the mainstream of American society so that they can,
if they choose, contribute, even though belatedly, to the building and the better-
ment of our country and the world.
I did this for the simple reason that for American fighting men, the long and
divisive war in Vietnam has been over for more than a year, and I was deter-
mined then, as now, to do everything in my power to bind up the Nation's
wounds.
I promised to throw the weight of my Presidency into the scales of justice on
136
