September 16
[80]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. At the outset, let me say I had no secret reason, and I don't
recall telling any Republican that I had such a reason.
Let me review quickly, if I might, the things that transpired following the last
news conference.
As many of you know, I answered two, maybe three, questions concerning a
pardon at that time. On return to the office, I felt that I had to have my counsel
undertake a thorough examination as to what my right of pardon was under
the Constitution. I also felt that it was very important that I find out what legal
actions, if any, were contemplated by the Special Prosecutor.
That information was found out, and it was indicated to me that the possi-
bility exists, the very real possibility, that the [former] President would be
charged with obstructing justice and 10 other possible criminal actions.
In addition, I asked my general counsel to find out, if he could, how long
such criminal proceedings would take, from the indictment, the carrying on of
the trial, et cetera. And I was informed that this would take a year, maybe some-
what longer, for the whole process to go through.
I also asked my counsel to find out whether or not, under decisions of the
judicial system, a fair trial could be given to the former President.
After I got that information, which took 2 or 3 days, I then began to evaluate,
in my own mind, whether or not I should take the action which I subsequently
did.
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
Q. Throughout your Vice Presidency, you said that you didn't believe that
former President Nixon had ever committed an impeachable offense. Is that
still your belief, or do you believe that his acceptance of a pardon implies his
guilt or is an admission of guilt?
THE PRESIDENT. The fact that 38 members of the House Committee on the
Judiciary, Democrat and Republican, have unanimously agreed in the report
that was filed that the former President was guilty of an impeachable offense, I
think, is very persuasive evidence.
And the second question, I don't-
Q. Was it an admission of guilt?
THE PRESIDENT. Was the acceptance of the pardon by the President an admis-
sion of guilt? The acceptance of a pardon, I think, can be construed by many,
if not all, as an admission of guilt.
Yes, Mr. Nessen [Ron Nessen, NBC News].
147
