August 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
On Monday of this past week I had the opportunity to make some remarks
to a group who had served their country in uniform, and I had the sad occasion
to announce to that group the loss of life by Rodger Davies. And I said to them
and I repeat here today, some serve in uniform, some serve in other capacities.
The loss of life in either case means as much to America.
And, therefore, it is appropriate on this occasion that we pay a very special
tribute to a great Ambassador, highly respected by his friends, a person who gave
his full life to the career that he sought. So, I say it is an honor for me on this
occasion to present, on behalf of all Americans, the flag to Dana, the Ambassa-
dor's flag, to which your father, as my personal representative in the service of
his country, brought such great distinction.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. at An-
drews Air Force Base, Md., where he and Secretary
of State Henry A. Kissinger met the plane bearing
Ambassador Davies' children, Dana and John, and
the body of the slain Ambassador.
On the same day, the President signed Executive
Order 11801 directing the flag to be flown at half-
staff on the day of interment as a mark of respect
for Ambassador Davies.
Prior to the President's remarks, Secretary Kis-
singer spoke as follows:
Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
A professional Foreign Service officer has come
home. He returns not to joy, but to sadness; not to
parades, but to solemn ceremony.
Rodger Davies embodied the qualities and spirit
which mark an American. He chose an unusual
profession, a profession which required that to serve
his country he leave his home but never forget it.
Wherever he went, the heritage of America was in
his heart. He remembered the dignity of the indi-
vidual where individuals had lost their dignity. He
remembered the rights to liberty and justice where
these rights were under attack. He remembered
peace where there was war. In that sense, Rodger
Davies never left home.
In the diplomatic entrance at the Department of
State, the American Foreign Service Association
maintains plaques which list the names of those
members of the Foreign Service who gave their lives
under heroic or tragic circumstances in the service
of their country. It is not a short list, and now
tragically another name will be added.
I am today awarding to Ambassador Davies the
highest award of the Department of State, the Secre-
tary's Award. The citation reads as follows:
"For inspiring leadership, outstanding courage,
and dedication to duty for which he gave his life,
Nicosia, August 19, 1974."
Awards and names on plaques are little comfort to
those who loved and admired Rodger Davies. To his
children, Dana and John, I would only repeat my
remarks of Monday that Ambassador Davies was
beloved, admired, and respected by his colleagues.
He was a professional in the fullest and best sense
of the word.
Dana and John, your father leaves behind a legacy
of which any man should be proud. Even more im-
portant, he leaves a multitude of friends whose lives
were enriched by knowing him.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is now my honor to in-
troduce a man who in less than 2 weeks has given
hope to America and inspired confidence in the
world, the President of the United States.
23
Statement on a General Motors Announcement of a Reduction
in 1975 Price Increases. August 21, 1974
I AM encouraged by General Motors' announcement today that it is reducing
the amount of the price increases previously announced for its 1975 model
cars and trucks. The consumer will save money, and the economy will benefit.
33
