[136]
October 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
children to live up to their highest potential. And let us never underestimate how
high that potential is.
In the last few years, great progress has been made in winning legal recognition
for the rights of retarded citizens—not only the right to education but the right
not to be confined in an institution without habilitative treatment, the right to be
paid for work done, and other rights that belong to all citizens.
I urge employers to consider the very real job capabilities of retarded persons
and to use the U.S. Employment Service to the fullest possible extent in hiring
retarded persons. If we forget stereotypes and look at retarded people as people,
we will recognize what so many of them have already proved-that they can do
hundreds of different jobs reliably and well.
There is urgent need to chart a concerted effort to minimize the occurrence of
retardation and to assure humane services and full citizenship for those who are
retarded. I encourage this Committee to pursue to completion its report on the
directions that effort should take over the next quarter century.
Finally, I call upon all Americans to become more familiar with the problems
of retardation and the potentials of retarded people. With our understanding.
they will thrive. With our love, they will flower.
137
Remarks on Signing the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974.
October 11, 1974
BEFORE signing, I just want to thank all the Members of Congress who are
here. I can recall rather vividly when this recommendation came to the Con-
gress, and I am especially pleased that I have an opportunity to sign the legis-
lation which establishes ERDA.
I think it is a tremendous step forward. It is really the result of hard work by
the Congress and, I think, good recommendations by the Administration.
Now we are going to turn over to Rog-Rog Morton here-the overall re-
sponsibility to make sure that this, as well as the other parts of the energy pro-
gram for this Government, proceeds as fast, and as effectively, and as efficiently
as possible.
So, it is a particular pleasure for me to sign a rather short name with 11 pens,
but I will do my best. [Laughter] I found that there was another left-handed
President, President Garfield.
We will get a couple more and see that those are properly passed out.
286
