[213]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
had an interest in energy, you have had an interest in jobs and health and educa-
tion. Yes, your experience in these areas has been invaluable to the people in
this Congressional district.
But let me mention one other area that I hope and trust does have an impact
on all of you, and I speak now of the field of foreign policy. Bob Mathias has
another great committee responsibility, as a member of the Committee on For-
eign Affairs. That is the committee that puts together that legislation that helped
to achieve the peace. It is the committee that puts together the legislation that will
maintain the peace. It is the committee that will build a better America here so
we can have peace abroad.
But let me speak, if I might, about the subject that I consider public enemy
number one, domestically—inflation. Inflation, according to all polls, is the mat-
ter of primary interest, the highest-ranking matter of concern to the American
people, some 83 percent. There is one way that all of us, and particularly those
in the Congress, can do something about it, and that is to cut, to slice the fat off
the Federal budget.
This can help us curb rampant inflation. Bob Mathias has a reputation in the
Congress for being an inflation fighter. I understand that his opponent is pretty
well beholden to the people that want a veto-proof Congress.
Well, a veto-proof Congress, in my judgment, will do more to increase infla-
tion than anything I can imagine. What we want is not a veto-proof Congress,
but we want an inflation-proof Congress, and Bob Mathias can give us that.
As I heard the Star-Spangled Banner, or National Anthem, being played,
I thought back—in 1948 when I first ran for the Congress of the United States
as an ex-athlete, and it goes back a long time. I was proud of the representation
that Bob Mathias at the ripe old age of 17 was giving our country in the Olym-
pics, a gold medal winner both in London as well as Helsinki. And I was proud
of him then, and I am very proud of him and the contributions that he has made
to our country today.
This kind of representation, as a young man and as a legislator, is good for our
country.
I am informed that in this area, perhaps—maybe around the Nation-there is
an apathy about this election. I hope and trust this is not true in Kings and
Fresno and Tulare Counties. I hope it is not true in the great State of California.
And I am going to do the maximum that I can to prevent it from being true
in the rest of the country.
I don't believe people are discouraged, disillusioned, turned off. I don't believe
540
