[127]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
competition in education, between private and public, is good for the student.
There is no reason why there should be a monopoly in education just on the
public side. And private education has contributed over a long period of time at
the primary, secondary, and graduate levels significantly to a better educated
America. And I would hope that we could find some constitutional way in
which to help private schools.
ACCESS TO INCOME TAX RETURNS
[14.] Q. In the matter of income tax privacy, Mr. President, can you explain
the difference between your Executive order [11805] on White House practices,
which is very tough on safeguarding the taxpayers, and the legislation which you
sent to the Hill, which Congressional experts say is weaker than what went on
under the Nixon Administration when there were reported attempts by the
White House to subvert the Internal Revenue Service?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if that legislation is weaker than the Executive order
that I issued, we will resubmit other legislation.
Mr. DeFrank [Thomas M. DeFrank, Newsweek].
TRANSITION FUNDS FOR THE FORMER PRESIDENT
[15.] Q. Mr. President, you recently asked Congress to appropriate $850,000
to cover transition expenses of former President Nixon. The House has already
cut that figure down to $200,000. The Senate seems likely to do the same.
Some of your aides have said in the last few days that they believe that the
cutback from $850,000 to $200,000 is both stingy and punitive, and I use their
words.
I am wondering if you agree with them that the cutback is stingy and punitive
and whether or not you intend to ask the Congress to restore some of those
funds?
THE PRESIDENT. A recommendation was made to the Congress for the figure
of $850,000 for the transition period. About 10 years ago Congress passed a law
which provided for transition expenses for an outgoing President. The amount
that was submitted on this occasion was roughly comparable to the amounts
that have been made available to other Presidents who were leaving office.
Now, the facts and the figures I think can be shown that what was recom-
mended for Mr. Nixon was comparable to others. The Congress, of course, has
the right to take whatever action it wants, but under the circumstances, I am not
going to use such language myself. I will let the Congress make its decision,
right or wrong.
252
