[123]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
And so I had a great exposure to the finest, the best, with individuals who had
come from your country to ours.
And then in 1958 or '59, I had the opportunity to go to Poland, and I won-
dered as I went to Poland whether there would be so many comparable, wonder-
ful people in Poland as I had known in my hometown in Michigan in the
United States.
And I found, Mr. First Secretary, that instead of 30,000, there were 30 mil-
lion. And all of them had the same warmth, friendship, family dedication, deep
conviction, and all of them wanted to uplift their community, their state, and
make their country a better and finer place in which to live.
So it seemed to me, Mr. First Secretary, that it was very easy for Poland and our
country to start building a foundation some years ago which has now developed
into a great relationship, a relationship predicated on understanding, a relation-
ship that has a far broader vision.
We want to help one another and we do. But we want to build from our rela-
tionship a broader effort to improve world relations between countries that did
not understand one another, but who now hopefully will, blocs that did not
understand one another, but hopefully will. And the net result is that because of
our citizens who came from Poland, settled here, and have become so strong
and vital in our society, and yours who are so strong and so vital in Europe,
I hope and trust that we can move together in cooperation and economic mat-
ters, cultural matters, educational matters, environmental matters, and set an
example for all nations because we do understand one another and we can, by
history, work together.
And so I ask all of our guests here tonight to rise and join with me in offering
a toast to the First Secretary and to Mrs. Gierek and offer them the best from all
of us in the United States to the First Secretary, to the Polish people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:12 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
First Secretary Gierek spoke in Polish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
I thank you, Mr. President, for your kind and
friendly words. I thank you for the hospitality you
have shown us, which both Mrs. Gierek and I
greatly appreciate and sincerely hope to heartily
reciprocate.
From the outset of our sojourn on the Ameri-
can soil, we have been accompanied by a good,
matter-of-fact, and friendly atmosphere. This glad-
dens us and reaffirms in our profound conviction
that my visit here will prove fruitful.
Our conversations with you, Mr. President, have
above all reassured me in this. We have exchanged,
in their course, views on the most important issues of
Polish-American relations and on the further devel-
opment of the process of international détente.
We have reached important conclusions which
will be set down on our joint documents. I am
confident that the results of our meetings will open
up a new stage in the mutual relations between
both our countries and nations.
I highly value, Mr. President, this direct contact
with you, with the leader of the United States, who,
240
