October 8
[123]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
by his own deep understanding of and positive ap-
proach to issues of the present-day cooperation be-
tween our two nations, confirms the willingness to
develop it further in the friendly attitude toward
Poland.
I am also satisfied over my meetings with the
Secretary of State, Dr. Henry Kissinger, and with all
eminent associates of yours.
It is my conviction, Mr. President, that there exist
very favorable conditions to a significant expansion
of Polish-U.S. cooperation which is the common
concern of ours. These conditions, as you have
pointed out a moment ago, stem from our long-
standing tradition of friendly, mutual bonds, dating
back to the times of the founding of the United
States begun by the participation of Tadeusz
Kosciuszko, Pulaski, and other sons of the Polish
people who struggled for the independence of the
United States.
These bonds were subsequently strengthened by
the sympathy toward and interest of the democratic
forces of the American nation in the cause of Polish
independence. And they were amply reaffirmed in
our joint struggle for freedom, greatest in history,
as it were, conducted by the great anti-Fascist coali-
tion in the years of World War II.
These traditions have remained alive although
their early postwar phase has fortunately become a
closed historical chapter.
As a result of its own heroic struggle and its
cooperation with all other freedom-loving forces,
the people of Poland found its road to durable in-
dependence, to enviable security, to dynamic devel-
opment.
The people of Poland found it in its new So-
cialist homeland, in its consciously chosen alliance
with the U.S.S.R. and other Socialist countries, in its
active foreign policy of international security and
peaceful cooperation.
Modern Poland, Mr. President, with a more than
1,000-year history and great traditions of love for
freedom and progress, is proud of the great historic
achievements of the past three decades which have
essentially altered the course of our nation's tragic
past and verily transformed the country, elevating
it onto a new place in Europe and the world at
large.
The Poland of today, one of the world's top ten
industrial producers, is a country of a dynamic
economy, of high cultural and scientific standards,
and constantly growing standards of living.
In recent years we have endowed her development
with a still greater dynamism and higher quality.
We still have much to accomplish. But the decisive
stage is behind us and Poland could now enter the
phase of accelerated growth of her economy. And
the aspirations of my people are indeed in keeping
with these vital needs and aspirations of all.
It is from this position and for this purpose that
we also desire to eject new impetus and quality to
our cooperation with other countries of the world.
We are delighted to see considerable progress
achieved in Polish-American relations, particularly
in recent years. But we take it only as a harbinger
of a much broader cooperation.
We therefore attach special importance to devel-
opment of economic cooperation which establishes
most durable of bonds and provides for a material
base of cooperation in all other fields.
We conceive of the United States as one of our
principal partners in the West. There exist all op-
portunities that it be so. The essential thing is to
create conditions that would make us seize of all
those opportunities.
I strongly believe that arrangements we are now
adopting and the agreements we are concluding
will be a decisive contribution towards this end.
In the overall framework of relations between our
two countries, a major positive role can no doubt
be played by the multi-million strong group of
Americans of Polish ancestry as good citizens of the
United States and at the same time retaining their
emotional ties with their old land.
They have always been one of the important
factors of mutual rapprochement between our two
nations, and they can further make a substantial
contribution to their friendly cooperation.
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: Our thoughts
constantly turn to the great and common cause of
all mankind, the cause of peace.
The Polish nation which paid the highest price for
its freedom and is fully cognizant of the value of
peace, attaches great importance to the process of
détente which has been developing in recent years.
We see in it a true road toward the strengthening
of international security and development of coopera-
tion among nations on the basis of peaceful coexist-
ence of states with different political systems. This
is the prime need and necessity of our time.
Let me say, Mr. President, that Poland fully ap-
preciates the far-reaching and all-around significance
of Soviet-American agreements for the cause of world
peace and general improvement of international
relations.
It was with greatest satisfaction that we wel-
comed progress already achieved here, and together
with other countries we have noted with great ap-
preciation the promise that these propitious trends
will be continued.
It is only natural that Poland should attach par-
ticular significance to progress of détente and to
consolidation of the facts of nearly three decades of
peace in Europe. We have been actively cooperating
to insure the success of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. We believe that there
exist very realistic conditions for its successful con-
clusion in the months to come.
We shall continue to make our constructive con-
241
