August 26
[38]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
mained the most powerful and most productive and certainly the richest
economy in the world today.
One fact that impressed me during Herb's tenure: since 1968, employment,
civilian employment, has increased by some 12 million, the largest increase in any
5-year period in the history of the United States. I think that is a tremendously
favorable statistic that we can all be proud of.
Real per capita income, after taxes—and that has an impact on all of us—
during that same span of time, has increased 15 percent.
In both cases, the gain in employment, the gain in real per capita income, this is
indicative of substantial progress. And I think despite the problems we face, the
dark clouds that may be on the horizon, we are going to make the same kind of
progress in the battle against inflation, with your help, with the help of the
American people.
I think we will miss Herb's sense of the dramatic. And I have seen several in-
stances of it. Who can ever forget that economic conference a few years ago when
Herb pulled a rib roast out of his briefcase. He said that 2 years ago Mildred had
bought that rib roast, and now anybody could buy it for a lot less money. You
know why? Have you ever tasted a rib roast that had been in Herb's briefcase for
2 years? [Laughter]
Although I will not have the benefit of Herb's advice in person, I am looking
forward to getting up each morning, making my own breakfast, and then read-
ing his opinions in the Wall Street Journal and other newspapers. I suspect it will
be very appropriate. His views are just about as hardboiled as the eggs that I will
cook. [Laughter]
But Herb, you brought to Government a wealth of knowledge, experience, and
deep insight. I think you leave us with a little more in each category. Your stu-
dents will be the beneficiaries at the University of Mich-Virginia. [Laughter]
A few have gone back there. I don't want you to crowd Paul McCracken and the
others. But your readers will be the beneficiaries of what you learned down here
in the trenches far from that ivory tower. I ask only one thing: Just remember
the trenches a bit when you get back up to that ivory tower.
We do, all of us, including myself, wish you the very best of luck. I speak for
the White House Staff, your associates in the Council, the Cabinet, the Mem-
bers of Congress. We will miss your wit, and we will miss your fortitude, and we
will miss your loyalty. And we extend to you and to Mildred our very, very best
wishes for a happy and successful tenure away from the trenches.
Thank you.
1
55
