Appendix E-Rules Governing This Publication
NOTE: These rules are reprinted from the Federal Register, vol. 37, p. 23607, dated November 4, 1972.
and title 1 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Sec.
10.1
TITLE 1-GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1-Administrative Committee of the Federal Register
PART 10-PRESIDENTIAL PAPERS
SUBPART A-ANNUAL VOLUMES
Publication required.
10.2 Coverage of prior years.
10.3 Scope and sources.
10.4 Format, indexes, and ancillaries.
10.5 Distribution to Government agencies.
10.6 Extra copies.
AUTHORITY: 44 U.S.C. 1506; sec. 6, E.O. 10530,
19 FR 2709; 3 CFR 1954-1958 Comp. p. 189.
SUBPART A-ANNUAL VOLUMES
ยง 10.1 Publication required.
The Director of the Federal Register shall pub-
lish, at the end of each calendar year, a special
edition of the FEDERAL REGISTER called the "Public
Papers of the Presidents of the United States." Un-
less the amount of material requires otherwise, cach
volume shall cover one calendar year.
$10.2 Coverage of prior years.
After consulting with the National Historical Pub-
ations Commission on the need therefor, the Ad-
ministrative Committee may authorize the publica-
tion of volumes of papers of the Presidents covering
specified years before 1957.
$10.3 Scope and sources.
(a) The basic text of each volume shall consist of
oral statements by the President or of writings sub-
scribed by him, and selected from-
(1) Communications to the Congress;
(2) Public addresses;
(3) Transcripts of news conferences;
(4) Public letters;
(5) Messages to heads of State;
(6) Statements released on miscellaneous subjects;
and
(7) Formal executive documents promulgated in
accordance with law.
(b) In general, ancillary text, notes, and tables
shall be derived from official sources.
$10.4 Format, indexes, and ancillaries.
(a) Each annual volume, divided into books
whenever appropriate, shall be separately published
in the binding and style that the Administrative
Committee considers suitable to the dignity of the
Office of the President of the United States.
(b) Each volume shall be appropriately indexed
and contain appropriate ancillary information re-
specting significant Presidential documents
printed in full text.
ยง 10.5 Distribution to Government agencies.
(a) The Public Papers of the Presidents of the
United States shall be distributed to the following,
in the quantities indicated, without charge:
(1) Members of Congress. Each Senator and each
Member of the House of Representatives is entitled
to one copy of each annual volume published during
his term of office, upon his written request to the
Director of the Federal Register.
(2) Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is en-
titled to 12 copies of each annual volume.
(3) Executive agencies. The head of each execu-
tive agency is entitled to one copy of each annual
volume upon application to the Director.
(b) Legislative, judicial, and executive agencies
of the Federal Government may obtain copies of
the annual volumes, at cost, for official use, by the
timely submission of a printing and binding requisi-
tion to the Government Printing Office on Standard
Form 1.
ยง 10.6 Extra copies.
Each request for extra copies of the annual vol-
umes must be addressed to the Superintendent of
Documents, to be paid for by the agency or official
making the request.
811
