[215]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
to the Congress and to the American people a well-balanced, finely tuned
program. I concede it is controversial, but at least I bit the bullet.
Oh, I know some people have said to me that it was kind of "marshmallowy."
Some of the opposition made that allegation. Then, I listened to what they sub-
mitted, and I said, "Boy, that is a lemon, not a marshmallow."
All I am trying to say is, it was a plan aimed at tightening the screws on infla-
tion on the one hand and recognizing that we have some soft spots in our
economy on the other.
We made some recommendations that will help the housing industry, and I
asked the Congress to do something, and they did it. And Jim Lynn has already
initiated the action that I recommended following enactment by the Congress.
It is not enough, but I think it is a start, and if we do the other things, the hous-
ing industry will again have a great upsurge. So, instead of 1.2 million housing
units per year, it will go up to what it ought to be, of 2.2 million housing units
per year, and then the people out in the industries here in Oregon will be produc-
ing, for housing, for people that need it.
You will have the kinds of burgeoning, booming economy that we want in this
State, as well as in others. But at the same time, we are tightening the screws on
those areas where inflation is serious, and we are going to win it.
We want strong, stalwart people in Congress who will bite the bullet and not
fade away when they ought to be strong, when they ought to be facing up to the
issues and not play politics with something that is involved in the national
security.
Speaking of national security, let me just make one observation. I get twice-a-
day messages from Henry Kissinger. He just spent about 4 days in Moscow, and
he spent a couple of days in India. He spent a couple of days in Pakistan. I got
messages from him today in Afghanistan, and he is going two or three or four
places after that. But here is a man who is carrying the torch of peace for Amer-
ica. Here is a man that worked night and day to achieve a peace and who is lay-
ing the groundwork for a broadening of that peace, whether it is in the Middle
East, whether it is in the case of Cyprus or Greece, or whether it is in the case of
Western Europe, or whether it is in Latin America, Africa, or Southeast Asia.
Here is a man that is on our side, leading the way with a torch of peace. And
what we need in the Congress is Members of the Congress who will back up that
kind of leadership, people who won't play politics with national security, who
won't play politics with what is good in the furtherance of peace throughout the
world.
552
