August 28
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
ECONOMIC ADVISERS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, you are still working with the same team of economic
advisers who advised your predecessor. As a matter of putting your own stamp
on your own Administration, perhaps spurring confidence, do you plan to change
the cast of characters?
THE PRESIDENT. There is one significant change, just within the last 48 hours.
Herb Stein, who did a superb job for President Nixon, is going back to the Uni-
versity of Virginia, and Alan Greenspan is taking over, and he has been on board,
I think, 2 days. That is a distinct change.
I think Mr. Greenspan will do an excellent job. We are soliciting, through
the economic summit, the views of a great many people from the total spectrum
of the American society. Their ideas will be vitally important in any new,
innovative approaches that we take. So, I think, between now and the 28th of
September, when I think the second day of the summit ends, we will have the
benefit of a great many wise, experienced individuals in labor, management,
agriculture, et cetera, and this will give us, I hope, any new approaches that are
wise and beneficial.
OIL PRICES AND PRODUCTION
[14.] Q. Some oil governments and some commercial cartels, notably
Aramco [Arabian-American Oil Company] in Saudi Arabia are restricting
oil production in order to keep oil prices artificially high. Now the U.S. can't
do anything about Venezuela, but it can conceivably vis-a-vis cartels like
Aramco. What steps and actions do you plan to take in this regard?
THE PRESIDENT. I think this points up very vividly the need and necessity for
us to accelerate every aspect of Project Independence. I think it highlights the
need and necessity for us to proceed with more oil and gas drilling, a greater sup-
ply domestically. I believe it points up the requirement that we expedite the
licensing processes for new nuclear reactors. I think it points up very dramatically
the need that we expand our geothermal, our solar research and development in
the fields of energy.
In the meantime, it seems to me that the effort that was made several months
ago to put together a group of consumer-industrial nations requires that this
group meet frequently and act as much as possible in concert, because if we
have any economic adverse repercussions because of high oil prices and poor in-
vestment policies, it could create serious economic problems throughout the in-
dustrial world. So it does require, I believe, the short-term action by consumer
nations and the long-term actions under Project Independence.
61
