[135]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
world. To me, personally, that becomes a lot less lonely tomorrow. I am glad to
report to all of you that Betty is coming home tomorrow.
And may I express to all of you her appreciation and mine, too, for the wonder-
ful cards and letters and telegrams and telephone calls of good wishes and
welcome. I can assure you that the some 20,000 or more that have come to the
White House and to the hospital—it has been tremendously helpful. And she
is coming home with a great spirit and a complete recovery, and I thank you for
your help and assistance.
I should reemphasize that I have learned in the last 2 months that the
Presidency is a lonely job because the toughest decisions, the toughest decisions
in the Federal Government come to the President's desk. And these are the
kind of decisions that only the President can make under our system.
I always had doubts about it before, but I have found it is true. And one of the
toughest decisions that I had to make as President was whether or not to ask
the Congress, 4 weeks before an election, to raise taxes on some individuals and
on all corporate income.
I am sure you know what my decision was, but before giving you an illustra-
tion or two, let me say a choice I disregarded was the proposal by some to put a
10 or 15 or 20 cent-per-gallon tax on gasoline. I discarded it because it was wrong
under the circumstances.
Now, there have been some small tremors on Capitol Hill, and I am not blam-
ing anybody for not immediately understanding how the proposed Federal
surtax works. But let me illustrate how this tax actually is applicable to a good
many taxpayers—a 5 percent surcharge on personal income.
Number one, it will affect only 28 percent of all individual tax returns.
Seventy-two percent of the individual tax returns will have no additional income
tax applied.
Number two, a 5 percent surcharge is not a repressive tax which will drive
families to the wall to pay their taxes, nor will it significantly cut back their
buying power.
Let me assure you, if we do not do something about double-digit inflation,
that will be infinitely more harmful, it will be far more injurious than a 5 per-
cent surtax on the taxes that you are paying at the present time.
Let me illustrate quite categorically what it means. For a person with a
$15,000 income-wages-with a family of four, there won't be any extra tax. A
family of four earning $20,000 a year will have to pay an additional tax in a
12-month period of $42, about 12 cents a day.
Isn't that a good investment to stop double-digit inflation? I think it is.
280
