[282]
December 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
insofar as we agreed to put away the speeches which
were made for us. [Laughter]
And so, the President did, and I am going to do
it, but we allowed for just one quotation from the
speeches. You will later on detect me, or observe me
looking to my paper once, but before so doing, I
would like to point out that I think you were es-
pecially generous, Mr. President, in talking of the
last 25 years of our really very good and ever-im-
proving relationship, a relationship between your
great country and ours.
You were very gracious not to mention periods
of history before that I will not dig into it. But I
would like to say that my compatriots and I, myself,
we are really thankful for the great help which we
received from your people immediately after the war
and that we also are thankful for having had your
assistance, your standing firm on matters vital for
our own sake; for instance, for your standing firm
on Berlin all these years.
You have just come back to the United States from
a meeting with the number one man of the Soviet
Union. From what I understand from your report
to us, you have clearly added one step further in the
policy of bringing about balance in the world and
the stability of that balance, and bringing about
détente, if you wish to call it that, a policy which we
have followed-both of our nations, both of our Gov-
ernments, parallel to each other—as we have all these
long decades followed in common the policy of mak-
ing ourselves capable, if need should arise, to defend
ourselves against threats or pressures from outside.
It seems to me that so far, we have been very suc-
cessful together with our other partners within the
Atlantic Alliance. In the meantime, new problems
have come up which we did not foresee 10 years
ago-referring to the Middle East or referring to
the oil price explosion; I think one might call it an
explosion and all our economies so far have not
adapted to that enormous change, whether it is in
the field of real incomes, whether it is in the field of
balance of payments, whether it is in the field of
aggravating the process of inflation.
We have talked at length today, and also your
Secretaries and aides and my party have talked at
length about economic problems. We have ex-
changed our analyses, we have exchanged our atti-
tudes, our plans for future actions. Advice was given
freely and taken from both sides-this is the point
where I have to look to my paper-[laughter]—
because I wrote down in my own handwriting a little
quote.
I think it is from some American. He is not as
famous as Goethe. Nevertheless, it reads: "Free ad-
vice is the kind that costs you nothing unless you
act upon it." [Laughter] So, I warn you, Mr. Presi-
dent, to be careful in acting upon our advice, and
we will be careful on our side as well.
But coming back to a more serious aspect of the
matter, I think I could say on behalf of my party,
especially my colleague, Genscher, and the rest, that
we were very thankful for this free exchange of
analyses and thoughts and of the plans we might
put into operation in the next time; because we do
really feel that your great country, five times as big-
I mean in economic size-than ours, and our sec-
ond biggest in terms of foreign trade, we do really
feel that both our responsibilities, vis-a-vis the world's
economy as a whole and the other partners in the
free world economy, request from us that we try as
much as one can to coordinate our economic policies
as we have coordinated our defense policies, as we
have coordinated our détente policies, as we tried
to coordinate our policies all over the globe.
Now, at this present stage, I think, in the eco-
nomic field there lies a great part of our faith, not
only of your people, also of ours, also of other peo-
ples in the world.
If the economic future becomes bleak and un-
certain, economic uncertainty and economic failure
can lead to economic unrest not only, but also social
unrest and also domestic political unrest in a number
of countries, not in the first instance in the United
States of America, not in the first instance in our
country, but we might be infected in the course of
time.
I think all of my compatriots heard with great sat-
isfaction what you said this afternoon about you
would not permit an aggravation of the downward
trend of the economy, which at present is charac-
terizing all our economies.
I am not going to too much dig into that field. I
only wanted-using this as an example, the eco-
nomic exercise of ours as an example-to express
again, sir, our gratitude for this really free and
frank and candid exchange of views and to express
our gratitude for the endeavor on both sides to co-
ordinate and harmonize our policies which, in fact,
does not mean that both of our parts have to exactly
operate along the same lines, but means that we will
have to follow complementary policies in order to
achieve the same goal that we have in common.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to rise and
drink to the President of the United States and our
charming hostess.
720
