[206]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
HEW Secretary Weinberger to meet with congressional leaders immediately
upon their return to initiate this process.
The White House,
October 29, 1974.
NOTE: On November 21, 1974, the Senate voted
to override the President's veto of H.R. 14225. The
bill, however, did not become law due to a question
of whether or not it had been pocket vetoed by
the President (see first paragraph, above).
GERALD R. FORD
The legislation was subsequently reintroduced as
H.R. 17503, which was passed by the Congress on
November 26 and signed by the President on De-
cember 7 as Public Law 93-516 (88 Stat. 1617).
207
Remarks at a Rally in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
October 29, 1974
Well, thank you very, very much, Governor Milliken, Mayor Parks, Jack Root,
every one of you for being here:
Nobody, nobody can accuse any of you of being fair weather friends. Thank
you very much.
But let me say somewhat inadequately, there is no way in which I can
personally express my gratitude, my appreciation, my indebtedness to all of you
who are here in this difficult weather to say hello, to warmly welcome me. I am
just overwhelmed, and words are inadequate to express everything that I feel
deep down in my heart. Thank you very, very much.
There was a wonderful crowd at the airport, and we stopped at one of the
crowds on the way in. I just cannot believe so many are here in these circum-
stances, and as I shook hands, either at the airport or on the way in or with those
that I have had the privilege of saying hello to here tonight, I saw friends that I
went to Madison School with, friends that I went to South High with, friends
that I worked with in many, many civic projects—Democrats, Independents,
Republicans, young and old. There is nothing I can say except thank you, every
one of you, for being here.
And may I thank Althea Bennett here for the box of cookies which she has
given me. As was indicated, I used to stop in at Petersen's Drug Store for an early
breakfast, and she was there to help prepare it, and I used to enjoy those cookies
very much then, and I am sure I will now.
But I must tell Althea I have a big appetite. It is a long trip back to Washing-
ton. They may all be gone before Betty sees a single one.
506
