October 10
[135]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
owner said he did not sell dogs that way. He would have to know who the dog
was going to and whether it would have a good home or not.
So, Susan and Dave assured the kennel owner that the dog would have a good
home. They explained that the parents are friendly, middle-aged, and have four
children. The kennel owner said, “Good. What kind of a house do they live in?”
Susan and Dave said, “Well, it is a big white house with a fence around it.”
Then the kennel owner went on to say--he was very inquisitive, protecting the
dogs that he was trying to sell—the kennel owner said, “This is a big dog who
will eat a lot. Does the father have a steady job?" Well, both Dave and Susan
were stuck for an answer to that one. [Laughter]
Well, needless to say, they got the dog, and with it a very appropriate spirit of
the Bicentennial. And in that spirit we have named her "Liberty."
A reporter asked Susan and Dave, "Who is going to take care of Liberty? Who
is going to feed her and groom her and take her out each night or every morn-
ing?" And Susan did not hesitate one minute. She said, “Daddy," which is typi-
cal. [Laughter]
So, I have this feeling that this is one Liberty that is going to cost me some of
my own. [Laughter]
But let me reiterate and reemphasize: It is wonderful to be back with all of
you good Michiganders. And as I sat here talking with Max and Helen and
others and looked out at this tremendous audience, I could not help but have
the feeling that the enthusiasm, the numbers, the people—were a reflection of
the support that the people in Michigan will give to a great Governor, Bill Milli-
ken, on November 5.
Bill, as you know probably better than I, has done a superb job. The thing that
I like about Bill is that he is a problemsolver. Now, I may not agree with every-
thing Bill has done, and I am sure it is reciprocated, but I do look at a person in
the executive branch who has the conflicting advice and counsel of many people,
who has the obligation to represent the cross-section of a great State, totaling
9 million people—he has to take into consideration the plusses and the minuses
of a total population, and Bill Milliken has proved to me that he is a problem-
solver, and those are the kind of people I like.
And quite frankly, that is why I am here tonight, to do what I can in a small
way to help the cause of a person who has done much for Michigan and can
do infinitely more.
Bill, good luck.
If I might add parenthetically, his problemsolving has not been in a small
277
