[185]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
proposed right-of-way use is the most feasible and prudent alternative for such
purpose.
If we are to have adequate energy-transmission and communication facilities,
we must have rights-of-way on which to locate them. Of course, when such
lands have a special status as wildlife refuges or national parks, we must fully
protect this status when portions of these areas are sought for use as rights-
of-way.
However, I believe that such protection is properly provided under existing law
which requires environmental impact review and further requires the Secretary
of the Interior to determine that granting a right-of-way across a national wild-
life refuge or national park must be compatible with the purposes for which
the park or refuge had been established. Only last year, Congress enacted legisla-
tion which had the effect of reiterating this protection in the case of refuges.
In short, our wildlife refuges are properly protected by existing law. We
should avoid changes in the law that could create further obstacles and delays
in the construction of vitally needed facilities, particularly those facilities de-
signed to help meet urgent energy needs.
Accordingly, I am withholding my approval from H.R. 11541.
The White House,
October 22, 1974.
NOTE: The text of the message was released at Cleveland, Ohio.
GERALD R. FORD
186
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
National Cancer Advisory Board. October 23, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
In accord with section 410B(g) of the "National Cancer Act of 1971” (P.L.
92-218), I am transmitting the second annual report of the National Cancer
Advisory Board on the progress of the National Cancer Institute.
As the Board's report indicates, the activities of the National Cancer Institute
are progressing smoothly. The report highlights several areas in which significant
scientific advances are being made.
In several instances, the Board raises major policy issues and makes recom-
mendations to the Congress. For example, the Board's report urges Federal
448
