[183]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
183
Remarks at a Rally in Oklahoma City. October 22, 1974
Thank you very, very much, Senator Henry Bellmon. Thank you, Dewey Bart-
lett, Happy Camp. Thank all of you for being here.
It is a great, great opportunity for me to meet many, many of you again and
to see so many enthusiastic, vigorous individuals—Republicans, Democrats, and
Independents-who want to make sure that Henry Bellmon is reelected.
It should be obvious to you that it is a great pleasure for me to be back in
Oklahoma again, the home of Will Rogers, who never met a man he didn't
like, and the home of the Oklahoma Sooners, a team who never met a team
they couldn't lick.
Yes, it is great to be here in "Switzer Land"¹ again.
As an old football player, and I mean old-when I played it was back when
the ball was round-it is nice to see Ron Shotts here and Rod Shoate. It is
wonderful to see one of those great all-American running backs. As a former
lineman myself, I have always envied—as I am sure Rod does over here—those
men in the backfield who seem to get a little more publicity than some of us
linemen.
I never regretted their achievements. We always thought we helped a bit.
But let me say this. I was once introduced at a dinner given at the University
of Michigan. I was introduced by an old teammate from the University, and I
will never forget his introduction.
He happened to say in the course of that introduction, "It might interest you
to know that I played football with Jerry Ford for 2 years, and it made a lasting
impression on me. I was a quarterback, Jerry Ford was the center. And you
might say it gave me a completely different view of the President." [Laughter]
Let me comment, if I might, on some views and perceptions of the coming
election. I am convinced that a campaign can come from behind and win, and
you are going to do it in Oklahoma.
I am totally convinced that this State has energy, not only in its oil fields, on
its football fields, but also in the open-minded spirit of its population, including
Democrats and Independents as well as Republicans.
Oklahoma, as a State, has produced a great winning football team, and it is
going to produce a great winning Republican team this fall.
¹ The President was referring to Barry L. Switzer, head coach of the University of Oklahoma football team.
2 Ron Shotts was three-time all-Big Eight Conference tailback for the University of Oklahoma 1965-67,
and Rod Shoate was three-time all-American linebacker for the University of Oklahoma 1972-74.
430
