October 7
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
But as we look back over the last century, the evolution of a two-party system
in this country has been the foundation of political balance and strength. This
is not just a personal view of my own. It is a lesson that we have learned and
relearned, not only in America but in other countries.
As we look around the globe, we find that in those countries where there
are many, many political parties—and some countries do have many-there is
instability, there is chaos, there is a lack of direction, whether it is in foreign
policy or domestic policy. Or if we look at those countries where there is a one-
party system—you are familiar with the facts of the extermination of freedom.
So, what I am saying is that the alternatives to a two-party system, many, many
political parties with chaos, or one political party with a loss of freedom, that is
not what we want in America.
Well, you could look in some of these areas of the globe today, not a few but
many, where you have a mass of small, regional, or class-oriented splinter
groups, and none of those groups are strong enough or imaginative enough to
give leadership to the country.
And you can look in the other direction and see where those countries that
have a dictatorial, dogmatic kind of government, the people do not really have a
chance. What worries me about the extremes on either side, one party or many
parties, is there is always the possibility of a man on horseback or a demagog
on a pedestal, and tragically the result is too often the same.
What we need in America is two strong political parties-free, vital, broad
enough to encompass people from all segments of our society, from all economic
portions of our society. This wide spectrum of political diversity can serve as the
twin pillars of democracy.
I happen to think this spectrum that we represent is broad enough to have
many, many people in the State of Vermont who have a similar political phi-
losophy to those of us in Michigan who belong to the Republican Party, but at
the same time, in your State as well as in ours, there is a sufficiently broad spec-
trum in the public to appeal to those that want to be Democrats.
This competition between two major political parties is healthy. I have often
said, and I believe very deeply, that competition in business is good for business
and good for the consumer. Competition in the political arena is good for the
candidates, but more importantly, it is good for the voters. And we need the
two-party system to develop, to maintain, and to stimulate that future in our
political structure.
President Eisenhower once outlined what our vision should be as members of
one great political party, and he, of course, embraced the Republican Party. Ike
223
