[183]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the Second District, Ralph Keen is an excellent candidate. Ralph is a dis-
tinguished attorney. He has served as general business manager of the Cherokee
Nation of Oklahoma. He is the kind of a man who will represent all the people
of this great State, regardless of political labels or background. You need Ralph
in Washington.
In the Fifth District, Marvin "Mickey" Edwards, an outstanding newspaper-
man, is your candidate. He served in the national leadership of the Young Re-
publicans, as a member of the State Republican executive committee, and as a
delegate to the 1972 GOP National Convention. Mickey needs your help.
And now, if I might say just a word about my former colleague and dear
friend, Happy Camp. Six years ago I visited Enid, Oklahoma, to campaign for
Happy as a new candidate for the House of Representatives. All the promises
that were made to me that Happy would be an excellent Member of the House,
all those promises were kept by his performance. It would certainly make me
happy to see Happy back in the House of Representatives, and I think it would
make you happy, too.
Traveling around the country, as I am pleased and honored to do—as a matter
of fact, for several years I traveled about 200,000 miles a year—I had the oppor-
tunity of meeting many Governors of various States, Democrats and Republi-
cans, and you learn after a period of time to look at their records to see them.
I can say, after having met Jim Inhofe, that your candidate for Governor is a first-
class candidate. I hope he is elected.
But now, let's talk about 1974, not 1976. This is the year of decision, as I see
it, for the survival of the two-party system in our great country. It is a year when
we seek to enlist a new Congress in the war against inflation. It is a year in which
I strongly appeal to all voters-Democratic, Republican, and Independent—to
elect candidates who will fight against inflation.
Henry Bellmon has a reputation not only in Oklahoma but in Washington as
a tightfisted man with your tax dollars. He has been a general in the war against
wasteful Federal spending. He has been against topheavy bureaucratic dictator-
ship in Washington. He has been against legislative dictatorship by those who
would wreck the budget and waste our dollars on far-out schemes and programs.
I think you need-we do, I do-Henry Bellmon to continue as the man in his
command post in the coming attack against the Federal Treasury.
You need the other Republican candidates who are here today to help
Henry and Dewey Bartlett and Happy Camp. You can expand your Oklahoma
delegation of inflation fighters.
Now, let me ask you this very simple question: Why do I, as your President,
432
