[184]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
have given so much over the recent two or three decades to save the opportunity
for us to vote, to participate in free elections—and to find that some 42 percent
are going to participate 2 weeks from today!
If that happens—and I trust it won't—it means that the composition of the
next Congress that will be sworn in January 3, 1975, will be decided by slightly
more than 4 out of every 10 voters. In short, the majority would let the minority
decide.
What really concerns me even to a greater degree is the inclination of the
American people to consider politics something they would rather not be
involved in. Obviously, I think that is wrong. Let's not make politics a spectator
sport. If you can get 85,000 people to come out on a Saturday to watch Ohio
State win-and they always do-why can't we get 5 million voters to the
polls in the State of Ohio on November 5? I think you can.
The sad fact is that in America, one of our fellow citizens in thirty has any-
thing to do with politics. Now, that obviously does not include all of you, be-
cause you are interested, you participate in one way or another. You contribute,
you work, you help in every way you can with the party. But one person out of
every thirty in this great country has anything to do with the political system,
and yet it is that part of our system—politics—which makes our government
good or bad.
The selection of candidates, working in a campaign, researching the issues,
raising or helping to contribute for the election of good candidates or even
running for office—those should be honorable things. Those should be some-
thing that people want to do that feel an obligation to do.
I think what this Nation needs, less than 2 years from now, before the
celebration of our 200th anniversary, is not less, but more citizen participation
in politics.
Oh, I know, it is frequently written and more often said that politics is a
dirty word which should be eliminated from government. Let me remind you,
from the viewpoint of one who has been in it 26 years, that politics is govern-
ment-government in action. And there is nothing wrong with this political
system of ours that a massive injection of citizen involvement will not cure.
Having spent almost a quarter of a century on Capitol Hill as a Member
of the House—and I am proud of it—I am convinced of the importance of getting
out and away from Washington to find what the people of this great country
beyond the Potomac are thinking and are concerned about. And that is why I
am here tonight.
444
