[175]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
have a different style. I am not sure I could do as well as John or as well as
Thruston.
But the truth is that the great State of Kentucky has a tradition of fine, fine
Members of the United States Senate, and Marlow Cook follows in that pattern.
It was my good fortune to serve in the House of Representatives for almost
26 years, and during the time that you spend in a legislative body, you see Mem-
bers of the House come and go. And you learn to pick out the ones that have
class, that have capability, that have all of the attributes that are essential to make
the right decision. Not that they always agree with me, but they have the capabili-
ties of doing a superb job for the people that they represent, and every district is
a shade different from other districts throughout the country.
And I can assure you from my almost-well, more than a quarter of a century
of service in the House of Representatives—the State of Kentucky couldn't be
better represented in their respective districts than by Tim Lee Carter and Gene
Snyder. And I mean it from the bottom of my heart.
As I was saying, we had a wonderful reception all day long, and I am just
as enthusiastic tonight as I was at the first meeting at Spartanburg airport this
morning, because of the response and the reaction that I find among the Ameri-
can people.
There has been a little criticism by some of the members of the news media
that maybe I was getting out-to Kentucky and to South Carolina and to South
Dakota and to Kansas and to Nebraska—they know where I am going for the
next couple of weeks. They have by innuendo said, well, maybe I should sit and
think in the Oval Office. Well, let me just put it this way: I think there are an
awful lot of fine brains and good ideas out in Kentucky that might be more
helpful than if I sat there and listened to a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington,
D.C.
The first time I ran for Congress was back in 1948, and I remember a great
Democrat, and I mean a great Democrat. All of the polls said he was going to
lose. They predicted that he was not only going to lose but lose badly. As I rec-
ollect, one of our great newspapers in this country, early in the evening of that
election, printed a headline that his opponent won.
Well, let me just say this: We have got the same kinds of polls that I am sure
that he saw, and I don't believe those polls any more than he did. I happen to
think that the American people want somebody from the White House to come
out and fight for what they believe is right, regardless of what the polls say, and
I intend to do what Harry Truman did.
406
