October 21
[177]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
177
Exchange of Remarks With President Luis Echeverría Alvarez
of Mexico at Nogales, Mexico. October 21, 1974
Mr. President, amigos:
I am delighted to be here this morning to meet with you on our border at
Nogales. I am delighted and highly honored to participate in these meetings
today, which will be partly held in Mexico and partly held in the United States,
which symbolize, Mr. President, the relationship between our two countries.
It is a working partnership of mutual cooperation which exemplifies the spirit
behind the new dialog into which we have entered with all nations of Latin
America and which we will not forget, Mr. President, which started last year at
Tlatelolco in Mexico City.
In our meetings today, Mr. President, let us give new meaning to the special
relationship of us as two good neighbors-Mexico and the United States-
through frank and friendly consultations.
It is very significant, Mr. President, that my first trip outside of the United
States as President of our country is to Mexico-our longtime friend and very
good neighbor. It provides a living demonstration of how we are inextricably
linked by historical ties, by geographical position, by our mutual desire to be
good neighbors.
It is my fervent wish that this meeting will mark the beginning of a very close
personal relationship between us and contribute to the close cooperation and the
very friendly relation of our peoples and our Governments.
Our relationship is of very great mutual benefit. Each of our countries, Mr.
President, receives much from the other-material goods of all kinds, increased
understanding through tourism and cultural exchanges, and the enrichment of
human life and consciousness through expanded knowledge and warm, warm
friendship.
This exchange is especially evident in the border area. I thank all of you who
have come here to welcome me and to see this spirit of friendship which exists
between President Echeverría and myself, representing our two countries.
Actually, we witness today the flow of people, goods, food, music, art, and
language. We note the existence of a binational commission-not one, but sev-
eral-and binational groups of many kinds. We see the efforts by people on both
413
