October 8
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
vigorous action, and they have asked for discipline and direction under our
leadership.
Today, though our economic difficulties do not approach the emergency of
1933, the message from the American people is exactly the same. I trust that you
are getting the very same message that I am receiving: Our constituents want
leadership, our constituents want action.
All of us have heard much talk on this very floor about Congress recovering its
rightful share of national leadership. I now intend to offer you that chance.
The 73d Congress responded to FDR's appeal in 5 days. I am deeply grateful
for the cooperation of the 93d Congress and the Conference on Inflation, which
ended 10 days ago.
Mr. Speaker, many-but not all-of your recommendations on behalf of your
party's caucus are reflected in some of my proposals here today. The distin-
guished majority leader of the Senate offered a nine-point program. I seriously
studied all of them and adopted some of his suggestions.
I might add, I have also listened very hard to many of our former colleagues
in both bodies and of both the majority and the minority, and have been both
persuaded and dissuaded. But in the end, I had to make the decision, I had to
decide, as each of you do when the rollcall is called.
I will not take your time today with the discussion of the origins of inflation
and its bad effect on the United States, but I do know where we want to be in
1976-on the 200th birthday of a United States of America that has not lost its
way, nor its will, nor its sense of national purpose.
During the meetings on inflation, I listened carefully to many valuable sug-
gestions. Since the summit, I have evaluated literally hundreds of ideas, day and
night.
My conclusions are very simply stated. There is only one point on which all
advisers have agreed: We must whip inflation right now.
None of the remedies proposed, great or small, compulsory or voluntary,
stands a chance unless they are combined in a considered package, in a concerted
effort, in a grand design.
I have reviewed the past and the present efforts of our Federal Government to
help the economy. They are simply not good enough, nor sufficiently broad, nor
do they pack the punch that will turn America's economy on.
A stable American economy cannot be sustained if the world's economy is
in chaos. International cooperation is absolutely essential and vital. But while we
seek agreements with other nations, let us put our own economic house in order.
229
