[168]
October 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
to the North Atlantic Treaty and its desire to develop even closer ties to the
United States.
President Ford expressed his admiration for the statesmanship shown by
Portuguese leaders in undertaking to restore democracy to Portugal by holding
free elections soon and in making possible the enjoyment of the right of self-
determination and independence by the peoples of Portugal's overseas territories.
He noted with pleasure President Costa Gomes' reaffirmation of Portugal's com-
mitment to NATO and expressed his confidence that ties between the United
States and Portugal will become ever closer.
The two Presidents agreed that, as these developments proceed, it would be
in our mutual interest to intensify the cooperation between the two countries to
embrace new activities in a broad range of areas, such as education, health,
energy, agriculture, transportation and communications, among others. They
agreed that this expansion of their cooperation could begin with technical talks
in the fields of agriculture, public health, education and financial and economic
matters, as requested by the Portuguese authorities.
They also agreed that the two countries should continue and intensify negotia-
tions relating to cooperation in the Azores.
169
Letter to the Chairman of the National Cancer Advisory Board
About Regulation of Cigarette Tar and Nicotine
Content. October 18, 1974
Dear Dr. Rhoads:
I have received and reviewed a preliminary copy of the 1974 annual report of
the National Cancer Advisory Board.
In several places, the Board's report recommends Federal regulation of the tar
and nicotine content of cigarettes. The report does not, however, provide an
assessment of the scientific evidence at hand which should provide the basis
for such regulation.
In order that all concerned may be fully informed, I would like to request that
the National Cancer Advisory Board review the existing scientific evidence on an
urgent basis and provide me with an assessment of the extent to which there
exists a scientific basis for responsible regulation of cigarettes.
I recognize that all questions of regulation necessarily involve a certain amount
of reasonable disagreement as well as the exercise of sound judgment. Never-
384
