[153]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
153
Remarks at Lincoln, Nebraska. October 16, 1974
Thank you very, very much, Charley Thone. Distinguished public officials,
candidates, all of you wonderful, wonderful people from Lincoln, the State of
Nebraska, and elsewhere:
I am just tremendously impressed with the size of the crowd, the enthusiasm,
and naturally, I am deeply appreciative of the kind, kind comments made
concerning my wife Betty. She is doing great, and it is the prayers and the good
wishes of literally thousands and thousands of people, not only in America but
elsewhere, that have made her recovery faster and better. And I thank you on
behalf of her.
This has been a wonderful day, and we are three-quarters of the way through
it. I started in Kansas City this morning with a breakfast. We had a wonderful
meeting in South Dakota. We are here in Lincoln. We are going to Indianapolis
for a dinner and a meeting tonight, and back to Washington and the White
House this evening.
Now, I don't know what my scheduler wants for Christmas, but let me tell you
I am going to give him a map, so that he understands what travel means.
I am delighted to see Bob Devaney¹ here. You know we Michiganders think
we had some impact on the great success that Bob has brought to the State of
Nebraska, the success that the Cornhuskers have had. And I watched, as a has-
been athlete and a onetime football player, some of the great games that
Nebraska has played under his leadership.
Let me just say this—and I pass no judgment, because there is nothing I dis-
like more than grandstand quarterbacks or Monday-morning experts, and I
don't know what happened over there the other day in the last few minutes of
that ballgame—but I have learned, as an ex-football player and as an ex-football
coach a long time back when the ball was round, that there is a great relation-
ship between football or athletic competition and coaching and politics.
And if I might just say a word to Bob in that regard, I found that both as far
as coaches and athletic directors are concerned-and politicians—that one day
they will name a street after you, and the next day they will chase you down it.
[Laughter]
As Charley Thone said in the introduction, I was born in Nebraska, in
¹ Head coach of the University of Nebraska football team.
326
