[174]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have a great, great responsibility, individually and collectively. We can't
just brush it off. We can't back away and say it is somebody else's responsibility.
We, individually and collectively, have to stand up and fight for what we know
is right.
Now, I am confident, I am optimistic, I believe in Bill Stevens, Ward Purring-
ton, Steve Ritchie, Jim Broyhill, Jim Martin, Earl Ruth, "Vinegar Bend"
Mizell-those are strong, fine people. They are good and they will do what is
right for North Carolina.
They will do what is right for the country, and therefore, I leave this great
State with a conviction that instead of a veto-proof Congress, that some of the
power-hungry people want, a veto-proof Congress, we are going to end up with
an inflation-proof Congress, and that is pretty darned good for America
One final point, if I might. About 200 years ago our forefathers put together
the greatest document for the governing of people in the history of mankind.
How well it has done for us. We have got freedom, we have opportunity, we
have done pretty well materialistically. We are blessed, we are so blessed. And a
basic ingredient of that is balance-balance, a system of checks and balances that
doesn't let any one political party, any one President, any one Congress be the
dictator. Americans don't like dictators.
But the people who want a veto-proof Congress in effect want a legislative
dictatorship. They want one branch of the Federal Government to dominate and
control all other branches of the Federal Government, and that is completely
opposite of the fundamental concept of our Constitution.
And so,
the best way I think you can avoid that legislative dictatorship is to
make sure that you keep our Members of the House that I have mentioned—
Jim Broyhill, "Vinegar Bend," Jim Martin, and Earl Ruth-and add to them so
that we avoid the veto-proof Congress, that is, a legislative dictatorship, and
that we give to America a balance which is the basic ingredient that has contrib-
uted to our progress and our growth and our freedom and our liberties and
opportunities.
Really, I look in your eyes and I plead with your hearts and I beg with your
mind that you maximize your efforts in the next 10 days, 2 weeks, or 2 weeks
and a half, because the stakes are very, very high.
And what you do, each one of you, can make a difference—your own vote and
the votes that you can convince-that America doesn't want a legislative dicta-
torship; America wants a sound economic program, America wants good candi-
dates like the ones we have serving them in the Congress.
404
