[103]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Red Cross, national health agencies, and international service agencies—organi-
zations concerned with the welfare of human beings.
In supporting the Combined Federal Campaign, we are participating volun-
tarily as citizens in a uniquely American project, helping our neighbors—
especially the aged, the infirm, the handicapped, the ill, and families in distress-
through these voluntary charitable organizations.
By bringing the helping hand of voluntary organizations to those in need,
whether at home or abroad, we strengthen what is best in our Nation and realize
what is best in ourselves as a people. The amount you give must be a personal
and voluntary decision. But I ask each of you to join with me in supporting this
most worthy effort to the fullest possible extent.
GERALD R. FORD
104
Toasts of the President and President Leone of Italy.
September 25, 1974
MR. PRESIDENT, it is wonderful to have you and Mrs. Leone and your three
sons with us this evening. As I said this morning, at the time you came and
joined us, the United States has a great debt of gratitude and a great sense of
friendship for Italy because of the many, many people in this United States who
have an ancestral background from Italy.
As I read and listen and look around our country, some 10 percent of our
people have a background from Italy. We have superb artists, we have out-
standing individuals in science, we have some very renowned athletes, we have
many, many people in public life who have had a background from your coun-
try. And we are proud of them and their contributions to our country.
But I think, Mr. President, the broadest relationship that we have is what Italy
has contributed to the United States, without personal identification, in the
field-in those areas that one could describe as grace, humanity, tolerance, and
an awareness of beauty.
We have a great American writer by the name of Mark Twain who once
wrote-and he wasn't very complimentary to foreigners-but in one of his nicer
moments, he wrote: The Creator made Italy from the designs of Michelangelo.
And that was a nice comment. It was probably the best he ever made about any
foreigners.
196
