September 6
[58]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I ask you to join in, to give your fair share to make the United Way work
for our fellow human beings this year, just as it has worked so well in the past.
Thank you for thinking of others.
NOTE: The President's remarks were filmed on September 3, 1974, for broadcast on television.
|
58
Remarks at a Dinner Concluding the Reconvening of
the First Continental Congress in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. September 6, 1974
GOVERNOR SHAPP, let me say at the outset, I am deeply grateful for your
overly generous and very kind remarks. I accept the invitation for July 4, 1976.
Mayor Rizzo, distinguished Governors, my beloved and wonderful former
colleagues in the United States Senate and House of Representatives, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of par-
ticipating in this function tonight.
Philadelphia, the City of Brotherly Love, was the cradle of American liberty.
“Love” and “liberty" are two pretty good words with which to start a nation.
I learned in school a good many years ago that the first shots of the American
Revolution were fired at Concord and the last at Yorktown. But it was in Phil-
adelphia that 56 patriots from 12 of the original 13 colonies convened two cen-
turies ago to protest the military coercion of Massachusetts and the united
economic action against the mother country. I am sure that the history books will
show, in addition, that both George Washington and John Adams slept here.
[Laughter]
"The . . . Congress," John Adams wrote home to his wife Abigail, “is tedious
beyond expression. The assembly is like no other that ever existed. Every man is
a great man, an orator, a critic, a statesman; and therefore every man upon every
question must show his oratory, his criticism, and his political abilities.”
"The consequence of this," Adams concluded wearily, "is that business is
drawn and spun out to an immeasurable length.”
Speaking as a former Congressman, I can assure you that more than once
in the last 25 years—especially after a long, long debate in the House of Rep-
resentatives—I have found myself saying pretty much the same to my wife, Betty.
Only the names have changed—that and the fact that John Adams never had
to fix his own breakfast. [Laughter]
93
