[191]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
office of Vice President, and now as President, for almost 26 years. I have seen a
lot of elections. I have heard a lot of wise predictions. They were almost always
wrong.
Frankly, it is about the only thing that you could count on-that they could
be inaccurate—because no one really knows what the individual voter is going
to do in the sanctity of that voting booth. They will tell you one thing when
they are being polled. But they might very well do something different as they sit
and contemplate in that voting booth.
The only rule of thumb I know-and it is one that has never failed me—was
taught to me by one of my very dearest friends. He was a great Congressman,
a super Senator, and probably the greatest orator of this era. And because of a
warm and personal relationship that I had with him, I will never forget him.
His wife Louella Dirksen is here. He came from Illinois. His name was Ev.
We used to have what was called "The Ev and Jerry Show" when we were in
the minority and the opposition held the White House.
I vividly recall one afternoon when Ev and I were talking, just chatting be-
fore one of these press conferences-television programs—in Ev's office. Ev was
a giant among giants. I have always wished that I had some of the qualities and
capabilities that Ev had.
But anyhow, at that time the war in Vietnam was going full blast, inflation
was then a problem, the Democrats had swamped us in 1964, and a lot of peo-
ple were saying that the Republican Party was finished.
Well, frankly, I was feeling a little blue, let down, and quite frankly, very
discouraged. And I told Ev of my reaction. Ev, in his inimitable way, paused for
a moment, looked at me and said, "Jerry, don't let it get you down. You
just keep in there doing your best for the people, and the people will do their
best for you."
I think that was the best advice I ever got in a political sense. Ev was right then
as he was right for many, many years.
Well, in my lifetime in the political arena, that advice worked for me in Con-
gress, and I think it will work for me in the White House. But to do my best for
the people and for America, I am going to need the help, the assistance, the
support of good people, men and women, in the Congress of the United States-
men and women who will forthrightly fight excessive Government spending
and will make an honest and conscientious effort to do something in the battle
against inflation, which I think is public enemy number one. And all the polls
that are taken indicate that that is the feeling of the American people.
470
