October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. Thank you, Mr. President.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The gentleman from Indiana, Mr. Dennis.
CONGRESSMAN DAVID W. DENNIS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. President, I would like to state that I, too, share with my colleagues, deep
appreciation for your appearance here before our subcommittee this morning.
Mr. President, on page 7 [page 342] of your statement where you were talking
about your second interview with General Haig in the afternoon of August 1,
you state that, “I describe this meeting because at one point it did include refer-
ences to a possible pardon for Mr. Nixon."
I take it that you have spelled out what those references were over on page 9
[pages 342 and 343], where the options are spelled out, and page 10 [page 343],
where you state that you inquired as to what was the President's pardon power.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it is spelled out in the item instances 1 through 6, the var-
ious options involving a pardon.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. And does that include everything that was said at that
time on the subject of pardon, substantially?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. Mr. President, I note that on page 10 [page 343] you
state that you asked the General as to what the President's pardon power was,
and he very properly replied that he had certain information but couldn't give
legal opinion.
When, where, and from whom did you ultimately obtain the opinion that
you were entitled under the doctrine of Ex Parte Garland and so on, to issue a
pardon when there has been no charge or no conviction?
THE PRESIDENT. When I came back to the Oval Office, Mr. Dennis, following
the press conference on August 28, where three questions were raised by the
news media involving a pardon, I instructed my Counsel, Mr. Buchen, to check
in an authoritative way what pardon power a President had. And he, several days
later—I don't recall precisely—came back and briefed me on my pardon power
as President of the United States.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. Mr. President, the exercise of executive clemency is, of
course, a well-recognized part of the legal system in this country, exercised by
you and all your predecessors, is that not the fact?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct, sir.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. And you have given this committee, as I understand
your testimony this morning, your complete statement as to your reasons for
exercising that power in this particular case?
THE PRESIDENT. I have, sir.
357
