[71]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I compliment and congratulate every one of them because they epitomize
excellence in probably one of the most competitive areas of athletic competition
that I have ever seen.
And I just hope that they, through their example, give to all Americans the
kind of spirit, the kind of drive, the kind of dedication that is so essential if we
are to achieve what is the best for everybody in this country and throughout the
world.
If I may, I would like to tell you the most memorable golfing experience I ever
had. I was at the Burning Tree course, which is one of those courses in Wash-
ington, D.C. I was playing with Ben Hogan, and Arnold Palmer, and Byron
Nelson. And they came up to me, and they said they were looking for another
great, great golfer to join them. I said, "Well, here I am." And they said, “Good.
Can you help us look for one?" [Laughter]
I didn't mind that so much, but what really hurt me was when Arnold Palmer
asked if I would not wear his slacks except under an assumed name. [Laughter]
I do appreciate the honor of the invitation from Don and Bill, but as I stand
before all of you golfing immortals, one thought keeps running through my
mind. I have an 18 handicap, and I guess I played it that way today in between
the first and 18th hole. You need me as a good golfer like Sam Snead needs
another tomato can. [Laughter]
They say you can always tell a good player by the number of people in the
gallery. You have heard, and we have all heard, of Arnie's Army.¹ My group is
called Ford's Few. [Laughter]
I figured it out, that my problem is I have a very wild swing, and I demon-
strated it on a number of occasions for Patty [Berg] and some of the others this
afternoon. Back on my home course in Grand Rapids, Michigan, they don't yell
"Fore," they yell "Ford." [Laughter]
And you know, all of these fine Secret Service men you have seen around me
today, and elsewhere-when I play golf, I am told they qualify for combat pay.
[Laughter]
But I try to keep my hand in whenever I can. Personally, I thoroughly enjoy
playing golf with Henry Kissinger. Henry is undoubtedly one of the greatest,
one of the finest, and one of the very best diplomats the world has ever known,
and fortunately for us, he has been carrying out that responsibility on behalf of
our country. I will tell you why I say that: Last week, I was in a sand trap, which
1 Fans of Arnold Palmer.
122
