[31]
August 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Again, I appreciate your cooperation in affording me this time and I am hope-
ful that the negotiations between our respective staffs which have continued in
the interim will be successful.
I have stated publicly and I reiterate here that I intend to go more than half-
way to accommodate Congressional concerns. I have followed that commitment
in this letter, and I have attempted where I cannot agree with certain provisions
to explain my reasons and to offer a constructive alternative. Your acceptance of
my suggestions will enable us to move forward with this progressive effort to
make Government still more responsive to the People.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Edward M. Kennedy, United States
Senate, and the Honorable William S. Moorhead,
GERALD R. FORD
United States House of Representatives. The texts
of the letters, dated August 20, 1974, were issued
by the White House August 23.
32
Remarks on Signing the Council on Wage and Price
Stability Act. August 24, 1974
THANK YOU very much, Mr. Speaker, for coming, along with Mr. Rhodes
and Mr. Arends and members of the White House Staff and the Cabinet and
others.
I appreciate your coming down here on a Saturday morning for this signing
which I think probably best indicates the cooperation that exists before the Con-
gress and the White House.
I was just noticing that less than 2 weeks ago, Mr. Speaker, I asked for the help
of the Congress in one important piece of legislation, namely, the one I am
about to sign, and within that short span of time the House and Senate
responded—responded, I think, in a very constructive way.
Not that this particular piece of legislation is going to be an instant answer
or an immediate panacea, but it is important. It was so indicated by the Repub-
lican Administration and concurred in by the Democratic leadership and the
Democratic Congress. I think it is indicative of the recognition that we have to
work together, not only in this instance but in others, in meeting the problem
of inflation which plagues us, which is our public enemy number one.
Now we have got some other things that have to be done. I have said very
emphatically, and I think it has been generally agreed to, that this legislation is
48
