November 2
[220]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
220
Remarks in Wichita, Kansas. November 2, 1974
Bob, Larry Winn, Garner Shriver, Keith Sebelius, Bob Bennett, other distin-
guished officeholders and candidates, wonderful Kansans:
It is great to be here, despite the weather. I love you. Thank you.
You know, it just came to my attention as I was sitting here that I have been
at a good many cities, communities in the last several months as I have tried to
get out and meet people and talk to the American people. And we have had
abnormally wonderful weather, until tonight. There were only two places
where we had any rain—one in Tucson, Arizona, where they are never supposed
to have any, and the other in my home of Grand Rapids, Michigan, when I went
back for a homecoming last week.
Well, they were great in both Tucson and Grand Rapids, and you are superb
here in Wichita. And I thank you for your warm, friendly, enthusiastic
welcome.
As Bob was going through the process of making the introduction, I tried to
think of how many times, how many places I have been in Kansas in the last
25-plus years as a Member of the House, as minority leader, as Vice President,
and President.
And I wrote down, I think, most of them-I am sure I have missed some-
but we went out to Great Bend. Wasn't that wonderful out there last year? It
rained there, too, but that was all right. But I have been in Dodge City, and you
know what they do to you in Dodge City. And I have been in Kansas City,
Kansas, just recently, and I have been in Wichita here several times.
Well, I like Kansas. I like Kansas because of the people, but I have another
good reason. It has been the home of one of the finest Presidents this Nation
has ever known, the great statesman from Abilene, Dwight D. Eisenhower.
As you look at the history of Ike Eisenhower, you know that he set a stand-
ard of integrity, achievement that is everlasting, both to his country and to his
State. Ike's record was unblemished. And I pledge to you that I will do, to the
very best of my ability, to follow the path and the footsteps of that great Amer-
ican. If I can achieve just a bit of what he did, it will be worth every hour, every
day of anything I can do in the years ahead.
I have another reason to enjoy coming to Kansas. The campaigns here always
seem to have a little more fun than other States. You know, take the race for
Governor. Somebody just told me the latest Republican slogan. It goes some-
569
