[4]
August 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have instructed our representatives at the United Nations to support the
application of Guinea-Bissau for membership in the United Nations.
NOTE: The statement was read by Press Secretary J. F. terHorst at his news briefing at the White House on
August 12, 1974.
5
Statement on a General Motors Price Increase for 1975
Automobiles and Trucks.
August 12, 1974
I WAS very disappointed, and I hope that the General Motors action will not be
viewed as a signal by other auto companies or other industries. In this critical
period, the President of the United States cannot call on others to sacrifice if one
or more parts of the economy decide to go it alone. It is essential at this time,
particularly, that all segments of the economy, industry and labor, exercise
restraint in their wage and price actions.
NOTE: On August 9, 1974, General Motors Cor-
poration had announced an average price increase of
9.5 percent on its 1975 models.
The statement was read by Press Secretary J. F. ter-
Horst at his news briefing at the White House on
August 12, 1974.
6
Address to a Joint Session of the Congress. August 12, 1974
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, distinguished guests, and my very dear friends:
My fellow Americans, we have a lot of work to do. My former colleagues, you
and I have a lot of work to do. Let's get on with it.
Needless to say, I am deeply grateful for the wonderfully warm welcome.
I can never express my gratitude adequately.
I am not here to make an inaugural address. The Nation needs action, not
words. Nor will this be a formal report of the state of the Union. God willing, I
will have at least three more chances to do that.
It is good to be back in the People's House. But this cannot be a real home-
coming. Under the Constitution, I now belong to the executive branch. The
Supreme Court has even ruled that I am the executive branch-head, heart, and
hand.
With due respect to the learned Justices—and I greatly respect the judiciary—
part of my heart will always be here on Capitol Hill. I know well the coequal
6
