October 11
[136]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
great nation, and today in meeting with the President's Committee on Mental
Retardation, I have renewed our commitment to that goal.
The problem of mental retardation deserves our attention, not only for the
sake of the more than 6 million afflicted Americans and their families but for all
of us. The majority of retarded citizens can become productive members of
society.
There are three important points about mental retardation that must be
understood:
One, with appropriate training, retarded people are capable of continuing
development in normal community settings. Primarily through its housing
agencies, the Federal Government will help retarded adults obtain suitable
homes. But the real help must come from the local level.
Two, corrective measures in early childhood can reduce the severity of a
handicap. Young children should be screened for handicaps, and when found,
they should be corrected.
Three, since we know some of the causes of mental retardation, we know some
ways to prevent it. Biomedical research may be helpful in extending this
knowledge.
At present rates, some 4 million of our children expected to be born by the year
2000 will be retarded or become retarded. The members of the Committee have
advised me that it is realistic to believe that the number can be reduced by half,
and I urge all segments of our society to do their part in achieving this objective.
To attain this goal, every prospective mother should have available to her
good prenatal care, including the most current techniques of fetal diagnosis and
genetic counseling where necessary. She should know the kind of diet which will
promote proper growth of the fetus. Good care for mother and child should
continue postnatally, with special attention for premature infants. Infants and
young children should be screened at appropriate intervals for hearing, visual,
and other defects which could impede their learning ability, so that defects may
be corrected before the child falls far behind.
A healthy environment and an adequate, balanced diet are especially impor-
tant throughout the younger years, as is vaccination against rubella and other
diseases.
Our school systems must be strengthened, so that they can provide the appro-
priate education which both the law and our conscience say may not be denied
to retarded or otherwise handicapped children. By appropriate education, I mean
training in academic, vocational, and social skills which will enable these
285
