[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
that this committee addressed itself, if I am not mistaken, to every single one of
these charges and assessed evidence as to each one of them, and we found them
wanting, that they were not sufficient justification for an impeachable offense.
The last paragraph of that memorandum says, and I quote: None of these
matters at the moment rises to the level of our ability to prove even a probable
criminal violation by Mr. Nixon.
Now, this memorandum does not include the obstruction of justice which I
addressed myself to earlier, so I think we can logically assume that there would
not have been any indictments resulting from Mr. Jaworski's activities other
than in the area of obstruction of justice, and with further corroboration of that
point, I allude to a story in the Wall Street Journal yesterday where Mr. Jawor-
ski—who, incidentally, not only agrees with your pardon but also the legality
and timeliness of it—and he says very specifically that there was going to be no
additional disclosures resulting from his activities that the public was not already
aware of relating to Mr. Nixon.
So, those who are saying we should wait until there is a formal charge I think
are missing the point that there already has been a formal charge approved by
this committee.
Mr. President, don't you feel that the very acceptance of the pardon by the
former President is tantamount to an admission of guilt on his part?
THE PRESIDENT. I do, sir.
CONGRESSMAN HOGAN. So, those who say again that they would have preferred
that the President admit his culpability before a pardon being issued again are
overlooking that fact?
THE PRESIDENT. The acceptance of a pardon, according to the legal authori-
ties—and we have checked them out very carefully-does indicate that by the
acceptance, the person who has accepted it does, in effect, admit guilt.
CONGRESSMAN HOGAN. Thank you, Mr. President, and again I would like to
express my personal appreciation for your candor and your openness and your
cooperation with the coequal branch.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Mr. President, as you can see, the peculiar strength
of this subcommittee lies in the fact that the subcommittee members bring so
much knowledge to it and the subcommittee chairman takes so little away.
And I noticed in page 10 [page 343] of your statement that when you were
first hit with the possibility of this responsibility, you indicated you wanted to
talk to your wife before making a decision.
Mr. President, did you do that?
366
