[214]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
ness is just another coverup. The question is asked: Is everything phony? Is
everything cynical in government today?
I categorically reject any such conclusion. But I would like to offer some
thoughts on why there is some doubt and, perhaps, some division.
Confidence in America's institutions has been deteriorating since the early
1960's. There were, unfortunately, assassinations, upheavals in great cities and in
school systems throughout our country, riots and terrorism, crime, drug abuse,
pollution, the Vietnam war, the Watergate affair with the first Presidential
resignation in America's history, the energy shortage, rising inflation, and other
almost unbelievable blows to America's self-image.
This chain of tragic events affected our institutions and actually our way of
life. It did not start with the present inflationary problem nor with Watergate
nor even the tragic murder of President Kennedy. America and the world are
going through a hurricane of very rapid change—technological, economical,
social, and political.
Americans put men on the Moon, but have yet to cope with the rapidly chang-
ing life on this globe. Other industrial nations are also, in varying degrees-
often without our resilience and our resources-going through precisely the
same experience.
That explains my participation in this meeting today. I came to talk with
you about how Americans can mobilize to regenerate our institutions, beginning
with the economy.
I am speaking now to Republicans, Democrats, Independents, to labor, to
management, and to every segment of our great society. We are all in this
problem together, and that is why I consider it so very vital, so very important
to be in Portland on this occasion.
I offered, approximately a month ago, a comprehensive program to mobilize
America against inflation. I concede and admit that we are not in what one
would call a traditional problem of inflation with an accelerating rate of cost-of-
living problems.
We are faced with inflation on the one hand and some softness in our
economy on the other, and this rather finely tuned program that I submitted
was aimed at meeting this problem, the dual difficulties—one of a softening of
the economy and the devastation of inflation itself.
This conference, however, as I understand it, was generated to take an honest
look at the problems of inflation. A 31-point program that I submitted to the
Congress and to the American people, as I indicated a moment ago, was finely
tuned, a comprehensive plan aimed at the dual difficulties we face.
544
