September 13
[76]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
and Goliath. I believe it is not only a story from the
Bible, it is a story that started then and continues
on till the present days.
And if there is something that symbolizes Israel
today, it is the spirit of David facing Goliath. And
the meaning of the spirit is, on the one hand, to
seek peace, to believe in peace. We are a Jewish
state, and we believe that part of being a Jew means
to seek peace, to search peace, but on the other
hand, to realize that peace is attainable only for
those who are ready to take risks to dare to with-
stand Goliaths.
I believe that this is what is significant to Israel
today, the spirit of David seeking peace and, at the
same time, being ready and capable to meet some
Goliaths.
I hope and I believe, Mr. President, that under
your leadership the relations between our two coun-
tries will continue, will be strengthened in the
unique spirit that was so significant till today, the
search of peace and the understanding that strength
helps to achieve peace.
Allow me, Mr. President, to raise my glass to the
President of the United States.
76
Remarks to the Radio and Television Directors' Association
Conference. September 13, 1974
I WOULD very much rather be giving you this greeting in person than on film.
It has been far too long since I have had a chance to meet with you and your
organization.
I well remember that 1968 conference in Los Angeles when you asked me to
discuss the legislative plans of the newly elected Republican administration. A
lot has happened since then.
And unpredictable as the future can be, I can tell you one thing for sure about
my new job. To the very best of my ability to make it so, this will be an open
Administration, and that means open to all newsmen.
You and your organization can perform a very vital service for those of us in
government through your questions and your reports.
We get a wealth of information fed back to us about what people are think-
ing, what their concerns are, and their hopes and aspirations. And this is even
more important to me as President than it has been in the past.
The members of your organization know so well the communities and the
people they serve. Over the years I was able to pay particular attention to the
work of two of your members, the late Dick Cheverton at WOTV, and that of
Jack Hogan at WZZM-TV, both stations in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Their work and their involvement in the community problems and projects
provide eloquent testimony to the dedication of your members.
I believe the news media's concern with community affairs is vitally important.
Half jokingly, I have urged Washington correspondents to go back to their
hometowns occasionally, for 6 months or so each year, to get reacquainted with
what the people are thinking and doing.
1.35
