[49]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
More than ten million Americans of Hispanic origin today contribute to our
national diversity, enriching the quality of American life in the arts, the sciences,
sports, religion and the small but important things of everyday living.
Now, THEREFORE, I, GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 10, 1974, and
ending September 16, 1974, as National Hispanic Heritage Week. I call upon
all the people of the United States, especially the education community and
those organizations concerned with the protection of human rights, to observe
that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In celebrating this occasion, I also call upon my fellow Americans to rededi-
cate themselves to the principle of full and equal opportunity for all citizens,
and to seize upon the broad spectrum of skills and abilities of those individuals
of Hispanic heritage who have so significantly contributed to our Nation's
growth and prosperity.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-ninth.
NOTE: The full text of this proclamation is in-
cluded as an example of the proclamations the
GERALD R. FORD
President issues. All the proclamations issued by
President Ford in 1974 are listed in Appendix B.
50
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Reports on
Highway, Traffic, and Motor Vehicle Safety
Programs. September 4, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
The 1950's and early 1960's were marked by enormous growth in the Nation's
highway systems-the number of vehicles which used them and the miles
which they traveled nearly doubled. We developed a modern, flexible form of
transportation. It was also deadly. Deaths rose from 34,700 in 1950 to top 53,000
in 1966, when the Congress determined that a national effort was needed to
contain the runaway slaughter and passed the Highway Safety and National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Acts. The attached reports, which I am trans-
mitting in accordance with the reporting requirements in those acts, describe
the various traffic safety programs, with emphasis on activities during 1973.
82
