October 31
[211]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
of experienced public servants-men of proven competence, integrity; men who
have demonstrated that they know how to do the job and how to get it done.
It is my observation we need more teamwork in Washington as well.
I first learned this concept, how important it was, some 25 years ago when
I first took the oath of office in Washington, D.C. Earlier, a Republican Congress
had worked very, very closely with a Democratic President, Harry Truman, to
build a strong, bipartisan foreign policy, one that was good for America and,
fortunately, good for the rest of the free world.
And because the Congress, which was then Republican, and the Democratic
President did work together, we succeeded in mounting the Marshall Plan, the
Greek-Turkish aid program, and the programs that followed, that rebuilt Eu-
rope, NATO, and produced an alliance which protected the free world from
the threat of aggression from those early post-war days.
Today, that bipartisanship in foreign policy which has carried this Nation
through some of its very roughest times, some of its greatest challenges, is being
eroded by the irresponsible actions of some Members of the Congress.
What really concerns me is this: If the ranks of the shortsighted are swelled
by elections next Tuesday, not only that delicate bipartisanship which served
this country so well for over a quarter of a century could be destroyed and our
total foreign policy, which is one of maintaining and building the peace, could
be undermined.
Now, at home, we have another threat, certainly the greatest we face domesti-
cally in this country-inflation. In its own way, this deadly domestic enemy is
every bit as serious as the threat that we face from abroad.
Again, what concerns me, if the ranks of the big spenders in the Congress,
House and Senate, are increased next Tuesday the inflation-fighting program
that I have asked the Congress to approve will beswamped-overloaded with
massive deficit spending.
What we need is not a veto-proof Congress, as some have proposed, but what
we actually need is an inflation-proof Congress, and we can get it next Tuesday.
If I might, let me be quite precise about what I mean. I do not want anyone to
misunderstand. I do not believe that either of our great major political parties
has a total monopoly on wisdom or on the solutions to the Nation's economic
problems. We have Members on both sides of the aisle, and some of my former
colleagues know who they are, who are indispensable to an inflation-proof
Congress.
Unfortunately and very regrettably, some of the staunchest Democrats who
533
