[173]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
equality in the Congress in both political parties, it will keep one political party
from running away with things. It will keep one political party from bowing
to the extremists. But if we lack this balance in the Congress, if one party stays in
power far too long, it will become increasingly difficult to stop its successes.
And this is what has been happening for far too long on Capitol Hill, in the
House as well as in the Senate. We have a party controlling the Congress today
that has controlled the national legislative process for 38 out of the last 42 years
and for the past 20 straight years.
It is a Congress, in my judgment, that is stacked against fiscal responsibility.
And if they increase their power instead of lose, if they multiply their strength,
let me just make one observation: With a veto-proof Congress of the kind of
membership they will get, tighten your seatbelts, folks. They will spend the
dome of the Capitol right off Capitol Hill.
So, what I am urging you to do here in a great State like South Carolina, to
make sure that you contribute-Floyd Spence, Ed Young-reelect them. Make
sure that you add to the South Carolina delegation—and you have got some out-
standing candidates that can serve, that will avoid, will roadblock, will ham-
string that kind of a veto-proof Congress.
That kind of representation in the House of Representatives will fight a legis-
lative dictatorship, will preclude it. And so what I am saying to you is, do your
best to send us some more troops. If you do, we can save the two-party system.
And if you send us those new Congressmen, then I think the chances are very
good that you will have Jim Edwards and Carroll Campbell running your State
here in South Carolina.
What we want are people who are strong, effective, dedicated, honest men of
experience, men who will truly represent the kind of philosophy in which all of
you believe.
And now let me simply conclude with this observation. You know, I think it
is more than just whatever material interest you might have. I think you have a
far broader reason to make a maximum effort. And the fact that you are here at
a fundraising lunch is indicative of your concern.
But
you have roughly a few more days than 2 weeks to do more. And it is not
just a personal satisfaction. You have almost an honor and a duty to do some-
thing about it. I happen to think the chips are down. It really results in a sacred
duty.
Robert E. Lee once said, and I quote: Duty is the sublimest word in our lan-
guage. Do your duty in all things. You cannot do more. You should never wish
to do less.
400
