December 14
[297]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I want to take this opportunity to express to you,
Mr. President, my appreciation for the opportunity
to serve as Attorney General. A strong Department
of Justice is vital to our country, and I can assure
you that the officials of this Department will cooper-
ate in every way with my successor in order that the
interests of government and the people may best be
served.
Respectfully,
WILLIAM B. SAXBE
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
296
Statement on the Canonization of Elizabeth Bayley Seton.
December 13, 1974
THE ANNOUNCEMENT by Pope Paul VI that Elizabeth Bayley Seton will be
canonized in 1975 as the first American-born saint of the Roman Catholic
Church is a milestone in our Nation's diverse spiritual history. The fact that a
woman is the first native-born American named to sainthood by the Holy See is
all the more historic since women have never made a greater contribution to
America's national life than today.
It is fitting that we recall at this time another woman-Mother Cabrini, who
was born in Italy-who was named a saint by the Holy See after devoting much
of her life to religious work in the United States.
Mother Seton's singular honor is a tribute to all American women who have
entered the religious life to serve in schools, hospitals, and charitable work. She
died in 1821, but today there are thousands of Sisters of Charity—the religious
order she founded-carrying on the important service which Mother Seton
began. I congratulate them on this most joyous occasion and wish them well
in their future endeavors.
297
Remarks on Arrival in Martinique, French West Indies, for
Meetings With President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing of
France. December 14, 1974
Mr. President, Madame Giscard d'Estaing, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you for your most gracious welcome to this beautiful, gorgeous island.
I am delighted to be here.
Mr. President, this is an opportunity for us to become personally acquainted
53-528 O - 76 50
747
