[53]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have been delighted to have a part to some extent in promoting the council
of arts and all of the things that are related thereto. I would be, I think, off
on the wrong track if I took any credit for any significant gains. But it has been
a very wonderful experience for me to go from one who had little or no appre-
ciation or support for the arts to one who has learned that the arts can be very
important, very vital in a community and, I think, in the Nation.
So, I am a converted individual, and I don't apologize for it. And converts
oftentimes are known as more ardent advocates than those who were brought
up in an environment or in a religion.
It has been a great experience for me to see over the last 4 or 5 years the tre-
mendous increase not only in money from the Federal Government but the
interest throughout the Nation.
I have traveled a good bit, as some of you may know, and I have seen from
community to community, including my own community in Grand Rapids,
Michigan-go from a rather placid interest to an interest of broad-based public
support.
And the National Council and all those associated with it can take a great
deal of credit. I wish to compliment the Congress because the Congress in this
span of time has really contributed very significantly. I doubt if there is a pro-
gram in the Government in the last 5 or 6 years that has grown in dollars percent-
agewise as rapidly as this program, and I think that it is a compliment to the
program from its inception to the program under Nancy. I think Roger¹ and
you have been the only two heads of the department, or organization, and I
think when you can go from Roger to Nancy and have this kind of progress, it
is a tribute to both of them.
My home of Grand Rapids, Michigan, is the honored place where one of
Alexander Calder's wonderful mobiles-is that the proper
MRS. FORD. No, that is not a mobile; it is a stabile.
The President. —stabile, all right—is and will be a hallmark of the arts
as far as we are concerned. I point it out to all the visitors who come, including
the Secret Service. [Laughter] I tell them that it is nothing they should be wor-
ried about. [Laughter] It is stimulating, it is a great attraction as far as the com-
munity is concerned, and I am proud of it.
And I have yet to find out with any specificity or any great deal of definitive-
ness what he was trying to tell us, but nevertheless it is a great attraction and a
¹ Roger L. Stevens, Chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, was Chairman
of the National Council on the Arts from its establishment in 1965 to March 1969.
86
