[105]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
7. They expressed their conviction that only international cooperative efforts
can overcome the trade and financial problems confronting the nations of the
world. They recognized that the solutions to national problems have their im-
pact on the international community as a whole. While individual nations have
primary responsibility for their own problems, the two Presidents recognize
that the solutions required in a modern and complex interdependent world may
go far beyond individual capabilities and require cooperation among members
of the international community. In this regard, the United States has taken
careful note of Italy's major efforts to meet its own domestic economic and
financial problems and the responsiveness of the international community to
these efforts. President Ford stated that the United States is prepared to play
an appropriate, constructive and responsible role in a return to economic equi-
librium in Italy.
8. They recognized the great importance of industrial, technical, and cultural
cooperation among all nations and the imperative need for the equitable distri-
bution of world resources among all nations. They agreed to facilitate initiatives
in this regard in appropriate forums.
9. Finally, the two Presidents particularly noted the extraordinarily broad
human ties between Italy and the United States of America, and the shared
values and goals which bind together the Italian and American peoples.
10. President Leone extended to President Ford an invitation to visit Italy in
the near future. President Ford accepted with pleasure.
106
Remarks Opening the Summit Conference on Inflation.
September 27, 1974
Mr. Speaker, Senator Mansfield, Senator [Hugh] Scott, distinguished Members
of the Congress of the United States, members of the Cabinet, participants,
observers, ladies and gentlemen:
At the first session of the Conference on Inflation, I asked that we get to
work on a battle plan against public enemy number one. Important work has
been done throughout the country. Today, the climax of our efforts is at hand.
I welcome the many distinguished Members of the Congress and citizens from
all sectors of American society. I deeply appreciate your commitment and your
involvement.
200
