[274]
December 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
The overall effect of our trade is highly favorable, but the trade reform act
makes specific provision to assist those who might be adversely affected by
imports. No sectors of our economy will be left to face serious disruptions. The
legislation clearly states—and I will vigorously support such provisions—that we
will assist workers, firms, communities adversely affected by imports.
In these very difficult times, it may be tempting for some in our great country
to turn inward. Powerful forces in this country are not only thinking but actually
urging an inward course on legislation, not only in the trade reform act but in
many other pieces of legislation. This, in my judgment, would reverse American
postwar trade and other policies and would be enormously harmful to us as to
the rest of the globe, our allies as well as our adversaries.
It is my strong feeling—and I say this with the deepest conviction—let us turn
outward to view the complex picture of international trade. Our Nation lives
and acts in the world community within a very intricate framework. It is the
framework of political, security, and economic ties that binds nations every-
where together.
There are those in the world who believe that unilateral and bilateral action,
promoting their own self-interest, is the quickest and the most promising solu-
tion to their problems. I categorically reject that view. We must believe—and I
certainly do that this policy can only lead to conflict, an unending series of
flareups and disputes in all parts of the world.
In contrast, the United States believes—and I am committed to this policy if
the Congress will urgently let me negotiate—that the only real answer is the long-
range solution of total world cooperation. I seek multilateral solutions to common
problems that will benefit all nations, but I need the trade reform act, and I
need it now, if the President of the United States is to have any voice in the
international scene.
Let me spell out, if I might, some of the consequences if I do not obtain this
legislation from this Congress before it adjourns.
The coming GATT [General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade] international
trade negotiations involving 105 members would be dealt a crippling setback.
I would lack the necessary legislative authority to implement my accords or
any accords; therefore, it would be virtually impossible to arrive at any substan-
tial trade agreements.
The United States international, political, military, economic commitments
would be seriously undermined. This, in my opinion, would encourage unrest
and would certainly encourage world instability.
698
