[261]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
a personal way the cooperation, the assistance, and the understanding. This is
what produces results, and I thank each and every one of you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his remarks, the Presi-
dent referred to Frank C. Herringer, Administrator of
the Urban Mass Transportation Administration, Sena-
tors John G. Tower and Harrison A. Williams, and
Representatives Joseph G. Minish, William B. Wid-
nall, Garry E. Brown, James J. Delaney, John B.
Anderson, and Ray J. Madden.
As enacted, the bill (S. 386) is Public Law 93-503
(88 Stat. 1565).
262
Special Message to the Congress on Budget Restraint.
November 26, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
Last month I sent a 31-point economic program to the Congress. That program
was a balanced one, both dealing with the forces of inflation and anticipating the
possibility of recessionary pressures. It was, and remains, my particular concern
to help those hardest hit by inflation and by the slack that has developed in some
sectors of the economy.
Responsible restraint of government spending is an integral part of my eco-
nomic program. The Congress has publicly proclaimed its support of restraint.
In June the Senate voted 74–12 in favor of legislation to hold Federal spending to
$295 billion. In September the Joint Economic Committee unanimously recom-
mended holding spending to $300 billion. Last month the House voted 329–20
for a budget target of the same level.
Soon after I took office I asked the heads of Federal agencies to undertake a
thorough review of 1975 expenditures. In my October 8 Message to the Congress,
I pledged to forward a package of proposed actions to reduce the 1975 budget.
Today I am reporting on the results of this review and presenting my specific
recommendations for reducing Federal outlays.
First, it is important to understand what has been happening to the budget.
When the current fiscal year began last July 1, budget outlays for the year were
estimated at $305.4 billion.
Interest costs for Federal borrowing are now expected to be $1.5 billion more
than the estimate last June.
The Congress has also added to 1975 budget pressures. Congressional reduc-
tions in some programs have been more than offset by actions it has taken to
increase spending in others. Particularly disappointing was the Congressional
unwillingness to join with me in deferring for three months a Federal pay raise.
666
