October 31
[211]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
1
by Ronnie Reagan, served by Hugh Flournoy, and owned by Bob Hope.
[Laughter]
It was very kind of Bob to mention my golf game, but as he well knows, it is
not worth mentioning. Bob vows he will never carry me again as a partner on the
golf course, and it is reciprocal, Bob. [Laughter]
Frankly, I have the same problem with golf that George Foreman had with
Muhammad Ali. My swing is very good; I just did not or don't connect often
enough.' [Laughter]
I appreciate, as Bob knows, his being here tonight, because at 10:00 tonight,
the Dean Martin roast of Bob Hope will be shown on television. Dean and Bob
had invited me to be on the show, but unfortunately, at almost the last minute
some special problems arose in the Oval Office that precluded my participation.
I think it is a shame, Bob, because lately, if there is anybody who knows about
roasts, it is me. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, Bob and I have a great deal in common. For the last 24
years Bob has been seen on television, and for the last 25 years I have been in
politics. So, we both know how to live quite dangerously. At least by the ratings.
[Laughter]
I will only conclude by saying that Bob has done very well.
But I do wish to express to Governor Reagan and to Hugh and to all of the
others my appreciation for being invited to visit all of you in California. I think
you have achieved something quite unique in politics in America. You elected
a great Governor who was an actor-turned-politician. Back in Washington,
we have the reverse problem-too many politicians who have turned actor.
[Laughter]
Quite frankly, I am talking about some Congressmen and Senators who play
the role of fiscal conservatives at home, and Diamond Jim Brady in Washington.
I think you might call them "method politicians." They will try any method
to get elected, and if indeed you do elect them to the House or to the Senate, they
are like the child you sent at one time to the grocery store-one of your own-
sometimes they don't remember what you sent them for. [Laughter]
Today is Halloween, a warm, affectionate holiday, close to the hearts of all of
us in America. But my message for tonight is this: Let's keep Halloween for the
children. The last thing we need in Washington is a trick and treat Congress.
To be very blunt, I am talking about a Congress that hands out multi-billion
1974.
George Foreman lost the world heavyweight boxing championship to Muhammad Ali on October 30,
529
