October 29
[196]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
NOTE: President Ford's fourth news conference began at 10:56 a.m. in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
196
Letter Accepting the Resignation of John C. Sawhill as
Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration.
October 29, 1974
Dear John:
Thank you for your October 25, 1974 letter of resignation as Administrator
of the Federal Energy Administration. In accepting your resignation, I want
to express to you my deep personal thanks for your dedicated and capable
service to the Nation, first as Deputy and then as Administrator of the Federal
Energy Administration. You have performed with distinction in a difficult
job during a period when, for the first time, America has confronted a major
energy shortage. In particular, along with millions of other Americans, I have
admired your candor and directness in addressing the difficult choices which
face the Nation as we confront the energy problem.
As I indicated during our conversation together, it is my strong desire that you
continue to serve in government so that the American people and my Adminis-
tration may continue to benefit from your very great talents and your broad
experience.
Finally, I am grateful for your agreement to stay at the Federal Energy Ad-
ministration until the first of the year to bring the Project Independence Blue-
print to a conclusion and to insure a smooth transition in the leadership of that
very important agency.
With warm personal regards.
Sincerely,
JERRY FORD
[The Honorable John C. Sawhill, Administrator, Federal Energy Administration, Washington, D.C. 20461]
NOTE: Mr. Sawhill's letter of resignation, dated Oc-
tober 25, 1974, and released with the President's
letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I am today submitting my resignation as Admin-
istrator of the Federal Energy Administration.
When I began my present assignment several
months ago, I set three major goals for myself and
the organization. The first was to establish the new
Administration, the second was to prepare a Blue-
print for Project Independence which could serve
as the basis for developing a national energy policy,
493
