[42]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Secretary Kissinger that I was coming out to Columbus for this game. And I
could see a light sort of get in his eye, and I said, “Well, Henry, would you and
Nancy like to join us ?”
And I'll tell you the answer came very quickly.
I told that to President Enarson this morning and he said he would try to
scrounge up a couple of extra tickets. But you know there might be an extra
dividend. Having Henry here on November 23 might give a very unique
opportunity. If Henry Kissinger can successfully negotiate the long-standing dis-
putes between the Israelis and the Arab nations, he might have an opportunity
to do it between Woody Hayes and [Michigan head coach] Bo Schembechler.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:11 a.m. at sum-
mer commencement exercises in St. John Arena. In
his opening remarks, the President referred to
Robben W. Fleming, president of the University
of Michigan, and Tom Moody, mayor of Columbus,
Ohio.
43
Special Message to the Congress Proposing a Reduction in
Federal Civilian Employment and Deferral of Federal
Pay Increase.
August 31, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
At a time when inflation is the main concern of every American, the Federal
Government has a special obligation to take those actions which begin to stop
inflation.
In this spirit and with the knowledge that the action I am taking will help to
hold down the cost of living for all Americans, I now recommend a ninety-day
deferral in the pending pay adjustment for Federal employees. At the same
time, I am also ordering the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to
proceed with a reduction of 40,000 Federal civilian positions from those planned
for the current fiscal year.
Therefore, as required by law, I am transmitting to the Congress a plan to
defer Federal pay raises for ninety days. This is intended to meet both the needs
of those who serve the Government and the common interest of the general
public, all of whom must bear the burden of increased inflation.
Under this plan, a pay increase for all Federal employees based upon an appro-
priate comparability adjustment would become effective on the first pay period
74
