October 10
[134]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I am hopeful that we will be able to continue America's humane tradition,
your theme of administering to the hungry, to the hungry in all 130 or more
nations throughout the world. And as I have told the American people, sacri-
fices will be required.
Our lifestyles to some extent must be adjusted if we are to remain a source of
strength for all peoples in all nations throughout the world. And if I could make
one plea here tonight, I would like it to be in this context. I ask for your help in
making that possible for all peoples throughout all the world.
Each and every one of us yearn to feed the starving. We all thirst for those
living out their lives in some desperation, and there are literally thousands and
millions that are doing it. We all want to do these things that are good for
everybody.
But may I say just one word in a somewhat or slightly different tack. I note
that the convention will be talking about the Bicentennial-and aren't we proud
that our Nation is about to celebrate its 200th anniversary, two centuries of free-
dom and liberty for all people? And I must say that I have been greatly im-
pressed with the originality reflected in the title that you at this convention have
used, "The Commission on the Third Century of the American Life," and I
commend you, Dr. Preus, and all of you here at this convention for that.
The understandable emphasis, I think, in the past has been what we recog-
nize has been good for America. But it is my judgment, if I could offer just a bit
of advice, that instead of looking at the past in toto, we should connect our
great traditions and achievements of the past with what we can do in the future.
We must, as a nation, build from the past and move forward to the future.
I thank you. I congratulate you. I am deeply grateful for the warm reception
and the opportunity to just say hello, to commend you, and to encourage you for
a most successful convention, and all the wonderful things that—I know from
the friends that I have, my former colleague in the Congress, Congressman Al
Quie, and others—to do what is good for America, what is wonderful for the
world.
I thank you and I urge-because I know it is true-you will have God's
blessings.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:17 p.m. at Cobo Hall.
275
