[211]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
whose husband is now retired. After working very, very hard all their lives, they
are living on social security and a small pension. They were beautiful people.
After I shook hands with her, she reached in her purse and handed me a little
slip of paper. It was a supermarket register receipt like the one I am holding in
my hand.
She told me that she appreciated many of the suggestions I had made on
television on what an individual citizen or family might do to help in the battle
against inflation. But she said both of them—she and her husband—already
were doing most of those things and were trying to do more. Yet the total each
week of this little grocery slip kept going up and up and up.
She said, “Mr. President, can't you do something about this?”
I looked her in the eye. I said, “Yes, but I cannot do it all alone. I need a lot of
help. I need the help of responsible people, like-minded individuals in the
Senate, in the House of Representatives."
And she looked at me with a kindly smile and said she understood and
would do her part on election day.
In the final analysis, let me say to each and every one of you, that is what this
great national election is all about-to make sure we have a responsible and
responsive Congress for the next 2 years, responsible to the people and responsive
to their needs.
As I close, let me make this suggestion to each of you. When you go into the
voting booth next Tuesday, take with you your latest grocery slip, your check-out
receipt, and before you vote, take a good hard look at the bottom line. Then
vote for the candidates who will really make sure and certain that your paycheck
buys as much on the day that you spend it as on the day that you earned it.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:14 p.m. at a dinner for Republican candidates at the Century Plaza
Hotel.
212
Remarks to Reporters Following a Visit With Former
President Nixon at Long Beach, California.
November 1, 1974
I SPENT approximately 8 minutes with the President. Obviously he
very sick man, but I think he is coming along very, very well.
a very,
He was very interested in some discussions that I had with him concerning
my prospective trip to Japan and to South Korea and to the Soviet Union. I gave
536
