[94]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I hasten to add this, if I might: This is also a city [to] which we, along
with the world's other great industrial nations, look for significant solutions
that I know are possible. This is a "can do," a problem-solving city and State.
It was here in Detroit that the internal combustion engine was transformed
from a plaything of the rich into basic transportation on which people all over
the world now depend.
The whole structure of our world society rests upon the expectation of abun-
dant fuel at reasonable prices. I refer to cities and suburbs, farms and factories,
shopping centers and office buildings, schools and churches, and the roadways
that connect them all.
The expectation of an assured supply of energy has now been challenged.
The repercussions are being felt worldwide. There is widespread uncertainty
and deep and serious apprehension. Today, at the opening of this conference,
we are determined to provide guidance to a world in crisis.
Many people became aware that there was an energy problem for the first
time last October, when the oil embargo was imposed. But those who were well-
informed about the energy situation had known for some time that a crisis
was coming. With burgeoning demand all over the world, they knew that we
could not forever expect a steady supply of low-priced fuel. The embargo merely
brought to a head what experts had known for many years—that energy sources
must be expanded and wasteful use eliminated to keep pace with the needs of
a growing and modernizing world.
Everyone can now see the pulverizing impact of energy price increases on
every aspect of the world economy. The food problem, the inflation problem,
the monetary problem, and other major problems are directly linked to the all-
pervasive energy problem.
The American response to the oil embargo and recent oil price increases,
along with production decisions, has taken the form of a program for action
under the general title “Project Independence.” This integrated domestic energy
program will seek in many, many different ways to reduce American consump-
tion and to increase production of energy.
Officials of my Administration will more fully describe to this conference our
determination to achieve energy independence. We will take tough steps to
obtain the degree of self-sufficiency which is necessary to avoid disruption of our
economy. We will make sure there is heat for our homes and power for the
people who work in our plants. Realistically, this does not mean zero imports.
In the immediate future, we will expand our efforts to increase our energy
efficiency. This will reduce the growing dependence on foreign petroleum.
178
