[312]
December 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I congratulate the services. And I congratulate you. And I thank your
wife and family for, I am sure, the many hours that you were gone, and the
difficulties they had in holding the fort, so to speak, while you were serving
your country.
And I congratulate you, and thank you, and wish you the very, very best.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:45 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House before present-
ing the Defense Distinguished Service Medal to
General Goodpaster. General Goodpaster had served
as Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, since May
1969.
313
Statement on Signing the Presidential Recordings and
Materials Preservation Act. December 19, 1974
I HAVE signed S. 4016, the Presidential Recordings and Materials Preserva-
tion Act. This measure provides the following:
Title I: governs the possession, security, and accessibility of tape recordings
and other materials of the former President. Included are virtually all docu-
ments produced within the White House during the previous Administration.
The Administrator of General Services is charged with obtaining "complete
possession and control" of the tape recordings and materials which would be
made available immediately, subject to any rights, defenses, or privileges which
may be asserted, for “subpoena or other legal process."
The Administrator is also directed to issue protective regulations “at the ear-
liest possible date" governing the possession, security, and custody of the tapes
and materials. Finally, the Administrator shall draft regulations governing gen-
eral public access to the tapes and materials, taking into account a series of
specified needs: (1) to provide the public with the "full truth" on the abuses of
governmental power incident to "Watergate"; (2) to make available the tapes
and materials for judicial proceedings; (3) to guarantee the integrity of na-
tional security information; (4) to protect individual rights to a fair trial; (5) to
protect the opportunity to assert available rights and privileges; (6) to provide
public access to materials of historical significance; and (7) to provide the former
President with tapes or materials in which the public has no interest.
Title I also provides for the expeditious judicial review of challenges to the
"legal or constitutional validity" of the statute or of any regulation issued under
its authority, and any action or proceeding involving "the question of title,
ownership, custody, possession or control" of any tape recording or other mate-
768
