August 17
[13]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
a firm believer in the great mutual benefits of rela-
tions that have happily developed, not only between
my country and the United States but recently in the
period of change that you so kindly refer to between
many countries in our part of the world and the
United States of America.
To me, it has been an honor to have visited this
great Nation's Capital many a time, to have found
friendship, understanding, sympathy, not only for
myself but for my country and for a common cause
to which I am proud to say we have always been
dedicated, the cause of an honorable, just peace.
On this visit, sir, I am most proud to convey to
you and to Mrs. Ford the feelings of not only my
wife and those who have accompanied me from
Jordan but my government and the people of Jordan,
their wishes to you, sir, for every future success. I am
sure these are the feelings of all in the United States
and the very many throughout the world.
I am proud indeed, sir, to have had the privilege
of knowing you before this visit and most proud, sir,
that you consider me a friend. I am so touched, sir,
by the kind words, but more so the sincerity that I
know you possess, sir, which endears you to all your
people, all the people of the United States, and so
many who have had the privilege of knowing you
and who will have this privilege.
It is really a source of pride to us to have had
this very close cooperation between our nations, to
have seen in the recent past some basic steps taken
for the establishment of a just and durable peace
in our part of the world, largely through the efforts
of our friends in the United States, the patience, the
patient effort, the perseverance, the determination
that has resulted in the first few steps materializing.
We know, sir, that you are dedicated to the cause
of peace with justice. We are not only comforted
but confident that the United States will contribute
her full share for the achievement of this worthy
objective under your wise leadership.
We will be ever proud to play our role, if en-
abled, to the fullest possible extent that we someday
feel that will present the generations after us with
a better life, with a better future, with a better world
than possibly that in which we have had to live.
I would like to thank you and Mrs. Ford once
again for your very, very great kindness and wish
you every success. May God be with you, and I am
sure, sir, that the hopes of so many in the United
States and in the world as a whole under your great
leadership will be fully justified.
Ladies and gentlemen, my good friends, I would
very much indeed like you to join me in drinking a
toast to the President of the United States and Mrs.
Ford for every continued success.
To the President.
13
Statement on Signing the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974.
August 17, 1974
I AM signing today S. 2296, the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources
Planning Act of 1974.
One of the essential lessons of the recent energy crisis is that if we are to
prevent shortages of natural resources in the future, we must plan for the future
today. Our resources, however abundant, are not inexhaustible. They must be
conserved and replenished.
The Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act provides us the
means for planning national programs now which will assure future generations
of adequate supplies of forest and related resources.
The great naturalist, John Muir, once said of our Nation's forests: "The forests
of America, however slighted by man, must have been a great delight to God;
for they were the best He ever planted." This act proves that Americans intend
never again to slight our forests.
I would be less than candid if I did not admit that certain provisions of this
19
