September 6
[57]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
here. And it seemed to me, as I tried to say in the opening statement, this isn't a
problem that only a President can solve. It is not a problem that only the Congress
can solve. And it certainly is not a problem that any one element in our society
can solve.
So, in response to the recommendation of a bipartisan effort in the Senate, I de-
termined that it should be undertaken, that it should be in the open so the Ameri-
can people could see firsthand the consensus as well as the divergencies. And this
was the first group, and I shared the apprehension that some have expressed, that
men of high academic standing and great intellect couldn't sit in a gathering such
as this and give a topflight presentation of the problem and some responsible
suggestions.
But I think you gentlemen and ladies have set a very high example for those
meetings that shall follow. And I happen to believe that with this outstanding
gathering, and the things that have been done, those that will follow will like-
wise be of the same caliber and high quality.
So, I thank you not only for what you have contributed but the performance
that I think has been superb.
And with those words, I think we probably ought to conclude the afternoon
session and the day's labors and retire for a bit of relaxation and a reception, and
I cordially invite you all to come to the dining room for such a purpose.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. in the East Room at the White House. His remarks were broadcast
live on public television.
57
Remarks on the United Way Campaign. September 6, 1974
TONIGHT I would like to talk with you about the special challenge this year's
United Way campaign in your community faces. And I am speaking as one who
has worked as a United Way volunteer in my own hometown, as one who
knows what the United Way campaign can do in your community.
The one annual campaign for your community agencies may still be called
the United Fund or the Community Chest. But this year a new symbol for such
campaigns has been adopted. We call it the United Way. This one effort each
year to raise funds to help people in need is one of vast importance to you
and to your community, and to the Nation as well.
91
