[131]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
that we have in Washington asked Susan who is going to take care of Liberty;
who is going to feed her and groom her and take her out each night or every
morning? And Susan did not hesitate one minute. She said, “Of course, it will be
Dad." So, I have this feeling-this is one Liberty that is going to cost me some
of mine. [Laughter]
But in a very broader sense, that is the true nature of liberty. It comes with both
privileges and obligations. Freedom, we all know, is seldom free.
And it is a pleasure for me to be in Philadelphia again—the second time in
less than a month-and for such a great purpose here tonight.
And I must say, having been in many political rallies in 25 or 26 years, the
spirit, the participation, the look in your eye, and the feeling in the air gives
me great hope for the things that we believe are good for the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and the great United States. And I thank you very much.
I think we all recognize that the strength of the Republican Party in this State
is a tribute to Dick Frame, Tom McCabe, who has always been here and doing
things when the going was the toughest—and I can tell you some stories about
that, back in 1965—Sally Stauffer,² and all of you who are here because you have
conviction and dedication.
I am here because I want to thank so many of you for what you have done, and
quite frankly, I am here to call upon you for a very great effort in the weeks
ahead, because, in my judgment, so very much hangs in the balance, dependent
on what you do you have done it tonight-but the other things that you can do
between now and November 5.
I am, however, here because I wish to express my deep personal appreciation
for an old and dear friend of mine, Bill Scranton. I think I have known Bill
longer than I have known almost anybody here in this room tonight. He and I
were in law school together, and that is a long time ago. He does not show it as
much as I.
But we all know that a political party is not just a set of principles; it is also a
group of people, and it will be judged, as we know, by the kind and the quality
of the people that seek the recognition in the ballot box. And I can assure you
that is why Bill Scranton is such an asset to our party. He brings out nothing but
the best in public service, and you in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania recog-
nized it. And, Bill and Mary, we from outside the State are just as grateful for
what you have done as all of you in the State of Pennsylvania. I thank you and
congratulate you.
2 Richard C. Frame was chairman of the Pennsylvania State Republican Committee, and Thomas B.
McCabe and Sarah Ann Stauffer were Republican National Committeemen for Pennsylvania.
266
