October 29
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
And that is the way Arthur Vandenberg believed; he was receptive to new
ideas. He was a senior Senator in Washington when Betty and I first went to
the Nation's Capital. He and his wonderful wife Hazel could not have been
kinder, could not have been more receptive to two newcomers to the Nation's
Capital. He gave me, in all honesty, the inspiration to take a look at the world as
a whole. Arthur Vandenberg, some of you may recall—with former President
Harry Truman—was the architect of a bipartisan foreign policy following World
War II.
The two of them—a great Democratic President, Harry Truman, and a great
Republican Senator, Senator Arthur Vandenberg-worked together hand-in-
glove following World War II when the world was in devastation, when a good
share of the world was on its back, and other nations-like our own-had
serious problems.
But from those ashes, Harry Truman and Arthur Vandenberg put together
a foreign policy that brought allies together, presented a common front against
potential adversaries, helped underdeveloped nations grow and become a vital
part of our world society. And that bipartisan foreign policy which I learned—
and, fortunately, learned from one of the masters—I think, is the future of the
world.
And we in Washington today, representing all of you-Democrats, Republi-
*cans, Independents—should march shoulder-to-shoulder to make sure that our
country, our great United States of America, gives the leadership in consolidat-
ing friends and gives leadership in trying to make new contacts, broader con-
tacts with potential adversaries. What we want to build is a world of peace so
that your children and my children and their children can live in safety and
security and a better world wherever they might live-Grand Rapids
or elsewhere.
And I pledge to you, as President of the United States-and believe me, folks,
my friends at home, I never thought for one minute when Betty and I left here
in December of 1949, that I would be coming home to all of you as your Presi-
dent—but as President, I will pledge to you, as I have pledged to you in 13
previous elections, that I will do my best; I will be fair; I will be open; I will
work; and I will continue the love and affection and the dedication that I have,
that all of you have, for your community, for your friends, for your State, and
for your Nation. This is what you can give and what I can give, and on behalf
509
