October 31
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
one who can listen and respond to the legitimate problems, complaints,
criticisms, suggestions.
And I might add a postscript. Dave Stanley, when he is elected to the United
States Senate, will be the same kind of United States Senator that Wiley Mayne is
as a Member of the House of Representatives.
Speaking of Dave Stanley, I was in Des Moines a week or so ago. I saw Dave,
talked to him. He has been carrying on one of the most vigorous campaigns for
the United States Senate. I applaud him for his efforts to meet you, talk to you,
listen to you.
His experience in the State legislature, his experience as a campaigner, his
fine background as a good Iowan, a good Hawkeye, in my opinion will help
you and help me and help your State in the United States Senate.
Wiley said that I have been in this district three times. I have enjoyed every
visit. And as Wiley said, the crowds are a little bigger this time, and maybe
you are listening a little more. But let me say this and say it with emphasis:
When you have someone like Wiley Mayne representing you in the Sixth Dis-
trict, when you have somebody like him that stands up for you in the highest
councils of the Federal Government, then I hope you feel that it is time for you
to stand up for him in return.
I left Washington a little after noon. I am on the way to California, going to
Oregon, to Utah, to Kansas, to—well, a couple of other places in the next 3 days.
But I stopped here because I wanted to convey a specific message.
I wanted to convey my deep conviction of how I feel about Wiley. I think
you need him. I need him. The country needs him. And on a very personal and
intimate basis, I respect his judgment and his integrity.
If Wiley is not returned to the Congress from this Congressional district, this
important agricultural district will not only lose one of the finest men in the
Congress but it will lose a seniority on a committee that affects very vitally
agriculture.
If Wiley is not in the next Congress, the potency of your representation on this
great Committee on Agriculture will nosedive.
Now, one of my old and very good friends, Charlie Hoeven, knows that better
than anybody. Charlie Hoeven, who represented this district for many, many
years, was the senior Republican on the House Committee on Agriculture and
knows very well the impact of a high-ranking position on that committee, the
potency of that representation as it affects all of you who are interested in
agriculture—whether it is on the farm or in the implement business or in the
banking business or otherwise.
525
