[78]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
However, if a member of the armed forces has additional outstanding charges
pending against him under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, his eligibility
to participate in this program may be conditioned upon, or postponed until
after, final disposition of the additional charges has been reached in accordance
with law.
Each member of the armed forces who elects to seek relief through this pro-
gram will receive an undesirable discharge. Thereafter, upon satisfactory com-
pletion of a period of alternate service prescribed by the Military Department
or Department of Transportation, such individual will be entitled to receive, in
lieu of his undesirable discharge, a clemency discharge in recognition of his
fulfillment of the requirements of the program. Such clemency discharge shall
not bestow entitlement to benefits administered by the Veterans Administration.
Procedures of the Military Departments implementing this Proclamation will
be in accordance with the guidelines established by the Secretary of Defense,
present Military Department regulations notwithstanding.
3. Presidential Clemency Board-By Executive Order I have this date estab-
lished a Presidential Clemency Board which will review the records of individ-
uals within the following categories: (i) those who have been convicted of draft
evasion offenses as described above, (ii) those who have received a punitive or
undesirable discharge from service in the armed forces for having violated
Article 85, 86, or 87 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice between August 4,
1964 and March 28, 1973, or are serving sentences of confinement for such vio-
lations. Where appropriate, the Board may recommend that clemency be con-
ditioned upon completion of a period of alternate service. However, if any
clemency discharge is recommended, such discharge shall not bestow entitle-
ment to benefits administered by the Veterans Administration.
4. Alternate Service-In prescribing the length of alternate service in individ-
ual cases, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the appropriate Department, or
the Clemency Board shall take into account such honorable service as an individ-
ual may have rendered prior to his absence, penalties already paid under law,
and such other mitigating factors as may be appropriate to seek equity among
those who participate in this program.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of Sep-
tember in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-ninth.
GERALD R. FORD
140
