December 12
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
remained, however, exposing himself to heavy enemy fire. Sergeant Cavaiani
was wounded numerous times, finally falling to his captors.
We are honored that the Sergeant's family is here with us today. The Presi-
dent of the United States wishes to tell them in person that Sergeant Cavaiani is
an American of extraordinary heroism, and his valor reflects well on all of them.
This day is witness to the fact that the bravest of the brave still rise from among
our people, that freedom and that justice have survived and will survive, that
peace is still our most precious and enduring goal, and that we the American
people will forever cherish the noble deeds, the noble ideals entrusted to us
these past two centuries by our forefathers.
These ideals do not sleep. They are not silent. They live among us here today
in the presence of Jon Robert Cavaiani and Louis Richard Rocco and their
families.
The Secretary of the Army will now read the citations.
[At this point, Secretary of the Army Howard H. Callaway read the citations. The President then resumed
speaking.]
Thank you very much, Secretary Callaway, Secretary Schlesinger, ladies and
gentlemen. I thank you all for being here.
It is a very wonderful occasion paying tribute and honor to two very gallant
and wonderful soldiers in the very highest and the very best traditions of the
United States military service.
I suggest now that we all might go into the State Dining Room and have some
refreshments.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:09 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. The texts of the citations
follow:
The President of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3, 1863, has
awarded in the name of The Congress the Medal of
Honor to
WARRANT OFFICER LOUIS R. Rocco
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action
at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of
duty:
Warrant Officer (then Sergeant First Class) Louis
R. Rocco, United States Military Assistance Com-
mand, Vietnam, Advisory Team 162, distinguished
himself on 24 May 1970, northeast of Katum, Re-
public of Vietnam, when he volunteered to accom-
pany a medical evacuation team on an urgent mission
to evacuate eight critically wounded Army of the
Republic of Vietnam personnel. As the helicopter
approached the landing zone, it became the target
for intense enemy automatic weapons fire. Disre-
garding his own safety, Warrant Officer Rocco iden-
tified and placed accurate suppressive fire on the
enemy positions as the aircraft descended toward the
landing zone. Sustaining major damage from the
enemy fire, the aircraft was forced to crash land,
causing Warrant Officer Rocco to sustain a fractured
wrist and hip and a severely bruised back. Ignoring
his injuries, he extracted the survivors from the
burning wreckage, sustaining burns to his own body.
Despite intense enemy fire, Warrant Officer Rocco
carried each unconscious man across approximately
twenty meters of exposed terrain to the Army of the
Republic of Vietnam perimeter. On each trip, his
severely burned hands and broken wrist caused ex-
cruciating pain, but the lives of the unconscious
crash survivors were more important than his per-
sonal discomfort, and he continued his rescue efforts.
Once inside the friendly position, Warrant Officer
Rocco helped administer first aid to his wounded
comrades until his wounds and burns caused him to
743
