[285]
December 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
conferees, deferrals to restrain spending for discretionary programs under this
bill.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15580, approved December 7, 1974, is Public Law 93-517 (88 Stat. 1634).
286
Statement on Signing the Farm Labor Contractor
Registration Act Amendments of 1974. December 9, 1974
IN THE DECADE since enactment of the Farm Labor Contractor Registration
Act of 1963, it became apparent that the law did not adequately protect migrant
farm workers from various abuses. For about a year, the Administration has
worked with the Congress to develop legislation to improve the act. There has
been give-and-take on all sides. I am pleased that this cooperation has greatly
strengthened the act.
On October 29, 1974, I vetoed a similar bill, H.R. 13342. It contained an
objectionable rider entirely unrelated to improving the working conditions of
migrant workers. The rider would have changed the classifications of certain
Department of Labor administrative law judges, members of the Benefits Re-
view Board, and other persons in no way involved with migrant workers. At
that time, I urged the Congress to reenact this legislation without the objec-
tionable rider. I am very pleased that it has done so.
This legislation, S. 3202, makes a number of improvements in the act, in-
cluding the following:
-The act's coverage is expanded. Under existing law, a crew leader has to
be recruiting migrant workers on an interstate basis-10 or more workers at
any one time-before being required to register as a farm labor contractor. This
bill removes these restrictions except with respect to those operating within a
25-mile intrastate radius of their homes and for 13 weeks a year or less. This
provides protection for many more migrant workers under the act.
-Sanctions against violators are expanded. The only penalty which may be
imposed against crew leaders who violate the present law is a $500 fine. It has
been relatively ineffective against violations. This legislation adds a jail sentence
of up to 1 year to the present $500 criminal fine, and a maximum fine of
$10,000 as well as a maximum 3-year jail sentence for subsequent violations-
including unregistered crew leaders who knowingly recruit illegal aliens.
The Labor Department is now authorized additionally to seek injunctions and
726
