October 9
[127]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Q. Mr. President, do you feel then, or are you going to ask the Congress to
restore some of that funding, or do you believe they should restore it?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't the bill before me yet. It is still up on the Hill, and
until it comes down here, I don't think I should make any judgment.
GIFTS BY GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER
[16.] Q. Mr. President, have you inquired into the matter of gifts by Gover-
nor Rockefeller, and, if so, does a question of possible impropriety occur in any
instance, in your judgment?
THE PRESIDENT. The gifts by Governor Rockefeller to the three individuals
that I am familiar with-I have looked into the one that involved Dr. Kissin-
ger-but, I think, to put this in proper perspective you have to recognize that
Governor Rockefeller is a very wealthy man and that he has been extremely
generous with many, many charities over a good many years, and he obviously
has sought to compensate former employees or friends for whatever services
they performed.
In the case of Dr. Kissinger, I have been assured that every tax that could be
applied has been paid and that all legal problems involving that particular case
were solved satisfactorily. Under those circumstances, I do not think there was
any impropriety in the relationship between Dr. Kissinger and former Governor
Rockefeller.
Q. Since you are familiar only with the Kissinger gift, do you plan to inquire
into the others?
THE PRESIDENT. I will, but I haven't as deeply because Mr. Morhouse and Mr.
Ronan * are or were State employees. But I assume that in those two cases, as I
found out in the Dr. Kissinger case, that the law had been adhered to and that
there was no impropriety.
MASS TRANSIT LEGISLATION
[17.] Q. Sir, if you accept that mass transit is an essential part of the energy-
saving program, can you explain why you did not lend your support to a com-
prehensive Federal mass transit bill now before Congress, in your very important
speech yesterday?
The President. The answer to that is very simple. I had some considerable
part in working out the compromise on the Williams-Minish bill. If you will
L. Judson Morhouse, former New York State Republican chairman, and William J. Ronan, chairman
of the New York Port Authority.
253
