[198]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
against the United States over the Black Hills land is still being litigated in the
courts. However, in passing this act Congress has determined—and I agree-
that if such a claim is held to be valid, it would be unfair and unjust to try to
avoid paying it by deducting the cost of previously supplied food and provisions.
Although we cannot undo the injustices from our history, we can insure that
the actions we take today are just and fair and designed to heal such wounds from
the past.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3007, approved October 27, 1974, is Public Law 93-494 (88 Stat. 1499).
199
Statement on Signing Legislation Concerning the Regulation
of Interest Rates. October 29, 1974
I AM signing into law today S. 3838, "To authorize the regulation of interest
rates payable on obligations issued by affiliates of certain depository institutions.
and for other purposes".
Titles II and III of the bill would remove burdensome inequities by authoriz-
ing exemptions from State usury laws of large business and agricultural loans and
of large borrowings of bank holding companies and bank deposits. Such usury
laws as this bill addresses are well-meaning but futile attempts to keep interest
rates at "reasonable" levels. In fact, their net effect is that the same borrowers
who are supposedly protected from "unreasonable" interest rates are, instead,
unable to obtain funds at the levels set by law.
S. 3838 seems to me a clearly second-best remedy to this problem, and the
States which have these usury laws may wish to reconsider their applicability
under today's conditions.
On the other hand, I am deeply concerned about title I of the bill which en-
ables the Federal financial regulatory agencies to place interest rate ceilings on
securities issued by holding companies which at present are not subject to such
regulations. I believe this provision goes in the same direction as the State usury
laws from which the other titles of this bill authorize exemptions. I hope that
the regulatory agencies will not see fit to exercise the discretionary authority
granted by this provision.
The Administration has introduced a bill, the financial institutions act (S.
2591), containing a set of reforms that would gradually free the credit market
496
