[255]
November 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
The two Presidents took note of significant political and economic changes
in the situation in Asia in recent years. They recognized that the allied countries
in the area are growing stronger and more prosperous and are making increasing
contributions to their security as well as to that of the region. President Ford
explained that the United States, as a Pacific power, is vitally interested in Asia
and the Pacific and will continue its best effort to ensure the peace and security
of the region. President Park expressed his understanding and full support for
United States policies directed toward these ends.
President Park described the efforts being made by the Republic of Korea to
maintain a dialogue with North Korea, designed to reduce tensions and establish
peace on the Korean Peninsula, and to lead eventually to the peaceful unifica-
tion of Korea. President Park affirmed the intention of the Republic of Korea to
continue to pursue the dialogue despite the failure of the North Korean authori-
ties to respond with sincerity thus far. President Ford gave assurance that the
United States will continue to support these efforts by the Republic of Korea and
expressed the hope that the constructive initiatives by the Republic of Korea
would meet with positive responses by all concerned.
The two Presidents discussed the current United Nations General Assembly
consideration of the Korean question. They agreed on the importance of fa-
vorable General Assembly action on the Draft Resolution introduced by the
United States and other member countries. Both expressed the hope that the
General Assembly would base its consideration of the Korean question on a rec-
ognition of the importance of the security arrangements which have preserved
peace on the Korean Peninsula for more than two decades.
President Park explained in detail the situation on the Korean Peninsula, and
described the threat to peace and stability of hostile acts by North Korea, exem-
plified most recently by the construction of an underground tunnel inside the
southern sector of the Demilitarized Zone.
The two Presidents agreed that the Republic of Korea forces and American
forces stationed in Korea must maintain a high degree of strength and readi-
ness in order to deter aggression. President Ford reaffirmed the determination.
of the United States to render prompt and effective assistance to repel armed
attack against the Republic of Korea in accordance with the Mutual Defense
Treaty of 1954 between the Republic of Korea and the United States. In this
connection, President Ford assured President Park that the United States has no
plan to reduce the present level of United States forces in Korea.
The two Presidents discussed the progress of the Modernization Program for
the Republic of Korea armed forces and agreed that implementation of the
654
