November 1
[214]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tell him I have this great, great cowboy hat. I will tell him, maybe I cannot ride
as well as he can, but I might look like a cowboy if I cannot perform the
function.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. at the
Fresno Air Terminal. In his opening remarks, the
President referred to Carol O. Harner, Republican
candidate in the 15th Congressional District of
California.
214
Remarks to the White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs in Portland, Oregon. November 1, 1974
Governor McCall, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Killion, Secretary of the Treasury Simon,
Secretary of HUD Jim Lynn, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me express my deep gratitude for the very warm welcome that Tom
McCall has extended on this occasion. If my memory is correct, Governor, you
were the first Governor that I saw in the first State that I visited back about a
year ago when I was nominated Vice President of the United States. The warmth
of the reception then is only duplicated by the kindness that you have shown me
on this occasion.
I am deeply grateful, I am especially pleased to be here to participate in one
of Bill Baroody'sยน programs, the White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs, where business, labor, consumer, environmental organizations
have joined in sponsoring this meeting to improve the lines of communication
between nongovernmental organizations and the White House itself.
You can generate a new climate of confidence and understanding on national
issues of greatest concern to us individually as well as collectively.
This is my first participation in this nationwide series of meetings that can
have, as I see it, a very vital impact on America's response to the state of our
economy, housing, environment, and general domestic affairs. And the fact that
the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of HUD are here, I think,
portrays vividly the importance that we consider meetings of this sort.
In this context, I would like to discuss the question of confidence in our
political system and our ability as a nation to cope with this very serious issue.
The question of credibility is often raised. A mood of some cynicism exists in
certain quarters. There are even those who say that my Administration's open-
ยน William J. Baroody, Jr., Assistant to the President.
543
