[38]
August 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:19 p.m. in the
Atrium at the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts.
Dr. Stein had served as a member of the Council
since February 1969, and as its Chairman since No-
vember 1971. He responded to the President's re-
marks as follows:
Well, Mr. President, Mildred and I and all our
friends here are tremendously honored by your
presence on this occasion, by your willingness to be
seen in public with an economist, and particularly
with this economist. [Laughter]
You have shown that you are prepared to go the
last mile to bring the country together and to estab-
lish stability in the American economy. [Laughter]
We, of course, wish you every success. Mildred and
I are about to join the 98 percent of the American
public whose troubles are all caused by the 2 percent
who work in the Government. In fact, one can say
that their troubles are all caused by four or five
people who meet at 8 or 8:30 in the morning in the
White House. [Laughter]
So when things are not as good as they might be,
we will know where to look. [Laughter]
But we are sure that they will be as good as they
might be. We have every confidence in the program
on which you have embarked, on the staff of ad-
visers that you will have working with you and
although we know God knows we know—that
there will be ups and downs and trials and tribula-
tions, we have confidence in you and in the Ameri-
can economy to swim through these things which are
after all, in the end, only minor ripples-I guess I
have said this before; they didn't believe it when I
said it before, but I am left with it—[laughter]—
minor ripples on the rising tide of economic welfare.
So again, let me thank you very much for coming
here to join us and our friends.
39
The President's News Conference of
August 28, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
At the outset, I have a very important and a very serious announcement. There
was a little confusion about the date of this press conference. My wife Betty had
scheduled her first press conference for the same day. And obviously, I had sched-
uled my first press conference for this occasion. So, Betty's was postponed.
We worked this out between us in a calm and orderly way. She will postpone
her press conference until next week, and until then, I will be making my own
breakfast, my own lunch, and my own dinner. [Laughter]
Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
QUESTIONS
IMMUNITY OR PARDON FOR FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[1.] Q. Mr. President, aside from the Special Prosecutor's role, do you agree
with the bar association that the law applies equally to all men, or do you agree
with Governor Rockefeller that former President Nixon should have immunity
from prosecution? And specifically, would you use your pardon authority, if
necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say at the outset that I made a statement in this
56
