August 12
[6]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I applaud the initiatives Congress has already taken. The only fault I find with
the Joint Economic Committee's study on inflation, authorized last week, is that
we need its expert findings in 6 weeks instead of 6 months.
A month ago, the distinguished majority leader of the United States Senate
asked the White House to convene an economic conference of Members of
Congress, the President's economic consultants, and some of the best economic
brains from labor, industry, and agriculture.
Later, this was perfected by resolution [S. Res. 363] to assemble a domestic
summit meeting to devise a bipartisan action for stability and growth in the
American economy. Neither I nor my staff have much time right now for
letterwriting. So, I will respond. I accept the suggestion, and I will personally
preside.
Furthermore, I propose that this summit meeting be held at an early date, in
full view of the American public. They are as anxious as we are to get the right
answers.
My first priority is to work with you to bring inflation under control. Infla-
tion is domestic enemy number one. To restore economic confidence, the Gov-
ernment in Washington must provide some leadership. It does no good to blame
the public for spending too much when the Government is spending too much.
I began to put my Administration's own economic house in order starting
last Friday. I instructed my Cabinet officers and Counsellors and my White
House Staff to make fiscal restraint their first order of business, and to save
every taxpayer's dollar the safety and genuine welfare of our great Nation will
permit. Some economic activities will be affected more by monetary and fiscal
restraint than other activities. Good government clearly requires that we tend
to the economic problems facing our country in a spirit of equity to all of our
citizens in all segments of our society.
Tonight, obviously, is no time to threaten you with vetoes. But I do have the
last recourse, and I am a veteran of many a veto fight right here in this great
chamber. Can't we do a better job by reasonable compromise? I hope we can.
Minutes after I took the Presidential oath, the joint leadership of Congress
told me at the White House they would go more than halfway to meet me.
This was confirmed in your unanimous concurrent resolution of cooperation,
for which I am deeply grateful. If, for my part, I go more than halfway to meet
the Congress, maybe we can find a much larger area of national agreement.
I bring no legislative shopping list here this evening. I will deal with specifics
in future messages and talks with you, but here are a few examples of how
seriously I feel about what we must do together.
9
