October 29
[206]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Act and Randolph-Sheppard, Act Amendments of 1974, and the White House
Conference on Handicapped Individuals Act. I am advised by the Attorney Gen-
eral and I have determined that the absence of my signature from this bill pre-
vents it from becoming law. Without in any way qualifying this determination,
I am also returning it without my approval to those designated by Congress to
receive messages at this time.
The Vocational Rehabilitation Amendments of 1974 pose some fundamental
issues which far transcend this particular bill. No group in our country is more
in need of supportive services than the Handicapped. Our handicapped citizens
have demonstrated time and again that, given a fair break, they can lead as
full and productive lives as other citizens.
Throughout my years in Congress I consistently supported good Federal pro-
grams designed to assist the handicapped.
During the last two years spending on the basic grant programs for Voca-
tional Rehabilitation has grown from $589 million to $680 million. The key issue
posed by this bill is not how much money will be spent. The issue posed is how
well the programs will be run.
This bill passed the House of Representatives without any hearings. Had hear-
ings been held we would have explained the disruption that would result from
such a massive legislative incursion into the administration of a program.
The Congress has the responsibility to legislate, but I have the responsibility
for the successful administration of the programs they enact. This bill is an
attempt to administer through legislation. It transfers a program from one part
of HEW to another for no good reason—indeed for very bad reasons. It dictates
where in HEW minute decisions must be made, it creates independent organi-
zational units at subordinate levels that are wasteful and duplicative and it sets
up a monitoring process for the construction and modernization of Federal
facilities that would force me to create a new 250-man bureaucracy in HEW to
duplicate functions carried out elsewhere in the Executive Branch. Most im-
portantly, the bill blurs accountability. I cannot be responsible for the good
management of all Federal programs if I cannot hold my Cabinet Secretaries
accountable. Under this legislation accountability would be diffused. I find my-
self obliged to return to the Congress unsigned a bill that would disrupt existing
Federal programs and ill serve the needs of our Nation's handicapped citizens.
The present Vocational Rehabilitation legislation does not expire until mid 1975.
Plenty of time remains for us to work out a bill which will improve Federal
programs for the handicapped rather than create the disruptions that will in-
evitably result from this hastily drawn piece of legislation. I have requested
505
