[195]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I thank all of them for taking on these new responsibilities. I think they
are an outstanding group of administrators with experience both outside of
Government and within the Government.
So, Rog, you have got a good group, and I am proud of them, and I think they
will do a first-class job. Thank you very, very much.
Well, with those preliminary announcements, I will be glad now to respond to
any questions.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press].
QUESTIONS
THE ECONOMY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, the Government's leading economic indicators an-
nounced today show that last month they experienced the sharpest drop in
23 years. Might this sort of thing prompt you to amend your economic program
to put more emphasis on fighting recession rather that fighting inflation? And
if so, what steps might you take?
The President. The 31-point program that I submitted to the Congress and
the American people did take into recognition the problems of some deterioration
in some parts of the economy and at the same time recognized the need to do
something about inflation.
It was a finely tuned, I think, constructive program to meet both of these
problems.
Now, the program is before the Congress and the Congress must act on cer-
tain aspects of it. This, perhaps, will take some time, and in the interim, if there
are any economic factors which justify a change, I will be open to suggestions.
But at this point, I still believe the plan or program, as I submitted it, is sound,
both to meet the challenge of inflation and any deterioration in the economy.
VOTER INTEREST IN THE ELECTION
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the Watergate and inflation and other
urgent problems facing the Nation, how do you account for the voter apathy
in this country? And I have a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. I wish I knew the answer to that, Mr. Sperling [Godfrey
Sperling, Christian Science Monitor]. It would seem to me that with the prob-
lems we have, particularly at home-both Watergate and others—that the voters
482
