October 19
[173]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
our Founding Fathers drafted the Constitution and when they went to the city
of Philadelphia and put together that Constitution. They wove into it the con-
cept of balance: a strong President in the White House, a strong Congress in the
legislative branch, a strong judicial system, headed by the Supreme Court, a sys-
tem of checks and balances to protect freedom and give opportunity to every-
body to move ahead and live their own private lives.
But at some moments in our history there has been a shift of that balance. Now
there are people who want to impose on this system a veto-proof Congress.
What does that mean? It means that they want to remove the checks and
balances. They want all power in the Congress. The American people want bal-
ance for the protection of themselves, their families, their local, their State
government.
We don't want a veto-proof Congress. We want a Congress that will reflect
your views in Rock Hill, your views in South Carolina, working in a partner-
ship with the President. And so, instead of a veto-proof Congress, I urge you
to give me an inflation-proof Congress in November.
And I say from the bottom of my heart-because I know what he stands for,
I know what his philosophy is, I know he has courage, I know he has character,
I know he has background and experience—you can help Strom Thurmond in
his struggles to do a good job in the United States Senate, you can help me, you
can help yourself, you can help the State of South Carolina, you can help America
by electing Len Phillips to the United States Congress.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:27 p.m. at the
Rock Hill Mall. In his opening remarks, the Presi-
dent referred to David Lyle, mayor of Rock Hill,
S.C.
173
Remarks in Greenville, South Carolina. October 19, 1974
Distinguished guests at the head table, all of you wonderful South Carolinians:
It is just a wonderful experience for me to be here in South Carolina. We ar-
rived early, had a fine airport reception at Spartanburg. We had a delightful
meeting down in Anderson. And we had a fantastic meeting in Rock Hill.
It is just wonderful to be here in Greenville, and I thank you all for your
hospitality, your enthusiasm, and I like all of you wonderful people from South
Carolina. Thank you very much.
I wish Betty were with me. She had planned to come, but we had a little
395
