August 12
[4]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
take pride in the many constructive accomplishments made by the Nixon
Administration.
Some of you may now want to pass your responsibilities on to others. But I
need your help. I ask each of you to continue to carry on the mission of your
agency and to give me the advice I need as I take on my new responsibilities.
I have asked some friends whose counsel I respect to help me with the transi-
tion. They will form a bridge for me to my Vice Presidential staff office and to
the officials of the Executive Branch until a permanent organization is estab-
lished. I ask your help and cooperation for them as well as myself.
President Nixon fought long and with all his might to serve the American
people well, ending his Presidency with a selfless and courageous act. You can
still serve him and the Nation by helping me to carry on the essential functions
of the Presidency. I will hold a Cabinet meeting Saturday morning at 10:00 a.m.
I will meet with heads of other government agencies and with the sub-cabinet
as soon as my schedule permits.
NOTE: The texts of the memorandums, dated Au-
gust 9, 1974, were released August 10. The text of
the following memorandum, dated August 9, was
released August 10:
MEMORANDUM FOR THE WHITE HOUSE STAFF
FROM: The Vice President
I know this has been a difficult and confusing
time for each of you. You must have feelings of
sorrow, as I do, but you also should be proud-
proud of the President you served and of your efforts
for him and the country.
Many of you will want to go on to other pursuits
now that your service to him has ended. I under-
stand and respect that, but I also need your help.
I ask each of you to stay on long enough to assure
GERALD R. FORD
a steady and informed transition of the Presidency.
I have asked some friends whose counsel I respect
to help me with the transition. They will form a
bridge for me to my Vice Presidential staff office and
to the officials of the Executive Branch until a per-
manent organization is established. I ask your help
and cooperation for them as well as myself.
President Nixon fought long and with all his might
to serve the American people well, ending his Pres-
idency with a selfless and courageous act. You can
still serve him and the Nation by helping me to
carry on the essential functions of the Presidency.
I will meet with the senior officials of the White
House in the Roosevelt Room soon after I take the
oath of office to discuss transition arrangements and
responsibilities.
4
Statement on Portuguese Recognition of the Independence of
Guinea-Bissau. August 12, 1974
THE GOVERNMENT and the people of the United States welcome the agree-
ment in principle reached on August 9 between the Portuguese Government
and representatives of Guinea-Bissau. We extend our congratulations to the
leaders of both governments. We look forward to a productive and friendly
relationship with Guinea-Bissau.
5
