October 16
[152]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
what you do in South Dakota and what your fellow Americans do in every
State on November 5.
I thank you. It is a pleasure and a privilege to be here.
[The President spoke at 1:27 p.m. at the Sioux Falls Arena. In his remarks, the President referred to Leo J.
Thorsness, Republican candidate for United States Senator from South Dakota, and Larry Pressler, Repub-
lican candidate in the First Congressional District.
On departing from the arena at 2 p.m., the President spoke to a crowd that had gathered outside, as
follows:]
Let me thank all of you—the young ones, the old ones, the middle-aged ones,
the boys and girls, mothers and dads, grandmas and grandpas.
Well, it is just nice to be out here in this typical South Dakota weather in
October, on October 15 [16]. Don't you always have it this way by this time of
the year?
Well, I am out here with some very good friends of mine-Jim Abdnor, who
is your darned good Congressman, Leo Thorsness, Larry Pressler, and your
candidate for Governor. And I appreciate your thoughtfulness concerning them.
But the main thing, I want to say a word or two to all of you. You have got
the greatest, greatest country in the world, and all of you know it here in South
Dakota just like we do in Michigan and people do in 48 other States. But if
we are going to keep this kind of country, if we are going to maintain everything
it stands for and do justice to the sacrifices that were made by your forefathers
and mine, then we have to tighten our belts and sacrifice a little for another few
months ahead of us.
Now the fact that you are all here gives me hope that in South Dakota you
are going to do better than any other of the 50 States in the Union. I know that.
Do I have your assurance?
You know, I have a little button here that says "WIN." I don't see any buttons
on anybody in South Dakota that says "lose." All you want is to win, not for
yourselves but for your country, and that is what I want, you want, and people
in other States want.
So thank you for being here. It has been a tremendous, tremendous experience.
I am deeply grateful. Good luck and God bless every one of you. Thank you very,
very much.
325
