[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
As I stated then: "My concern is the immediate future of this great country
My conscience tells me it is my duty, not merely to
quility, but to use every means that I have to insure it."
of this great country . . .
proclaim domestic tran-
TAB A
H. RES. 1367
93d Congress
2d Session
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SEPTEMBER 16, 1974
Ms. ABZUG (for herself, Mr. BADILLO, Mr. JOHN L. BURTON, Mr. DELLUMS, Mr. EILBERG, Mr. HECHLER of
West Virginia, Mr. HELSTOSKI, MS. HOLTZMAN, Mr. KOCH, Mr. ROSENTHAL, Mr. STARK, Mr. STOKES,
Mr. SYMINGTON, and Mr. CHARLES H. WILSON of California) submitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Resolved, That the President of the United States is hereby requested to furnish the House, within ten
days, with the following information:
1. Did you or your representatives have specific knowledge of any formal criminal charges pending
against Richard M. Nixon prior to issuance of the pardon? If so, what were these charges?
2. Did Alexander Haig refer to or discuss a pardon for Richard M. Nixon with Richard M. Nixon or
representatives of Mr. Nixon at any time during the week of August 4, 1974, or at any subsequent time?
If so, what promises were made or conditions set for a pardon, if any? If so, were tapes or transcriptions of
any kind made of these conversations or were any notes taken? If so, please provide such tapes, transcriptions
or notes.
3. When was a pardon for Richard M. Nixon first referred to or discussed with Richard M. Nixon, or
representatives of Mr. Nixon, by you or your representatives or aides, including the period when you were a
Member of Congress or Vice President?
4. Who participated in these and subsequent discussions or negotiations with Richard M. Nixon or his
representatives regarding a pardon, and at what specific times and locations?
5. Did you consult with Attorney General William Saxbe or Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski before making
the decision to pardon Richard M. Nixon and, if so, what facts and legal authorities did they give to you?
6. Did you consult with the Vice Presidential nominee, Nelson Rockefeller, before making the decision
to pardon Richard M. Nixon and, if so, what facts and legal authorities did he give to you?
7. Did you consult with any other attorneys or professors of law before making the decision to pardon
Richard M. Nixon and, if so, what facts or legal authorities did they give to you?
8. Did you or your representatives ask Richard M. Nixon to make a confession or statement of criminal
guilt, and, if so, what language was suggested or requested by you, your representatives, Mr. Nixon, or his
representatives? Was any statement of any kind requested from Mr. Nixon in exchange for the pardon, and,
if so, please provide the suggested or requested language.
9. Was the statement issued by Richard M. Nixon immediately subsequent to announcement of the
pardon made known to you or your representatives prior to its announcement, and was it approved by you
or your representatives?
10. Did you receive any report fom a psychiatrist or other physician stating that Richard M. Nixon was in
other than good health? If so, please provide such reports.
350
