October 9
[131]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
to think that we should concentrate on '74, not on '76, because we cannot afford
in this country to have the wrong kind of a Congress for the next 2 years.
Some of our friendly adversaries on the other side of the aisle early this year
were tremendously optimistic about the possibility that they were going to pick
up a net gain of 50 House seats and maybe 4 or 5 U.S. Senate seats, and they
were anticipating that they would have what they designated as a veto-proof
Congress.
I said then, and I reiterate now, I do not think the American people want a
veto-proof Congress. One of the basic, important, crucial aspects of our society is
that our Government works on a system of checks and balances-executive,
legislative, judicial. Fortunately, we are blessed with a two-party system in
America that permits us to have two strong major political parties. And the fact
that one checks the other and the pendulum swings back and forth has given us
probably more liberty, more benefits than any other political system in the his-
tory of the United States. And if you ended up with a veto-proof Congress, that
balance will be gone.
And so, the American people, as I have traveled and listened, are saying, “We
want to retain a balance,” and so some of our good friends on the other side of
the aisle, recognizing that the American people do not want a dictatorial
political system, are backing off.
But it does depend on November 5 on what you do. In order to preclude
a veto-proof Congress and to elect an inflation-proof Congress, you have to elect
or reelect Dick Schweiker and the Republican nominees for the House of Rep-
resentatives on November 5, and I urge you to do so.
Let me simply close by thanking you again and saying a special kind word
about a dear, close, old friend of mine, Bill Scranton. I have known Bill, as I
indicated earlier, probably as long as anybody I have known in this room, and
I have gotten to know his lovely wife, Mary.
I saw Bill as a law student, as a Member of the House, as a Governor. And
when the Office of the Presidency was precipitated so quickly and I needed help,
I asked Bill Scranton to come down and help me. He was a major factor in this
difficult transition process from August 9, and for the month or two after that.
He epitomizes the highest qualities of character and service in government.
And so I am especially honored, Bill, to join with the many, many people
here tonight, to join them in honoring you and to, of course, honor Mary. You
represent what many of us appreciate as the very, very best. We wish you the
finest, and before you say "no," sometime I am going to call on you to come
down and help us some more.
271
