October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly did, Mr. Chairman, because the probability or pos-
sibility of my becoming President obviously would have had a significant im-
pact on her life as well as our lives.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. That destroys my theory that, if you had talked to
her, you would have waited until indictment or Christmas Eve, one or the other.
Let me ask if any attempt was made by you or your representative to contact
the Federal Pardon Attorney as to his opinion as to customary procedures fol-
lowed in issuing a pardon?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not, sir.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Mr. President, I go to page 20 [page 348] of the state-
ment, and I am addressing myself to the health question. In the first responses
provided, the press releases, in one of these, page 3, it refers to September 16 now
as the date of this press conference after the pardon decision in which you were
quoted, "I asked Dr. Lukash, who is the head physician in the White House, to
keep me posted in proper channels as to the former President's health. I have
been informed on a routine day-to-day basis, but I don't think I am at liberty to
give information.”
My question is, Mr. President, had he reported prior to the pardon date or only
after?
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Lukash gave me no information concerning President
Nixon's health prior to the time that I issued the pardon. He did, at my request,
when I heard rumors about the former President's health, keep me posted in
proper channels, but that all occurred after the pardon took place.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The gentleman from Indiana is seeking recognition.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I would just like to request that we make a part of the record the text of the
opinion of the United States Supreme Court in Ex Parte Garland 4 Wall. 333
and also the opinion of the United States Supreme Court in Burdick against
the United States, 236 U.S. 79, which deals with the point that a pardon must
be accepted.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Without objection, it will be made part of the
record.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. Mr. Chairman, I would also like to make a part of
the record, if I may, the article referred to by my colleague Mr. Hogan, which
appeared in the Wall Street Journal of October 16, 1974, and is headed “The
Pardon of Nixon Was Timely, Legal, Jaworski Believes."
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Without objection, it is so ordered, and now
briefly
367
