October 15
[150]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
community, in every State, I will then award WIN flags to the most outstanding
as public recognition of their contribution to the fight on inflation.
Similar recognition will be given to outstanding energy savers, both individ-
uals and groups. Saving energy is, of course, a major way to save costs.
The national committee will help local groups to organize.
Committee recommendation number six: To help offset pay increases, insist
on productivity improvements where you work from the boss on down the line.
In short, work better, waste less, both of time and materials.
And there is not a place where business is done or activity is undertaken where
the boss and everyone else can't work better and save more. And we should urge
them to do it as soon as possible.
Now, Mr. and Mrs. Ed Monson write from San Antonio to urge support of
companies showing a higher degree of concern for energy solutions and the
unemployment problems.
Mrs. Hannah Folsom of Ojai, California, offers an additional suggestion. She
urges that steps be taken to cut down on the proportion of administrative person-
nel to productive workers in plants and stores and the like. I think this is a great
idea.
And let me say to Mrs. Folsom, I will apply this good idea to the Federal
bureaucracy.
Committee recommendation number seven proposes we make economizing
fashionable. Let me repeat that-economizing fashionable. Shop wisely, look
for bargains, go for the lowest-cost item, and most importantly, brag about
the fact that you are a bargain hunter. You should be proud of it.
The committee certainly is not suggesting Americans should buy less. We
should all buy smarter, stick to a shopping list. The experts tell us that is the
best way to get a real bargain.
Kathy Daly, a student at Sacred Heart High School in Weymouth, Massa-
chusetts, has one formula for shopping wisely and saving energy. Kathy sug-
gests buying warmer clothes this winter.
G. M. Knapp of Tucson, Arizona, puts it this way: "Only you can stop infla-
tion. Buy only if you need it."
Committee recommendation number eight asks Americans to work with
others to eliminate outmoded regulations that keep the cost of goods and services
high and to enforce regulations that advance efficiency, health, and safety.
W. A. Taylor of Cambridge, Massachusetts, points out that because of Inter-
state Commerce Commission regulations, many, many trucks return empty—
"deadheading," so to speak. I have already asked the Congress to undertake a
309
