September 7
[59]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Alexandria Police Department, not only during those hectic weeks when I was
Vice President and the even more hectic 8 or 10 days while we couldn't move
out of where we were into where we are now.
But it was the wonderful opportunities that I and my wife and our four chil-
dren had to live in Alexandria, to get to know the police department, the school
system, the many nice people.
We have many fond memories of living in Alexandria, and we aren't going
to sell our home. We are going to come back there. I don't know how soon.
We like it and we like the people, and we are deeply grateful to the members of
the Alexandria Police Force for all of the nice and many kind things that were
done on our behalf.
And we apologize for the inconveniences, the extra hours, and any of the other
problems that you went through.
When I decided to come out and have an opportunity to join with you in the
crabfest, my schedule was put before me, and it indicated that I was to welcome
some very distinguished guests from the Soviet Union who are here with me
now, along with three of our American astronauts.
They are Soviet Union cosmonauts who have been in space and the American
astronauts have likewise had that experience. And next July, in 1975, the cos-
monauts, the two, and the three American astronauts will take off, the Soviet
Union cosmonauts from their country, and our three from our country. And
within 2 days, or whatever the time is, they will join up in space and will spend
2 days with their two space vehicles joined, and they will move back and forth
between their spaceship and our spaceship.
This is not only a tremendous technological achievement but it is, I think,
far broader in its implications and ramifications as far as the world is concerned.
We, as Americans, are very proud of our country; our friends from the
Soviet Union are very proud of their country. And our two countries in very
recent years have sought to work together in space, in the environment, in
medicine, in many fields, including an effort to resolve differences in strategic
arms.
I think all of us agree that the broader we can make our relationships in
health, in environment, in space, and many other areas, the better it is for us
here in America and for our friends in the Soviet Union.
So, I am honored to have the Ambassador from the Soviet Union, Mr. Anatoli
Dobrynin, and his cosmonauts here this afternoon. They are your guests and
I would like, Mr. Ambassador, for you, because I am not the best spokesman
99
