November 24
[259]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
President, and it was the first time that a President of the United States has visited
that energetic and productive island nation.
Our trip was historic for another reason, for it marked a change in our relation-
ship. In the past the central concern of our alliance was military security. This
security relationship has now been broadened to include energy and food. I am
particularly hopeful that by working together with Japan, one of the world's
most technically advanced societies, we will be able to make a substantial joint
contribution to resolving the energy crisis.
Japan emerged from the destruction of war with a deep commitment to peace.
In Korea, a sturdy people rebuilt a nation from the ashes of another conflict.
Only a little over 20 years ago, Korea was a battleground. Today, it is a show-
case of economic development.
Just over two decades ago, American fighting men were battling over the
rugged mountains of Korea. Today, the major burden of Korea's defense is
borne by the Koreans themselves. American servicemen are stationed there, but
like their comrades in Europe and elsewhere, they are there to help an ally
maintain the peace, not to do the job alone.
A highlight of the trip for me was the opportunity to meet with our soldiers
in Korea and to have lunch with them in one of their camps. They are out-
standing fighting men and women doing a fine job. We can all be very proud
of them.
The final stop on our trip was the Soviet Union. The meetings with General
Secretary Brezhnev, I am pleased, went very, very well. They represent both a
beginning and a continuation. They were the beginning of what I hope will be
a productive personal relationship between Mr. Brezhnev and myself. We both,
I believe, came away from Vladivostok with mutual respect and a common
determination to continue the search for peace.
They were a continuation because we maintained the steady improvement of
our relations begun 3 years ago. We talked, as American and Soviet leaders
have in the past, about the Middle East, European security, and other bilateral
relations. We often agreed, but not always. When we did not, we stated our dif-
ferences quite frankly.
But on perhaps the most important issue facing the Soviet and American peo-
ples, the further limitation of strategic arms, we found a large measure of agree-
ment. We discussed the issue fully, and in the end we established a sound basis
for a new agreement that will constrain our military competition over the next
663
