November 12
[228]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Austrian ancestry. And we look with satisfaction and admiration at Austria's
impressive economic achievements over the past 10 years.
Mr. Chancellor, we also look forward to our discussions and to the future good
relations of Austria and the United States. The nations of the world face many,
many challenges today-challenges in the field of finance, food, and energy, to
name only a few.
Meeting them will require our best common efforts and the counsel and
understanding of many of our friends.
So, Mr. Chancellor, in anticipation of our session together and with our
traditional Austro-American friendship in mind, America, one and all, bids
you welcome and wishes you an enjoyable and most productive visit.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 a.m. in the East
Room at the White House. The Chancellor was given
a formal welcome with full military honors at the
North Portico. The President and the Chancellor then
proceeded to the East Room, where the welcoming
ceremony was held because of inclement weather.
Chancellor Kreisky spoke in German. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, first of all, let me thank you for
having invited me to come to Washington on an
official visit at a time when you are extremely busy.
We in Austria greatly appreciate this high privilege,
and we take it as proof of the strong and unim-
paired friendship which has existed for decades be-
tween the American people and the Austrian
people.
Mr. President, I come from a country which
greatly appreciates the great contribution made by
the United States-and we know this from expe-
rience for the liberation of Europe and for the
economic reconstruction of our continent.
We remember with great gratitude the sacrifices
which the American people in so many ways have
made for the restoration of peaceful conditions in
Europe.
Today, Austria is an economically prosperous
country, enjoying the blessings of freedom and
democracy. We have not forgotten the significant
contributions made by your country for this
development.
Austria belongs among the smaller nations of
Europe, and I regard it as an expression of inter-
national democracy that in its dealings with Austria,
the United States has never disregarded the prin-
ciples of equality and of respect for the sovereignty
and freedom of our country. The friendship be-
tween our two countries and between our two
peoples rests on the solid foundation of mutual trust
and mutual respect.
Let me assure you, Mr. President and Mrs. Ford,
that Mrs. Kreisky deeply regretted to have been un-
able to join me in this trip and to see her fervent
wish to be here unfulfilled.
Mr. President, I want to again thank you sincerely
for this invitation, and I am looking forward to our
discussions, with my Minister, also with the greatest
of interest.
Thank you.
228
Letter Accepting Withdrawal of the Candidacy of Andrew E.
Gibson To Be Administrator of the Federal Energy
Administration. November 12, 1974
Dear Andy:
I have your letter asking that your name be withdrawn as a candidate for Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Energy Administration, and I accept it with the deep-
581
