October 19
[175]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
peace, whether it is in the Mediterranean, the Middle East, Greece and Turkey,
whether it is in Western Europe, or Southeast Asia. If we don't have a strong
economy at home, we can't go to the other countries with the firm hand and the
respect that is so essential to get them to solve their problems wherever they
might be in the world as a whole.
And I happen to have great faith in the kind of people that you have elected to
statesmanship. I say John Sherman Cooper, who is going to be our Ambassador
to East Germany, Thruston Morton, who was an Assistant Secretary of State as
well as a Member of the Senate and Member of the House-they come from the
Bluegrass, but they had a vision infinitely beyond that. And they know, as well
as I do, that America at this moment has a responsibility as well as an opportu-
nity to do things that no other nation in the free world side can do to help solve
those problems in the Middle East, to negotiate the differences between two good
allies-Greece and Turkey—to keep NATO together, to work in the vineyard
in trying to achieve a responsible policy of détente with the Soviet Union, to
open up new vistas in the Pacific with the People's Republic.
This country, if we are strong at home, can do these things. But we can't be
strong at home if we don't have a Congress that is responsive, a Congress that
will fight in the battle against inflation, a Congress that will give us the tools to
keep our economy moving ahead as we travel that very narrow path between too
much inflation and not enough stimulation to provide the jobs for those who are
coming into the working market.
We need individuals who have the strength at home and the vision abroad.
And I hope and trust, as I close a long but wonderful day, that I can see in this
audience tonight in Louisville-I don't know how many are here, but it is a
great audience—people who will not only do what you have done by being
here but, between now and November 5, will maximize your effort, yes, to a
degree for yourself; but I think everybody I see in this audience has a broader
objective, to do what you can to help Kentucky and America.
We are the last and strongest fortress for the free world, and if we fail-and I
happen to think that 1974 is sort of a testing ground—if we fail, all that we have
inherited and all we stand for and all we hope to pass on to others could go down
the drain.
So, you can do something. You have done it already, but you can do more. It is
sort of a 24-hour-a-day job between now and November 5. I am confident as I
have met many of you, as I have heard others, as I know this great Common-
wealth that you and your associates will do what is needed and necessary for
411
