[128]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
128
Exchange of Remarks on Signing Joint Statements With
First Secretary Gierek of Poland. October 9, 1974
MR. FIRST SECRETARY, we have just put our signatures on landmark
documents.
The first, on principles of bilateral relations, recognizes the friendly state of
those relations. It underlines our joint determination to not only continue this
cooperation, but to further expand it for mutual benefit. We will make a joint
contribution to peace and security throughout the world.
The second document is more specifically directed to economic, industrial,
and technological cooperation. If it is to succeed, cooperation requires the care-
ful and continuing attention of nations, as I am sure you will agree.
Over the past few years, we have made important advances in our economic
and trade relations. We have now pledged our countries to even further ad-
vances toward realization of the full potential for cooperation that we both see
and we desire. Our peoples will benefit and the economic international com-
munity will likewise benefit.
These documents should be reassuring to our friends and associates through-
out the world. We discriminate against no one, nor do we prejudice any commit-
ments we have already made to others. Indeed, the respect we show for each
other and the cooperation that we seek is part of the international spirit we see
emerging. This new spirit seeks to solve problems, not to make new tensions.
Mr. First Secretary, my signature on these documents is yet another expression
of the deep interest of the people of the United States in the well-being
of your nation and its deserved place in the international community. We wel-
come these documents for the contributions they will make to the spirit of
cooperation and peaceful endeavor throughout the world.
The First SecretARY.ยน Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
I do share, Mr. President, your appraisal of the weight of the documents we
have just signed, the fruitful nature of our talks, and the importance of the
agreements we have concluded. I greatly appreciate what you have said and
wish to express my profound satisfaction over the headway we made and results
we achieved during my visit to Washington. I especially enjoyed meeting with
you, Mr. President, which I shall cherish in my memories as an important, sin-
cere, and friendly encounter.
1 First Secretary Gierek spoke in Polish and his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
256
