[210]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
your friends, your neighbors, your relatives—Independents, Democrats, and
others—then I am confident that you will achieve something good for yourself,
your community, your State, and our great Nation.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:25 p.m. at the Sioux
City Municipal Airport. In his opening remarks, the
President referred to George A. Cole, mayor of Sioux
City, Iowa, and Charles B. Hoeven, United States
Representative from Iowa 1943-65.
211
Remarks in Los Angeles, California. October 31, 1974
IT IS really a great privilege and pleasure for me to be introduced on this occa-
sion by the next Governor of the great State of California, Hugh Flournoy.
Hugh, Governor Reagan, Bob Hope, my former colleagues in the Congress,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is really wonderful to be here, and I do want to thank Hugh for his very
fine introduction. Since I became President, I am usually introduced in a very
stately and a very dignified manner, such as Hugh did tonight in a very appro-
priate way. But I would like to tell you about one dinner that happened quite
recently when I was introduced by a former teammate of mine at the University
of Michigan when I was playing football back there when the ball was round.
I will never forget that introduction. He said something like this: "Ladies and
gentlemen, it might interest you to know that I played football with Jerry Ford
for 2 years, and it made a lasting impression on me. I was a quarterback, and
Jerry was the center. And you might say it gave me a completely different view
of the President of the United States." [Laughter]
But it is a particular pleasure to be in California again, and I have been here a
number of times over the last 25 years in political life. California—the State that
puts together such great football teams as the UCLA Bruins and the USC
Trojans.
As a former football player for the Big Ten, I have always been very, very
grateful for those practice teams that you have given us to play against. Well, we
call it practice-I think you call it the Rose Bowl.
The last time—this is the last time I am going to buy a joke from Woody Hayes
at Ohio State. [Laughter]
It is pretty obvious I enjoy being here in California, the State that is governed
528
