October 31
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
210
Remarks at Sioux City, Iowa. October 31, 1974
Wiley Mayne, Dave Stanley, Mayor Cole, my very good and old friend, former
colleague in the House, Charlie Hoeven, all of the wonderful people from the
Sixth Congressional District:
It is just great to be here a third time, and I thank you so much for the warm
and tremendous welcome. I am deeply indebted and very, very grateful. Thank
you very much.
A few days ago, I went to my hometown. We had a wonderful reception,
but I can say without any reservation or qualification the reception here is just
as enthusiastic, just as warm. And I wish to pay a special tribute to all of you
who have come out on this occasion to meet me and to pay tribute to your Con-
gressman, Wiley Mayne, and your next Senator, Dave Stanley.
I think it is very appropriate that we are having this rally at the airport. I have
flown in today on a wing and a prayer. I ask you to send me some good men to
Congress who will praise the Lord and pass the legislation.
It is particularly nice to be here in Sioux City, the largest community in the
Sixth Congressional District in Iowa, and particularly, to pay tribute on this
occasion to Wiley Mayne. You know, I have always been taught this from my
early childhood—when you have a good thing going for you, you ought to keep
it. And in Wiley Mayne you have that kind of a Congressman, so you darn well
better keep him in the House of Representatives.
I served with Wiley almost 8 years in the House of Representatives. I have seen
him on a day-to-day basis, working. I have seen him work in those two great
committees the House Committee on Agriculture and the House Committee
on the Judiciary. And I can assure you from this very personal experience that
he is a man of skill, a man of stature, a man who understands your problems, my
problems, and is in a position because of his seniority to do something about it.
So, I come here and speak with conviction when I urge you to see that Wiley is
reelected.
Since we are in the heartland of American agriculture, there is no better place
to commend the production, actually the production genius of the American
farmer, and to say thanks to so many of you who are here and thousands upon
thousands of others who are not here who have labored long and effectively in
the fields of America. We thank you for a job well done.
At times over the past few years, farmers, in my judgment, have been unfairly
521
