December 19
[312]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tennial really represents. Since the day the golden spike was driven, the railroad
has symbolized our unity as a nation.
On behalf of all Americans, I thank the American Freedom Train Foundation
and the corporations that have provided grants for this Freedom Train. I know
that your contributions will inspire others to participate in the Bicentennial. I
would like to say a very special word, a special word of thank you to the people
of Portland, Oregon, who provided the "iron horse" that will actually pull this
Freedom Train.
I look forward to the Freedom Train to provide a unifying symbol of the
heritage that made America's great past a great one and will make its future an
even greater one.
Now if I might, I would like to pick up this and present it to the Freedom Train
for display, which is a document of tremendous historical significance, symbolic
of what America really stands for-freedom.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. at the
Alexandria Railway Station. In his opening remarks,
the President referred to John W. Warner, Admin-
istrator of the American Revolution Bicentennial
Administration, and Donald M. Kendall, chairman
of the national advisory board of the American
Freedom Train Foundation.
Following his remarks, the President presented
George Washington's personal copy of the Constitu-
tion to Mr. Kendall.
312
Remarks at a Ceremony Marking the Retirement of
Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster as Supreme Allied
Commander, Europe. December 19, 1974
LET ME just say I have known General Goodpaster, well, I guess, since 1951 or
thereabouts, and all of you know better than I his long and distinguished record,
35 years or more in the military, a wide variety of commands and responsibilities.
Somebody told me that you were a real triple threat operator in the services,
General, and as I looked at the record I am very, very impressed with that broad
area of responsibility and achievement.
I certainly congratulate you on this fine, fine record.
Those who have served with you in the military of course know infinitely
better than I the things that you have done and the achievements that you
have accomplished. And I share with them the pride that I have as Commander
in Chief. And I can assure you that we look upon people such as yourself as the
epitome of achievement in the military, representing all of us who are civilian.
767
