[188]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
a heavy Democratic majority over the years which helped to create most of
the problems we face domestically.
Therefore, I think it is fair to say we do not need a Congress or we don't need
to make a Congress immune from veto. We do need to make our Nation safe
from inflation. What we need is not a veto-proof Congress. But let's take the
affirmative: What we need is an inflation-proof Congress.
That is why you need-frankly, why I need—in Washington, Members of
Congress who will join me in making some of these very hard decisions-
decisions to cut spending, to cut the budget, to cut the redtape, and as I said
before, to cut the mustard.
With that kind of teamwork, we can get the job done. With that kind of
support, we will do what we promised-we will whip inflation, we will effect
savings in energy, we will save our natural resources, we will be on our way to
our 200th birthday in 1976 strong, stable, prosperous in a world at peace.
Some of my dear friends on the other side of the political aisle make promises
at election time to be fiscal watchdogs and keepers of the Treasury, but we can
see by the way they spend your money they have failed year after year after year.
Let me cite a statistic that proves it—the facts are there: The problems we face
today were spawned over the last 42 years by programs and policies of the
opposition party which has controlled the Congress of the United States, both
the House and the Senate, 38 out of the last 42 years.
To make the point even more emphatic, they have controlled the House and
the Senate in the national Congress the last 20 years consecutively.
Let me add this as a postscript: There is not a dime of money spent by a Presi-
dent that is not appropriated by the Congress. So, they are responsible for the
excessive spending that has caused most of our inflation.
The question that I want you to ponder today is, are you, are we going to
continue down that same path, that same road which produced the problems in
the first place—problems of ever-rising prices, of piling more centralization of
power in Washington, of undermining our foreign relations with handcuff re-
strictions on the policies of the President and the Secretary of State?
We have got to do better than that today. What happened in the past was
largely the failure of a legislative dictatorship by a party so smug in its seniority
and its power that it no longer responded to the true needs of the people.
I except the members of the leadership in the House and Senate of the Demo-
cratic Party. They have tried, they have sought to be helpful, at least to me as
the President, and I can testify as to that, but their troops run wild.
460
