[61]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Pursuant to resolutions of the House of Representatives, its Committee on the
Judiciary conducted an inquiry and investigation on the impeachment of the
President extending over more than eight months. The hearings of the Com-
mittee and its deliberations, which received wide national publicity over televi-
sion, radio, and in printed media, resulted in votes adverse to Richard Nixon on
recommended Articles of Impeachment.
As a result of certain acts or omissions occurring before his resignation from
the Office of President, Richard Nixon has become liable to possible indictment
and trial for offenses against the United States. Whether or not he shall be so
prosecuted depends on findings of the appropriate grand jury and on the dis-
cretion of the authorized prosecutor. Should an indictment ensue, the accused
shall then be entitled to a fair trial by an impartial jury, as guaranteed to every
individual by the Constitution.
It is believed that a trial of Richard Nixon, if it became necessary, could not
fairly begin until a year or more has elapsed. In the meantime, the tranquility to
which this nation has been restored by the events of recent weeks could be irre-
parably lost by the prospects of bringing to trial a former President of the United
States. The prospects of such trial will cause prolonged and divisive debate over
the propriety of exposing to further punishment and degradation a man who
has already paid the unprecedented penalty of relinquishing the highest elective
office of the United States.
Now, THEREFORE, I, GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States, pursuant
to the pardon power conferred upon me by Article II, Section 2, of the Constitu-
tion, have granted and by these presents do grant a full, free, and absolute pardon
unto Richard Nixon for all offenses against the United States which he, Richard
Nixon, has committed or may have committed or taken part in during the
period from January 20, 1969 through August 9, 1974.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of Septem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-
ninth.
GERALD R. FORD
104
