October 29
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
give us some specific examples, maybe half a dozen, of the programs you would
like to cut?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had one meeting with the OMB [Office of Manage-
ment and Budget] and others on that very subject, and later today, before I go to
Grand Rapids, I am spending another hour with the same group. We have a
long list of items where they give me certain options.
We have not made any final determination. If all of them were put into
effect—and some of them would require legislative action by the Congress-
I think the anticipated saving in fiscal year 1975 would be around $7.5 billion.
We are going to make a maximum effort to cut at least $5.4 billion, so
there is some flexibility between the 5.4 and the 7.5, and I am going
to continue to work on it. And when Congress comes back, we will have
some recommendations.
Q. Mr. President, as to specifics now of some of those programs that you
would put priorities to cut————
THE PRESIDENT. I would rather not give any specifics, because it is a long
shopping list, and I think it is unwise for me to be categorical as long as I try
to make an honest judgment on which of maybe a hundred or more proposals
they have submitted to me for consideration.
THE MIDDLE EAST; PLANS FOR TRIP TO JAPAN
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I have a two-part question on foreign affairs.
Number one,
the emergence of the PLO [Palestine Liberation Organization]
in the Middle East, how does this affect our position regarding the Middle East?
And the second part, also on foreign affairs, negative reports out of Japan, anti-
American feelings and items like that, whether you are reconsidering going to
Japan.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the second question first.
No developments in Japan have changed my attitude. I intend to go to Japan,
as has been planned for some time.
The decision by the Arab nations to turn over the negotiating for the west
bank to the PLO may or may not—at this stage we aren't certain what impact it
will have on our role in the Middle East.
We, of course, feel that there must be movement toward settlement of the
problems between Israel and Egypt on the one hand, between Israel and Jordan
or the PLO on the other, and the problems between Israel and Syria in the
other category.
We have not had an opportunity yet to make any firm decision on what
485
