December 2
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
parable to last winter? And also, your predecessor made a firm commitment to
the effect that Americans would not, under his Administration, have to pay a
dollar a gallon for gasoline. Can you make that same assurance over the next 12
months?
THE PRESIDENT. In 1974 at this point, the use of gasoline has been less than
the anticipated growth. In other words, we are using less now than the experts
forecast we would use when they were laying out the charts as to the anticipated
demand. The net result is that we have more gasoline in storage today than we
had a year ago at this time.
Now, that is not enough to carry us through in case there was an oil embargo,
but we are in a healthier position today than we were a year ago.
Nevertheless, it is my judgment that we have to keep the pressure on the sav-
ings of energy, including a holddown on gasoline consumption. We are trying
to reduce our importation of oil from overseas by 1 million barrels per day. We
are making headway in that regard.
We haven't achieved it, but the net result is we don't anticipate, at this point,
from any foreseeable circumstances, any gas rationing, nor do we foresee any
serious shortage.
Q. Mr. President, I don't believe you answered my question about can you
make the same assurance that your predecessor did about gasoline not going to a
dollar a gallon.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't foresee gasoline going to a dollar a gallon. It is what,
45 to 55 cents a gallon today, depending on where you buy it. I see no prospects
of the cost of gasoline going up to a dollar a gallon.
[16.] Q. Mr. President, this question perhaps goes back to the earlier part
of the news conference, but it has an economic impact. And that is how much
will it cost to reach the ceiling which you negotiated with Mr. Brezhnev, and
when do you expect that the United States will reach this ceiling?
The President. As I indicated in answer to an earlier question, I think we
must continue our present strategic research development, deployment, main-
tenance programs.
And we are going to move into the present program some additional new
weapons systems-the B-1 aircraft, the Trident submarine. The net result is that
costs will probably go up as we phase out some and phase in some and phase out
others.
Now, the total annual cost will be relatively the same plus the cost of inflation.
Q. Is it $18 billion?
THE PRESIDENT. It is in that ballpark.
687
