[274]
December 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
without the power to fulfill my responsibilities in the crucial area of our Na-
tion's trade.
This vital bill, the trade reform bill, has been pending before Congress for
nearly 2 years. Actually, no President of the United States has had the authority
to negotiate international trade matters since 1967. International trade relations
have not been really revamped since that time. It has been 40 years, as we look
back over the pages of history, since passage of the Nation's historic and funda-
mental Trade Agreements Act of 1934.
The central issue of trade reform is the close interrelationship between our
domestic economy on the one hand and our economic international relations.
And let us look at this important interrelationship for just a moment.
Admittedly, the American economy is in a recession at the present time. Infla-
tion pressures are many. Fear of unemployment is increasing among our people.
The highest priority of this Administration in the weeks and months ahead,
as has been said since I took office 4 months ago, will be to attack these growing
and changing economic problems. And one of the most effective ways to start is
to pass the trade reform legislation in our national self-interest. Obviously, I will
need the full cooperation of the Congress. That is essential for all 213 million
Americans. And I have certainly welcomed the comments by the Senate major-
ity leader, Mike Mansfield, for bipartisan cooperation. I commend the Senate
Committee on Finance and Chairman Russell Long for acting with restraint and
not attaching unrelated amendments.
The international economy faces very similar difficulties. Inflation is a world-
wide problem. Most of the economies of the industrialized world have swung
into a downward cycle, partly as a consequence of inflationary distortions.
International cooperation is absolutely essential if the world is to conquer
this twin illness of global recession and global inflation. We in the United States
must develop a coordinated domestic and international approach to inflation
and to recession. Trade is vital, essential, critical to that program.
Two-way trade for America amounted to $163 billion for the first 10 months of
this calendar year. Those are the latest figures. This leaves our current trade
balance at a deficit of some $2.3 billion. This is due chiefly to the huge increase in
the cost of imported oil. In the first 10 months of this year, oil imports cost us
$20.1 billion compared to $7.8 billion for all of 1973. Thus, without the enormous
increase in oil costs, we would have a good-sized surplus this year. The United
States enjoyed a $1.3 billion surplus last year. This is important to note: Our
exports, for the first 10 months of this year, are running at an annual rate of
36 percent above 1973.
696
