October 19
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
There is another little observation I would like to make—and I don't mean to
be critical of those who differ with me--but oftentimes in the 25-plus years that
I served in the Congress of the United States, I saw well-intentioned individuals
in the House as well as in the Senate who believed that if they gave and gave and
gave to individuals that in the long run perhaps that was helpful and beneficial.
But oftentimes, as I sat in the Chamber of the House of Representatives and
watched this effort being made, I frequently wondered whether those who
pushed and worked for those programs of piling one Federal program on top
of another day after day after day, whether they ever realized and recognized
that a government big enough to give you everything you want is a government
big enough to take from you everything you have.
We want a government that does what we as individuals can't do, but we don't
want a government in Washington so big that at some time or some point down
the road, it can take from us everything we have.
One of the things that I liked about Marshall Parker is that I feel that his
philosophy and mine coincide almost identically. And Marshall, it is nice to see
you, and I thank you for your very kind and friendly words.
As I said, I am here to do a little propagandizing and selling for a program that
I think is good for America. We, as a nation, I found in the 60 or 70 days that I
have been President, we have some problems. We have the problem of inflation.
We have the problem of trying to keep the economy strong and get it stronger so
that we have jobs, that we have profits, that we have a better, better life for all
our people.
And so, about 10 days or 2 weeks ago, I submitted to the Congress and to the
American people a 31-point program. I think it is well thought out, I think it is
well-constructed, so it would follow that important path of whipping inflation
on the one hand and providing a strong economy on the other.
I am confident that the Congress will support it. They did some things before
their recess that began yesterday or the day before. There is more on the matter
to be done when they return after November 5.
But also, it is important that 213 million Americans, individually as well as
collectively, join in this struggle to keep America strong.
We have these WIN buttons-W-I-N-"Whip Inflation Now." We have had
already over 100,000 people write the White House enlisting in this crusade. And
I urge that every one of you here do exactly the same—waste less, save more, and
build a better America, conserve our energy, and tackle the problems of inflation,
and strengthen the longrun economy of the greatest country in the history of
mankind.
I
1
389
