[258]
November 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
It was noted that, in accordance with previous agreements, initial contacts were
established between representatives of the US and of the USSR on questions re-
lated to underground nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes, to measures to
overcome the dangers of the use of environmental modification techniques for
military purposes, as well as measures dealing with the most dangerous lethal
means of chemical warfare. It was agreed to continue an active search for mu-
tually acceptable solutions of these questions.
III
In the course of the meeting an exchange of views was held on a number of
international issues: special attention was given to negotiations already in prog-
ress in which the two Sides are participants and which are designed to remove
existing sources of tension and to bring about the strengthening of international
security and world peace.
Having reviewed the situation at the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe, both Sides concluded that there is a possibility for its early successful
conclusion. They proceed from the assumption that the results achieved in the
course of the Conference will permit its conclusion at the highest level and thus
be commensurate with its importance in ensuring the peaceful future of
Europe.
The USA and the USSR also attach high importance to the negotiations on
mutual reduction of forces and armaments and associated measures in Central
Europe. They agree to contribute actively to the search for mutually acceptable
solutions on the basis of principle of undiminished security for any of the par-
ties and the prevention of unilateral military advantages.
Having discussed the situation existing in the Eastern Mediterranean, both
Sides state their firm support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Cyprus and will make every effort in this direction. They consider
that a just settlement of the Cyprus question must be based on the strict imple-
mentation of the resolutions adopted by the Security Council and the General
Assembly of the United Nations regarding Cyprus.
In the course of the exchange of views on the Middle East both Sides expressed
their concern with regard to the dangerous situation in that region. They re-
affirmed their intention to make every effort to promote a solution of the key is-
sues of a just and lasting peace in that area on the basis of the United Nations reso-
lution 338, taking into account the legitimate interests of all the peoples of the
area, including the Palestinian people, and respect for the right to independent
existence of all states in the area.
660
