[177]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
sides of the border to work together in a joint effort to solve the everyday prob-
lems of their respective lives.
There are countless other instances demonstrating the strong, the vital, the
flourishing and friendly relations that exist between us. And in this border area,
Mr. President, we also see living examples of how two governments disposed
to work together in good will can meet and solve problems.
Along our common border, we have jointly faced and together resolved prob-
lems of flood control, sanitation, minor border adjustments necessitated by the
vagaries of the Rio Grande.
We are extremely proud, Mr. President, of our recent resolution of long-
standing and complex issues involving the salinity of the water of the Colorado
River delivered to your country. Our successful efforts in these areas over the past
few years are precedents for the solution of problems that may arise in the
future. We must continue to draw upon the spirit of mutual respect, good will
which made this cooperation possible in the past.
Mr. President, let us today consider how we can cooperate in solving common
problems which will result in a better and better life for the people of our two
countries and for all the people everywhere.
Muchas gracias.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 a.m. in
response to President Echeverría's remarks of
welcome.
Following a wreath-laying ceremony at the
monument to Benito Juarez, the two Presidents flew
to Magdelena de Kino, Mexico, where they laid a
wreath at the tomb of Padre Eusebio Francisco Kino
and held the first of two meetings. They then flew
to Tubac, Ariz., for a luncheon and the conclusion
of their meetings.
President Echeverría spoke in Spanish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter
follows:
as
Your Excellency, Mr. Gerald Ford, President of the
United States of America:
We bid you welcome to Mexico. The people of
Mexico receive you with the expression of their
friendship for the American people. Through me,
our people wish to offer you the most cordial wel-
come, to convey a cordial greeting which we would
ask you to take back with you for all the American
people.
Coexistence between Mexico and the United
States of America has been a long one. We have an
extensive borderline between us. And all along this
border for a long time now, the sometimes dramatic
and even tragic problems have been left behind.
During the last decades, it has been possible to
solve the problems that affect us both through
civilized practices by applying norms of law and of
reciprocal respect. And now during the very difficult
period that the entire world is living through, we
both, the United States, in these difficult times, and
Mexico, are making efforts so that our coexistence
will be a harmonious one, an understanding one,
and a respectful one.
In our country, within our country domestically,
we are struggling to foster social justice in accordance
with old moral guidelines and with a spirit of co-
operation which we believe would benefit all the
countries of the world.
Internationally, we struggle to achieve norms of
cooperation, balance, understanding on the part
of each nation for all other countries. In Mexico,
we believe that inflation is only one of the manifesta-
tions of lack of balance between the interests of the
one and the other-between the rich and the poor,
between the people that are just developing and
the industrialized countries. We feel that we have
to reach an equilibrium in order to fight against these
problems. And we believe that it is possible that we
can trust international relations and that we can
find a system of cooperation that would lead to
international balance, that would lead to peace and
not to war.
414
