November 18
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I also urge Congress to enact the windfall profits tax proposals so that we will
not forever lose the chance to recapture a part of the excessive profits that do-
mestic oil producers realize this year. I reiterate my support for eliminating the
foreign depletion allowance.
I have asked the Secretary of the Treasury to work with the congressional
committees concerned to develop balanced legislation, including additional
tax reductions for low-income individuals.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
There is great need for action on an Administration proposal to strengthen
and revitalize banks and thrift institutions through the elimination of certain
Federal regulations which impede efficiency and healthy competition. While re-
taining appropriate safeguards to assure solvency and liquidity, the proposed
Financial Institutions Act would allow more competition in our banking system
to benefit the small saver as well as the institutions themselves. This could also
make additional dollars available to the private citizen and to industry.
Further, this proposal would provide the added incentive of the mortgage
interest tax credit for our financial institutions to enable them to devote their
resources to home mortgages and thus curb the wide and disruptive swings in
home mortgage credit availability.
REGULATION
The Congress has before it my proposal to establish a one-year National Com-
mission on Regulatory Reform to examine the practices and procedures of the
independent regulatory commissions. It has become clear that many regulatory
activities of the Government are themselves stifling competition and producing
higher prices without comparable social benefits. I urge this Congress to com-
plete action on this important legislation. Such a Commission, to be composed
of Congressional, Executive, and public members, should start now to formulate
realistic proposals for reform of our regulatory system for early consideration
by the next Congress.
FOOD
Food prices concern everyone. The Congress must act rapidly to not only in-
crease food production but to remove impediments to the maximum production
of peanut and rice crops.
I am also recommending that we amend Public Law 480, the Food for Peace
program. Additional flexibility is clearly needed to assure that our food aid
programs can continue to serve the national interest and humanitarian goals.
621
