[240]
November 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
legislative proposals, and second is the need for Senate confirmation of a non-
Presidential appointee. These provisions run contrary to good management of
the Executive Branch by the President and the traditional separation of powers.
I hope these Constitutional and policy questions can be resolved.
OTHER MAJOR Legislation
In addition to pending nominations, economic legislation and energy issues,
there are a number of other important bills awaiting final action by the Congress.
In today's world, all nations are interdependent. The United States owes it to
itself, as well as to others, to provide military and economic assistance which may
mean the difference between stability and instability in a global or regional
context. Where there is instability, there is danger-danger of conflict which
can involve the greatest as well as the smallest.
The Foreign Aid Authorization bill before you represents a sincere effort to
reflect the realities of today's world. It remains my assessment of the minimum
which is needed to sustain our peaceful objectives.
I urge the Congress to move quickly to enact legislation which will help to
achieve these objectives and meet our moral, political and security obligations.
If such legislation is to enable us to effectively carry forward the foreign policy
of the Nation, it must not tie the hands of the President nor restrict his authority
and ability to act when action is called for.
Also important to the achievement of our objectives overseas is legislation to
enable the United States to contribute its fair share to the various multilateral
development institutions and, at the same time, provide continued incentives to
other nations to join in these international assistance efforts.
In order for the United States to maintain its strong position in foreign
markets, it is important that the Congress pass the Export-Import Bank bill and
avoid attaching unnecessary encumbrances.
The Congress is making good progress on the Administration's proposal to
improve the regulatory climate in an important portion of the transporta-
tion industry. The Surface Transportation Act, as reported by the House Com-
mittee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, is a beginning in the overall area of
regulatory reform. This bill, with certain modifications to insure greater reliance
on competitive market forces, would contribute substantially to the efficiency and
vitality of this Nation's railroad system. I urge the Congress to complete its
work on this vital legislation without waiting for the establishment of the Na-
tional Commission on Regulatory Reform.
626
