[178]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
to a better understanding, greater cooperation, and greater potentialities for
your country as well as ours.
Mr. President, we had straight talk today with openness and candor, and as a
result, it seems to me that the relationship between your country and mine has
increased very significantly.
Your great patriot, Benito Juarez, said over 100 years ago, and I quote: Respect
for the rights of others is peace.
And this relationship that has been built between Mexico and the United
States is built on that foundation which is solid rock.
Mr. President, we have discussed a number of very important issues and we
have done it with openness and candor, and the spirit that we discussed these
matters, I think, will be the foundation upon which we can continue the dialog— .
a dialog that will be beneficial to Mexico as well as to the United States, to Latin
America, and to the world as a whole.
Mr. President, we are greatly honored to have on the soil of the United States
the President of Mexico and his official party. We believe that the relationship
between us will grow from this beginning under my Administration and during
your time as President, and we will work together to build a better and better
world in this hemisphere as well as throughout the globe.
May I offer a toast to the President of Mexico and to the people of the great
country of Mexico and to the growing and improved relationships between our
people, our country, and you and myself.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 p.m. at the Tubac
Country Club.
President Echeverría spoke in Spanish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President of the United States of America:
I believe, Mr. President, that among the many im-
portant points of agreement that we have reached
during this very brief visit, but a very intensive one,
we can mention the enormous success of this visit.
The cordiality, the expressions of welcome and
affection with which you have been received in
Magdalena and in Nogales, we all know would have
been the same whatever part of the country you
would have visited.
It is not only the fact of the coexistence between
Mexicans and North Americans and United States
citizens that intensifies the bonds that bring our
two countries together. It is not only the relationship
that exists on the two sides of the border. It is the
fact that throughout all our history, the American
history and the Mexican history, we have been able
to bring up our problems very openly, we have been
able to foster and foment our friendship.
When you and I, Mr. President, explored the
different possibilities of meeting along the border.
area, we decided to meet in this vast region which
was at that time a desert and which Father Kino dis-
covered and civilized.
Father Kino's untiring work, Father Kino's great
foresight and vision and all his dedication are ex-
amples that are to be followed in the work that needs
to be done in this very vast desert area in which we
are at present.
In researching the work that was done by Father
Kino, many students of the United States and many
students of history of Mexico participated, and
similarly, to the way in which they joined forces and
participated, we can join forces in order to solve the
problems of the United States and of Mexico.
May I say out loud, Mr. President, that to deal with
you personally is very gratifying; that, very simply
and very directly and fully informed, you take up
the most complex matters; that you do not elude the
problems with a great many high sounding phrases:
416
