November 2
[218]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
concern that it has among all the 213 million citizens, those citizens will be
happier and will be better off. But let me make a critical, crucial point. What
they really forget, and what millions of Americans are now remembering, is
that a government big enough to give us everything we want is a government
big enough to take from us everything we have.
But what they forget, and what millions of Americans are now remembering,
is that in the end, no government can make us better and happier people if it
takes from us that one essential ingredient for happiness, our individual freedom.
The lesson of the past few decades has been a basic one. We cannot spend
our way into happiness. But we can spend ourselves into debt, and we can spend
our Nation's strength straight into raging inflation.
That is why, in these past few weeks, I have been speaking out for realistic,
fiscally responsible Congressional candidates.
Inflation is our Nation's public enemy number one, and one way to beat infla-
tion most effectively is to keep the lid on Federal spending. That is why I urge
you to send to the Congress an inflation-proof Congress next Tuesday.
If the people who wish to spend and spend—and they can be called big spend-
ers-win heavily on November 5, we are in danger of electing a veto-proof Con-
gress, rather than an inflation-proof Congress. I think you want an inflation-
proof Congress, not a veto-proof Congress.
Such a Congress threatened, or unrestrained by a threat of a Presidential veto,
would spend the dome right off our Nation's Capitol. Our Nation, in this very
challenging world, simply cannot afford a veto-proof Congress controlled by
those that want to spend all of your money and much more, too.
Big spending got our economy into the trouble it is experiencing today, and
now we are threatened with a Congress whose prescription is more spending.
I do not think it makes much sense. It is my judgment that the immediate
medicine our economy needs is a good strong dose of fiscal discipline. And
frankly, that is why I am asking voters all across this Nation, all across the politi-
cal spectrum-Democrats, Independents, and Republicans—to vote as inflation
fighters rather than as political partisans.
I pledge to do everything possible in my power to hold down excessive spend-
ing from the Federal Treasury, and I ask you to send men and women to Wash-
ington, men like Jake Garn, who—I know from his record, his experience, his
knowledge—will help me in this vitally important task.
I don't stand here and kid you that it is an easy task. There is no easy cure for
the inflationary illness that infects our economy, and I do not think it makes
559
