[229]
November 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
ple and Government to Government. And may I ask all of our distinguished
guests here tonight to join me in a toast to Dr. Bruno Kreisky, the Chancellor of
the Republic of Austria.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:02 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Chancellor
Kreisky responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
In your warm words of welcome, Mr. President,
for which I sincerely thank you, you have mentioned
the longstanding and proven ties between the United
States and Austria. Certainly, the peoples of the for-
mer Austro-Hungarian monarchy always harbored
feelings of genuine friendship and admiration for
the American people.
To the best of my recollection, however, the re-
lations between the two Governments were not al-
ways quite that cordial. [Laughter] It appears that
His Imperial and Royal Apostolic Majesty Franz Jo-
seph could not bring himself for a long time to re-
ceive the American envoy to Vienna.
Early in this century, the developing official rela-
tions between Austria-Hungary and the United States
of America-at least until the outbreak of World
War I and the ensuing disintegration of the Haps-
burg monarchy-were really never more than correct
relations and, therefore, completely different from
those we are fortunate to enjoy today.
Why do I choose to point this out? Because the
development of our relations serves as a most con-
vincing example which shows that a very special and
close relationship between two nations can be de-
veloped in quite a few decades.
I see three reasons for this. In 1945, the United
States became one of the four occupation powers in
Austria and helped us from the very first day to lay
all those foundations needed for the restoration of
democracy. Nothing has made a greater contribution
to the history of our democracy than the presence
of the United States in Austria. You virtually were
the guardian of our freedom, Mr. President.
Secondly, Austria was in ruins, and it was hard
to imagine at that time how our State could ever
again become the home and heaven of our people.
You gave to those of us who set out to clear the ruins
not only a healthy dose of American optimism but
also the most generous material assistance. Mr. Presi-
dent, I hope you will have the opportunity to see
with your own eyes the fruits which have sprung
from your country's contributions to the economic
revival of Austria.
Aid under the Marshall Plan was the foundation
of our economic prosperity, and its effects are still
being felt today. This aid constituted one of the
chief reasons why twice as many people than in
1937 earn a good living in Austria today. During
the period from 1937 to 1970, our gross national
product, given constant prices, quadrupled and has
shown a marked increase since.
Let me add that your material assistance of that
time still keeps giving today, as many Austrian
firms receive lower interest, long-term investment
loans from the ERP [European Recovery Program]
counterpart fund, which is sustained through repay-
ment of earlier loans.
The fact that this aid by the United States for the
restoration of our economy was given to us free of
any contingencies of political dogma enabled us to
utilize those sums, which appeared gigantic to us
in the light of our circumstances, in complete inde-
pendence.
And finally, the third reason. Through generous
grants, Austrian scientists, engineers, and experts of
every specialty have been afforded the opportunity to
explore new dimensions in the advanced areas of your
cultural and scientific life.
A further example is the considerable contribution
made by the Ford Foundation to the Institute for
Advanced Studies in Vienna from which a great
number of eminent social scientists have emerged in
recent years. This constitutes ample reward for the
contributions made by Austria to the cultural life of
the United States.
Before raising my glass to the continued prosper-
ing of these relations, I would like to again voice my
regret that Mrs. Kreisky was unable, for reasons of
health, to participate in this beautiful and impres-
sive visit. She regretted this all the more because it
robbed her of the opportunity to meet Mrs. Ford,
whose restoration to health has made us all very
happy and to whom I wish to extend warm personal
wishes.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to raise
your glasses and join me in a toast to the health of
the President of the United States and his charming
wife and to the continued development of the excel-
lent relations between our two countries.
584
