[72]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
resources will provide 170,000 public service jobs this coming winter. The effect
of these actions will be to double the number of federally funded public service
jobs. In addition, $1.3 billion will be available to State and local governments for
manpower programs.
Beyond this, I have requested the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with my
economic advisors, and drawing on the outcome of the Conference on Inflation,
to develop contingency plans against the possibility of substantially increased
unemployment. If future unemployment statistics demonstrate the need, we
will be ready to present plans to the Congress and to work together to assure
a mutually satisfactory course of action.
There are several health authorizations that require extension this year. They
are the Health Manpower Act, Health Services Act and the Health Resources
Planning Act. All are necessary but, unfortunately, each currently has objec-
tionable features in program provisions and excessive authorizations. I have
requested Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Weinberger to cooperate
fully with appropriate committees in an effort to enact reasonable legislation. I
will continue to seek a sound compromise on the Comprehensive Health Insur-
ance Plan.
The House recently passed the Federal Mass Transportation Act. While the
funding was kept to a level which I can support, certain structural changes in
that bill are necessary. I am asking Secretary of Transportation Brinegar to work
closely with the Senate in an effort to develop an acceptable bill.
The Administration's proposal to improve the regulatory climate in the sur-
face transportation industry is presently before the Congress. This bill, with
certain modifications to ensure greater reliance on competitive market forces,
would contribute substantially to the efficiency and vitality of this Nation's
private sector transportation system. I urge the Congress to act promptly to
complete its work on this important legislation.
The Amtrak Authorization legislation is now ready for Conference. Since
major problems exist with the Senate version, I hope the Conference will adhere
as closely as possible to the House measure and soon present it for my signature.
I assume the Congress will pass the Military Construction Authorization bill,
including expansion of the support facility at Diego Garcia.
The Export Administration Act is ready for conference action and should be
reported soon.
Legislation to restore financial integrity to the Railroad Retirement system
has not been enacted by either House. I urge legislation be adopted to accom-
130
