September 28
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I
the American people. This spirit is no secret weapon; it is renowned all over
the world. And I call on each of you in this room, but more urgently, on each of
you at home watching on television and all the other Americans across this
vast land who either hear or read my words, I urge them, as I know they will,
to join with all of us in a great effort to become inflation fighters and energy
savers.
I know all across our country the question everyone asks me is, “What can I do
to help?"
I will tell you how we can start. Right now, make a list of some 10 ways you
can save energy and you can fight inflation. Little things that become habits-
they do become habits—they don't really affect, in some instances, your health
and happiness. They are habits that you can abandon if we are all faced with this
emergency.
I suggest that each person exchange your family's list with your neighbors,
and I urge you and ask you to send me a copy. Some of the best ideas come from
your home rather than from the White House. The success or failure of our fight
against inflation rests with every individual American. Our country is above all
a union, and you and I can make it a more perfect union as our fathers did.
One of our delegates yesterday, Sylvia Porter, the well-known newspaper
columnist on economics, has kindly consented to help me get this voluntary
citizens program organized and underway, and I thank you very, very much,
Sylvia.
It was dramatically pointed out here yesterday that inflation strikes our so-
ciety very unevenly. Government must concern itself with those on whom the
burden falls excessively. For instance, we must provide productive work for
those without jobs. We must adjust our tax system to encourage savings,
stimulate productivity, discourage excessive debt, and to correct inflation-caused
inequities. And I can assure the American people that the executive branch ·
and the Congress working together will effectuate and implement such a pro-
gram.
May I add a very special word to our distinguished foreign guests. What you
heard here yesterday and today may remind each of you of the current problems
of your own country's economy. The problems of people are not very dif-
ferent in these days wherever they live and work.
The whole world suffers from inflation. I assure you the United States is
seeking honest solutions that will help, not hinder, other nations' efforts to
advance or to restore their economic health. I will have extensive consultations
with leaders of other governments aimed at strengthening international institu-
|
209
