September 11
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
ship under CETA title I as allocated for this purpose, currently available re-
sources will provide approximately 170,000 public service jobs this coming
winter.
The effect of these actions, based on the tools and the dollars we have, will
be to double the number of federally funded public service jobs. In addition,
$1.3 billion will be available to State and local governments for manpower
programs.
Beyond this, drawing on the outcome of the Conference on Inflation, and your
suggestions, we will develop contingency plans against the possibility that un-
employment might give evidence of rising to substantially higher levels.
If the employment statistics demonstrate the need in the future, we will be
ready to present such plans to the Congress and work together to assure a
mutually satisfactory course of action before the end of this session.
To the leaders of our labor organizations and to the captains of industry, I
make a sincere appeal for restraint. It must be a self-imposed restraint. As I
have said before, there will be no controls imposed on wages and prices, as far
as I am concerned. Settlements at the bargaining table are the sole responsibility
of the participants, so long as they respect the public interest.
We need your help today, not merely for my Administration but for the whole
Nation. I hope this discussion will not only be productive of ideas to preserve the
American dollar but will demonstrate that in a time of crisis we remain a nation
united.
With those opening observations and comments, I would like to move now to
some observations and comments.
First, I would like to call on my friend [AFL-CIO president] George Meany,
who will make his comments.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:47 a.m. in the East
Room at the White House. His remarks and both
the morning and afternoon sessions of the confer-
ence were broadcast live on public television.
At the conclusion of the morning session of the
meeting, the President hosted a luncheon for the
participants in the State Dining Room.
68
Statement on Presidential Clemency and Pardons.
September 11, 1974
THE ANNOUNCEMENT yesterday by Mr. Hushen concerning study of the
entire matter of Presidential clemency and pardons was prompted by inquiries
to the White House Press Office concerning Mrs. John Dean's reported statement
117
