November 1
[213]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
him a quick rundown on Dr. Kissinger's trips to the Soviet Union, to India, to
Pakistan, and the last message I had was to Afghanistan, as he continues this
trip.
The President was very alert. He was very interested, but it was very obvious
to me that he had been very, very ill. But he showed a great deal of strength
mentally and, I think, physically in meeting this very serious challenge.
I told him that I had talked this morning to my wife before I came here and
indicated to him that she had asked me, as I told him, that all of our family were
praying for his full and complete recovery.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:33 a.m. outside
Long Beach Memorial Hospital.
On October 29, 1974, Mr. Nixon had undergone
surgery to remove blood clots from his abdomen
and left leg. Following the operation, he went into
shock after hemorrhaging was caused by anti-
clotting medication.
213
Remarks at Fresno, California. November 1, 1974
BOB MATHIAS, Congressman Chuck Wiggins, Carol Harner, distinguished
mayors, members of the State legislature, members of the Board of County
Commissioners, the wonderful bands from—I still get a great thrill out of hearing
the National Anthem played, as I am sure Bob Mathias did, both at London and
Helsinki when he won, representing all of us in the decathlon. It is a great,
great thrill.
It is nice to see all these wonderful young people and all of you from Fresno,
Kings, and Tulare Counties. I thank you for a super-enthusiastic, warm wel-
come. I am very, very, very grateful. Thank you very much.
I think you can tell from the reaction that it is a great experience for me to be
in the central valley of California. And as I look around this big valley to fine
people, I noticed that as I flew in this morning it is a big valley, and the big
crops that it produces, the big yields that come from the soil, and the labor, the
big livestock, to serve its people in Congress it produces big men, mentally and
otherwise, in Bob Mathias. And frankly, that is why I am here.
It is really no secret—I need Bob Mathias. I think you need Bob Mathias. I
think the country needs Bob Mathias back in Washington to represent these
three great counties of Fresno, Kings, and Tulare. And I am counting on your
doing it.
537
