[213]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
I respectfully say that California must be involved, and for any candidate for
Governor to say that it is not, is pure nonsense.
We cannot fight inflation without the help of California, and a Governor like
Hugh Flournoy will help us fight inflation. And with that kind of help, we can
do something about it.
Let me just make this final observation. My message to you here today is a
very simple one, and I hope you will pass it on to your friends between now and
Tuesday. If the big spenders get control of Congress, if the big spenders control
your statehouse and your State capital, we cannot, in all honesty, do much about
inflation, because excessive spending at the State level or at the Federal level is a
major cause, a principal reason for inflation.
And so I ask you very strongly, but very simply, to send the kind of people
back to Washington who you can trust, who will watch your tax dollars. I urge
you to send people to Sacramento who will do a first-class job in watching the
money that you send to your State capital.
Actually, the key to the battle against inflation is within our honest, personal
reach. All you have to do on November 5 is to go into the sanctity of that voting
booth and pull the right lever. Good leadership is the answer. I am trying to do
it in the White House. Bob Mathias has sought to do it in the Congress of the
United States. Hugh Flournoy will do it for you in the State capital.
Leadership, whether it is in Washington or Sacramento, is vital. And what
you do in the quiet, personal relationship that you have in that voting booth is
of great importance—yes, to you and to me, but more importantly to all of us.
And I urge you, not for the sake of one political party but for the sake of
America, be a leader next Tuesday; be a leader in making the right decision.
Let your vote and your voice reelect and elect the kind of men and women to
public office who will bring out the best in our great country.
I am confident that you will, and that is why I am here to see all of you.
Good luck, Bob. Good luck to all of you who support him.
Let me express my very deep appreciation and gratitude. I am not going to
get into a discussion whether your band or your football team is the best, but
let me say this: I like a mayor who thinks they have the best band and the best
football team.
And may I add that I have got a 16-year-old son who is working as a ranch
hand out in Lolo, Montana. He decided that he wanted to learn to be a rancher,
so he is out there, and I am going to see him tomorrow. And I am not going to
542
