November 22
[254]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Thank you very, very much for this very thoughtful and really wonderful
plaque that I will take back to Washington, give it to Mrs. Ford in the White
House, and tell her the story of the 2d Infantry Division, which, in my opinion,
is a great story of stimulation, of effort, aims and objectives, and dedication.
I am proud of you as Commander in Chief. I know that you have set a high
example, not only for each and every one of you individually but for all others
in the United States Army and in the Department of Defense.
What you are doing here is something that is not only good for the Army
and good for the others in the Defense Department but it is good for America,
it is good for you, and we are very, very proud of everything you are doing.
And Mrs. Ford, I am sure, will have this properly displayed in the White
House, because it will touch her heart. It will tell her a great deal of what is being
done out here people on watch for her, for 213 million other Americans.
Your pro-life program is tremendous. This is the kind of esprit de corps, the
kind of will to win, the will to do something for yourself and your Government
that will make America an even greater and better place for all of us to live.
Thank you very, very much.
254
Toast at a Dinner Hosted by President Park Chung Hee
of the Republic of Korea in Seoul. November 22, 1974
Mr. President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am greatly honored by this occasion and appreciate the gracious hospitality
you have accorded us this evening.
The warmth shown by the Korean people exceeds even that which I remem-
ber from my previous visit to Korea—this very hospitable land.
I am very, very much impressed by the dynamism of the Korean society, the
energy and vitality of the Korean people, and the charm and the beauty of the
Korean women.
Mr. President, I wish that I had more time to see not only the impressive land-
marks of the Korean miracle of material progress but also the famous historical
shrines of your great country. On another day perhaps, Mr. President, my wife
and myself and our family can come, and certainly we would like to return.
Mr. President, it was a great pleasure to meet the leaders of many sectors of the
Korean society here tonight. In particular, I am pleased to see the Speaker and
651
