[182]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
On the question of whether Henry and I agree on everything, the question as
to whether Henry has agreed with the White House on every issue-naturally,
we try to go down the same path. Philosophically, our interests, our views are
identical. Sometimes we, of necessity, for one reason or another, have to differ—
not in the objective but in trying to come to the ultimate answer. There are hon-
est differences as to the method by which you can achieve a certain aim, a certain
objective.
Now, Henry and I share—we have talked about it before, we talked about it
last night—we share in the desire to achieve quality education for every child
in every State. That is our aim, that is our objective. Now, there may be some
differences as to how that is achieved and accomplished, but let me say that in
this very difficult area,
I am impressed with Henry's recommendation that a
commission be established for the purpose of trying to get some uniformity,
some sensible answers out of the United States courts as far as quality education
is concerned, and I commend you for that recommendation, Henry.
The Congress has been under some challenge, and I think some of our insti-
tutions in Government have been challenged as to integrity, as to forthrightness.
In Henry Bellmon, I know of no person in the United States Senate or in the
Congress who is more forthright, who has more integrity. It is a quiet sort of
deep-seated belief that you have to be honest, you have to have maximum candor.
I respect you for that, Henry. We have had too little of that in recent years, and
frankly, that was one of the prime reasons that I thought it was vitally important
last week for me to appear before a Congressional committee.
There have been some challenges to the wisdom or the method as to why
I had taken the action I did concerning my predecessor. But it seemed to me that
in this day and age, when our system of government is under such challenge
from many, many sources, that the best way to lay aside, hopefully once and for
all, any challenge as to why and under what circumstances I should, as the first
President of the United States, appear voluntarily before a Congressional com-
mittee-they had their chance; I appeared, and I hope and trust the answers
satisfied this committee of the Congress.
What I am trying to say is that today there is no higher ingredient essential
to the future of this country than openness, candor; and I say this in Oklahoma
because I know from firsthand experience, in Henry you have a person whose
life is an open book, whose attitude is one of candor, forthrightness, and total
integrity. I can't think of a higher ingredient essential in the election of 1974.
Congratulations, Henry.
I can recall vividly the first time I met Happy Camp. Where was it, Happy,
426
