[154]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
those individuals who will be in favor of an inflation-proof Congress. That is
what will save America.
You know, I arrived in town, and as we flew in, I couldn't help but see the
Indianapolis Speedway, and gee, that is a great thrill. Somebody said to me, a
veto-proof Congress to fight inflation makes about as much sense as going into the
Indianapolis Speedway—or the 500, I should say—on a skateboard.
In the economic program that I submitted to the Congress, we have 31
different provisions and proposals. It was a package finally put together with
the best brains, the best talents, the greatest cooperation and participation by
people all over the country.
We had some 12 or 15 minisummits, and we had two or three summits in
Washington. And then after all of these ideas came from so many, many people,
we tried to discard the ones that wouldn't work, and we decided to incorporate
those that we thought would.
It was done for this particular purpose. We are faced with high inflation. We
had to tighten the screws. On the other hand, in some areas of our country, we
have got economic problems. Some people call them a recession, some people
describe them otherwise, but the problem is, we do in some areas of this country
face difficulties. So, we had to devise a plan or a program that meant a dual
challenge, a challenge that could be met if we had the right approach. One of
those approaches was to hold down Federal spending. And believe me, that is an
awfully important part of our program.
I said to the Congress, "You agree with me that we won't spend more than
$300 billion in this fiscal year, and I will find a way to do it." And we can.
And the kind of people that we have here in the Congress on our side of
the aisle and the kind you are going to send to Congress with Dick Lugar
will help us find those ways.
But there also is another part of that program, and I would like to talk about
it. I suggested that the Congress ought to bite the bullet. Some people said that
I only suggested they take a marshmallow bite. Well, if the Congress doesn't
like what I suggested, we will give them some real tough turkey talk very soon.
Now, let me speak, if I might, about one aspect—the tax suggestions that I
made. Let me, at the outset, say I am against, I won't recommend, I will oppose
any addition to the gasoline tax as far as the Federal Government is concerned.
Now, let me just speak quite frankly. I think if we are going to be compas-
sionate, we are going to balance the budget, we have to find some new areas of
revenue. And there are, I am sure, some people who say I was not the wisest
336
