November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
you shed your Boy Scout image and get tough with Congress and, if necessary,
go over their heads to the people. What will be your tactics ?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me preface the answer to the one part of your
question—I was a Boy Scout. I am proud of that experience. I have no apologies
for it. I think they have done a great deal of good for lots of young people, and
I am not going to back off from the 5 or 6 years that I enjoyed being a Boy Scout
and doing the things that I think are good for America.
Now, to answer your other question. I wish there would be a lot more Boy
Scouts.
Now, I am going to try to work with the Congress. It is a Democratic Congress,
better than 2-to-1 in the House and, I think, about 62 percent in the Senate. I
think we ought to try and work together. They do have some sort of a mandate.
They have an obligation, they have a responsibility, but they also have an
accountability.
I want to work with them. I hope we can. But if we find that they are going to
try and override, dominate with policies that I think are wrong, I will have to
disagree with them.
But I am going to start out with the assumption that they are as interested as I
am in what is good policy, both at home and abroad, and hopefully that will
continue. So, let's wait and see.
ATTITUDE TOWARD THE PRESS
[19.] Q. My name is Tim Rife. I am from the University of Nebraska at
Omaha.
Mr. President, does your willingness here-to show up here to a Sigma Delta
Chi convention reflect a new attitude in your Administration towards the press?
The President. I don't think coming here is a reflection of any new attitude
toward the press on my part. I think most of the press from Washington would
agree that I have always been open and candid with the members of the press.
The fact that I became Vice President or President I don't think has changed
me. I acted in the past as I am acting now. We don't agree on some things, but I
have always felt that I should treat them as I would want to be treated, and vice
versa. And I think that is a good relationship.
MIDDLE EAST NEGOTIATIONS
[20.] Q. Mr. President, Russ Ward of NBC News.
There has been some recent talk in the Middle East about a possible reim-
position of the Arab oil embargo. Do you have contingency plans for dealing
609
