[191]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
Here in Illinois you are lucky. George Burditt referred to it and very elo-
quently. You have 12 great Republican Members of the House of Representatives
running for reelection-Bob Michel, Ed Derwinski, John Anderson, Paul Find-
ley, Bob McClory, John Erlenborn, Tom Railsback, Phil Crane, George O'Brien,
Ed Madigan, Bob Hanrahan, Sam Young. I can tell you from personal experi-
ence, and I have seen a lot of Members of the House come and go-sort of like
Greyhound buses. But the truth is that your delegation—and I have mentioned
them—is outstanding. You should be proud of them, and you should support
them wholeheartedly. They will do a first-class job on your behalf.
Each of these individuals, great and good friends of mine—and believe me,
they basically were invaluable when I was the minority leader in the House—
are hard-hitting inflation fighters, and I am sure that the candidates you fielded
to challenge the incumbent Democrats deserve your full support.
I could say easily, because I feel it, that I want them there for good and
sufficient reasons-that, for example, I can depend on them—but that is really
only one of the keys in the formula. You need them, Illinois needs them, and the
country needs them.
So, I urge you from the bottom of my heart that you maximize your effort,
make that last-minute contribution, that last-minute effort to make sure that
they come back to serve you and to serve our country. But you just don't fight
inflation in Washington. The battlefield, as I see it, is the whole country-every
State, every county, every city.
So, I hope that you will equally support your Republican candidates for the
State legislature. They can give you responsible, economical action down in your
State capital, and a State capital today under our system of trying to transfer
power from Washington to your capital and ours in Michigan is an important
citadel of strength, good judgment.
The Republican Party has a major purpose. It has had from Lincoln's day to
the present: to be just, to be fair, to be responsible, to stand up for what is right
for America, and to give America the kind of government that is good for us
individually, for our people collectively, for the world at large.
If I might just say that some of the big spenders who have ideas about programs
for one individual or one segment of our society, their motives may be good,
but the money they spend and the direction they take their Government, in
my judgment, is bad. And, as I used to sit in the House with Les and John
Anderson, Bob Michel, and the rest, I often used to think as these programs
sort of flowed out of one committee after another, didn't those proponents ever
472
