October 24
[191]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
We are all deeply indebted to you for your service, your friendship, and your
example as a great, great American.
Thank you for the opportunity of being here in Melvin on this occasion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 p.m. at the "Les
Arends Day" celebration at the Melvin Fairgrounds.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Charles A. Halleck, United States Representative
from Indiana 1935-69, and William L. Springer,
United States Representative from Illinois 1951-73.
191
Remarks at the United Republican Fund Dinner in
Chicago, Illinois.
October 24, 1974
Chuck Percy, Bill Scott, Les Arends, my former colleagues in the House, your
two former great Governors-Ogilvie and Stratton—and your outstanding
candidate for the United States Senate, George Burditt, Harry Page, and all the
rest of the candidates for reelection or candidates against incumbents:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to be here at this 40th anniversary
of the United Republican Fund of Illinois.
And Dan, I thank you and Bill Croft¹ for the super participation that you
give to what I think is a most worthwhile organization.
It is always wonderful to be in Chicago, the home of the Bears—and I under-
stand my old friend George Halas is out here—the home of the Bulls, and the
kangaroo.
You know, that is what I like about Chicago. You could always count on
exciting things happening in the Windy City.
Dan Terra tells me the way that kangaroo has been dodging tacklers lately,
there is a big controversy in the city of Chicago over what to do with him when
they do catch him. The Chicago police want to put him in the zoo; the Chicago
Bears want to put him in the backfield; and of course, the Democrats in Chicago
want to register him—at least once! [Laughter]
I was talking to my old friend George "Papa Bear" Halas before the dinner,
and I was telling him how, since I became President, I am usually introduced as
Dan did, in a very stately and dignified manner.
This particular occasion that I will mention—the format was a little differ-
ent—I was introduced by a former teammate of mine at the University of Mich-
¹ Daniel J. Terra, president of the United Republican Fund, and William C. Croft, dinner chairman.
2 The President was referring to George S. Halas, president and general manager of the Chicago Bears
professional football team, and to the Chicago Bulls professional basketball team.
467
