[99]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
ocean seas. This, I think, is unbelievable for someone who comes from the heart-
land of America to be so recognized by the maritime industry, an industry that,
I am sure, watches and husbands that award for only those who have done
superb work on behalf of our merchant marine.
So, what I would like to say is, Leonor, whether it was on the Committee on
Banking and Currency, or whether it was on the Committee on Merchant
Marine and Fisheries, or whether it was on the floor of the House, there have
been no other Members who I think enjoys the respect and admiration,
Democratic or Republican, more than you.
But most of all, I am proud to call you a friend and to wish you the very best as
you leave the Congress at the end of this session.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 6:30
p.m. in the Hearing Room of the Ways and Means
Committee at the Longworth House Office Build-
ing. In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Representative Richard Bolling of Missouri.
The President later stated that he had been mis-
taken in his concluding remarks, in that Mrs. Sul-
livan was not planning retirement at the end of the
session.
100
Remarks of Welcome to President Giovanni Leone of Italy.
September 25, 1974
Mr. President, and ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, I warmly welcome you to the United States of America.
I warmly welcome you on behalf of all Americans who are deeply grateful for
the gifts of genius and beauty your country has given to all mankind. On be-
half of the millions and millions of Americans who are proud to claim Italy as
their ancestral homeland, I welcome you with a very special family affection.
You, Mr. President, are an honored leader of one of America's truest allies.
In the past three decades, America has been very, very proud to have been asso-
ciated with Italy in your successful efforts to build a democratic industrial so-
ciety. I assure you, Mr. President, of America's continued commitment to a
stable, free, and democratic Italy.
I also wish to restate most emphatically our intention to work closely with
your country in strengthening Atlantic cooperation and Atlantic security.
I think we must all admit that the road will not be easy. The problems of infla-
tion and of assuring equitable access to fairly priced resources, for example,
threaten the stability of every economy and the welfare of people in developed
192
