[106]
September 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
agreement and alternatives which the Congress and I must consider in making
difficult decisions.
I, like all of you, have unlimited confidence in America. The battle against
inflation will not be an easy one. It will require sacrifice and a strong common
effort. It will require discipline, but I am certain and positive that we as Ameri-
cans can and will win.
This Administration will seek to ensure that burdens are distributed equally.
No group should be called upon to carry an unfair share of the burden.
America's traditional resourcefulness and ingenuity helped build the Nation
and provide an abundance unknown by most other peoples of the world.
Although Americans must increase their productive capacity, this by itself will
not eliminate the scourge of inflation. Other actions and hard decisions are re-
quired. We cannot hope to satisfy all, but we will seek to act in the best inter-
est of all.
I intend to constantly reassess policies and to change those that are not
working. My actions will not be set in concrete. As President, I will continue to
listen with all the openness with which I am capable and acting with all the
decisiveness at my command. Together, with great confidence in America's
capacity, let us begin.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:07 a.m. in the In-
ternational Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. His remarks and both the conference's morn-
ing and afternoon sessions were broadcast live on
public television.
At the conclusion of the afternoon session, the
President hosted a reception at the White House for
participants.
107
Remarks at Groundbreaking Ceremonies for the
LBJ Memorial Grove. September 27, 1974
Mrs. Johnson, the Johnson family, Mr. Speaker, my former colleagues in the
Congress, distinguished public officials, friends of Lyndon Johnson:
It is really a great honor and privilege for me to participate in this auspicious
occasion today, to participate not only as President but as an old friend of the
man we honor here on this occasion.
I think it is appropriate, before we talk about the man, to say a few words about
another person. And I would like to make a comment or two, if I might, about
our former First Lady who I am delighted to see here on this occasion.
I don't think there is an American in our society today, or maybe historically,
who has done more to beautify America than Lady Bird Johnson. We all know
202
