October 24
[188]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
to why I played center rather than quarterback. She said a center is one of the few
positions on a football team where you don't have to move your feet. [Laughter]
Somehow, it seems very appropriate to me that we are holding this political
gathering in this fine ballroom. You might, I guess, call this a Congressional
square dance. Every 2 years we change partners. [Laughter]
And if you stop to think about it, really good dancers do have one thing in
common with good Congressmen and good Senators—they have to know how
to take the right steps. And when it comes to facing the very hard issues and the
very difficult problems that we face at home and abroad today, there is only one
step our good Republican candidates at this table don't know, and that is the
sidestep.
It is my observation in watching your Republican delegation in Congress
that they face the problems and they make an honest, conscientious, intelligent
effort to solve them. I congratulate Bill Scherle, Wiley Mayne, H. R. Gross, and
I congratulate some of those good candidates that you are going to elect on the
Republican ticket to send a bigger Republican delegation to Congress next
November 5.
You know, I have had this new office a relatively short period of time, some-
thing like 2½ months. I have found it somewhat difficult to shed some old habits.
One of those habits over the last 26 years has been campaigning for fellow Re-
publicans.
I don't know how many times I have been in various Congressional districts in
Iowa, but I have always enjoyed it, and I have always been proud of it. I think it
is the part of people when called upon to go out and stand up for, campaign
for candidates that deserve support.
Now, while my job is different at the present time from what it has been in
the past, the call to me is the exact same one. There is just a little major dif-
ference in the last 10 years. No one this year can accuse me of campaigning to
become Speaker of the House of Representatives. [Laughter]
To be very honest, very frank about it, I believe in this country. I believe in
the American people. In the last year, I have traveled all over our country, some
42 out of the 50 States, over 128,000 miles, and here is what I have found:
There is work to be done in America. That is why I am here, to seek your sup-
port for programs, for policies that I have proposed to the Congress, programs
and policies which, in my judgment, will meet our country's pressing needs.
These are programs I have submitted to the Congress that would tackle
affirmatively and effectively the problems of inflation, energy overuse, and peace
455
