[92]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
press corps, and, I think, if I ever do, you would be justified in questioning
my continued usefulness in this job.
My concept of the job is that a Press Secretary does not always have to agree
with the decisions of the President. I think a Press Secretary's job is to report to
you the actions of the President, why he has taken the actions, how he has arrived
at the action.
I don't think that the Press Secretary and the press are natural antagonists.
I think we really both have the same aim. I have been out on the other side for a
long time, and now I am on this side, but I think we have the same aim, which
is to get as much news as possible about what goes on in this place to the Ameri-
can people.
Obviously, the Press Secretary needs to know what is going on to do that job,
and I have been assured that I will know what is going on.
I don't expect to be a salesman for the President. I am not going to try to sell his
programs to you.
I am apolitical. Like most of you, I have worked on covering most of the politi-
cal campaigns of the last 15 years. The last time I voted, I am ashamed to say, was
in 1960, when I voted for John Kennedy. Other than that, I have no affiliation
with any political party.
I think my models in trying to do this job will be Bill Moyers for his knowledge
and his honesty and the amount of information that he put out, Pierre Salinger
for the good humor and the good fellowship and the grace that he brought to
this job, and I would hope to be able to earn as much respect from you as Jerry
ter Horst had.
I think it is probably too late to go back to a honeymoon, but maybe we could
have a trial reconciliation.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
The President. Thank you, Ron. We are very proud to have him, and we
look forward to working together.
I will leave you to your friends.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:45 p.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House. Following the
President's remarks, Press Secretary Nessen par-
ticipated in a question-and-answer session with
reporters.
176
