September 6
[58]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Congress and the Bicentennial organizations in each of the 50 States, the terri-
tories, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Already some 1,300 cities, towns, villages, counties, some Indian tribes, em-
bracing more than a third of our total population, have met the qualifications
for the official "Bicentennial Communities" designation. Our new director of
the Bicentennial, John Warner, tells me that the list is growing phenomenally,
month by month. Thousands of programs, thousands of events are crowding the
Bicentennial calendar.
It is interesting to note that a growing number of foreign governments are
planning to participate in our Bicentennial. I think this is welcome news, be-
cause there is no nation which is not a great part of our American heritage. The
blood of all peoples flows in our veins. Whatever we are or have been able to
accomplish, we owe in larger measure to our richly diverse heritage from around
the world.
If I remember my Bible correctly, I think this quote is appropriate: The beauty
of Joseph's coat is its many colors.
But may I offer my own idea on how best to commemorate the Bicentennial.
Let us all, during the coming months, study carefully the character, study the
qualities of the men who founded this Nation. Let us try to grasp the stuff that
was inside of each of them and all of them collectively. And then, let us release, if
we can, the same spirit within ourselves. We have the same capacity for unity,
discipline, and sacrifice. Let us show the world that the character and quality of
the American people has not changed in 200 years.
What we are really doing, as we celebrate our Nation's 200th birthday, is ac-
tually laying the cornerstone of America's third century. And every citizen of
this great Nation should have his or her name inscribed on that imaginary
stone so that all who come after us can say, as we say of the 56 who labored here
for us, "They gave of themselves. They cared."
I am especially glad to note that we are launching the celebration of our Bi-
centennial right here in the great city of Philadelphia where the first of my two
predecessors as Presidents labored as members of the First Continental Congress.
I am glad that this period of national rededication, which will extend to July 4,
1976, begins on this almost forgotten day, when the colonial delegates wrestled
with their common problems of skyrocketing prices, shrinking purchasing
power, shortages, hoarding, and financial speculation.
It was interesting to me to find, in reading the document which recorded what
was said here, that the men and women of 1774 were inflation fighters before
95
