[65]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
I don't think there is a group of men and women better qualified to carry out
that mission than all of you here today. But I quickly add, I don't minimize the
challenge that you are faced with.
Now, as we move to improve our transit systems, we must not lose sight of
one very important fact: The automobile is and will continue to be our chief
transportation vehicle. The automobile fits America's traditional lifestyle.
No matter how plush the bus, no matter how comfortable the train, Ameri-
cans, to one degree or another, will continue to drive their automobiles. The
car will be with us for a long, long time to come.
But what we must do is to learn how best to live with them in the urban
scene. We have to develop, to achieve the end that you seek, and we must have,
we must develop and come forth with sound planning procedures, transit pro-
grams, and policies that are sufficiently flexible to match the diversity of our
many, many cities.
I think diversity of the community is the key, and it does require some
flexibility in our planning for an adequate, usable, desirable transit system.
Because of this diversity, there is no one best transit solution that will fit all
of our cities. Some are better suited for bus systems, others for subways, fixed
guideway systems, or for a combination of such services.
And in developing these systems, long-term considerations require that trans-
portation and land-use planning be closely coordinated. And this, of course,
can only be done, in my judgment, wisely and well at the local level.
There is a legitimate and major role to be played by the Federal Government
in assisting urban mass transit systems. But I emphasize here that role must be
carried out in complete and total partnership with States and localities. The
heavy hand of the Federal Government must not be the dictator that tells how
Pittsburgh or other communities should utilize their systems or the funding.
Obviously, we will help with urban planning, although under the new better
communities legislation recently approved, local planning and decisionmaking
will be controlling.
The Federal Government will assist with important technological develop-
ment, yet it should be clearly understood that the chief objective of the Depart-
ment of Transportation grant programs is to help cities solve their transportation
problems. It is not a program primarily aimed at the restructuring and rebuilding
of our cities in America.
Federal assistance, as I see it, must be primarily directed at finding cost-
efficient solutions to the problem of moving people. It must only secondarily
110
