September 4
[50]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Without question, the seven-year-old national traffic safety effort has proved
beneficial. As will be seen by figure 1 in the motor vehicle safety report, annual
deaths among passenger car occupants, which were rising throughout the
early 60's, have since leveled off and remained fairly constant in face of a rise
through 1972 in traffic deaths. This is in spite of large increases in mileage
driven, number of vehicles, drivers, average speed, and alcohol consumption—
to name some of the factors which we know contribute to highway accidents.
The overall growth in traffic fatalities is attributable to motorcycle, pedestrian,
and bicycle accidents. There is little doubt that our motor vehicle safety stand-
ards are saving lives and reducing the severity of injuries.
Improvements in the Nation's highways are also making a major contribu-
tion to progress in traffic safety. Since 1967 the death rate per 100 million miles
traveled has declined steadily on our modernized roadways.
Although total traffic fatalities remain shockingly high, the fatality rate has
declined from 5.5 per 100 million vehicle miles to 4.3—a significant decrease of
22 percent since 1967. Had the 1967 fatality rate continued, almost 72,000
Americans would have been killed in highway accidents in 1973, instead of the
estimated total of just over 56,000. This estimated saving of 16,000 lives in a
single year represents an enormous financial saving to society in terms of wages,
medical costs, legal expenses, and property damage, not to mention human suf-
fering. Such savings would not have come about without the combined efforts of
Federal, State, and local officials involved in this national emphasis, as well as
private citizens who have supported the program.
In 1973, the lowering of speed limits and other effects of the energy short-
age situation had a dramatic impact on highway fatality statistics. During the
last two months of the year, as States reduced their speed limits and motorists
voluntarily limited their driving, the number of fatalities declined by as much
as 25 percent below the November/December 1972 totals in some States. As a
result, the Nation as a whole ended the year having lost 2,000 fewer lives than
had been projected.
The saving in lives during the past year provides an added incentive for the
Government and the Nation to persist in the endeavor to make our vehicles, our
highways, and our drivers safer. I am confident that well-managed programs and
well-managed use of our resources will continue to have a positive effect in im-
proved highway safety.
The White House,
September 4, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
83
