[205]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
and pay at the GS-16 level these newly designated Administrative Law Judges
for the “black lung” program, as well as those who currently hear claims under
the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and the members
of the Benefits Review Board established by the Longshore Amendments of 1972.
Such a provision would arbitrarily impose a grade level without due regard for
the relative complexity and difficulty of the work involved. By over-classifying
certain positions, it would be disruptive of the principle of equal pay for equal
work. This would create inequities within the Labor Department, and between
positions of that agency and those in a number of other agencies, including
approximately 400 GS-15 Administrative Law Judges in the Social Security
Administration.
My concern about legislating classifications and pay of special groups of em-
ployees was the basis for my disapproving H.R. 5094, which provided for an
arbitrary and inequitable reclassification of deputy U.S. marshals. In my first
veto upon assuming the Presidency, I expressed my strong concern about grant-
ing preferential pay treatment by statute, and indicated that our policy must be
to provide equal salaries for equal work. The rider to H.R. 13342 contains defi-
ciencies similar to those in H.R. 5094.
In summary, I cannot accept a legislative provision which would disrupt sound
principles of personnel administration, would create serious pay inequities by
providing overly liberal salaries to employees in one agency leading to demands
for similar treatment by large numbers of employees in other agencies, and
would not effectively serve the public interest.
I urge the Congress, upon its return next month, to send me a bill-which I
will promptly approve—without the unacceptable personnel provision I have
described, a bill which is directed only toward strengthening the Farm Labor
Contractor Registration Act.
The White House,
October 29, 1974.
206
GERALD R. FORD
Veto of Vocational Rehabilitation Act Amendments.
October 29, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am today returning, without my approval, H.R. 14225, the Rehabilitation
504
