November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
result is that more and more people are becoming Independents rather than
party affiliates.
I can argue it both ways, but what it really shows-in my judgment, in this
last election—that the Republican Party was in the White House at the time
where we had 10 or 11 percent inflation, where we had some softening of the
economy, and where we had the heritage of Watergate.
Now, those are pretty tough problems to overcome in the political arena.
Those are transitory. We are going to solve the inflation. We are going to
strengthen the economy. And Watergate is ended. This Administration had no
connection with it, so we are going to be strong come 1976.
CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Helen Thomas, United Press International.
Mr. President, do you plan to retire General [George S.] Brown as Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff? And I have a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. I have publicly disavowed the comments made by General
Brown. I had General Brown to the Oval Office this morning at 7:15 before
I took the plane, and I indicated to him very directly my strong feeling concern-
ing the statements that he made and reaffirmed to him directly my disavowal of
those comments that were recorded at Duke University Law School.
I think it ought to be said that General Brown has publicly apologized to
those that might have been involved in the comments that he made. I have no
intention of asking General Brown to resign. General Brown has been an
excellent Air Force officer; he has been an excellent Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff. He made a mistake; he has recognized it. He is going to continue as the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Q. Mr. President, do you think that the Defense Secretary was remiss or some
of your White House aides, perhaps, in not informing you earlier of General
Brown's remarks so that you could have been apprised?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the truth is that I had about 12 to 15 hours advance no-
tice. I could not have remedied the situation any better than we have tried if
I had known a few hours earlier.
I just want to say, very candidly, I disapprove and disavow of what he said.
I not only said that publicly but to General Brown directly. It was a mistake,
At a question-and-answer session with students at Duke University Law School on October 10, 1974,
General Brown was quoted in subsequent news accounts as referring to "Jewish influence" in Congress,
saying: "It is so strong, you wouldn't believe now. We have the Israelis coming to us for equipment. We
say we can't possibly get the Congress to support that. They say, 'Don't worry about the Congress. We will
take care of the Congress.' Now this is somebody from another country, but they can do it. They own, you
know, the banks in this country, the newspapers. Just look at where the Jewish money is."
603
