[85]
September 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe that this Protocol strengthens the ABM Treaty and will, as an
integral part of the Treaty, contribute to the reduction of international tension
and a more secure and peaceful world in which the security of the United
States is fully protected. I strongly recommend that the Senate give it prompt
and favorable attention.
The White House,
September 19, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the protocol and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive I (93d Cong.,
2d sess.).
86
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
United States Participation in the United Nations.
September 19, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress the 28th annual report on United States
participation in the work of the United Nations.
This report, covering Calendar Year 1973, encompasses the wide range of
activities carried on by the United Nations and its subsidiary organizations. It
demonstrates the growing conviction of United Nations members that many
problems of international concern are best resolved through multilateral action,
utilizing the machinery of mature international institutions.
In the fall of 1973 the United Nations demonstrated once again its ability
to foster peace by the crucial role it played in the Middle East. Following the
outbreak of war, the Security Council arranged a ceasefire and deployed United
Nations troops to supervise disengagement agreements between Israel and
Egypt and, later, between Israel and Syria. We cannot know what might have
happened in the absence of such United Nations action. However, it is clear
that the efforts of the United Nations, combined with bilateral diplomacy, are
still crucial to promoting a just and lasting settlement of the Middle East dispute.
One area of increasing concern is the production and distribution of adequate
supplies of food. Our concern with feeding the world can no longer be limited
to relief activities in aid of victims of natural disasters. Population growth and
better living standards have increased the total demand for food which in turn
has increased the demand for energy sources and fertilizer. The pressure of
166
