November 20
[250]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
pects of their lives. They will seek therefore to expand further cultural and
educational interchange which fosters and serves to increase such understanding.
10. In the spirit of friendship and mutual trust, the United States and Japan
are determined to keep each other fully informed and to strengthen the prac-
tice of frank and timely consultations on potential bilateral issues and pressing
global problems of common concern.
11. Friendly and cooperative relations between the United States and Japan
have grown and deepened over the years in many diverse fields of human
endeavor. Both countries reaffirm that, in their totality, these varied relationships
constitute major foundation stones on which the two countries base their respec-
tive foreign policies and form an indispensable element supporting stable
international political and economic relations.
III
The first visit to Japan by an incumbent President of the United States of
America will add a new page to the history of amity between the two countries.
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was released at Tokyo, Japan.
250
Toast at a Dinner Honoring the Emperor and Empress
of Japan. November 20, 1974
Your Majesties:
I am honored to have the privilege of welcoming Your Imperial Majesties to
this dinner this evening. It permits me to, in a small way, in a symbolic gesture,
to reciprocate the wonderful hospitality so graciously extended to me this week.
It has been a period of enlightenment for me, and I will take home an inspiring
impression of the possibilities available for an even greater friendship, greater
cooperation, and interdependence of our two nations.
America is now approaching its national Bicentennial. Tonight, I would like
to recall another meaningful event that took place 114 years ago, on May 14,
1860. That was the day when the first diplomatic mission ever sent by Japan to
another nation arrived in Washington, D.C., our National Capital.
I am very pleased, Your Majesties, to present on this evening to all of our dis-
tinguished guests a token of the durability of American-Japanese friendship.
It is a medal bearing the likeness of President Buchanan, who had the honor of
647
