[104]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
State, which policy of détente expresses the will of
the peoples of the world that thirst for peace and
justice.
Now, if these four points are confirmed-and
they have already been confirmed, indeed, by our
talks this morning with you, Mr. President, and this
afternoon with your Secretary of State, and I am
sure they will be reconfirmed again in the meeting
you were kind enough to arrange with me tomor-
row-if they are reconfirmed, Mr. President, then I
can only say that I thank God for allowing me to
represent Italy in this great country.
And, Mr. President, you were good enough to
extend your greetings to my whole family, and this
is somewhat unusual, because in Italy we tend to hide
our families away. And I have broken away from this
tradition; I have brought my wife and children with
me to present to you a typical Italian family, one
that is a sound family, that is respectful of moral
values, and that is united.
Mr. President, may I take this opportunity to say
how satisfied I am with the talks that we have had,
and how very glad I am that you have accepted my
invitation to come and visit us in Italy. This has
already made a favorable impression outside.
And I hope that the burden that is now weighing
on your shoulders-but you have very square
shoulders, indeed; I know that you are an athlete; I
am not referring only to your physical strength-I
hope that burden will yet give you some time to come
to Italy where I can assure you of a very warm and
affectionate welcome from the people of my coun-
try. And I hope that Mrs. Ford will be able to come
with you.
And so I say to you, God bless you. And I invoke
the blessings of God upon you as I do upon my
own family.
And so I want to say now, thank you to the
United States of America, and thank you very much
for the music that you provided tonight. It was a
touch of sentiment that I very much appreciated. I
appreciated the Neapolitan song that was played.
I told you, Mr. President, in our private talk that
Naples is my hometown. It is very beautiful, gen-
erous, and poor. And many parts of Italy are poor,
and that causes us some concern.
I am mentioning this not with cup in hand at all,
but merely as a matter of interest.
And so now, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,
I give you the toast: the health and prosperity of
President Ford and his family, and the success and
well-being of the people of America, and the con-
solidated friendship of the peoples of Italy and the
United States of America.
105
Joint Statement Following Discussions With President Leone
of Italy. September 26, 1974
PRESIDENT Giovanni Leone of Italy made a State visit to the United States
of America September 25-29, 1974, at the invitation of President Gerald R. Ford
of the United States of America. Accompanying the President were Mrs. Leone,
Minister of Foreign Affairs Aldo Moro, and other Italian officials.
During the visit, President Leone and President Ford held extensive and
cordial discussions on a wide variety of international questions in which
Minister of Foreign Affairs Aldo Moro and Secretary of State and Assistant to
the President for National Security Affairs Henry A. Kissinger also participated.
Minister Moro and Secretary Kissinger also held detailed talks on current
issues of mutual interest.
President Ford and President Leone expressed their mutual satisfaction with
the results of the talks. It was agreed that frequent consultations in the spirit of
the Atlantic Declaration signed in Brussels on June 26 were a most desirable
means of achieving better understanding of problems of common interest and
198
