[67]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
will make a concerted effort to cut the budget and reduce our expenditures to
show our willingness to sacrifice. But we shall wield our budgetary knife ever
so carefully so as not to sacrifice the meat while trimming the fat.
Within our general budgetary restraint, we shall be mindful of the need to in-
crease what we allocate to the essential, while we decrease what we apportion to
programs which are to some extent discretionary.
We also must exercise care to prevent our recently overheated economy from
cooling off too rapidly. We must, at all costs, avoid a damaging recession.
We are now making a cooperative effort, in response to the initiative of the
distinguished majority leader of the United States Senate and other Members
of the Congress, on a bipartisan basis. The legislative and executive branches are
working together, and this is evidenced by the people who are here from both
political parties to seek short-term answers to short-term problems and long-term
answers to long-term problems.
In May 1973, the Administration requested enactment of the job security
assistance act. This proposal is an important part of our policy to assist in a
period of rising unemployment. It would modernize the unemployment com-
pensation system without violating the relationship between the States and the
Federal Government.
I recognize the concern of many that unemployment might rise because of the
policies we must follow to fight inflation. I am watching the unemployment rate
very, very closely. This Administration, as I said the other day, will act with com-
passion. We will not permit the burden of necessary economic restraint to fall
on those members of society least able to bear the cost.
The unemployment rate in August, announced last Friday, was 5.4 percent.
But we certainly cannot be complacent about any American lacking work. The
present situation calls for full use of currently available tools and dollars. As a
consequence, I have instructed the Department of Labor to accelerate the obli-
gation of currently available funds under the Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act [CETA].
The Secretary of Labor will immediately disburse $65 million to those com-
munities in which unemployment is at the highest level. By the end of the
month, he will make available another $350 million under the CETA title II
program. This $415 million will finance some 85,000 public sector jobs in State
and local governments.
Added to the almost $550 million obligated for public service employment in
June from the FY 1974 appropriation, and about $50 million in prime sponsor-
116
