November 24
[258]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
mental joint decisions and basic treaties and agreements concluded between the
two States in recent years.
They are convinced that the course of American-Soviet relations, directed to-
wards strengthening world peace, deepening the relaxation of international ten-
sions and expanding mutually beneficial cooperation of states with different
social systems meets the vital interests of the people of both States and other
peoples.
Both Sides consider that based on the agreements reached between them im-
portant results have been achieved in fundamentally reshaping American-Soviet
relations on the basis of peaceful coexistence and equal security. These results
are a solid foundation for progress in reshaping Soviet-American relations.
Accordingly, they intend to continue, without a loss in momentum, to ex-
pand the scale and intensity of their cooperative efforts in all spheres as set forth
in the agreements they have signed so that the process of improving relations be-
tween the US and USSR will continue without interruption and will become ir-
reversible.
Mutual determination was expressed to carry out strictly and fully the mutual
obligations undertaken by the US and the USSR in accordance with the treaties
and agreements concluded between them.
II
Special consideration was given in the course of the talks to a pivotal aspect of
Soviet-American relations: measures to eliminate the threat of war and to halt
the arms race.
Both Sides reaffirm that the Agreements reached between the US and the
USSR on the prevention of nuclear war and the limitation of strategic arms are
a good beginning in the process of creating guarantees against the outbreak of
nuclear conflict and war in general. They expressed their deep belief in the
necessity of promoting this process and expressed their hope that other states
would contribute to it as well. For their part the US and the USSR will con-
tinue to exert vigorous efforts to achieve this historic task.
A joint statement on the question of limiting strategic offensive arms is being
released separately.
Both Sides stressed once again the importance and necessity of a serious effort
aimed at preventing the dangers connected with the spread of nuclear weapons
in the world. In this connection they stressed the importance of increasing the
effectiveness of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
659
