December 30
[326]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
reclamation and environmental protection and our need to increase coal pro-
duction in the United States.
Unfortunately, S. 425, as enrolled, would have an adverse impact on our domes-
tic coal production which is unacceptable. By 1977, the first year after the Act
would take full effect, the Federal Energy Administration has estimated that
coal production losses would range from a minimum of 48 million tons to a
maximum of 141 million tons. In addition, further losses which cannot be quanti-
fied could result from ambiguities in the bill, forcing protracted regulatory dis-
putes and litigation. In my judgment, the most significant reasons why such coal
losses cannot be accepted are as follows:
1. Coal is the one abundant energy source over which the United States has
total control. We should not unduly impair our ability to use it properly.
2. We are engaged in a major review of national energy policies. Unnecessary
restrictions on coal production would limit our Nation's freedom to adopt
the best energy options.
3. The United States uses the equivalent of 4 barrels of expensive foreign oil
for every ton of unproduced domestic coal—a situation which cannot long
be tolerated without continued, serious economic consequences. This bill
would exacerbate this problem.
4. Unemployment would increase in both the coal fields and in those indus-
tries unable to obtain alternative fuel.
In addition, S. 425 provides for excessive Federal expenditures and would
clearly have an inflationary impact on the economy. Moreover, it contains nu-
merous other deficiencies which have recently been addressed in Executive
Branch communications to the Congress concerning this legislation.
In sum, I find that the adverse impact of this bill on our domestic coal produc-
tion is unacceptable at a time when the Nation can ill afford significant losses
from this critical energy resource. It would also further complicate our battle
against inflation. Accordingly, I am withholding my approval from S. 425.
In doing so, I am truly disappointed and sympathetic with those in Congress
who have labored so hard to come up with a good bill. We must continue to
strive diligently to ensure that laws and regulations are in effect which establish
environmental protection and reclamation requirements appropriately balanced
against the Nation's need for increased coal production. This will continue to
be
my Administration's goal in the new year.
The White House,
December 30, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
781
