[271]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
[6.] Q. Wouldn't your stated accomplishments in Russia have carried more
long-range credibility if they had been put initially and then described later on
in less sanguine and more modest terms?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if I understand the question, when I came back a week
ago yesterday, we did not have in writing what is called an aide mémoire, which
was the specific agreement in writing that General Secretary Brezhnev and I
had agreed to verbally. That has now been received.
Until that had been received and we had checked it out, we felt it was wise to
speak in generalities. I am giving to you and to the American people tonight the
specific figures. They are, I think, constructive. It is a good agreement. It is an
agreement—if I might repeat—that puts a cap on the arms race, it makes some
reductions, and it gives us an opportunity to negotiate.
So, I don't think a week's delay in the specifics has handicapped our presenta-
tion.
[7.] Q. More specifically, what percentage of the state of progress in Rus-
sia was yours and how much was Mr. Nixon's?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't really think I ought to get into an evaluation of
that. The United States has been working on a strategic arms limitation agree-
ment for 3 or 4 years. I think we made headway in SALT I. I think we have made
a real breakthrough in SALT Two.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to get back to the cost of missiles for one mo-
ment, if we may. I understand we are now spending about $15 billion a year in
strategic arms, and there is an enormous amount of missile building to be done
under this agreement over the next 10 years, both in MIRV's and in throw
weight. Will our costs continue at about the level they are now for the next 10
years or will it be more?
THE PRESIDENT. My best judgment is that our strategic arms costs will hold
relatively the same. It will not be substantially expanded other than for any
increase resulting from inflation.
[8.] Q. Mr. President, under the agreement, the United States tactical nu-
clear weapons at the forward bases in Europe were not included. Do you expect
that they will be reduced or eliminated under some future mutual balanced force
reduction agreement with the Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the very significant benefits of the agreement from
Vladivostok was the fact we didn't have to include in the 2,400 or the 1,320—
either the delivery systems or the MIRV's—as far as the forward base systems
were concerned.
682
