December 3
[273]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
In most Americans, he once said, there is a spark of idealism which can be
fanned into a flame. Scouting is one of these things that keeps that spark of
idealism alive, that plants it in the hearts of young Americans while preparing
them for manhood and for citizenship.
That is why, as an old Scout who still tries to live by the Scout laws and the
Scout oath, with no apologies, I am proud and honored to accept this award
tonight.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 p.m. in the
Sheraton Hall at the Sheraton-Park Hotel on re-
ceiving the Scouter of the Year award, a gold coin
honoring him as the first Eagle Scout to become
President of the United States.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to William G. Whyte, president, and Rudy Flythe,
Scout executive, National Capital Area Council, Boy
Scouts of America; Mark "Evans" Austad, master of
ceremonies, and W. Reid Thompson, chairman of
the dinner.
273
Letter Accepting the Resignation of William E. Timmons
as Assistant to the President. December 3, 1974
Dear Bill:
It is with the deepest regret, but also with immense gratitude for your many
years of dedicated service to our Nation, that I accept your resignation as
Assistant to the President, effective December 31, 1974, as you requested. In so
doing, I want you to know that I fully understand the personal concerns which
prompted your decision.
For more than twenty-two years, you have made outstanding contributions to
the public service through your skillful, energetic leadership, sound judgment
and a confident sense of our national well-being. Your years as Assistant to the
President for Legislative Affairs have been ones of great challenge but also high
achievement as decisions have been made and legislative programs molded
which will assure a peaceful, prosperous future for all our fellow citizens. You
will be missed here at the White House, and I know I can speak for my former
colleagues in Congress in saying they too will miss you as the President's liaison
with Capitol Hill.
I particularly want to take this opportunity to express my personal apprecia-
tion for the unhesitating, loyal and highly capable assistance you have given my
Administration since I assumed the Presidency last summer. Your certain sup-
port and wise counsel were, throughout those early, critically important days, a
693
