November 2
[218]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
have here in Utah. I have seen a lot, and they are among the very best. And I look
forward to working with them next year in Washington, D.C.
I have seen a lot of mayors. I worked with a great many Senators. And it is my
honest judgment and recommendation that the country, the State, all of you
as well as myself, need Jake Garn in the United States Senate.
I never got that kind of an accolade when I was running for the House of
Representatives in my own district. So, Jake, you are doing very well, and for
good and sufficient reasons.
But I am a product, as all of you know, of the House of Representatives, and I
am proud of the 25-plus years that I served with 435 other Members on both
sides of the aisle. So, I know a little bit about the kind of Members of the House
that will do a good job, and I can recommend to you Steve Harmsen for his
youth, his vigor, his organized approach to the problems that he will face on
your behalf.
I strongly recommend Steve to be returned and sent to Washington on your
behalf.
And although my contact with Ron has not been as extensive, I am impressed
with a fine, strong, able young man. Good luck to you, Ron.
There is one particular area where Jake Garn and I wholeheartedly agree—
and this really ought not to be a partisan issue, because there are as many`
Democratic mayors in this country as there are Republican mayors who have
the same thoughts, the same beliefs-that decentralization of the Federal Gov-
ernment would make our system work far, far better. And therefore, in my
opinion, there is no more urgent need or item, if I might say, of long-range,
national business before us to day. We must cut the power. We must trim the
size of the bureaucracy in Washington. It would be good for the country.
I should add that I have ordered a cut of 40,000 in the bureaucracy, in the
Federal bureaucracy, and we are going to achieve that end. It will save us about
$300 million in 1 year, but it will make the system work better just as well.
There is only one real way that we are going to solve some of these difficult
problems that we face as fellow citizens in this country. We must communicate
more effectively with one another. And frankly, that is why I am here in Utah.
I can learn much more about the needs and the desires of the citizens of Utah
in 1 hour's worth of conversation with men like Jake Garn, your great senior
Senator, Wallace Bennett, than I could learn in 8 months back in the Oval
Office talking to Potomac bureaucrats about the problems of Utah.
Frankly, that is precisely the problem with an overgrown, all-political
bureaucracy. There is no two-way communication. Each State and locality in this
557
