October 12
[140]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
would not fall when they decreasc. This "heads I win; tails you lose" arrange-
ment, with the taxpayer being the loser, has been suggested before, but never
adopted. It should not be a part of the solution to the Railroad Retirement
System's financial problem.
Furthermore, the provisions of the benefit formula are so complex that they
would be extremely difficult to administer and virtually impossible to explain to
the persons who are supposed to benefit from it. Now is the time to simplify the
benefit structure of the Railroad Retirement System, not make it more complex.
Splitting administrative responsibility between the Railroad Retirement System
and the Social Security System over benefits that depend on entitlement under
the Social Security Act is bad law. Full responsibility for administering Social
Security benefits should be vested in the Social Security Administration, not
divided among agencies with resultant uncertainty as to who should be held
accountable.
I believe it is our obligation to the general taxpayer to see that the problems
of this system are overcome by the industry and people it serves-those who have
benefited from it in the past and will continue to receive its benefits in the
future. Other industries--other parts of the transportation industry-pay for
their own pension systems. There is no justification for singling out the railroads
for special treatment.
There are only two ways this obligation can be met—by increasing revenues or
by limiting benefits or by a combination of both. Administration spokesmen
have proposed constructive ways to achieve this goal, but our proposals have not
received serious consideration by the Congress.
We are in need of a better railroad retirement system and a financially sound
one. This bill does not meet that need. I urge the Congress to reconsider that
need and to develop a new bill which is fair to the taxpayers as well as to the
beneficiaries of the Railroad Retirement System. This Administration stands
ready to help in any way it can.
The White House,
October 12, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: H.R. 15301 was enacted over the President's veto on October 16, 1974, as Public Law 93-445
(88 Stat. 1305).
293
