[319]
December 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
to hold Federal spending to essential purposes. The bill authorizes appropria-
tions of more than $1 billion over my recommendations and I cannot, in good
conscience, approve it. These appropriation authorizations are almost double
the funding levels I have recommended for Fiscal Year 1975 and almost triple
the levels I believe would be appropriate for 1976.
As part of my effort to see that the burden upon our taxpayers does not in-
crease, I requested the Congress last month to exercise restraint in expanding
existing Federal responsibilities, and to resist adding new Federal programs to our
already overloaded and limited Federal resources. These recommendations re-
flect my concern with both the need to hold down the Federal budget and the
need to limit the Federal role to those activities which can make the most neces-
sary and significant contributions.
In H.R. 14214, the Congress not only excessively increased authorizations for
existing programs but also created several new ones that would result in an
unjustified expenditure of Federal taxpayers' funds. Although the purposes of
many of the programs authorized in this bill are certainly worthy, I just cannot
approve this legislation because of its effect upon the economy through increased
unwarranted Federal spending.
Finally, it should be pointed out that the Federal Government will spend
almost $20 billion in 1975 through Medicare and Medicaid for the financing of
health services for priority recipients-aged and low-income persons. These
services are provided on the basis of national eligibility standards in Medicare
and State eligibility standards in Medicaid and therefore are available to individ-
uals in a more equitable and less restrictive manner than many of the programs
authorized in H.R. 14214.
The White House,
December 21, 1974.
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was released December 23, 1974, at Vail, Colo.
GERALD R. FORD
320
Memorandum of Disapproval of Tennessee Valley
Authority Legislation. December 23, 1974
I HAVE withheld my approval from H.R. 11929, "To amend section 15d of the
Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933 to provide that expenditures for pollu-
774
