September 18
[84]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
countries, the International Red Cross, other humanitarian organizations, or
by local authorities. The important thing is that we get on with this job now.
The families of our men have waited too long already, and I am sure that
families of those of other nationalities who remain unaccounted for have a
similar desire to know the fate of their loved ones. There should be no political
or military controversy about this humanitarian problem, and I call for renewed
efforts to resolve it.
NOTE: Emmet James Kay, a civilian pilot on con-
tract with the Agency for International Develop-
ment, was released by the Pathet Lao on Septem-
ber 18, after 16 months of captivity.
84
Remarks at a Meeting of the Washington Press Club.
September 18, 1974
Thank you very much, Wauhillau, Miriam, Ron, Betty, all of you:
Obviously, it is a great privilege and a great pleasure for me to be here tonight.
When I received the printed invitation for this affair this evening, one phrase in
particular caught my attention. It said, "Come honeymoon with us.”
You people sure know how to hurt a fellow. [Laughter]
As you might imagine, I don't agree with those who have called me the Evel
Knievel ¹ of politics, but I do think beyond a doubt, beyond a shadow of a doubt,
you don't need to have a pool at the White House to get in deep water.
[Laughter]
Really, I didn't realize how much the honeymoon was over until this morning
when the Metro [subway system] started to build a new station in the Oval Office.
[Laughter]
When I first said yes to being here tonight, I was then Vice President and had
a lot more time on my hands. You know, people say a lot of nice things about
Vice Presidents. But it is almost like being the best man at a wedding—you never
get a chance to prove it. [Laughter]
As all of you know, on August 9 I became President, and I wasn't sure that my
schedule would allow me enough time to be here with all of you tonight. But
then 3 weeks ago, Maggie Hunter—she cornered me at Ron Nessen's Sunday pool
party, and who can say no to Maggie Hunter in a bathing suit? [Laughter]
And frankly, I am very glad she did ask me, because it is a real pleasure to be
here and see so many familiar faces in the audience.
¹ A motorcycle stuntrider.
163
