[135]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
part of the spectrum. His problemsolving has covered the waterfront, so to
speak, with the environment, education, taxation, transportation.
What he has done in the field of education is really landmark. And all of us
who feel that we must upgrade education for the future generations and for the
benefit of our country, this should be a particular selling point for all of you as
you go the length and the breadth of our great State.
Bill and I have discussed on a number of occasions since August 9, the prob-
lems of inflation and employment. Frankly, I took Bill's personal recommenda-
tions when I had to make some of those decisions in the last week concerning
our program to win the battle against inflation, and one of them that can be very
helpful here in our State is the question of public service employment. I thank
Bill for his specific understanding and recommendations in this regard.
And about a month ago, in accord with what Bill had proposed, I made avail-
able on a national basis a substantial amount of money, but for Michigan alone it
was approximately $35 million, which will be highly beneficial and very effective
for some 300,000 unemployed in our State. And Bill, I thank you for the advice
and good counsel on this program.
Let me say to the people of the city of Detroit, I had their problems in mind
when I made some decisions in the last few days concerning the economy and
energy. I think we all recognize that inflation strikes citizens most unevenly.
There are those for one reason or another, because they are awfully young or
they are rather old, who suffer in a discriminatory way inflation's evils.
Some of them do not have jobs or some of them are living on fixed incomes
which are, unfortunately, too low under our current circumstances. But let me
say that in our total package of programs-some 31 specific recommendations
that I made last Tuesday-we had some ideas in there which we will implement
with the help of the Congress and the American people.
To help the young and to protect the old, we have a Community Improvement
Corps program which will give to the young people, particularly, but as well to
the old, an opportunity to work with their hands and their minds to improve
our environment, our communities.
It is aimed at the short-range problem that we have of getting us over the
hump of a threatened recession and too-high inflation. In this area, Bill Milliken
was particularly beneficial because he knows that there are places in our State—
that with the helping hand of the Federal Government, we can do things to
improve the environment, to better our communities. And of course, in speak-
ing of Bill, I am delighted to recommend to you someone that I have gotten to
278
