October 9
[125]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
125
Statement on Privacy Legislation. October 9, 1974
LEGISLATION to protect personal privacy is making significant progress in
the Congress. I am delighted about the prospect of House and Senate action at
this session.
Renewed national efforts to strengthen protections for personal privacy should
begin in Washington. We should start by enacting uniform fair information
practices for the agencies of the Federal Government. This will give us invalu-
able operating experience as we continue to examine and recommend needed ac-
tions at the State and local level and in the private sector.
The immediate objective should be to give every citizen the right to inspect,
challenge, and correct, if necessary, information about him contained in Federal
agency records and to assure him a remedy for illegal invasions of privacy by
Federal agencies accountable for safeguarding his records. In legislating, the
right of privacy, of course, must be balanced against equally valid public interests
in freedom of information, national defense, foreign policy, law enforcement,
and in a high quality and trustworthy Federal work force.
Immediately after I assumed the Chairmanship, as Vice President, of the Cab-
inet-level Domestic Council Committee on the Right of Privacy, I asked the
Office of Management and Budget to work jointly with the Committee staff, the
executive agencies, and the Congress to work out realistic and effective legisla-
tion at the earliest possible time. Substantial progress has been made by both
the Senate and the House on bills extending personal privacy protections to tens
of millions of records containing personal information in hundreds of Federal
data banks.
H.R. 16373, the Privacy Act of 1974, has my enthusiastic support, except for
the provisions which allow unlimited individual access to records vital to deter-
mining eligibility and promotion in the Federal service and access to classified
information. I strongly urge floor amendments permitting workable exemptions
to accommodate these situations.
The Senate also has made substantial progress in writing privacy legislation.
S. 3418 parallels the House bill in many respects, but I believe major technical
and substantive amendments are needed to perfect the bill. I do not favor estab-
lishing a separate commission or board bureaucracy empowered to define pri-
vacy in its own terms and to second-guess citizens and agencies. I vastly prefer
an approach which makes Federal agencies fully and publicly accountable for
243
