November 14
[235]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
finally broke his silence and asked Michelangelo, "But how did you know he
was there?"
Vision, imagination-these are the qualities that make a people great. Ameri-
cans have these qualities, they always have. And we as a nation will respond to
the challenges that we face.
Inflation will be cooled. Despite some economic weakness—recession, business
fallback, call it what you will-there will be an upturn in the Nation's eco-
nomic patterns. In fact, here in Las Vegas, where it is legal, I will even bet on it.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:57 a.m. at the Las
Vegas Hilton Hotel. In his opening remarks, the
President referred to Joseph B. Doherty, president,
and Arthur S. Leitch, first vice president and presi-
dent-elect, National Association of Realtors.
235
Remarks on Accepting the F-15 Aircraft for the United States
Air Force at Luke Air Force Base, Arizona. November 14, 1974
Governor Williams, Senator Fannin, Congressman John Rhodes, General Jones,
General Dixon, General Haeffner, Mr. McDonnell, Mr. Graff, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
This is the month of the pioneer in America. It is the month of the Mayflower
and of our earliest settlers. And this is the day of a new pioneer, a pioneer of the
skies, a pioneer of peace: the F-15 fighter.
According to history, there were 102 passengers on the Mayflower when it
crossed the Atlantic. The crossing from England to the new world took more
than 2 months, and the end of the journey was freedom. The F-15 can fly
across the same Atlantic in a matter of hours. The end of its journey is still the
one of the Mayflower more than 350 years ago-freedom.
That is what really matters, the purpose of a journey, and I am here today to
underscore to you and to the world that this great aircraft was constructed by the
American people in the pursuit of peace. Our only aim with all of this aircraft's
new maneuverability, speed, and power is the defense of freedom.
I would rather walk a thousand miles for peace than to have to take a single
step for war.
I am here to congratulate you: the United States Air Force, McDonnell
Douglas, Pratt and Whitney, all of the many contractors and workers who
participated in this very, very successful effort, as well as the pilots who have so
595
