December 27
[323]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
322
Telegram to Mrs. Jack Benny About the Death of
Her Husband. December 27, 1974
MY FAMILY and I were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of your de-
voted husband. For the past half century, Jack Benny brought joy and laughter
not only to us but to millions of other Americans.
Jack's service to his country, his charitable works, and his genuine enjoyment
of the humor of others are accolades that he wore with modesty, grace and charm.
If laughter is the music of the soul, Jack and his violin and his good humor have
made life better for all men.
We will remember you in our family prayers.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: Jack Benny, 80, died on December 26 in Beverly Hills, Calif. The text of the telegram was released
at Vail, Colo.
323
Statement on Signing Legislation Establishing a Commission
on Federal Paperwork. December 27, 1974
I AM pleased to have signed H.R. 16424, a bill creating a temporary Commission
on Federal Paperwork to study paperwork generated by various Government
reporting requirements. To the public, the burden of filling out Government
applications, reports, and other forms of various kinds is not pleasant, fre-
quently annoying, sometimes overwhelming, and often costly and time-consum-
ing. To the Government, adequate information is vital if it is to have responsible
policymaking and effective operation of agency activities.
For over 30 years, we have had a public policy of holding Government report-
ing and recordkeeping requirements to a minimum. These efforts have achieved
substantial results, but have not stemmed the increasing tide of Government
reporting requirements.
Two main features set the new Commission on Federal Paperwork apart from
earlier attacks on the paperwork problem.
It has a broader scope. It will look at laws, regulations, rules, policies, proce-
dures, and practices relating to the gathering, processing, and dissemination of
information as well as at the management and control of these activities.
777
