[150]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Last Saturday, 22 members of the Citizens' Action Committee to Fight
Inflation met with me at the White House. It was a beautiful fall afternoon, and
I am sure many would have preferred on that committee to watch their favorite
football game or play some golf or be with their family.
But I am deeply grateful that this fine committee took the time and made the
effort to join with me on a Saturday to work on our national enemy number one.
Let me stress this point, if I could: This is a volunteer working committee, a
completely nonpartisan group dealing with a nonpartisan problem. It will seek
to mobilize America against inflation and for energy conservation.
I told the committee that if there was a scintilla of partisanship or if the group
seemed to be merely a front for the White House, its efforts would be doomed
to failure.
Columnist Sylvia Porter, who has agreed to serve as national chairperson of
this committee, responded that if I tried to manipulate the committee or seek to
influence its actions, she and the other members would not participate. We
understand each other.
And I say with all the conviction that I have that I was greatly impressed with
the membership of this committee and the cross section of America which it
represents.
Let me illustrate, if I might. In addition to Sylvia Porter, the committee elected
four co-chairmen. They are: Carol T. Foreman, executive director of the Con-
sumer Federation of America; William J. Meyer, president of a small business
company in Lansdale, Pennsylvania; Leo Perlis, director of community service
of the AFL-CIO; and Frank Stanton, president of the National Red Cross.
A task force headed by Ralph Nader, one of the committee's members, came
up with suggestions which coincide to a large extent with the views emanating
from the Conference on Inflation which the Future Farmers of America and
many other groups attended, and your fine president, Mark Mayfield, was one
of the participants and made a substantial contribution on behalf of all of you.
I had touched upon some of the proposals in my message to Congress a week
ago-grow more, waste less, drive less, and heat less. But the committee, last
Saturday, added a few suggestions of their own. And I promised to pass the
committee's recommendations along to all of you here tonight.
I will add some of the comments I have received, for example, in the mail at
the White House from thousands upon thousands of individuals who responded
enthusiastically to my request at the summit Conference on Inflation.
Committee recommendation number one: Bring budgeting back in style.
306
