October 24
[187]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
regulation of cigarettes. It should be pointed out that there is considerable dis-
pute as to whether there exists adequate scientific evidence on which to base
safe levels of tar and nicotine under responsible regulatory action. In response to
the Board's concern, I have asked the National Cancer Advisory Board to pro-
vide me with an assessment of the scientific evidence that would provide a basis
for responsible Federal regulation of cigarettes.
While I think it is important for the Congress to have the benefit of the Board's
views, those views must necessarily be considered along with other diverse and
responsible points of view.
The White House,
October 23, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 11-page report is entitled "National Cancer Program, 1974, Report of the National Cancer Ad-
visory Board."
187
Remarks at the Iowa State House, Des Moines, Iowa.
October 24, 1974
Governor Bob Ray, Lieutenant Governor Neu, my former colleagues in the
House, Bill Scherle, Wiley Mayne, and I guess H. R. Gross is here someplace:
Let me say it has been a wonderful visit to Des Moines already—the crowds
on the highway, the tremendous group here, the enthusiasm, the warm welcome.
I can only say, from a Michigander to a Hawkeye, thank you very, very much.
On some occasions, Governor Ray, I have thought that having Iowa still a
part of Michigan would be extremely helpful to us in Michigan, but I would be
in a real tough spot now if Michigan and Iowa were somehow joined. We have
got a great, good Governor in Bill Milliken, and you have a great, good Governor
in Bob Ray. It would be real tough to decide.
I know one contribution that was made by Michigan to Iowa a few years
ago. As you know, I played football at the University of Michigan a long time
ago, back when the ball was round. But in later years, one of our great Michigan
stars came to the University of Iowa-Forrest Evashevski-who did a great job
out here. And I have often wondered why we didn't keep him at Michigan,
because he was such a great competitor, a great football coach, and a great
contribution to our State.
449
