[184]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, some elements of the Democratic Party are not satisfied with the domi-
nation and the control they have had 38 out of 42 years, the last 20 years, con-
secutively. They want complete and total domination. They want―—and they
have said so openly—they want to elect what they call a veto-proof Congress,
one where the numbers are so overwhelming that they can override
dential veto.
any Presi-
It is my honest judgment that that kind of numerical control would be tan-
tamount to a legislative dictatorship, and I don't think a legislative dictatorship
coincides with our great history, our great traditions, our Constitution.
If that happens, ladies and gentlemen, let me put it this way: Buckle your
seatbelts. It is going to make the inflation rate look like it is tied to a Moon shot,
because Federal spending will go out of sight. It will be far beyond anything
that has happened in the past.
Those of us like Chuck Mosher and Bill Stanton and Bob Taft, who have
served in the House as well as in the Senate, know that the inevitable tendency,
the almost irreversible direction of a Congress dominated by the free spenders
on the Democratic side, will mean more and more and more spending. And that
is not the way to control inflation.
I think it is interesting to note that a recent Gallup poll indicates that a major-
ity of the American people blame big government, big government spending,
for the rampant inflation, the double-digit inflation we have had in recent
months. And I happen to agree that big government, big government spending is
a basic cause of the inflation spiral that is plaguing us at this moment.
Inflation, as I see it, is public enemy number one. But one point of view that I
think is often overlooked, every penny, every dollar that is spent by the Federal
Government, is appropriated by the Congress.
A President can't spend a nickel that Congress has not appropriated, and so,
as we look at the control of the Congress for the last 42 years-38 out of the last
42 controlled by the opposition-if we have spent too much, the blame has to
inevitably rest with those who had the control.
Now if that is true, and I think it is, I would like to challenge the American
people tonight to follow through with their belief that Government spending is
a basic cause of inflation. And I would like to urge those who feel that way to
make their votes consistent with their views-to elect a Congress, men and
women, who are committed to curbing Federal spending and thereby checking
inflation.
To quote Edmund Burke once again, and I quote as follows: The only thing
necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.
442
