[71]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
But there is still one more lesson to be learned from golf. And I have never
seen a tournament, regardless of how much money, or how much fame, or
prestige, or emotion was ever involved, that didn't end with the victor extending
his hand to the vanquished.
I have enjoyed sitting there watching on television the pat on the back, the
arm around the shoulder, the praise for what was done right, and the sympathetic
nod for what wasn't. These are as much a part of golf as life itself, and I would
hope that understanding and reconciliation are not limited to the 19th hole.
Before I leave—and let me express to Don and Bill my great enjoyment to
be with all of you-I would like to thank them and you for asking me. It was a
delightful day, after a few kind of tough ones.
This afternoon for a few hours, quite unsuccessfully, I tried to make a hole
in one. Tomorrow morning I will be back in Washington trying to get out of one.
[Laughter]
And thank all of you for making this a most welcome “mini” vacation.
Thank you, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 p.m. at the World Golf Hall of Fame in Pinehurst, N.C.
72
Message to the Congress on Legislative Priorities.
September 12, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
In my first address before a Joint Session of Congress, I spoke of "communica-
tion, conciliation, compromise and cooperation." The Congress responded. We
have communicated, conciliated, compromised, and cooperated.
I thank the bipartisan leaders and all Members for this working partnership.
So far, despite some spats, we have had a good marriage.
Landmark bills in the fields of Education, Housing-Community Develop-
ment, and Pension Reform were passed. For these examples of cooperation of
real benefit to so many Americans, I am grateful.
I had serious objections to the SBA loan legislation, Public Works Appro-
priations, and D.C. Medical School bill. Recognizing congressional interest in
particular elements of each measure, I signed them.
No effort was made to override measures that I had to veto. Congress re-
sponded promptly to my request for a Council on Wage and Price Stability.
Of the specific proposals I am singling out today, some are in the conference
124
