[107]
September 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
tantly, future generations who never knew him in life, this grove will be a grove,
a place of pleasure, rest, as well as comfort-a place where they can pay an
appropriate silent tribute, a silent respect, to the memory of a President who
served his country and his countrymen very well.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:24 p.m. at the LBJ
Memorial Grove, located on the west bank of the
Potomac River on a site in Lady Bird Johnson Park.
In his remarks, the President referred to Gov. Dolph
Briscoe of Texas.
108
Statement on Signing Legislation Extending the Public Works
and Economic Development Act. September 27, 1974
IT IS with great pleasure that I sign today H.R. 14883, the 2-year extension of
the Public Works and Economic Development Act.
From the time the Administration's proposed Economic Adjustment Act
was sent to the Congress last February, significant debate has occurred regarding
the proper Federal role in the economic development and adjustment process.
This legislation has benefited greatly from the debate and incorporates many
improvements which will enable the Economic Development Administration
and the Regional Action Planning Commissions to be more effective in over-
coming or preventing problems of economic distress. I believe this legislation is
a fine example of the beneficial results of consultation and compromise between
the Congress and the executive.
Perhaps the most noteworthy provisions of the act are the changes that have
been made in title III and in the addition of the new title IX. The improve-
ments in title III should strengthen State capacities to plan for and assist eco-
nomic development, while preserving a strong development role for local areas
and economic development districts. Title IX marks a new direction in our
approach to economic adjustment and development. It permits States and local
areas to develop comprehensive and flexible responses to actual or threatened
severe unemployment problems. It will permit early action to adjust to economic
dislocation problems, to minimize personal hardships, and improve the chances
of an effective long-range solution to the problems of the communities.
In conjunction with the other titles of the act and coupled with the Com-
prehensive Employment and Training Act, which contains provisions for special
distribution of funds to areas of high unemployment, this title provides another
204
