[58]
September 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
they took up arms against the British redcoats. Actually, they met voluntarily
to wage economic warfare for their future freedom and prosperity, even before
the Liberty Bell tolled the birth of a new nation.
The spirit of 1774 was a sudden quickening of American unity in the face of
common calamity, of confidence, of patriotism, and determination of the people
themselves, and of mutual willingness to take risks and to make sacrifices for the
good of all.
In my judgment, there are two very important things to remember about our
American Revolution. It was not a revolution to tear down what the colonists
had, but to preserve the freedoms, to preserve the rights of free Englishmen, and
to expand the material prosperity that they already enjoyed for generations on
this bountiful continent. It was not a revolution to make life better for them-
selves, but to make sure that these blessings would continue for their children
and their children's children.
The men who gathered here 200 years ago put it in these words, and I quote:
"It is a duty," they wrote in this fabulous document, “which we owe to God, our
country, ourselves, and posterity . . . to maintain, defend and preserve those civil
and religious rights and liberties, for which many of our fathers fought, bled and
died, and to hand them down [entire] to future generations."
What beautiful words-words which they made into deeds.
In short, the inflation fighters of 1774 were not much different from the infla-
tion fighters of 1974 who started a series of conferences in Washington yesterday.
Then as now there are no easy answers. Then as now they had to depend very
heavily on popular understanding and public support.
For example, John Rutledge of South Carolina might have given the very
same speech at the opening of the White House conference yesterday that he
gave precisely in this point 200 years ago. And with your indulgence, let me
quote from John Rutledge in Philadelphia 200 years ago: We have no legal au-
thority; and obedience to our determinations will only follow the reasonableness,
the apparent utility and necessity of the measures we adopt. We have no coercive
or legislative authority. Our constituents are bound only in honor to observe our
determination.
What are some of these determinations? I have been browsing through this
journal of the First Continental Congress, and I must say to my former col-
leagues in the Congress, it reads a lot easier than the Congressional Record when
I was a contributor to that document. But except for the elegant language and
the more eloquent age, it deals with the very real problems that are amazingly
contemporary. And let me now ask you to listen to this:
96
