[139]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
139
Remarks at the Swearing In of Richard L. Roudebush as
Administrator of Veterans Affairs. October 12, 1974
Roudy and Karen, and my former colleagues in the Congress, and Government
officials, and friends:
This is a landmark day in that a man who served in the Congress and helped
to write some of the laws, a man who fought in the service of his country and who
also participated very, very actively in veterans organizations, is going to be the
Administrator of the Veterans Administration.
All of you know here, probably better than I, the magnitude of the respon-
sibilities of the Veterans Administration, the magnitude not only in the facilities
and the employees and the responsibilities but the great and important work
that the VA does for people.
The number of veterans in this country is almost beyond comprehension when
you go back through the war in Vietnam, Korea, and World War II. When
you take into consideration World War I, the number of veterans that are in our
population of 213 million is a very substantial portion.
So, Roudy, you have an obligation to do a first-class job on behalf of a good
share of the population of this country, the people who have given dedicated
service on behalf of freedom, on behalf of our national security.
All of us here and your fellow citizens expect that the Veterans Administra-
tion is going to have an outlook that is dedicated to the best in service.
I said at the VFW speech in Chicago [on August 19] that we were not going to
treat veterans as a number in a computer. We were going to treat veterans as
persons, individuals who had made sacrifices, sacrifices for our freedom and our
way of life.
So, as you handle the problems of pensions and compensation, the problems
of health service with our hospitals and out-patient treatment, as you handle
the problems that cover the life of the thousands and thousands of veterans,
I am convinced that you will do a first-class job.
The obligation is great, but the person who has been selected and confirmed
I know will do the job. And so, I congratulate you and the Members of the
Congress with whom you served, the members of the various veterans organiza-
tions of which you were a part, and the individuals in the service with whom you
participated. I congratulate you on behalf of all of them.
Good luck. We are counting on you.
290
