[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Edwards, those negotiations as to the custody or owner-
ship of the documents, including tapes, were undertaken prior to August 27,
because we were more or less besieged-when I say "we," the White House—as
to what to do with those documents, including tapes.
That negotiation had no relevance whatsoever to the decision on my part to
pardon the President.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The Chair would remind all of the constraints of
time, and call on Ms. Holtzman for one final question.
CONGRESSWOMAN HOLTZMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Ford, you've stated that the theory on which you pardoned Richard Nixon
was that he had suffered enough, and I am interested in that theory because the
logical consequence of that is that somebody who resigns in the face of virtually
certain impeachment or somebody who is impeached should not be punished
because the impeachment or the resignation in face of impeachment is punish-
ment enough.
And I wondered whether anybody had brought to your attention the fact the
Constitution specifically states that even though somebody is impeached, that
person shall nonetheless be liable to punishment according to law.
THE PRESIDENT. Ms. Holtzman, I was fully cognizant of the fact that the
President on resignation was accountable for any criminal charges. But I would
like to say that the reason I gave the pardon was not as to Mr. Nixon himself.
I repeat, and I repeat with emphasis, the purpose of the pardon was to try and get
the United States, the Congress, the President, and the American people focusing
on the serious problems we have both at home and abroad, and I was absolutely
convinced then, as I am now, that if we had this series—an indictment, a trial, a
conviction, and anything else that transpired after that-that the attention of the
President, the Congress, and the American people would have been diverted
from the problems that we have to solve.
That was the principal reason for my granting of the pardon.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Mr. Smith.
CONGRESSMAN SMITH. Mr. Chairman, just before we adjourn this hearing,
I again would like to commend the President and thank him for coming.
I think, Mr. President, that you have probably opened a new era between the
executive and the legislative departments, and I am very happy for it.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Chairman, I want to express to you and to the other mem-
bers of the committee or subcommittee my appreciation for the fine manner
and, I think, the fair way in which this meeting was held this morning.
I felt that it was absolutely essential, because I am the only one who could ex-
370
