September 4
[53]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
about to be sworn in, was an accomplished clarinetist in and around New York
City.
Well, he gave up that occupation at a subsequent date and became a very, very
outstanding economist in the private field as well as an adviser to the Federal
Government.
But now, as the ninth Chairman, he has a new responsibility to try and stop
playing the blues and curing the blues. [Laughter]
I was told the other day that being a clarinetist or a musician in Washington
was not necessarily bad. Len Garment was an accomplished musician and has
done extremely well here in Washington.
Somebody mentioned to me the other day that they wondered why it took
me so long to make a choice for Vice President. Well, I will make this observa-
tion and comment. I had a hard time deciding between Nelson Rockefeller and
Benny Goodman. [Laughter]
I am delighted to have an opportunity to participate in this swearing in of Alan
because, not only his talents are superb and his education and reputation are of
the finest but I like his approach. He is recognized as an optimist in the field of
economic policy, and I happen to believe that despite some of the problems we
face, we have to be optimistic about what we can do about them.
And Alan Greenspan has that reputation. I believe in being an optimist, and
I think that attitude is helpful and beneficial as we face some of the difficult
problems and the hard decisions ahead.
So, Alan, I congratulate you and wish you well, and it has been a pleasure to get
to know you better, to have the benefit of your recommendations, and I think the
country is going to be far better off with your counsel and advice as we move
ahead in these very difficult times.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:47 p.m. in the the President referred to Assistant to the President
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his remarks, Leonard Garment.
53
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the National
Council on the Arts. September 4, 1974
WHEN I am surrounded by Betty on the one hand, who is an expert in her
own right and her own background, and Nancy on the other, I am a completely
helpless individual.
85
