[140]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
140
Veto of Railroad Retirement Benefits Legislation.
October 12, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning today without my approval, H.R. 15301, a bill which would
finance a long-standing deficit in the Railroad Retirement System at the expense
of the general taxpayer.
The Railroad Retirement System, under current law, is headed toward bank-
ruptcy by the mid-1980s. This condition arises largely because benefits have
been increased 68 percent since 1970 without requiring the beneficiaries of the
system, railroad employees and employers, to pay the added costs.
This bill proposes to solve the financial problems of the Railroad Retirement
System by placing a seven billion dollar burden on the general taxpayer, requir-
ing him to contribute $285 million to the Railroad Retirement Trust Fund each
year for the next twenty-five years. In return for his seven billion dollar con-
tribution, the general taxpayer would earn no entitlement to benefits and would
receive no return on his investment.
At a time when the taxpayer is already carrying the double burden of taxes
and inflation, legislation such as this is most inappropriate.
Recognizing the financial straits of the Railroad Retirement System, the
Executive Branch in 1970 proposed and the Congress authorized an independent
study of the System. After eighteen months of careful work, the study group
recommended that the benefits be financed “. . . on an assured, fully self-
supporting basis by contributions from the railroad community through the crisis
period of the next 20 to 30 years and then beyond.”
Following receipt of the report, the Congress directed representatives of rail-
road employees and management to submit their combined recommendations
for restoring financial soundness to the System, taking into account the report
and the specific recommendations of the Commission.
The bill which is now before me is true neither to the recommendation of the
Commission nor to the charge placed on the industry by the Congress.
Forcing the general taxpayer to carry an unfair burden is not the only defect
in this bill. It would also establish a special investment procedure for the Railroad
Retirement Trust Fund.
Under the bill, the interest paid by the Treasury on Railroad Retirement
investments and Federal securities would rise when interest rates increase but
292
