October 9
[127]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
have termed the surprisingly harsh reaction to the pardon of former Presi-
dent Nixon and the tragic illness of your own wife. Do you still plan to be a
candidate in 1976?
The President. The words that I used, if I recall accurately, were I would
probably be a candidate in 1976. I have seen nothing to change that decision,
and if and when there is, I will promptly notify you.
BOSTON SCHOOL DESEGREGATION
[20.] Q. Mr. President, Boston's Mayor, Kevin White, has appealed to the
Federal Government to send U.S. marshals to help restore order in Boston's
school desegregation crisis. And black groups have asked for federalizing the
National Guard and sending in Federal troops. As the Chief Executive, what do
you plan to do, and what comments do you have on this situation?
THE PRESIDENT. At the outset, I wish to make it very, very direct: I deplore
the violence that I have read about and seen on television. I think that is most
unfortunate. I would like to add this, however: The court decision in that case,5
in my judgment, was not the best solution to quality education in Boston.
I have consistently opposed forced busing to achieve racial balance as a solu-
tion to quality education, and therefore, I respectfully disagree with the judge's
order.
But having said that, I think it is of maximum importance that the citizens of
Boston respect the law. And I hope and trust that it is not necessary to call in
Federal officials or Federal law enforcement agencies.
Now, the marshals, if my information is accurate, are under the jurisdiction of
the court, not directly under my jurisdiction. As far as I know, no specific re-
quest has come to me for any further Federal involvement, and therefore, I am
not in a position to act under those circumstances.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Ford's third news conference began at 2:31 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
It was broadcast live on radio and television.
5 Tallulah Morgan et al. v. John J. Kerrigan et al. (379 F.d. Supp. 410).
255
