[118]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
see that there was a Kennedy ³ that I could endorse. I know that he will be a first-
class Governor when you elect him on November 5.
Let
me, if I might, speak about a problem that I think transcends the borders
of Vermont, a problem that is of great importance to people whether they are
from the State of Washington or Vermont or Michigan or Florida.
I would like to say a word or two about one of my very chief concerns: the
preservation of a two-party system in our country.
In the wake of Watergate, the national polls tend to indicate that the number
of Independent voters is growing, and I understand that. There is great dis-
illusionment, for good and sufficient reasons. The number of party voters, both
Republicans and Democrats, is shrinking rapidly, tragically. Unfortunately, we
in the Republican Party are not doing as well as our Democratic friends.
I am deeply concerned about this, not for the sake of our party or the Demo-
cratic Party, but in all sincerity, for the fate of the country. For I am convinced
that the future of America is very directly tied to the good aspects of politics in
this country, and I use it in the proper context: the politics that have made
America grow from 13 poor, struggling colonies almost 200 years ago with some
3 million people primarily on the borders of the Atlantic Ocean, to a nation
today with some 213 million people with 48 States within the continental limits,
plus Alaska and Hawaii.
I am convinced that politics in the best sense can and will be in the future the
salvation of our system. And the politics of America is bound up in the two-party
system.
I think most of us know that a two-party system, the one we have had in
America, has contributed stability, opportunity, and freedom. These things do
not just sort of happen. They do not happen automatically. These very treasured
elements—stability, opportunity, and freedom—they are the outgrowth of a polit-
ical continuity and stability that followed in the development of a two-party
system in America.
It seems to me, as I have looked back over the history, that this approach that
has been so strong in the development of self-government—it offers diverse peo-
ple and segments of our population a choice, a choice without chaos.
I think historically a two-party system has worked well in America. It was not
envisaged by our Founding Fathers. There is nothing in the Constitution that
says we should have two political parties and no others. As a matter of fact, we
went through somewhat of an evolutionary process and finally fell into the
the pattern of a two-party system.
3
State Senator Walter L. Kennedy was the Republican candidate for Governor of Vermont.
222
