September 4
[49]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
In the group here are some leaders of the Spanish-speaking Americans who
will be here to give me the benefit of their observations and comments and
recommendations as to how we can very appropriately and properly recognize
the many, many contributions that have been made, from the very beginning of
our Nation's history, to the great accomplishments of America.
I think history shows that before Plymouth Rock there were Spanish-speaking
individuals who had made settlements in not only Florida but New Mexico
and Puerto Rico and possibly California, I am not sure.
I think it illustrates the fact that Spanish-speaking Americans were in the
very vanguard of the settlement of the new world, and they have contributed
significantly with their deep religious convictions. They have contributed
unbelievably to a better America by their dedication to an outstanding family
life.
We believe, in this Administration, as others have, that this important growing
part of our American population should be recognized for what they can do for
all of us and for what they have done for America over the 200 years, nearly,
of our Nation's history.
So, it is a pleasure for me to sign this proclamation in the presence of not only
Members of Congress who are representative of the Hispanic Americans but
the others who are here from private life.
So, without any fanfare, I will undertake this. I have learned how, Ed, to
do this with a few letters instead of doing it with one pen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his remarks,
the President referred to Senator Joseph M. Mon-
toya of New Mexico and Representative Edward R.
Roybal of California.
Following the signing ceremony, the President
met with Hispanic-American Members of Congress
and Administration officials to discuss the problems
and needs of Hispanic Americans.
49
Proclamation 4310, National Hispanic Heritage Week, 1974.
September 4, 1974
By the President of the United States of America a Proclamation
Our country's Hispanic heritage reaches back more than four centuries. When
the Pilgrim Fathers landed at Plymouth Rock, Hispanic civilization was already
flourishing in what is now Florida and New Mexico. Since then the Hispanic
contribution to America has been a consistent and vital influence in our country's
cultural growth.
81
