October 29
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
dents in the past in the executive branch of the Government. It is my judgment
that he would be a very good Vice President. And therefore, these disclosures
indicate that he does believe in helping his friends. And a man of that wealth
certainly, in my judgment, has that right to give as long as the law is obeyed,
and as I understand it, he has.
It seems to me that his qualifications from previous public service fully qualify
him to be Vice President. And therefore, I fully support his nomination.
THE 25TH AMENDMENT
[12.] Q. Mr. President, as the only living veteran of the 25th amendment,
how say you as to its continuance?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the 25th amendment has served a good purpose
despite my own involvement in it. But leave that aside. It was, of course, if you
go back and study the history of it, actually proposed and approved for quite
different reasons.
On the other hand, in the last year, certain circumstances have arisen which,
in my judgment, may prompt the need for some changes.
I think, for example, the Congress ought to study the desirability of putting a
time limitation on the time that the Congress should have for the consideration—-
approval or rejection. But these are matters that Congress can, in the remaining
days of this session or in the next session, investigate, because of the experiences
of the last year or so.
CONDITION OF THE ECONOMY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, your friend, Paul McCracken, has said that we are
entering a V-shaped recession and that we ought to call a spade a spade. Yet Ad-
ministration officials have been avoiding the word "recession." Would you apply
that term to our economic condition now?
THE PRESIDENT. Recession has been defined. I think the national bureau of
economic research [Bureau of Economic Analysis] actually is the authority on
this matter. It is my understanding they are going to come up with some answer
on this question in the very near future.
But let me make an observation of my own, if I might. We are facing some dif-
ficult economic circumstances. We have too many people unemployed, and we
want to do something about it. And my economic package that I submitted to the
Congress and the American people will do something about it.
The American people are concerned about inflation, and my economic pro-
gram would do something about inflation. So, what we have tried to do, instead
487
