[63]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
63
Statement on Signing Legislation Revising Federal Employees'
Compensation Benefits. September 8, 1974
ON SATURDAY, I signed into law H.R. 13871, the 1974 amendments to the
Federal Employees' Compensation Act. This act provides workers' compensa-
tion benefits for Federal employees injured or killed in the performance of
duty. Since the law was last amended over 8 years ago, a number of social and
economic developments have made it necessary to update and revise the require-
ments regarding compensation benefits for injured Federal workers. I feel this
new legislation meets those changing conditions.
This bill will provide for improved protection against rising costs for Federal
employees and survivors who receive benefits. It also guarantees reemployment
rights at the same or an equivalent position upon recovery within certain time
limitations. Finally, the bill increases compensation benefits for survivors.
Therefore, I am pleased to sign this bill which will assure quality protection
for a very deserving group of workers-the Nation's Federal employees.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13871, approved September 7, 1974, is Public Law 93-416 (88 Stat. 1143).
64
Statement on the Resignation of J. F. terHorst as
Press Secretary to the President. September 8, 1974
I DEEPLY regret Jerry terHorst's resignation. I understand his position. I
appreciate the fact that good people will differ with me on this very difficult
decision. However, it is my judgment that it is in the best interest of our country.
I think Jerry did an outstanding job in a controversial period of transition. I
thank him for his service.
NOTE: The statement was issued by the White
House.
Regarding his decision to resign as a result of
the President's pardon of Richard Nixon, news
accounts quoted Mr. terHorst as saying, "It was
simply after a great deal of soul-searching that I
decided I couldn't in good conscience support the
President's decision on former President Nixon, even
though I knew he took that action in good con-
science."
106
