[39]
August 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE SPECIAL PROSECUTOR
[15.] Q. Mr. President, to further pursue Helen's inquiry, have there been
any communications between the Special Prosecutor's office and anyone on your
staff regarding President Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. Not to my knowledge.
ADVICE TO WAGE EARNERS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, the beneficial effects of budget cutting on inflation
will take some time to dribble down to the wage earner. What advice would you
give the wage earner today who is having trouble stretching his dollar over his
needs?
THE PRESIDENT. I think every wage earner has to realize we are going through
a serious economic problem with inflation in double digits, not as bad as people
in many Western European countries, but it will require him or her to follow
the example of their Federal Government which is going to tighten its belt and
likewise for an interim period of time watch every penny.
INDIAN OCEAN NAVAL BASES
[17.] Q. Mr. President, you said last March in an interview, I think in Sea
Power magazine, that you came down quite strongly in favor of establishing a
U.S. Indian Ocean fleet with the necessary bases to support it. Do you still stand
by that and do you favor the development of Diego Garcia ? ยน
THE PRESIDENT. I favor the limited expansion of our base at Diego Garcia.
I don't view this as any challenge to the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union already
has three major naval operating bases in the Indian Ocean. This particular pro-
posed construction, I think, is a wise policy, and it ought not to ignite any escala-
tion of the problems in the Middle East.
Yes, Sarah [Sarah McClendon, McClendon News Service].
VETERANS BENEFITS LEGISLATION
[18.] Q. I want to ask you about this new veterans benefits bill which Con-
gress passed in the last hours. I understand this is a bill that you favored and
maybe have spurred the Congressmen to pass. It saves $200 million.
Now my question is: Is that a real savings when it gives the disabled man less
money than an able man and disrupts completely the veterans going to college
in September?
Diego Garcia, an island approximately 1,000 nautical miles south of India, was part of the British Indian
Ocean Territory. The United States Navy maintained a communications station on the island.
62
