[23]
August 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am confident that this action will be but one of many examples of restraint
by management and labor as we all join in the fight against inflation.
NOTE: The average price increase for automobiles and
trucks was reduced to 8.5 percent.
The statement was read by Press Secretary J. F.
ter Horst at his news briefing at the White House on
August 21, 1974.
24
Remarks on Signing the Education Amendments of 1974.
August 21, 1974
Secretary Carlucci, distinguished administrators and employees of the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare, my former colleagues in the House
and the Senate, fellow Americans:
It is really a great privilege and pleasure for me to be here. I know all of us
wish that Secretary Weinberger were here, but he is off on a very important
responsibility, and I am sure he is here in spirit, if not in person.
I suspect this is the first Federal aid to education bill that has ever been signed
by a left-handed President. I attach no significance to that, but it was difficult
with a person with a short name to use so many pens. [Laughter]
President Eisenhower once said, in discussing education, and I quote: The
Federal role should be merely to facilitate, never to control education.
Now, striking the right balance between helping on the one hand and
dominating on the other is never an easy task. And those of you who participated
in the preparation of the submission in the first instance to the Congress, and
those of you who have labored so hard in both the House and the Senate to
find a balance in 1974, in my judgment all deserve a great deal of commendation
and congratulation.
I don't think any one faction or any one party dictated the contents of that
very substantial and very important piece of legislation. I know from some per-
sonal experience on the periphery, when I was in the House and subsequently
as Vice President, how much hard work, how many long hours, how many
compromises were made between, in the first instance, the legislative and the
executive branches and between various points of view, legitimate, well-
motivated differences philosophically.
I don't believe anyone who labored so long and so hard would say this is a
perfect piece of legislation, but I think it is a good law; it justified the final action
by the Congress; and it fully justified my signature representing approval by
the executive branch.
34
