October 29
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
he has available. I think that his approach in the future would certainly be
related to the experiences he has had in the past.
CONGRESSIONAL PAY INCREASE
[17.] Q. Mr. President, there is a lot of talk on the Hill that Congress might
come back after the election and vote themselves a pay increase. There is also
talk if they don't do it this fall, it certainly will be voted early next year. Would
you sign a bill that would provide Congress with a pay increase at this time?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is premature for me to make any judgment. I have
not talked to the Democratic or Republican leadership about the matter. I know
of no specific proposal by the Congress nor by this Administration, so I don't feel
that it is appropriate for me to make any judgment at this point.
PLANS FOR CABINET CHANGES
[18.] Q. Are you planning any other Cabinet changes, particularly in the
Agriculture Department?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Secretary Butz, over a period of 3 or 4 years, has done
a good job. He has been very outspoken. He is a good, hard worker, and I have
no plans to remove the Secretary of Agriculture or no specific plans to call for
the resignation of any other Cabinet officer.
FORMER PRESIDENT'S TAPES AND DOCUMENTS
[19.] Q. Mr. President, could you tell us the status of negotiations on the
Nixon administration's tapes and documents? Are they still in the White House
or-
THE PRESIDENT. They are being held—I can't give you the precise location—
but they are being held under an agreement with the Special Prosecutor's office,
and of course, now there are two other elements that have developed. One,
Judge Richey has issued an injunction concerning all or some of the docu-
ments. A third involvement is a law suit by former President Nixon against the
head of GSA, Mr. Sampson. So we think, under the circumstances, and particu-
larly under our agreement with the Special Prosecutor's office, they should re-
main intact until legal matters and any other commitments have been handled.
2 On October 21, 1974, Judge Charles R. Richey of the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia issued a temporary restraining order preventing former President Nixon from obtaining control
of his Presidential tape recordings and documents in the custody of the United States.
489
