[192]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
of a number of Vietnam veterans organizations at the White House and else-
where to get their views and to get their opinions.
This task force has submitted a jobs-for-veterans plan of action with the ob-
jective of recruiting and hiring into the Government at least 70,000 Vietnam-
era veterans during fiscal year 1975. I am ordering Federal departments and
agencies to move—and to move now-on this action plan, to make sure these
veterans are hired as quickly as possible.
I am glad to report that important progress is already being made. Unemploy-
ment among veterans has dropped, fortunately, since its peak in 1971, but we
are not satisfied.
The National Alliance of Businessmen deserves a great deal of credit for this
progress. They have mounted an effective private sector job program for veter-
ans. They have set high goals, and they have met them. This coming year they
hope to provide 200,000 jobs for veterans, including the placement of some 7,500
disabled veterans. I commend them. They are doing a magnificent job. They
deserve the admiration, respect, and cooperation of all Americans.
However, we have another major moral commitment to the American
veteran. It is, as Lincoln put it, "to care for him who shall have borne the battle.”
To do so, America has created one of the largest, most comprehensive govern-
ment health systems in the world—our Veterans Administration hospitals and
clinics throughout our 50 States.
On the whole, the Veterans Administration has done a very fine job under
very, very difficult circumstances. Despite repeated and often complicated
changes in the laws governing veterans health benefits, despite the many com-
plex new developments in medicine itself, and despite nearly 1,800,000 applica-
tions for care in fiscal year 1974 alone, the VA is providing the latest and the
very best possible treatment to veterans, ranging all the way from major surgery
to dental care.
In a special survey completed July 31, which I have personally carefully
studied, the whole range of VA assets and liabilities was reviewed. And I am
frank to admit, as I think we should, that real problems do exist. Overcrowding
is one problem in some facilities. At some hospitals patients have to wait longer
than they should to receive proper treatment. Attracting and holding top quality
medical professionals and support personnel is another problem.
But the study also discovered through polling that 80 percent of the VA pa-
tients felt that their doctors were giving them the very best possible care and
that the hospital employees were dedicated people who treated them with re-
476
