Appendix D
they did not come there with their position so firmly
set in concrete that they had no maneuvering room.
The net result was we did maneuver. We did nego-
tiate. And we gave some, and they gave some.
Q. How about the probing and testing on your
side, Mr. President?
A. We suggested several alternatives which they
did turn down. We, I think, for tactical reasons,
wanted them to know that we had some positions
that we thought were valid. I also think we knew
they would not accept them, but that is part of the
negotiating. It is to some extent like you negotiate
up on the Hill. You have to take some extreme
positions on occasion to get what you want.
Q. This happens at NEWSWEEK sometimes.
A. I am sure. I know it happened in labor-man-
agement negotiations when I was practicing law.
Why, you have to start out up here, and you end
up at a reasonable compromise.
Q. It has been suggested that you and Mr.
Brezhnev have certain similarities in personality.
How do you think he would do as a politician in
this country?
A. I think he would do very well. I was impressed
with him. He is a strong person. He has some
qualities that I like in a person. He is very friendly.
And none of the experiences I have had with him
indicate that he is a person who is mean or vindic-
tive. None of that attitude at all. He was firm in
what he wanted, and yet he could understand our
point of view.
He is very pleasant to be with. Very enjoyable,
both not only when we were negotiating, but in the
luncheon and the automobile ride we took at the
end where we spent an hour driving around
Vladivostok, where I sat with him in the back
seat. Very pleasant, very amiable in his discussion,
very generous in the way he talks.
Q. You never felt like Kennedy did with Khrush-
chev in 1961?
A. I had no feeling like that. At least the
atmosphere in my judgment was friendly to start
with, and there was no effort on their part to put
us down, as we certainly did not have any view of
trying to put them down. He started out almost at
the beginning in saying that we had a serious-
speaking of them as well as ourselves-a serious
obligation to try and reach an agreement to stabilize
the problems between the two major nuclear powers.
He took a very broad view.
Q. Did he take a comparable attitude toward the
Mideast when you got around to that discussion?
A. They have strong feelings there.
Q. Your critics say that while it was very im-
portant to conclude a SALT treaty, more time should
have been devoted to the urgent problem of war
possibly breaking out in the Middle East.
A. We spent, I would say, better than two hours
[on the Mideast], and I think we got a better un-
derstanding of our view and their view. They, of
course, want to go to the Geneva Conference, get
everything in a package and try to solve Israel and
Egypt, Israel and Jordan, Israel and Syria, Israel and
the PLO at one time. That is their approach.
We think that may be a final step, but in the
meantime I think our view is we have to do some
step-by-step negotiating, and it was important for
us to get some understanding of their views and
vice versa. I think we spent enough time on that.
After all, we cannot negotiate, the Soviet Union
and ourselves, Mr. Brezhnev and myself, on where
the line should be, if the line should be in the Sinai
Peninsula. We cannot negotiate for Israel and Syria
if there is to be any further give in the Golan
Heights. It is not for us to decide that Israel has to
negotiate with the PLO.
Q. Do you think that is a likely eventuality, Mr.
President?
A. That Israel will negotiate?
Q. Ultimately have to negotiate with the PLO.
A. I think it is very premature to make any judg-
ment on that. I think some other things have to
develop, and only time will tell on that.
Q. What kind of diplomatic contact do you think
the United States should have with the PLO, if any?
A. At this point I don't think we should have any
diplomatic contacts. Again, I think it is premature.
A lot depends on their actions, how they are going
to get involved in the Middle East itself.
This is a very delicate circumstance right now,
and for us to make any precipitous decision is
premature.
Q. Do you think the United Nations advanced
the cause of peace by its gesture of recognition to
the PLO, or do you think that complicated the
situation?
A. I think it has complicated the situation.
Q. Mr. President, having just returned from what
seems to have been quite a successful summit
meeting with Mr. Brezhnev, you have come back
to find a number of your critics saying you should
not have gone in the first place.
A. A lot of them said it before I left.
Q. They said you should be sitting here in Wash-
ington and coping with the economic problems and
solving economic difficulties that the country is in.
How do you respond to that sort of criticism?
A. It was vitally important to go to Japan for, I
think, understandable reasons; to Korea for equally
understandable reasons, and certainly to go to Vladi-
vostok to see Mr. Brezhnev. The question then is
what did I not do here while I was gone.
804
