[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Then shortly after noon, General Haig requested another appointment as
promptly as possible. He came to my office about 3:30 p.m. for a meeting that
was to last for approximately three-quarters of an hour. Only then did I learn
of the damaging nature of a conversation on June 23, 1972, in one of the tapes
which was due to go to Judge Sirica the following Monday.
I describe this meeting because at one point it did include references to a
possible pardon for Mr. Nixon, to which the third and fourth questions in
H. Res. 1367 are directed. However, nearly the entire meeting covered other
subjects, all dealing with the totally new situation resulting from the critical
evidence on the tape of June 23, 1972. General Haig told me he had been told
of the new and damaging evidence by lawyers on the White House Staff who
had first-hand knowledge of what was on the tape. The substance of his con-
versation was that the new disclosure would be devastating, even catastrophic,
insofar as President Nixon was concerned. Based on what he had learned of the
conversation on the tape, he wanted to know whether I was prepared to assume
the Presidency within a very short time and whether I would be willing to make
recommendations to the President as to what course he should now follow.
I cannot really express adequately in words how shocked and stunned I was
by this unbelievable revelation. First, was the sudden awareness I was likely to
become President under these most troubled circumstances; and secondly, the
realization these new disclosures ran completely counter to the position I had
taken for months, in that I believed the President was not guilty of any
impeachable offense.
General Haig in his conversation at my office went on to tell me of discussions
in the White House among those who knew of this new evidence.
General Haig asked for my assessment of the whole situation. He wanted my
thoughts about the timing of a resignation, if that decision were to be made,
and about how to do it and accomplish an orderly change of Administration. We
discussed what scheduling problems there might be and what the early
organizational problems would be.
General Haig outlined for me President Nixon's situation as he saw it and the
different views in the White House as to the courses of action that might be
available, and which were being advanced by various people around him on the
White House Staff. As I recall there were different major courses being
considered:
(1) Some suggested “riding it out" by letting the impeachment take its
course through the House and the Senate trial, fighting all the way against
conviction.
342
