[60]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
There are no historic or legal precedents to which I can turn in this matter,
none that precisely fit the circumstances of a private citizen who has resigned
the Presidency of the United States. But it is common knowledge that serious
allegations and accusations hang like a sword over our former President's head,
threatening his health as he tries to reshape his life, a great part of which was
spent in the service of this country and by the mandate of its people.
After years of bitter controversy and divisive national debate, I have been
advised, and I am compelled to conclude that many months and perhaps more
years will have to pass before Richard Nixon could obtain a fair trial by jury
in any jurisdiction of the United States under governing decisions of the Supreme
Court.
I deeply believe in equal justice for all Americans, whatever their station or
former station. The law, whether human or divine, is no respecter of persons;
but the law is a respecter of reality.
The facts, as I see them, are that a former President of the United States,
instead of enjoying equal treatment with any other citizen accused of violating
the law, would be cruelly and excessively penalized either in preserving the
presumption of his innocence or in obtaining a speedy determination of his
guilt in order to repay a legal debt to society.
During this long period of delay and potential litigation, ugly passions would
again be aroused. And our people would again be polarized in their opinions.
And the credibility of our free institutions of government would again be
challenged at home and abroad.
In the end, the courts might well hold that Richard Nixon had been denied
due process, and the verdict of history would even more be inconclusive with
respect to those charges arising out of the period of his Presidency, of which
I am presently aware.
But it is not the ultimate fate of Richard Nixon that most concerns me, though
surely it deeply troubles every decent and every compassionate person. My con-
cern is the immediate future of this great country.
In this, I dare not depend upon my personal sympathy as a long-time friend
of the former President, nor my professional judgment as a lawyer, and I do not.
As President, my primary concern must always be the greatest good of all the
people of the United States whose servant I am. As a man, my first consideration
is to be true to my own convictions and my own conscience.
My conscience tells me clearly and certainly that I cannot prolong the bad
dreams that continue to reopen a chapter that is closed. My conscience tells me
that only I, as President, have the constitutional power to firmly shut and seal this
102
