[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
TAB D
H. RES. 1370
93d Congress
2d Session
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SEPTEMBER 17, 1974
Mr. CONYERS Submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary
RESOLUTION
Resolved, That the President is directed to furnish to the House of Representatives the full and com-
plete information and facts upon which was based the decision to grant a pardon to Richard M. Nixon,
including-
(1) any representations made by or on behalf of Richard M. Nixon to the President;
(2) any information or facts presented to the President with respect to the mental or physical health
of Richard M. Nixon;
(3) any information in possession or control of the President with respect to the offenses which were
allegedly committed by Richard M. Nixon and for which a pardon was granted;
(4) any representations made by or on behalf of the President to Richard M. Nixon in connection
with a pardon for alleged offenses against the United States.
The President is further directed to furnish to the House of Repesentatives the full and complete infor-
mation and facts in his possession or control and relating to any pardon which may be granted to any
person who is or may be charged or convicted of any offense against the United States within the prosecu-
torial jurisdiction of the Office of Watergate Special Prosecution Force.
[The statement as printed above was not read literally by the President at the hearing, which began at
10 a.m. in the Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing was broadcast live on radio and television.
All footnotes appeared in the statement.
Following his opening statement, the President responded to questions from members of the Subcommit-
tee on Criminal Justice of the House Committee on the Judiciary, as follows:]
The President. Mr. Chairman, I thank you and the committee members of
the subcommittee for this opportunity to make these views known.
CONGRESSMAN WILLIAM L. HUNGATE. Mr. President, on behalf of the sub-
committee, we express our appreciation for your appearance here, bringing facts
that will be helpful to the American people and the Congress.
There will be some who will find the answers fully satisfactory and forthright.
There will be others who will not. But I would hope that all would appreciate
your openness and willingness to come before the American public and the Con-
gress to discuss this important matter.
The gentleman from Wisconsin, Mr. Kastenmeier.
CONGRESSMAN Robert W. Kastenmeier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I, too, would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the President. I don't
believe any of us could have anticipated a year ago, when the President then
352
