[79]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
them hear from you, that you want them to vote for economy, to hold down the
lid.
And if we win some of these battles—and I hope we can-with the help of Re-
publicans, the help of a necessary number of Democrats, then I think we will
have defeated our public enemy number one.
But there are some other issues which I think we can affirmatively talk
about. We can honestly say that we have turned a great deal of the power that
was accumulating in Washington away and sent it back to our local units of
government, to our States.
We have revenue sharing. It is a most important part of New Federalism. I can
remember 5, 6, 7 years ago, maybe longer, talking to Nelson Rockefeller when
he was Governor, working with him when he was active in the Governors'
Conference.
I can recall vividly working with Bill Brock and Bob Michel and other Mem-
bers of the Congress on trying to get the Congress to undertake a general revenue
sharing program.
It is now law. It is about halfway through. Approximately $16 billion of Fed-
eral money has gone back to States and local units of government so that they
can establish at the local or State level that priorities that vary from New York
to California, or Michigan to Florida, or communities in one State or another,
have totally different problems.
And this vast amount of Federal money going without restriction for decision-
making at the local and State level, I think, is a great achievement for a Repub-
lican administration. And this Administration is going to continue it.
We want the legislation extended so that this effort will get even stronger in
the months ahead.
So, I think we can take credit as Republicans for a program that is very mean-
ingful and very substantial. But there are other things that have to be done, and
they involve the area of foreign policy.
I always said and I believed then that America and the world was fortunate to
have a great statesman in Henry Kissinger as our Secretary of State. And I have
learned to an even greater degree how effective, how able, what a great teammate
he is as he and I work on the problems involving peace throughout the world.
We have peace at the present time. We have peace for several reasons. One,
we have peace because the United States is strong militarily. And we are not
going to weaken our national security, despite the pressure from some sources.
Peace is related to strength. Weakness inevitably brings on war. History tells
us that story.
144
