[245]
November 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Though separated by the broadest of oceans, Your Majesty, we have achieved
between our two nations the closest of friendships. Our relationships transcend
that of governments and heads of state. Each year, the ties binding Americans
with Japanese increase in trade, science, culture, sports, and many other areas,
including cherished personal contacts between individuals.
We share a common devotion to moral and to spiritual strength. Our paths
are not always identical, but they all lead in the same direction—that of world
peace and harmonious relations among mankind.
Let us continue to seek understanding with each other and among all peoples,
Your Majesty. Let us trade, let us share and perpetuate the prosperity of both na-
tions. Let us work together to solve common problems, recognizing the inter-
dependence of the modern world in which we all live.
America, I can assure you, Your Majesty, is determined to do its part. It is in a
spirit of respect, a spirit of admiration for the Japanese nation, in dedication of
our continuing collaboration, and with sincere and deep-felt confidence in the
future that I offer a toast to the health and to the well-being of your Imperial
Majesties.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:56 p.m. at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo at a dinner banquet hosted by
Emperor Hirohito and Empress Nagako.
246
Remarks at a Japan Press Club Luncheon.
November 20, 1974
AS THE first American President to visit Japan while in office, I greet you on
this unprecedented occasion. I thank the Japanese Press Club for inviting me and
the national television network of Japan for the opportunity to speak directly to
the people of Japan.
I deeply appreciate the excellent coverage of my visit by the exceptional news
media of Japan. I have always sought a good working relationship with the
American journalists and have the same feeling toward their Japanese colleagues.
It has been my objective at all times to treat journalists and all other people in
the same manner that I would like to be treated.
I bring the warmest greetings of the American people. Our bipartisan political
leadership in the American Congress sends its very best wishes. The distin-
guished leaders of both of America's national political parties have asked me to
636
