[271]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
bill, but on balance it is a good bill and badly needed at this time.
Congress has not only ample time but the clear obligation to complete action
on several vital energy proposals before adjournment.
Times are nowhere near desperate enough to paraphrase President F. D.
Roosevelt's great rallying cry that “the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.”
Still it is a good thing to remember. But I do want to say to my fellow Americans
that our greatest danger today is to fall victim to the more exaggerated alarms
that are being generated about the underlying health and strength of our
economy.
We are going to take some lumps, and we are going to take some bumps, but
with the help of the Congress and the American people, we are perfectly able to
cope with our present and foreseeable economic problems.
But action is more helpful than criticism. And every week that the Congress
delays makes the prospects a little bleaker.
I will be glad to answer any questions.
QUESTIONS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, many people feel that the country is ahead of the
Government, that people are prepared to sacrifice if they know that everyone is
going to be biting the same bullet at the same time. How does this jibe with your
information?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the American people are ready to make more sacri-
fices than maybe the Congress and even the executive branch, including the
President, believe they will.
I have a great respect and admiration for the strength and the willingness to
sacrifice of the American people. I have tried to give them a program that does
require some sacrifice-a 5 percent surtax on 28 percent of the taxpayers-so we
could alleviate the problems of the people in the lower income brackets.
I have made some other suggestions, but I believe the Congress, along with
myself, have to give some leadership to the American people, who I believe are
willing to respond. And I have tried to present a program that would call for that
response.
I hope the Congress responds, and if they don't like my program, will come
up with one of their own that will equally call upon the American people to
make some sacrifices.
[15.] Q. Mr. President, in the absence of an Arab oil embargo this winter,
could you please give the American people some indication as to whether they
can expect a gasoline shortage this winter; that is, long lines at gas stations com-
686
