October 22
[183]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
of power away from the local communities. A veto-proof Congress would mean
the concentration of power again in Washington, D.C.
I think most of us in this audience agree that you get wiser spending, better
spending, if your locally elected officials, if your State officials have the power.
We can do infinitely better in solving the problems if you can keep your eye
on those people right here locally. You can do it far better, and your money
will
be infinitely better spent than if you have to go 1,200, 1,500 miles to Washington
to see what is being done.
I think, with the efforts that you can make, you can retain that power at home
and keep it from the bureaucrats in Washington.
I am not a peddler of despair. I happen to believe that games can be won,
political elections can be won with a massive effort and determination. We
must correct what is wrong, strengthen what is right, and move forward rather
than backward.
I think this will help to solve the problems at the local, the State, and the
national level.
I don't know of a State in the Union that I have found that has more belief
in and dedication to the free enterprise system, to individual initiative, and
Oklahoma is the leader in making certain and positive that our country continues
to have the adherence and the belief in, the conviction in free enterprise and
individual freedom. And I think the people in this audience, whether they are
Democratic or Republican or Independent, share that view.
As a result, if we do what we should between now and November 5, we can
continue to move forward as a great nation. We can reduce Federal spending.
We can whip inflation. We will open a new era of achievement in State and
local governments. The body politic and the economic condition and resources
of America can be strengthened.
We have in our heart and our minds in some 213 million Americans the
capability of continuing to be a leader in the world. We are entering the final
stretch. It is like the last few minutes of a ballgame. We are in the final days
of a great political campaign, convinced that we have the right philosophy,
the best candidates, and a good organization.
I am not downhearted about the fate of the Republican Party in Oklahoma
or elsewhere, and I am far from downhearted about the prospects for our
great country. As I travel around—and I am delighted that I am here because
of the enthusiasm—I see nothing but strength and optimism and dedication
and conviction on the part of our Americans everywhere I go.
Now if I might, let me conclude with one final observation. We have to whip
435
