[195]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
impact there will be from this Arab decision. I can only say that we think it is of
maximum importance that continued movement toward peace on a justifiable
basis in the Middle East is vital to that area of the world, and probably to the
world as a whole.
OUTLOOK FOR CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS
[9.] Q. Mr. President—you, as one who knows the House better than we
do—what is your best estimate of Republican losses or gains in the House, and
what would be the level which would make your efforts seem all worthwhile?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't like to get into a numbers game. I did on one occasion
back in 1966, but I had somewhat different responsibilities then. I can only say
that it is important to have a competitive relationship or ratio in the House as
well as in the Senate.
It seems to me that if you have a reasonably close ratio of Democrats to
Republicans, the public is better off. They get better legislation. They get better
handling of appropriations. They get, I think, a better tax bill, whenever the
relationship between the two major political parties is reasonably similar.
At the present time in the House, I think it is 243 [247] to 187. I would hope
that that ratio would not be seriously changed.
RESIGNATION OF JOHN SAWHILL
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you about your energy program.
Why have you dumped John Sawhill? Was his advice too blunt and politically
unattractive at this time?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I put a new man in charge-Secretary Morton. He
replaced the Secretary of State (the Treasury), Bill Simon, who went over to the
economic council [Economic Policy Board].
Rogers Morton and I discussed the kind of a team that he wanted and that I
thought would do a good job. And the people that I have nominated fit that
pattern.
THE VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I wonder if we could return to the Rockefeller affair.
If you had known then, before the nomination, all that is public knowl-
edge now about Mr. Rockefeller's financial dealings, would you still have named
him to be your Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I would. Nelson Rockefeller has been a superb Gover-
nor of the State of New York. He served both Democratic and Republican Presi-
486
