[65]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
in shaping urban centers and expanding suburbs. The statisticians tell me that
there are some 100 million automobiles on nearly 4 million miles of American
streets and highways. That makes one automobile for every two Americans,
and most of those 100 million cars are in our way when any one of us tries to go
downtown.
Many Americans have moved to suburbs where there is less and less traffic.
My wife Betty and I can vouch for the very restful suburban life, and we picked
it for reasons that most Americans select it. We raised our family in Alexandria,
Virginia, just outside of Washington, D.C., and on a personal note, I miss it,
especially my backyard swimming pool.
In the last two decades, suburban population grew far faster than our central
city population. And in some instances, the population growth in our suburbs
resulted in an actual numerical decline in our central cities. Americans, as a re-
sult, by the millions on a day-to-day basis, drive to and from work. Most took the
road or the highway or the street, approximately at the same time of day as
everybody else. Frankly, I admire the fortitude and the driving skill of the mil-
lions of Americans who are on time going to work without police and Secret
Service escorts. And may I thank the Governor and the mayor for the State
and local police in Pittsburgh for their fine courtesy and efficiency this morn-
ing.
I am sure everyone, everyone here especially, along with thousands, or literally
millions of other Americans have been caught in rush-hour traffic jams. I know
I have for a number of years while serving in the House of Representatives and
living in Alexandria. Sitting in bumper-to-bumper traffic has become a way of
life to far too many Americans.
As a Congressman, I was in New York City about 10 years ago, and I asked a
New York City policeman the best way to get to Brooklyn, and he was very
blunt in his answer. "Buddy," he said, "the best way to get to Brooklyn is to
be born there." [Laughter]
Obviously, America must have better solutions. That is what this conference
is all about. Solutions must be found for the growing problems of congestion
and pollution, challenges now complicated very severely by our energy
conservation.
As a Michigander with the name of Ford, you can be sure I am not going to
say anything unkind about automobiles. But it is self-evident that excessive use
of cars in dense urban areas increases pollution levels, causes unbelievable traffic
jams, massive headaches, and bumper-to-bumper tie-ups which burn too much
scarce and expensive fuel.
108
