August 23
[31]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
upon our national security. The Constitution commits this responsibility and
authority to the President. I understand that the purpose of this provision is
to provide a means whereby improperly classified information may be detected
and released to the public. This is an objective I can support as long as the means
selected do not jeopardize our national security interests. I could accept a pro-
vision with an express presumption that the classification was proper and with
in camera judicial review only after a review of the evidence did not indicate that
the matter had been reasonably classified in the interests of our national security.
Following this review, the court could then disclose the document if it finds the
classification to have been arbitrary, capricious, or without a reasonable basis. It
must also be clear that this procedure does not usurp my Constitutional responsi-
bilities as Commander-in-Chief. I recognize that this provision is technically not
before you in Conference, but the differing provisions of the bills afford, I
believe, grounds to accommodate our mutual interests and concerns.
The Senate but not the House version amends the exemption concerning
investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes. I am concerned with
any provision which would reduce our ability to effectively deal with crime.
This amendment could have that effect if the sources of information or the
information itself are disclosed. These sources and the information by which
they may be identified must be protected in order not to severely hamper our
efforts to combat crime. I am, however, equally concerned that an individual's
right to privacy would not be appropriately protected by requiring the disclosure
of information contained in an investigatory file about him unless the invasion
of individual privacy is clearly unwarranted. Although I intend to take action
shortly to address more comprehensively my concerns with encroachments upon
individual privacy, I believe now is the time to preclude the Freedom of Infor-
mation Act from disclosing information harmful to the privacy of individuals.
I urge that you strike the words “clearly unwarranted" from this provision.
Finally, while I sympathize with an individual who is effectively precluded
from exercising his right under the Freedom of Information Act because of the
substantial costs of litigation, I hope that the amendments will make it clear that
corporate interests will not be subsidized in their attempts to increase their com-
petitive position by using this Act. I also believe that the time limits for agency
action are unnecessarily restrictive in that they fail to recognize several valid
examples of where providing flexibility in several specific instances would permit
more carefully considered decisions in special cases without compromising the
principle of timely implementation of the Act.
47
