September 16
[77]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
the side of leniency and mercy, but I promised also to work within the existing
system of military and civilian law and the precedents set by my predecessors
who faced similar postwar situations, among them Presidents Abraham Lincoln
and Harry S. Truman.
My objective of making future penalties fit the seriousness of each individual's
offense and of mitigating punishment already meted out in a spirit of equity has
proved an immensely hard and very complicated matter, even more difficult
than I knew it would be.
But the agencies of Government concerned and my own staff have worked
with me literally night and day in order to develop fair and orderly procedures
and completed their work for my final approval over this last weekend.
I do not want to delay another day in resolving the dilemmas of the past, so
that we may all get going on the pressing problems of the present. Therefore,
I am today signing the necessary Presidential proclamation and Executive orders
that will put this plan into effect.
The program provides for administrative disposition of cases involving draft
evaders and military deserters not yet convicted or punished. In such cases, 24
months of alternate service will be required, which may be reduced for mitigat-
ing circumstances.
The program also deals with cases of those already convicted by a civilian or
military court. For the latter purpose, I am establishing a clemency review
board of nine distinguished Americans whose duty it will be to assist me in
assuring that the Government's forgiveness is extended to applicable cases of
prior conviction as equitably and as impartially as is humanly possible.
The primary purpose of this program is the reconciliation of all our people
and the restoration of the essential unity of Americans within which honest
differences of opinion do not descend to angry discord and mutual problems are
not polarized by excessive passion.
My sincere hope is that this is a constructive step toward a calmer and cooler
appreciation of our individual rights and responsibilities and our common pur-
pose as a nation whose future is always more important than its past.
At this point, I will sign the proclamation [4313] that I mentioned in my
statement, followed by an Executive order [11803] for the establishment of the
Clemency Board, followed by the signing of an Executive order [11804] for
the Director of Selective Service, who will have a prime responsibility in the
handling of the matters involving alternate service.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:21 a.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
137
