November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
things we warned about might happen, and it won't be helpful to Greece. That
was a bad break.
Another was the failure on the part of the Congress to act more affirmatively
on behalf of the nomination of Nelson Rockefeller. It should have been done
before the campaign recess. I think the Congress also might have moved ahead
more rapidly in some of the economic suggestions.
We have had some pluses, and we have had some minuses, but I believe so
far we are a little ahead of the game.
POLITICAL PARTIES IN 1976
[22.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Watkins from the University of Houston.
In response to an earlier question, you said that disenchanted Republicans were
becoming Independents and not Democrats. Well, many Democrats are becom-
ing Independents, too. Do you see this desertion as a preface to a large-scale
third party movement in 1976?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see that as a third party movement. I think it does
suggest that political parties, the traditional ones, are weakening. I think that is
sad, however. I think the two major political parties ought to be strengthened,
but nevertheless the trend is just the opposite.
I hope that in the months ahead that we, as Republicans, can regain some
of those by the performance both at home and abroad in our policy actions. I
don't hope that my Democratic friends improve their situation, but if they do,
I still think it would be healthy to have more responsible people in political
parties than as Independents.
THE ECONOMY AND UNEMPLOYMENT
[23.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. Walt Rodgers of the Associated
Press.
I am sure you have read newspaper accounts suggesting that perhaps the
United States faces another Great Depression similar to 1930. Your Administra-
tion has already admitted that we have slipped into a recession and that unem-
ployment will go even higher than the current rate of 6 percent. How much more
slippage do you expect in the economy? First, when will the slump bottom out,
and specifically, will unemployment go over 7 percent?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you categorical answers to those three questions.
I think we will have some increase in unemployment, but I do believe that if the
Congress cooperates with me, we can reverse that trend in 1975. I believe that we
611
