[121]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
ernment, industry, labor, or others. And I am determined to return to the
vigorous enforcement of antitrust laws.
The Administration will zero in on more effective enforcement of laws
against price fixing and bid rigging. For instance, non-competitive professional
fee schedules and real estate settlement fees must be eliminated. Such violations
will be prosecuted by the Department of Justice to the full extent of the law.
Now, I ask Congress for prompt authority to increase maximum penalties for
antitrust violations from $50,000 to $1 million for corporations, and from $50,000
to $100,000 for individual violators.
At the Conference on Inflation we found, I would say, very broad agreement
that the Federal Government imposes too many hidden and too many infla-
tionary costs on our economy. As a result, I propose a four-point program aimed
at a substantial purging process.
Number one, I have ordered the Council on Wage and Price Stability to be
the watchdog over inflationary costs of all governmental actions.
Two, I ask the Congress to establish a National Commission on Regulatory
Reform to undertake a long-overdue total reexamination of the independent
regulatory agencies. It will be a joint effort by the Congress, the executive branch,
and the private sector to identify and eliminate existing Federal rules and regu-
lations that increase costs to the consumer without any good reason in today's
economic climate.
Three: Hereafter, I will require that all major legislative proposals, regula-
tions, and rules emanating from the executive branch of the Government will
include an inflation impact statement that certifies we have carefully weighed
the effect on the Nation. I respectfully request that the Congress require a simi-
lar advance inflation impact statement for its own legislative initiatives.
Finally, I urge State and local units of government to undertake similar
programs to reduce inflationary effects of their regulatory activities.
At this point, I thank the Congress for recently revitalizing the National Com-
mission on Productivity and Work Quality. It will initially concentrate on prob-
lems of productivity in Government-Federal, State, and local. Outside of
Government, it will develop meaningful blueprints for labor-management
cooperation at the plant level. It should look particularly at the construction and
the health service industries.
The Council on Wage and Price Stability will, of course, monitor wage and
price increases in the private sector. Monitoring will include public hearings to
232
