December 30
[325]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
creasingly interdependent world in which the strength and vitality of our own
policies and society require purposeful and responsible participation in the inter-
national community. Foreign assistance is indispensable in exercising the role of
leadership in the cooperative and peaceful resolution of conflicts, in pursuing
political stability and economic progress, and in expressing the American spirit
of helping those less fortunate than we are.
In most respects, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1974 will serve those ends. It
includes, however, several restrictions that may pose severe problems to our in-
terests. I must bring them to the attention of the Congress as matters which will
be of continuing concern and which may require our joint efforts to remedy if
circumstances require.
First, are the numerous and detailed limitations on assistance to Indochina.
The economic and military assistance levels for Cambodia, particularly, are
clearly inadequate to meet minimum basic needs. Our support is vital to help ef-
fect an early end to the fighting and a negotiated settlement. This is also the ob-
jective of the United Nations General Assembly which approved a resolution
calling for a negotiated settlement. I intend to discuss this critical issue with the
Congressional leadership at the earliest possible time.
In South Vietnam, we have consistently sought to assure the right of the Viet-
namese people to determine their own futures free from enemy interference. It
would be tragic indeed if we endangered, or even lost, the progress we have
achieved by failing to provide the relatively modest but crucial aid which is so
badly needed there. Our objective is to help South Vietnam to develop a viable,
self-sufficient economy and the climate of security which will make that develop-
ment possible. To this end, the economic aid requested represented the amount
needed to support crucial capital development and agricultural productivity
efforts. The lower amount finally approved makes less likely the achievement of
our objectives and will significantly prolong the period needed for essential
development.
I appreciate the spirit of compromise which motivated the Congress to ex-
tend to February 5, 1975, the period during which military assistance to Turkey
may continue under specified circumstances. I regret, however, that the restric-
tion was imposed at all. Turkey remains a key element of U.S. security and polit-
ical interests in the eastern Mediterranean. The threat of cutoff of aid, even if
unfulfilled, cannot fail to have a damaging effect on our relations with one of our
staunch NATO allies whose geographic position is of great strategic importance.
This, in turn, could have a detrimental effect on our efforts to help achieve a nego-
tiated solution of the Cyprus problem.
779
