[325]
December 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
I regret the action of the Congress in cutting off the modest program of military
assistance to Chile. Although I share the concern of the Congress for the protec-
tion of human rights and look forward to continuing consultation with the
Chilean Government on this matter, I do not regard this measure as an effective
means for promoting that interest.
Finally, the Congress has directed that during the current fiscal year no more
than 30 percent of concessional food aid should be allocated to countries which
are not among those most seriously affected by food shortages—unless the Presi-
dent demonstrates that such food is required solely for humanitarian purposes.
I understand and share the spirit of humanitarianism that prompted a statement
of Congressional policy on this subject. But that policy could unduly bind the
flexibility of the United States in an arbitrary way in meeting the needs of friendly
countries and in pursuing our various interests abroad.
As with other differences which the Congress and the executive branch worked
out in consideration of this bill, I look forward to working with the 94th Cong-
gress in meeting and solving the problems that are still before us. We share
the common goal of best serving the interests of the people of the United States.
Working together, we shall continue to serve them responsibly.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3394, approved December 30, 1974, is Public Law 93-559 (88 Stat. 1795). The state-
ment was released at Vail, Colo.
326
Memorandum of Disapproval of Surface Mining Control
and Reclamation Legislation. December 30, 1974
I AM withholding my approval from S. 425, the Surface Mining Control and
Reclamation Act of 1974.
S. 425 would establish Federal standards for the environmental protection
and reclamation of surface coal mining operations, including the reclamation
of orphaned lands. Under a complex procedural framework, the bill would en-
courage the States to implement and enforce a program for the regulation of
surface coal mining with substitution of a federally administered program if the
States do not act.
The Executive Branch submitted to both the 92nd and 93rd Congresses legis-
lation that would have established reasonable and effective reclamation and en-
vironmental protection requirements for mining activities. Throughout this
period, the Administration made every effort in working with the Congress to
produce a bill that would strike the delicate balance between our desire for
780
