[284]
December 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
and economic problems, security and defense policy, and current East-West
discussions. Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs Henry A. Kissinger and Foreign Minister Hans Dietrich Genscher par-
ticipated in the discussions between the President and the Chancellor and held
complementary talks. In the economic talks, the President was joined by mem-
bers of his Economic Policy Board and the Chancellor was accompanied by
representatives of labor and business.
The President and the Chancellor reviewed the world economic situation in
depth and explored effective solutions for current economic problems. They
were agreed that international energy problems, the sharp increases in world
prices, the contraction of economic activities, and large-scale payments imbalance
constitute a severe threat to political and social stability in many countries. A
creative new effort to coordinate economic policies between the United States
and the Federal Republic of Germany, together with its partners in the European
Community, will be required to master these difficulties.
The United States of America and the Federal Republic of Germany recognize
the responsibility which falls to them for ensuring a prosperous international
economy and safeguarding world trade. In this context they attach great
significance to the upcoming multilateral trade negotiations. They reaffirmed
their international pledges to avoid trade and payments restrictions which
adversely affect other countries.
The President and the Chancellor agreed that in current circumstances they
both have a responsibility to manage their domestic economic policies so as
simultaneously to strengthen output and employment and to avoid new infla-
tionary impulses. They affirmed that both countries have a need to encourage
investment, to combat rising unemployment, and to act to increase confidence in
the financial and the economic outlook. They recognized that the two countries
are at different points in their fight against inflation, and that policies will take
that fact into account. They are determined not to permit a serious deterioration
in their economies to occur. If necessary, they will step in with adequate meas-
ures to prevent it.
The United States and the Federal Republic of Germany agreed that deter-
mination and cooperation are also necessary in dealing with energy-related
problems. They underlined the importance of the International Energy Agency
set up within the framework of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development to coordinate the energy policies of the industrialized countries.
They attach particular importance to measures to reduce dependence on imported
energy through conservation, more economic use of energy, and opening up of
722
