[221]
November 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, I ask you, my fellow citizens, to take the time tomorrow to go to the polls
and vote for the candidates of your choice. You will be voting for your own
future and exercising the power vested in free people which has carried this
country forward for almost 200 years. You will not just be voting for Democrats
or for Republicans, you will be casting your vote, a vote of confidence in the
United States of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded at 11:29 a.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
222
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on the
National Cancer Program. November 4, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to you the annual report on the National Cancer Pro-
gram's activities, progress and accomplishments during calendar year 1973, as
well as the plan for the program for the next five years. Both the report and
the plan are required by section 410A (b) of the Public Health Service Act as
amended by The National Cancer Act of 1971.
The plan is provided in two documents. The first, called "National Cancer
Program Operational Plan," covers the five-year plan for the program and de-
lineates the major policies and procedures used to operate the program. The sec-
ond document, called "Appendices to the National Cancer Program Operational
Plan,” includes separate brief descriptions of the individual research, control and
support programs of the National Cancer Institute. The funding levels con-
tained in the plan do not constitute a specific commitment or recommendation
by the Administration. Among other things, those levels do not adequately
take into account overall budgetary constraints and the competing demands
of other biomedical research programs.
The Administration is also deeply committed to an effective cancer research
program. The progress and accomplishments made in 1973 are gratifying. The
National Cancer Program is beginning to have an impact on Americans who
have cancer or are at risk to it. Today, more Americans than ever before have
access to the most advanced methods of cancer diagnosis, treatment and rehabili-
tation. This human endeavor and its successes are the result of the National
Cancer Institute's expanding research programs, and its efforts to apply for the
576
