[35]
August 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
istration is moving and moving strongly to meet the Nation's needs, both at home
and abroad.
But a President must have help to get his policies and plans into operation.
That is where you are needed and needed very badly. One of the most impor-
tant of our Republican concepts is to reverse the concentration of power in Wash-
ington. With the revenue sharing and such important new programs as the
Housing and Community Development Act which I signed into law this week,
we are beginning to see a transfer of power back to the people.
You, at State and local levels, are getting the power to decide where and how
your tax dollars are to be spent in more and more areas of human need. I think
that is a great trend in exactly the right direction. It is a trend that must continue,
and with your help in electing candidates who support such programs, the power
of the people will continue to grow.
You have a fine Governor. Bill Milliken has done an outstanding job. He has
a fine record of performance in office. You have an equally fine group of candi-
dates for Congressional and for State office.
I have a particular interest in our Congressional candidates. Our candidates for
the Congress are worthy of your full support. We need them in the House of
Representatives in Washington, D.C. Our legislative candidates in Lansing also
need your full support. Governor Bill Milliken must have help in the State
legislature.
You have a lot going for you during the coming campaign in our State. But
there has to be one additional factor, the dedicated efforts of Republican work-
ers. You—the key people in the Republican Party of Michigan-must give the
leadership and show the way.
It is time for all of us to get down to hard work. With your very real effort, we
together can show those who despair the future just how wrong they are. Join
with me in helping to build a better America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded for use at 12 noon at the convention in Detroit, Mich.
36
Remarks to Members of the Little League World
Series Teams.
August 26, 1974
LET ME welcome all of you on behalf of myself and the American people. We
are very grateful to have the teams from the countries that came from abroad. We
52
