[173]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
talked with. Of course, you are familiar with Floyd Spence up here, one of those
real fine, strong, dedicated Members of the House of Representatives.
Then Ed Young, he joined us at the time of the 1972 election-strong, tough,
able, dedicated. When I was the minority leader of the House, he was great, he
was wonderful, he helped me tremendously, and I hope that you send Ed back,
along with Floyd.
Marshall Parker was with me up in Anderson. Fantastic. We dedicated a new
building for the two newspapers up there. I expected maybe a couple-300 or 500
people. How many were there, Strom? Ten thousand, ten thousand people. I
think Marshall Parker is going to win, and he will be a great Member of the
House of Representatives.
Then we just came from Rock Hill. How many people were there, Strom?
Ten or twelve thousand in Rock Hill, a tremendous crowd. The enthusiasm
convinces me that Len Phillips is going to win that election in that Fifth Con-
gressional District.
Bob Watkins, who I met for the first time today in the Fourth District-Bob is
a good candidate. I certainly wish him the very, very, very best.
A few moments ago, I mentioned the need and the necessity for the two-party
system, how it has grown and thrived under the leadership and the guidance, the
inspiration of Strom Thurmond. I happen to think that a two-party system
brings competition to the political arena.
I know from my own experience that competition in athletics is good for the
players, the spectators. I know that competition in business is good for the
businessman, for the consumer. I know in education or law or any other field of
endeavor, competition is a necessary ingredient if we want the best produced
for those who will be the beneficiaries.
And it is exactly true in politics. A two-party system generates that kind of
competition. It gives individuals who go into that sacred voting booth a choice.
And gee, we want a choice.
And that brings up something that I would like to speak on, if I might. A
choice today, as far as the battle against inflation is concerned, is a choice on the
one hand between the big spenders or the savers. And I happen to believe from
personal observation—and I watched it for 25 years in the House of Representa-
tives—the Republican Members of the House and the Senate are primarily the
savers, and their opposition are the spenders.
And if we are going to win the battle against inflation, we have to have more
savers than spenders. That is why you ought to have Republicans.
I know that some of the people who want a different kind of a Congress are
398
