[216]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Presidential cufflinks. For the kids, we are going to auction off two autographed
footballs. And for the girls, we are going to auction off Kennerly. [Laughter]
Really, I am terribly pleased to be here. I have heard so much about your
science and industry museum. These are certainly two areas where our Nation
excels, and I think it is only fitting that OMSI should be recognized worldwide as
one of the finest museums of science and industry in the whole world.
We Americans have always been a very stubborn lot, so it is, I think, relatively
characteristic that in America this fine institution was created by people, and it
never asked for any tax subsidies, and I congratulate you.
I am delighted and honored to participate on an occasion like this where you
raise your money, and you do not come down and see all of us in Washington,
asking for a little help. I would do this 24 hours a day for all organizations if we
could avoid that, believe me.
But any institution that is organized, run, and paid for by people in sort of
the good, old-fashioned way, the barnraising method, I think it is great. And to
do this here in Oregon, in Portland, I think is sort of characteristic of the wonder-
ful people and the concepts and the principles that you have.
And although I would not suggest seriously that we move this project to
Washington-[laughter]—I think Members of Congress could benefit by a
visit here, not only by people in government but a lot of people outside, in many
other parts of our country.
You know, they tell me the day we landed a man on the Moon, you were
already teaching a course here at OMSI about Moon topography, and I congratu-
late you. And I made a speech a few weeks ago about exploring new sources of
energy, and I find here at OMSI, you already have an exhibit-actually working
models of just about all these new sources of energy, whether it is solar, geo-
thermal, or what have you.
This is the kind of vision, the kind of imagination that I think is what we need,
not only in Portland but elsewhere. And I am also greatly interested in your
latest development here, with the cooperation of the Bureau of Standards, of an
exhibit on how the metric system works.
I am not sure I understand it, but I am glad you are teaching the younger
generation, because I think it is important as we become more and more
integrated in a global sense.
I understand this exhibit is scheduled to travel all over the United States,
and that, in and of itself, is a tribute to Portland, and I congratulate you.
Sometimes, we think of museums as old, musty, out-of-the-way places, rem-
554
