September 12
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
throughout this Congress. It would greatly reduce the problem of opening new
coal mines and increasing production if acceptable mined area legislation can
be enacted. I am asking Secretary of the Interior Morton to continue discussions
with legislative leaders in an effort to reach an agreement over troublesome
provisions in this measure.
The Illegal Aliens legislation is necessary to establish clear guidelines regard-
ing the law for employment of aliens who work in this country. The House
has already passed a bill. I would hope the Senate could consider this measure
during the fall term.
Real progress was made on the House floor when the Conference report on
the Veterans Education Bill was substantially reduced in terms of Federal
expenditures. I hope the Senate will now act in the same spirit. This can be
done by reducing the benefit limit to the original Senate bill. It provided a sub-
stantial increase—18.2 percent. But cost-of-living increases for our veterans in
school are necessary. I urge the Senate to reaffirm its original rate increase and
send the bill to me so benefits can begin.
In May of 1973, the Administration proposed the Job Security Assistance Act.
This measure is an important part of our policy to assist in a period of rising
unemployment. It would modernize the unemployment compensation system
without violating the relationship between the States and the Federal
government.
I recognize the concern of many that unemployment might rise because of
the policies we must follow to fight inflation.
I am watching the unemployment rate very closely. This Administration will
act with compassion. We will not permit the burden of necessary economic
restraint to fall on those members of society least able to bear the costs.
The unemployment rate in August, announced last Friday, was 5.4 percent.
While we certainly cannot be complacent about any American lacking work,
we are thankful that the number is not larger.
The present situation calls for full use of available tools and dollars.
I have asked Secretary of Labor Brennan to accelerate the obligation of cur-
rently available funds under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act.
The Secretary will immediately disperse $65 million to those communities
in which unemployment is highest. By the end of the month he will make avail-
able another $350 million under CETA Title II. This $415 million will finance
some 85,000 public sector jobs in State and local governments. Added to the
almost $550 million obligated for public service employment in June from the
FY 1974 appropriation, and about $50 million in other funds, currently available
129
