[301]
December 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
such as this, people tend to wonder, in fact, who
won, who came out on top, who gave the conces-
sions, who, in fact, was the victor. But at the very
outset, you will recall that I said it was my hope
that, in fact, there would be neither a matter of
concessions nor victors in a case like this, but we
should both emerge from these talks with the feel-
ing that we had, in fact, achieved something use-
ful, realistic, and worthwhile in furthering the so-
lutions of the problems that we are, in fact,
discussing.
And could I say very sincerely, Mr. President, how
very much Madame Giscard d'Estaing and myself
deeply regret the absence of Mrs. Ford. We had been
looking forward very much to meeting her here on
this occasion, and I may say that some of the ar-
rangements that had been made had been made pre-
cisely in anticipation of the pleasure of, for instance,
having her with us today at lunch.
Now, there is one great advantage of this situa-
tion, and that is that the rights of international
affairs dictate that one cannot, twice running, in-
vite the same head of state. That means, therefore,
that despite the great pleasure that this would afford
us, it would not be possible for us to invite you, sir,
again so soon. But we could, of course, invite Mrs.
Ford. And we would very much hope that she would
accept, and that you would be kind enough to ac-
company her.
Now, people in this world of ours very often ask
themselves all sorts of questions, and indeed, one of
the things they often wonder about, apparently, is
why statesmen, in fact, are statesmen and why they
accept to sacrifice many aspects of their existence
to the responsibilities of state.
Now, as far as you are concerned—and I have seen
this during our talks-and as far as I am concerned,
the reason, perhaps, for which we do so is that we
feel that we have, perhaps, a contribution to make in
furthering the affairs of the world.
Now, the fact that the responsibilities that we
have to shoulder at this particular time in history
are particularly heavy at the same time means that
our contribution will be a significant contribution.
Now, it is clear, however, that the affairs of man-
kind and the peace of the world do not depend
solely on the action or the efforts of one country
alone-however big that country may be-but will
always depend on the combination, on the conjunc-
tion of the efforts of several. And I now know that
it is quite clear that we will be able to work together.
Mr. President, when the French Fleet left these
waters two centuries ago for the North American
Continent, there were doubtless, at the time of de-
parture, great festivities on board. And I can well
imagine that my ancestor may well have offered a
toast on that occasion which would probably have
had something to do with the wishes that he would
have expressed concerning the continent that they
were about to discover and would have expressed
their hopes and their expectations.
Now, this evening, today, the situation to some
extent is the other way around in that it is we who
are hosting you here in Martinique. But the French
Martinique of two centuries ago and the French.
Martinique of today, Mr. President, are deeply proud
of having here the visit today of the President of
the United States. Our friend, the President.
302
Communique Following Discussions With President
Giscard d'Estaing of France. December 16, 1974
THE PRESIDENT of the United States, Gerald R. Ford, and the President
of the French Republic, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, met in Martinique Decem-
ber 14-16, 1974, to discuss current issues of mutual concern. They were joined
in their discussions by the Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs Henry A. Kissinger and Minister of Foreign Affairs
Jean Sauvagnargues, and by Secretary of the Treasury William Simon and
Minister of Finance Jean-Pierre Fourcade. The Ministers also held complemen-
tary side talks.
The meeting took place in an atmosphere of cordiality and mutual confidence.
754
