[211]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the States like California; cooperation between individuals, between indi-
vidual States and their counties and their communities. If we are going to win
the struggle against inflation, we must exercise some rigid fiscal control and
responsibility and prudence at every level, from the housewife making better
use of her budget to the Congress in Washington curbing its appetite for un-
controllable spending.
I think you are fortunate here in California in that you have already established
a tradition of fiscal prudence in your State government. When my good friend
Ron Reagan replaced the Democrat in Sacramento nearly 8 years ago, California
was suffering from a deficit of about $325 million. During the last Brown admin-
istration, I understand you could do real well in Sacramento selling red ink to
the statehouse. It was not much, but it was very steady.
Fortunately, your great Governor cleaned up the mess that he inherited, using
modern management techniques that are now being copied by Governors from
many, many States, both Democratic as well as Republican.
As a result of this technique or technology, he was able to get your State out
of the financial grief that he inherited. When Ron leaves office, I am told
California will be enjoying a surplus of around $400 million.
That kind of fiscal prudence can make a big dent in inflation. California, as I
see it, cannot afford the risk of losing what he has done by electing a big round
of new spenders, statewide or nationwide. Hugh Flournoy understands this;
John Harmer, your outstanding Lieutenant Governor candidate knows this. So
does Bill Richardson, who will make a great Senator for your State. So does
Evelle Younger, Brian [Van] Camp, Bill Bagley, John Kehoe.² I have had the
privilege in several visits to California to meet them, to compare them with the
kind of people that I see on the other side of the political aisle and in other
States throughout the Union.
So, I think in California you are fortunate, lucky to have this talent available
to elect, to run your State for the next 4 years. And unlike Hugh's opponent, they
also understand the concept of teamwork; teamwork in the fight against infla-
tion and the benefits that can be derived from cooperation between the State
and the Federal Government, and between the State and local units of govern-
ment.
From Hugh Flournoy on down on the ballot, California has a Republican slate
Evelle J. Younger was the Republican candidate for reelection as State attorney general; Brian R. Van
Camp was the Republican candidate for secretary of state; State Assemblyman William T. Bagley was the
Republican candidate for State comptroller; and John T. Kehoe was the Republican candidate for State
treasurer.
532
