September 11
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I think it also goes beyond any divisions based on age, sex, race, color, or creed.
The enlistment of trade unionists in the war against inflation is consistent with
the patriotic involvement of American labor in every great challenge that our
Nation has faced. Without the productive dedication of American labor, World
War II might have ended very differently.
Labor built America, and labor is America. Together we must now preserve
and enhance the economic base of our existence from everybody's enemy, the
scourge of inflation. I have described it as public enemy number one in America,
and it might be expanded actually to say that it is a worldwide problem.
We need your advice and we need your guidance on this issue of such over-
whelming concern to all your members. I want your ideas on steps which can
help the individual as well as the Nation.
Today's meeting is a part of the series that culminates in the [summit] Con-
ference on Inflation on September 27 and 28. Since this is only a 1-day session,
let's get directly to the point. Let's dispense with formality. Let's be frank. Let
us also try to keep our comments brief and specifically on target.
I should say that the meeting we held last week with 28 outstanding econ-
omists was, by all standards, a success.
I must confess I was dubious that we could get that many divergent economists
together and have them come up with a superb performance, which they did,
and I am confident in this room we can have the same constructive results.
I will certainly welcome, however, any detailed statement that anyone wishes
to make in the form of a written proposal, and please submit these directly to
me, if you will, within the next several days. This will give us adequate time to
consider them before the conclusion of the designated time frame.
You are aware of the severity of inflation although inflation is unfortunately
no novelty in our economic history.
Its present form is the worst we have experienced in 27 years. Consumer prices
are increasing at an unacceptable annual rate of 11 percent. Statistics alone are
inadequate to describe the inflation in human terms; cold and impersonal num-
bers and percentages cannot describe the impact on individuals' lives.
While everyone is hit by inflation, some obviously are hit much harder. I am
thinking of families in the low- and moderate-income levels, of older people who
are struggling, trying to live on modest incomes, or young people whose initial
experience with the employment scene may not generate real confidence in our
economic system. These are very real human problems which must guide the
actions of Government as well as the decisions in the private sector.
Government has a particular obligation to act responsibly, and we will. We
115
