[270]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
mation, and other valuable services. In these times of increased concern about
food availability at home and abroad, the United States is obliged to help protect
that supply. The cost of participation in OIE is small when weighed against its
potential benefits. Also the United States can make its scientific and managerial
experience in disease control available through OIE in an effective way to under-
line our international interest in food supply.
I, therefore, recommend that the Senate grant early and favorable considera-
tion to the Agreement and give its advice and consent to accession.
The White House,
December 2, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the treaty and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive M (93d Cong.,
2d sess.).
271
The President's News Conference of
December 2, 1974
TRIP TO JAPAN, THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA, AND THE SOVIET UNION
OPENING STATEMENT
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Perhaps I can anticipate some of your questions by sum-
marizing my recent visits to Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the Soviet Union.
In Japan, we succeeded in establishing a new era of relations between our two
countries. We demonstrated our continuing commitment to the independence
and to the security of South Korea. At Vladivostok we put a firm ceiling on the
strategic arms race, which heretofore has eluded us since the nuclear age began.
I believe this is something for which future generations will thank us.
Finally, Secretary Kissinger's mission maintained the momentum in China
with the People's Republic of China.
My meetings at Vladivostok with General Secretary Brezhnev were a valu-
able opportunity to review Soviet-American relations and chart their future
course. Although this was our original purpose, Secretary Brezhnev and I found
it possible to go beyond this get-acquainted stage.
Building on the achievements of the past 3 years, we agreed that the prospects
were favorable for more substantial and, may I say, very intensive negotiations on
678
