October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
(2) Others were urging resignation sooner or later. I was told some people
backed the first course and other people a resignation but not with the same
views as to how and when it should take place.
On the resignation issue, there were put forth a number of options which
General Haig reviewed with me. As I recall his conversation, various possible
options being considered included:
(1) the President temporarily step aside under the 25th amendment;
(2) delaying resignation until further along the impeachment process;
(3) trying first to settle for a censure vote as a means of avoiding either
impeachment or a need to resign;
(4) the question of whether the President could pardon himself;
(5) pardoning various Watergate defendants, then himself, followed by
resignation;
(6) a pardon to the President, should he resign;
The rush of events placed an urgency on what was to be done. It became
even more critical in view of a prolonged impeachment trial which was expected
to last possibly 4 months or longer.
The impact of the Senate trial on the country, the handling of possible inter-
national crises, the economic situation here at home, and the marked slowdown
in the decisionmaking process within the Federal Government were all factors
to be considered and were discussed.
General Haig wanted my views on the various courses of action as well as my
attitude on the options of resignation. However, he indicated he was not
advocating any of the options. I inquired as to what was the President's pardon
power, and he answered that it was his understanding from a White House
lawyer that a President did have the authority to grant a pardon even before any
criminal action had been taken against an individual, but, obviously, he was in
no position to have any opinion on a matter of law.
As I saw it, at this point the question clearly before me was, under the
circumstances, what course of action should I recommend that would be in the
best interest of the country.
I told General Haig I had to have time to think; further, that I wanted to talk
to James St. Clair. I also said I wanted to talk to my wife before giving any
response. I had consistently and firmly held the view previously that in no way
whatsoever could I recommend either publicly or privately any step by the
President that might cause a change in my status as Vice President. As the
person who would become President if a vacancy occurred for any reason in
that office, a Vice President, I believed, should endeavor not to do or say anything
343
