September 19
[85]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
And besides, as one of the great philosophers once said—and it was Henry A.
Kissinger "Nobody will ever win the battle of the sexes. There is just too much
fraternizing with the enemy." [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:50 p.m. at the
Sheraton-Carlton Hotel, prior to administering the
oath of office to Ronald A. Sarro, a reporter for
the Washington Star-News. In his remarks, the
President referred to Wauhillau LaHay, former pres-
ident of the Washington Press Club, Miriam Otten-
berg, chairman of the club's inaugural party com-
mittee, and Marjorie Hunter, a reporter for the New
York Times.
85
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Protocol to the
United States-Soviet Antiballistic Missile Treaty.
September 19, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith the Protocol to the Treaty between the United States of
America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Limitation of Anti-
Ballistic Missile Systems. This Protocol was signed in Moscow on July 3, 1974.
I ask the Senate's advice and consent to its ratification.
The provisions of the Protocol are explained in detail in the report of the De-
partment of State which I enclose. The main effect of the Protocol is to limit
further the level and potential extent of ABM deployment permitted by the 1972
ABM Treaty. The Protocol furthers fundamental United States objectives set
forth in President Nixon's message to the Senate of June 13, 1972 transmitting
the Agreements reached at SALT ONE.
The ABM Treaty prohibits the deployment of operational ABM systems or
their components except at two deployment areas, one centered on a Party's na-
tional capital area and the other in a separate area containing ICBM silo launch-
ers. The Protocol would amend the Treaty to limit each Party to a single ABM
deployment area at any one time, which level is consistent with the current level
of deployment. However, each side would retain the right to remove its ABM
system and the components thereof from their present deployment area and to
deploy an ABM system or its components in the alternative deployment area per-
mitted by the ABM Treaty. This right may be exercised only once.
This Protocol represents a further advance in the stabilization of the strategic
relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union. It reinforces the
ABM Treaty provision that neither Party will establish a nationwide ABM de-
fense or a base for such a defense.
165
