[101]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
101
Message to the Congress Transmitting Final Report of the
Advisory Council on Intergovernmental Personnel
Policy. September 25, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
It is a privilege for me to transmit to the Congress the final report of the
Advisory Council on Intergovernmental Personnel Policy.
This report, which supplements earlier work by the Council, addresses three
issues of importance to Government at all levels: equal employment, labor man-
agement relations, and the development of workforce policies by State and local
governments. Because the members of the Council have expressed themselves
forcefully and forthrightly on these matters, their work should serve as a useful
reference point for public officials everywhere. All of us should be indebted to
the Council members for their dedicated service and wisdom.
The White House,
September 25, 1974.
NOTE: The 63-page report is entitled "More Effec-
tive Public Service-The Supplementary Report to
GERALD R. FORD
the President and the Congress by the Advisory
Council on Intergovernmental Personnel Policy."
102
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on the
Food for Peace Program. September 25, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress the 1973 annual report on agricultural
export activities carried out under Public Law 480 (Food for Peace). This has
been a successful program. It has provided a channel for humanitarian assist-
ance, promoted economic development and, in general, supported foreign policy
objectives of the United States.
Throughout the year, the Food for Peace program demonstrated its flexibility
in a changing agricultural situation. Because of the tight commodity supply
situation in the United States, shipments during the year were somewhat
restricted. This was especially true of wheat and wheat product shipments. How-
ever, our food contributions to the drought-stricken African countries, including
194
