[240]
November 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment of the oil reserves at Elk Hills, California, and with exploration and
development of the reserve in northern Alaska. We must not wait for another
energy crisis to force action, perhaps too late, on these vital resources.
APPROPRIATIONS
There are four regular appropriations bills still to be enacted—Agriculture-
Environmental and Consumer Protection, Labor-HEW, Military Construction
and Foreign Assistance-and the important First Supplemental Appropriations
bill.
Action has not yet been completed in the Senate on the Agriculture-Environ-
mental and Consumer Protection Appropriation Bill for fiscal year 1975. This
bill was vetoed by President Nixon on August 8th because it would have sub-
stantially increased Federal spending. I urge the Congress to complete action on
this appropriation measure as soon as possible within reasonable funding limits.
The Labor-HEW and Related Agencies Appropriations bill is currently in
conference. Unfortunately, the totals are excessive. Unless the Congress reduces
funding in both the House and Senate versions, I will have no choice but to veto
this measure.
Appropriations now pending for Military Construction and Foreign Assist-
ance should be given high priority.
The First Supplemental Appropriation bill has passed the House and is pend-
ing on the Senate calendar. However, I am concerned about the inflationary
aspects of the Senate version and hope final action will produce an acceptable bill.
VETOES
During the adjournment, it was necessary for me to pocket veto five bills. Two
were private relief measures and three were legislative issues: National Wildlife
Refuge System, Farm Labor Contractor Registration, and Rehabilitation Act
Amendments.
I have determined on advice of the Attorney General that the absence of my
signature from these bills prevented them from becoming law. Without in any
way qualifying this determination, I also returned them without approval to
those designated by the Congress to receive messages during the adjournment
period.
If the Congress should elect to challenge these vetoes by overriding them, there
624
