[246]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
foreign state. Japan's investment in America is growing rapidly and accounts
for one-fifth of all Japanese investment abroad.
The flow of Japanese visitors to the United States has grown from some 50,000
in 1966 to over 700,000 in 1974. This is also a two-way street: Over 350,000
Americans visited Japan last year, accounting for nearly one-half of all foreign
visitors.
Together we removed the legacies of World War II. The reversion of Okinawa
eliminated the last vestige of that war from our agenda. We have made inde-
pendent but mutually compatible efforts to improve our relations with the Soviet
Union and the People's Republic of China. We have devised better channels for
open consultation. I particularly want you to know that I understand the dangers
of taking each other for granted.
As we talk to each other, we must ask each other what we regard as the cen-
tral needs of our time.
First, of course, is peace. Americans and Japanese know the value of peace.
We want to devote our resources and ourselves to building things, not tearing
them down. We do not want to send our sons into battle again.
The alliance between Japan and the United States has helped to secure peace
and can contribute to help secure it. That alliance is not directed against any
other country. It does not prevent us from improving our relations with other
countries.
Our alliance does not signify that both nations subscribe fully to identical
attitudes or identical styles. It does signify, however, that we clearly share a com-
mon resolve to maintain stability in East Asia, to help in the development of
other countries that need our help, and to work together to encourage diplomatic
and political rather than military solutions to world problems.
Our alliance was forged by people who saw their national interest in friend-
ship and in cooperation. I am confident that our relations will remain solid and
very substantial. I pledge that we shall work to make it so.
Peace, however, cannot be our sole concern. We have learned that there are
many international threats and dangers that can affect the lives of our citizens.
We face dwindling supplies of raw materials and food. We face international
economic problems of great complexity. We must be more stringent in conser-
vation than ever before.
We worked together to solve the problems of the cold war. We succeeded
because we worked together. Now we confront these new and even more com-
plicated problems.
The Japanese reformer, Sakuma Shozan, wrote some lines in 1854 that provide
638
