[252]
November 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
have described so very vividly. I want to see for myself what you have built upon
the ashes of war.
I am here, Mr. President, to reaffirm our friendship and to give it new life and
meaning.
Nothing binds nations together closer than to have fought side by side for the
same cause. Two times we have stood together, here as well as in Vietnam, to
preserve the peace, to preserve the stability of Asia and the world. We can never
forget this.
Though we have been together with you in war, America's deepest hope is for
a world of peace. Let us now join to preserve peace and to prevent any recur-
rence of hostilities. That is our continuing commitment which I today reaffirm.
I thank you very much, Mr. President, for this heartwarming welcome. My
only regret is that my wife, Mrs. Ford, is not here at my side. She sends her greet-
ings to the great Korean people. She looks forward to hearing in detail from me
personally about this visit.
You were most gracious, Mr. President, to invite me. I am proud to come here
on this, my first overseas journey as President of the United States.
I thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. at Kimpo International Airport, where he was greeted by Korean
President Park Chung Hee.
253
Remarks at Camp Casey, Republic of Korea.
November 22, 1974
LET ME just make one or two observations and comments.
As Commander in Chief, I am very proud of this great division. I am very
impressed with the people that I have met and the exhibition that I have seen.
This is the kind of strong, vigorous American spirit that has made America in
197 years a country in which all of us have tremendous pride.
We are proud of you. We know you can do the job. Thank you on behalf of
213 million other Americans who have their hearts and their faith and their best
wishes with you.
Thank you very, very much.
[The President spoke at 12:53 p.m. at Indianhead Field after attending a football game between members of
the United States Army 2d Infantry Division, headquartered at the camp. Following his remarks, the Presi-
dent went to Hanson Fieldhouse where he attended intra-divisional championship matches of tae kwon do,
a form of Korean karate, and received a plaque marking his visit to Camp Casey. His remarks there,
beginning at 1:25 p.m., follow.]
650
