October 7
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Lola Aiken. It was this expression, which is typical of her, which has made her
so popular in Washington and, I think, so popular here in Vermont.
And to you as well as George, Lola, I express heartfelt gratitude not only for
Vermont and Washington but for the Nation as a whole, and it is my privilege
and honor to be here on this occasion.
But you know, as it has been since the days of Ethan Allen, the Green Moun-
tain State continues to produce outstanding leaders. I have known quite a few
in my 25 years in the House and a few months since then.
Bob Stafford came to the House after I had been there a few years. He was a
former Governor. He came with a great reputation as an individual who had
served so well. And I can only say that it is wonderful to see him rise with de-
served recognition in the United States Senate.
Bob, it is nice to be here with you and Helen tonight.
Dick Mallary came a couple of years ago, and he, like Bob, had a wonderful
reputation for superb service in your State legislature. A former Speaker, a man
who was an expert in fiscal and financial affairs, he was instantly recognized in
the House of Representatives for this experience, his integrity, and his skill. And
it is a pleasure for me to see that he is your candidate for the United States
Senate.
Dick, I look forward to you extending and expanding the contributions
that you have made in the past to the future, on behalf of not only Vermont but
to the country as a whole. Good luck. It is wonderful to see you coming down
the path.
I have to be frank though. I hate to see good people like Bob Stafford leave
the House and good people like Dick Mallary leave the House, because my heart
really was in the House of Representatives. It was my home for nearly—or
over 25 years.
And with the departure of Dick Mallary, I just hope and trust that Jim Jeffords
will follow and be in the great image, in the great pattern of people like Charlie
Plumley, Bob Stafford, Win Prouty,¹ Dick Mallary. These are the kind of people
that you have sent in the past and the kind that I hope you will send in the
future, and Jim Jeffords is in that mold. Jim, good luck to you.
Mr. Chairman, it was wonderful that you recognized Jeannette Prouty, a
dear friend of Betty's and myself. Just nice to see you, Jeannette.
We have had some other fine people appear on the program. I was delighted to
¹ Charles A. Plumley, United States Representative from Vermont 1933-51, and Winston L. Prouty,
United States Senator from Vermont 1958-71.
2 Richard A. Snelling was chairman of the dinner.
221
