August 13
[7]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
conduct. If we can make effective and earlier use of moral and ethical wisdom
of the centuries in today's complex society, we will prevent more crime and more
corruption than all the policemen and prosecutors governments can ever deter.
If I might say so, this is a job that must begin at home, not in Washington.
I once told you that I am not a saint, and I hope never to see the day that I
cannot admit having made a mistake. So I will close with another confession.
Frequently, along the tortuous road of recent months from this chamber to
the President's House, I protested that I was my own man. Now I realize that
I was wrong.
I am your man, for it was your carefully weighed confirmation that changed
my occupation.
The truth is I am the people's man, for you acted in their name, and I accepted
and began my new and solemn trust with a promise to serve all the people and
do the best that I can for America.
When I say all the people, I mean exactly that.
To the limits of my strength and ability, I will be the President of black,
brown, red, and white Americans, of old and young, of women's liberationists
and male chauvinists—[laughter]—and all the rest of us in-between, of the poor
and the rich, of native sons and new refugees, of those who work at lathes or at
desks or in mines or in the fields, of Christians, Jews, Moslems, Buddhists, and
atheists, if there really are any atheists after what we have all been through.
Fellow Americans, one final word: I want to be a good President. I need your
help. We all need God's sure guidance. With it, nothing can stop the United
States of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 p.m. in the
House Chamber at the Capitol, after being intro-
duced by Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives. The address was broadcast live on
radio and television.
7
Veto of Legislation To Reclassify and Upgrade Deputy
United States Marshals. August 13, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am today returning to the Congress without my approval H.R. 5094, a
measure that would require the reclassification and upgrading of deputy United
States marshals.
13
