[91]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
91
Memorandum on the Career Civil Service.
September 20, 1974
MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
Whatever else, recent experience has proven one thing about the Federal
Government: It can continue to function and move ahead even under the most
difficult circumstances. This is due chiefly to more than two million career civil
servants who, day-in and day-out, give of themselves in a thoroughly dedicated
and efficient manner to assure this continuity.
These men and women act in the best traditions of the career civil service
which has demanded from them for more than 90 years the highest degree of
professionalism and competence. In return, it has assured them of a competitive
system free from political considerations either in their appointments or in their
promotions.
I intend to keep it that way—and I call upon you to see to it that the merit
principles contained in the Civil Service Act and the personnel laws and regu-
lations are fully and effectively carried out in your department or agency.
Appointments and promotions in the career service must not be made on the
basis of either politics, race, creed or sex.
I have informed the Chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission
of my determination to keep the Federal career service just that—a career service
in which men and women can be accepted in the first place on their ability and
promoted on their merit. I ask you to make sure your agency fully complies with
both the letter and the spirit of the law in this regard.
GERALD R. FORD
92
Remarks Announcing Appointment of Ron Nessen as Press
Secretary to the President. September 20, 1974
THIS is an opportunity for me to make a very, very pleasing announcement.
I think I am very, very fortunate on this occasion to have the opportunity of
announcing to all of you and to others, in fact, that Ron Nessen is going to be
my Press Secretary.
Ron, as you know, has a superb reputation-standing-in the electronic media,
174
