October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
appeared as a nominee under the 25th amendment for Vice President, that you
would once again appear before this committee as President of the United
States.
I would only comment, no matter how well-motivated the desire to put Water-
gate behind us, I can only acknowledge today that several key issues in the news
this morning—the President's appearance before this committee, the trial down-
town, the Watergate trial itself, and even the nomination of Mr. Rockefeller to
be the Vice President, occasioned by a vacancy due to Watergate—all of these
still command the attention of the American people, and I guess we will just
have to be patient.
Mr. President, you indicated that you wanted to spare Mr. Nixon a criminal
trial. Did you specifically have any other end in view in terms of protecting
Mr. Nixon in terms of a pardon; that is to say, whatever a pardon would spare
the President other than a criminal trial, were there any other adversities which
a pardon would help Mr. Nixon with, as you saw it?
THE PRESIDENT. As I indicated in the proclamation that I issued, and as I indi-
cated in the statement I made at the time on September 8, my prime reason was
for the benefit of the country, not for any benefits that might be for Mr. Nixon.
I exercised my pardon authority under the Constitution, which relates only to
those criminal matters during the period from January 20, 1969, until August 9,
1974.
CONGRESSMAN KASTENMEIER. I appreciate that, Mr. President, but it must have
been something you foresaw which could happen to Mr. Nixon which justified a
pardon, if in fact you were advised, and perhaps you were not, that there was no
proceeding going to be commenced against Mr. Nixon, that nothing would
happen to him, really a pardon may have been an empty gesture in that event?
THE PRESIDENT. As I indicated, Mr. Kastenmeier, after the press conference on
August 28 where three questions were raised about the pardon or the possibility
of a pardon, I asked my Counsel to find out from the Special Prosecutor what,
if any, charges were being considered by the Special Prosecutor's office.
As I indicated in my prepared statement, I received from Mr. Jaworski cer-
tain information indicating that there were possible or potential criminal
proceedings against Mr. Nixon.
CONGRESSMAN KAstenmeier. But you did not determine, as a matter of fact,
that there was any intention to proceed to indictment with any of those.matters,
is that not correct?
THE PRESIDENT. In the memorandum, I believe of September 4, from Mr.
353
