[309]
December 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
ations require that I submit my resignation as your
Deputy Assistant for Legislative Affairs effective De-
cember 31, 1974.
I will always be grateful for your asking me to
continue in my position the same day you were
sworn in as President of the United States.
To serve as the President's representative in the
Senate has been an incomparable experience which
I shall always cherish; likewise, it has been a dis-
tinct privilege to serve on your White House staff.
I shall remember fondly our personal relationship
through the years when you were Minority Leader,
Vice President and now as President. I also thank
you for your many kindnesses, professionally and
personally to me and my family.
I regret that I will not be able to share the many
accomplishments that are ahead for you both do-
mestically and internationally. I leave the White
House, however, with the fullest confidence that
you will achieve the goals you have set for our Na-
tion. And, in your efforts, I wish you every success.
Warm best wishes to you and the First Lady.
Sincerely,
TOм C. KOROLOGOS
Deputy Assistant to the President
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
310
Letter Accepting the Resignation of W. Eugene Ainsworth, Jr., as
Special Assistant to the President. December 18, 1974
Dear Gene:
I have your letter of December 9, and your resignation as Special Assistant to
the President, effective as you requested December 31, 1974, is accepted with
deepest regret. While I fully understand the personal and professional considera-
tions which led to your decision, I want you to know that your superb services in
the White House Office of Legislative Affairs will be greatly missed.
As an able, dedicated member of our Congressional liaison staff, no one better
appreciates than you the vital importance of sound, effective working relation-
ships between the White House and the Congress. Time and again, in fulfilling
the special trust and responsibilities of your position, you have demon-
strated that major legislative successes can be achieved even under the most diffi-
cult circumstances. This has been due in very large measure not only to your
thorough understanding of governmental processes, but also to your exceptional
ability to work within these processes and do so with utmost integrity and com-
mitment to the greatest good for the American people. You have earned their
thanks, the respect and friendship of your colleagues on both sides of the poli-
tical fence, and my own lasting admiration and gratitude.
Now, as you prepare to depart, I am confident the same outstanding skills you
brought to the White House will serve you well in your new career in the private
sector. Certainly, you have my warmest good wishes for all of life's blessings in
the years ahead.
764
