October 8
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
House, and incidentally, I have made my economic experts read some of them,
too. We all benefited, at least I did, and I thank each and every one of you for
this cooperation.
Some of the good ideas from your home to mine have been cranked into the
recommendations I have just made to the Congress and the steps I am taking as
President to whip inflation right now. There were also firm warnings on what
Government must not do, and I appreciated those, too. Your best suggestions
for voluntary restraint and self-discipline showed me that a great degree of
patriotic determination and unanimity already exists in this great land.
I have asked Congress for urgent specific actions it alone can take. I advised
Congress of the initial steps that I am taking as President. Here is what only
you can do: Unless every able American pitches in, Congress and I cannot do
the job. Winning our fight against inflation and waste involves total mobiliza-
tion of America's greatest resources-the brains, the skills, and the willpower
of the American people.
Here is what we must do, what each and every one of you can do: To help
increase food and lower prices, grow more and waste less; to help save scarce
fuel in the energy crisis, drive less, heat less. Every housewife knows almost ex-
actly how much she spent for food last week. If you cannot spare a penny from
your food budget—and I know there are many-surely you can cut the food
that you waste by 5 percent.
Every American motorist knows exactly how many miles he or she drives to
work or to school every day and about how much mileage she or he runs up each
year. If we all drive at least 5 percent fewer miles, we can save, almost unbeliev-
ably, 250,000 barrels of foreign oil per day. By the end of 1975, most of us can do
better than 5 percent by carpooling, taking the bus, riding bikes, or just plain
walking. We can save enough gas by self-discipline to meet our 1 million barrels
per day goal.
I think there is one final thing that all Americans can do, rich or poor, and
that is share with others. We can share burdens as we can share blessings. Shar-
ing is not easy, not easy to measure like mileage and family budgets, but I am
sure that 5 percent more is not nearly enough to ask, so I ask you to share every-
thing you can and a little bit more. And it will strengthen our spirits as well as
our economy.
Today I will not take more of the time of this busy Congress, for I vividly
remember the rush before every recess, and the clock is already running on my
specific and urgent requests for legislative action. I also remember how much
Congress can get done when it puts its shoulder to the wheel.
237
