[210]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
criticized as the cause of high food prices. Now, as you well know, farmers are
more likely—as a matter of fact, they are probably, without any doubt, the
victims of inflation more than its cause. By farmer efficiency and by American
agriculture's ever-increasing productivity, farmers are actually in the frontline
troops, who are staving off what might well have been an even more serious
round of inflation if it had not been for their efforts.
I am acutely aware of the problems that have beset agriculture in America
and the very challenging problems that you face in the growing of your crops
and the marketing of your efforts.
Now, some of these have been aggravated by unwise decisions by your Govern-
ment. Others are the result of absolutely unusual weather problems. It was too
wet in the spring, you had a drought in the summer, and you have had unseason-
ably early frost in the fall. And all of this, of course, complicated by the great
need of additional food throughout the world.
Now, because of the price incentive and provisions in our agricultural legisla-
tion and because of the encouragement by Government to expand planted
acreage, farmers throughout the States of this great Union have responded
magnificently, superbly, to boost the supply of feed grains and soybeans.
Thanks to the flexibility written into the 1973 Agriculture and Consumer
Protection Act, farmers were able to move relatively smoothly from a limited to
a full production program. And incidentally, great credit for the major provi-
sions of the 1973 act can and must be given to Wiley Mayne, the top ranking
Republican of the important House Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee
on Livestock and Grain.
Let me give you a little inside or cloakroom story. While the 1973 agricultural
act was being considered in committee, Wiley was being considered on the floor
of the House of Representatives. I conferred very frequently with your Con-
gressman, Wiley Mayne. I know from firsthand experience how hard he worked
to help effect its enactment and to liberate farmers from the discredited, income-
restrictive programs of the past 40 years.
So I, as a former colleague of Wiley's and one who worked with him as the
Republican leader in the House, wish to express my deep gratitude and apprecia-
tion, Wiley, for the fine job that you did on this vitally important legislation.
I think there is another area of concern—corn and soybean production is falling
short of our worldwide needs. Even so, the corn crop is, I think, the fifth largest
in the history of the United States, the soybean crop is the third largest, and
wheat and rice the largest ever in America.
522
