November 2
[218]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Yes, I have asked Americans to save. I have asked them to budget. I have asked
them to economize. I have asked them to guard their health. And I have asked
them to cut out waste-and that includes the Ford family as well.
As I prepared these remarks, I realized that what I have been suggesting to
millions and millions of Americans was simply accepted practice in the State of
Utah. So, there is really no need for me to preach about those old basic values to
all of you, for your daily lives in Utah are shaped by those wonderful values that
I respect and admire.
But I do want you to know that by living those values, you are a source of
inspiration to all Americans, including myself. And I want to thank you from
the bottom of my heart for proving to all of us that old values are alive and well
and working.
And I can also tell you that Wallace Bennett has done an inspiring job. And
when Wallace leaves, we will iniss Frances just as well. She has been great in
every, every way possible.
I just told Wallace that he may leave the Senate, but we are going to make use
of him someplace. Anybody that is as strong and as good and dedicated as
Wallace—America needs him, and we are going to take advantage of him.
I know, because our careers started relatively the same time. Here was a man, a
giant of the Senate: strong, a stainless moral leader, and a tireless champion of
fiscal responsibility.
We all hate to see him go, but our prayers and our very, very best wishes will
be with him and Frances as they come home again to their beloved Utah. And
with people like Wallace Bennett and Jake Garn and people like all of you to
serve as examples. I am more and more confident than ever that we can bring
our economy back to full and lasting health.
And perhaps in the process of doing so, perhaps as we do cut away frills and
nonessentials, we will rediscover something valuable about ourselves that some
of us may, unfortunately, have forgotten.
You understand very precisely here in Utah what those basic values are. Now
it is time to get out and to preach them to our fellow Americans in the other 49
States. Now is the time to apply them to the war against inflation.
Let us let the first shot in that war come out of the ballot box next Tuesday, and
let it be a shot heard around the country and around the world.
Cast your vote for the party that will, with a cooperative Congress, reestablish
stability in our economy and common sense and good direction to our govern-
ment. Cast your vote for the men who will be a part of a strong, responsive,
responsible, inflation-proof Congress.
561
