[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Questions three and four of H. Res. 1367 deal with the first and all subse-
quent references to, or discussions of, a pardon for Richard M. Nixon, with him
or any of his representatives or aides. I have already described at length what
discussions took place on August 1 and 2, 1974, and how these discussions
brought no recommendations or commitments whatsoever on my part. These
were the only discussions related to questions three and four before I became
President, but question four relates also to subsequent discussions.
At no time after I became President on August 9, 1974, was the subject of a
pardon for Richard M. Nixon raised by the former President or by anyone
representing him. Also, no one on my staff brought up the subject until the
day before my first press conference on August 28, 1974. At that time, I was
advised that questions on the subject might be raised by media reporters at the
press conference.
As the press conference proceeded, the first question asked involved the sub-
ject, as did other later questions. In my answers to these questions, I took a posi-
tion that, while I was the final authority on this matter, I expected to make no
commitment one way or the other depending on what the Special Prosecutor
and courts would do. However, I also stated that I believed the general view of
the American people was to spare the former President from a criminal trial.
Shortly afterwards I became greatly concerned that if Mr. Nixon's prosecution
and trial were prolonged, the passions generated over a long period of time would
seriously disrupt the healing of our country from the wounds of the past.
I could see that the new Administration could not be effective if it had to operate
in the atmosphere of having a former President under prosecution and criminal
trial. Each step along the way, I was deeply concerned, would become a public
spectacle and the topic of wide public debate and controversy.
As I have before stated publicly, these concerns led me to ask from my own
legal counsel what my full right of pardon was under the Constitution in this
situation and from the Special Prosecutor what criminal actions, if any, were
likely to be brought against the former President, and how long his prosecution
and trial would take.
As soon as I had been given this information, I authorized my Counsel,
Philip Buchen, to tell Herbert J. Miller, as attorney for Richard M. Nixon, of
my pending decision to grant a pardon for the former President. I was advised
346
