December 10
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
more decent, more honorable, more dedicated, more loyal, more careful, and
when the issues were down and the going was tough, could be more forthright.
And to me, those are the kind of characteristics that, in my judgment, determine
a great Member of the Congress more than any of the others.
So, George's service, his leadership, and all of the other things he has done for
his district, his State, and his Nation, I think will go down in history and will
always be on the record books for all other Members of Congress to try and
emulate and to follow.
Texas, we all know, has been known for its bigness. In George Mahon it has
lived up to its reputation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:29 a.m. in the Ray-
burn Room at the Capitol. In his opening remarks,
the President referred to Representative Jamie L.
Whitten of Mississippi.
288
Statement on the Senate's Confirmation of Nelson A. Rockefeller
To Be Vice President of the United States. December 10, 1974
I AM gratified by the action of the Senate today in voting for confirmation
of Nelson A. Rockefeller to fill the vacancy in the office of Vice President of the
United States.
Few Americans have ever been more closely scrutinized or more thoroughly
investigated by the Congress than Governor Rockefeller. The Senate's over-
whelming vote of approval, after probing so meticulously into every aspect of
his public and private life, speaks eloquently for his character and outstanding
qualifications for public office.
The Senate vote brings us much closer to the day when the constitutional
office of Vice President will be filled. I trust that similar action will be taken as
rapidly as possible by the House of Representatives before final adjournment of
the 93d Congress. Governor Rockefeller would then be able to put his experience
and energy to work for all the people of the United States in our efforts to deal
with the great challenges ahead.
NOTE: The statement was released at New York, N.Y.
729
