[54]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Battle strategies are usually devised in secret. At my insistence, this is a typ-
ically American open meeting. Some skeptics have warned me that putting 28
of our most distinguished economists and eight Members of Congress, both
Democratic and Republican, on public display with live microphones would
produce a spectacle something like professional wrestlers playing ice hockey.
[Laughter] But I am ready to referee this opening match.
It is not widely known, but I started out in college very much attracted to
economics. Later I switched to the law, probably because the legal profession
seemed a better path to success in politics.
Having come this far, I can see why no economist would ever dream of want-
ing to be President.
But if we succeed in the job cut out for us, I can promise you there will be
statues of each of you in every city park throughout the United States. Eco-
nomics will never again be called a dismal science, nor will politicians, if we
succeed, dare again to hide behind the old alibi that the people just don't under-
stand economics. The people understand economics very, very well, and they
are sick and tired of having politics played with their pocketbooks.
This Conference on Inflation is a joint enterprise of the legislative and execu-
tive branches of our Government which can become a monument to politics in
the very best sense of the word. It unites Republicans and Independents and
Democrats in an election year against a deadly enemy that doesn't recognize
one political party from another.
The President cannot lick inflation. The Congress cannot lick inflation. Busi-
ness, labor, agriculture, and other segments of America cannot lick inflation.
Separately we can only make it worse, but together we can beat it to its knees.
These meetings are not going to be empty exercises in economic rhetoric,
neither are they going to reveal any quick miracles. There is no quick fix for
what ails our economy. I, for one, refuse to believe that the very best brains in
America and the smartest, hardest working workers in the world cannot find
a workable way to get the productive machinery of this great country back on
the track and going full speed ahead.
Let me say, or set out, if I might, a few ground rules at the outset. We can't
waste time stating and restating the problems. The problems are obvious, painful,
and perplexing.
What we want are some right answers, not a long list of alternative answers,
theoretical and hypothetical, good and bad. We need to have attainable answers
sharply defined and carefully sorted out with the pluses and the minuses of
each clearly stated.
88
