October 22
[184]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
And I think that forewarning is most applicable today, because every poll
you read and every political pundit who writes is saying there is a great apathy
throughout the country, that people are disgusted and discouraged about politics,
and therefore they are not going to vote.
Yes, I have been told from various sources that this apathy even extends in the
great State of Ohio. People are not going to vote. They are disgusted; they are
discouraged; they are turned off by politics; they are going to sit this one out.
Frankly, I don't believe it. That kind of attitude—it is akin to setting fire to
your house to keep warm. That is not the way to change things. That is not the
way to reverse the situation.
And so I, with as much sincerity as I can, urge Republicans in Ohio, and actu-
ally in the rest of the country, to vote November 5 like you have never voted
before. I don't mean more than once. [Laughter] But at least once, and to get
many others to do the same.
Confound the doomsayers. Fool the pessimists, the pollsters who are putting
out this propaganda. And I respectfully urge you to work as you have never
worked before for the candidates that deserve your support. Work on those
thoughtful Independents and some of the wise Democrats who believe as you
do. At least they are open-minded enough to be convinced by the views and
the recommendations that you personally hold.
Work, if you might, at preserving the two-party system, this system which
has provided so much in the way of freedom and opportunity and material
blessings for all of those that preceded us and 213 million people today—no other
nation has been so blessed as we.
I think it is perfectly obvious, as we look at the voting patterns in the last few
months, that apathy is a chief villain. Some people think it has just happened
this year, but as you look back—and my good friend Ray Bliss knows it probably
better than I—some of these statistics show that this apathy has been much,
much too evident, even since 1960. And let me quote a statistic or two that
shows how bad it has been and how evil it might be in 1974.
Take the national percentages of votes cast in Congressional off-year elections
like the one coming up. Based on the total number of eligible voters, only 46.3
percent turned out to cast ballots in 1962. Unbelievable! Only 45.6 percent took
the time to do so in 1966. And the percentage of eligibles who voted in the last
off-year election, 1970, was even lower-43.8 percent.
On the basis of these figures, one computer program suggests that only 42.7
percent of eligible voters will cast ballots for Congressional races and candidates
2 weeks from today. I think we ought to be ashamed. Think of those who
443
