November 18
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Earlier this year, legislation was submitted to provide reasonable increases in
the size and weights of trucks traveling on interstate highways. These increases
were to offset the economic disadvantages to truckers resulting from lower per-
missible speed and higher fuel costs. The Senate passed a bill containing most
of the features of the Administration's proposal while a similar bill did not pass
in the House. I ask the Congress for early action on this issue in the interest of
economic efficiency and fuel conservation.
I also urge the Congress to act promptly to pass the National Mass Transporta-
tion Assistance Act of 1974. This bill has been developed through close coopera-
tion between the Congress and the Administration. It will provide the Nation's
cities with the Federal financial assistance needed to help them meet priority
urban mass transportation needs. This bill establishes a long-term assistance
program for mass transit-actually, for six years—and distributes a significant
portion of the funds according to a simple and equitable formula. It also provides
for an enhanced role for the Governors and local officials in mass transit decisions.
I consider the total dollar level of $11.8 billion over a six-year period to be at
the upper limits of fiscal responsibility. The needs of the cities and the uncer-
tainties and delays that would result from waiting until the next Congress for a
transit bill make it imperative that this Congress act before adjournment sine die.
In 1972, the Judicial Conference of the United States recommended the crea-
tion of 51 additional Federal District Court judgeships in 33 separate judicial dis-
tricts across the country. Senate hearings on legislation incorporating this pro-
posal were concluded in 1973. To date, however, this legislation has not been
scheduled for floor action. The increasing backlog in the Federal courts makes
this measure an urgent national necessity of a non-partisan nature—for justice
delayed is too often justice denied.
Earlier this session, the House passed a bill to codify, for the first time in our
history, evidentiary rules governing the admissibility of proof in Federal courts.
This bill is the culmination of some 13 years of study by distinguished judges,
lawyers, Members of the Congress and others interested in and affected by the ad-
ministration of justice in the Federal system. The measure will lend uniformity,
accessibility, intelligibility and a basis for reform and growth in our evidentiary
rules which are sadly lacking in current law. I strongly urge final action on this
important bill prior to the conclusion of this Congress.
With respect to the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act,
I urge the Congress to reconsider the action it has taken to date and send me
instead legislation providing a straightforward 18.2 percent cost of living in-
crease, effective January 1, 1975. Increased payments for our veterans in school
627
