[256]
November 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
256
Toast at a Luncheon Hosted by L. I. Brezhnev, General Secretary
of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, in Vladivostok.
November 24, 1974
MR. GENERAL SECRETARY, let me say a few words, if I might, about the
very special significance of this, our first official meeting.
The world has been accustomed in recent years to regular meetings between
the leaders of the Soviet Union and the American people. Cooperation between
our two countries has intensified, both in tempo and, more importantly, in sub-
stance during the past few years. As a result, all people, Mr. General Secretary,
have a better chance to live in peace and security today.
The fact that these meetings have become more regular testifies to the signifi-
cance attached to them by both countries. In these meetings, we are able to con-
duct our discussions in a businesslike and a constructive way. We are able to
make important progress on the issues that concern our countries.
Mr. General Secretary, I look forward to continuing the close working rela-
tionship developed between the leaders of our two countries.
In my first address to the Congress of the United States, I pledged to the Soviet
Union to continue America's commitment to the course followed in the last 3
years.
Mr. General Secretary, I personally reaffirm that pledge to you now. As na-
tions with great power, we share a common responsibility, not only to our own
people but to mankind as a whole. We must avoid, of course, war and the de-
struction that it would mean. Let us get on with the business of controlling arms,
as I think we have in the last 24 hours. Let us contribute, through our coopera-
tion, to the resolution of the very great problems facing mankind as a whole.
Mr. General Secretary, the problems of food, population, and energy are not
confined to any one country or to countries at an early stage of economic develop-
ment. They affect people everywhere. If this age is to be remembered favorably
in the history books, it will be because we met our responsibilities—your country
and my country and our friends and allies throughout the world.
May I propose a toast to our joint search for solutions to the problems facing
mankind and a toast to you, Mr. General Secretary, and to those associated with
you in your Government and to the people of the Soviet Union and to the
people of the world, who will benefit from your efforts and, hopefully, mine.
To the General Secretary.
656
