November 1
[214]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Inflation, as I have said so many times—and the more I say it, the more I be-
lieve it—is public enemy number one. And all the polls seems to conclude that.
The latest I saw indicated on a nationwide basis that among all of the problems,
all of the issues, regardless of your position in life, 83 percent of the Americans
selected inflation as that which was of most concern to them.
Obviously, under those circumstances, the fight against inflation is a non-
partisan challenge. It is everyone's fight.
If I were to take the easy route of additional pump priming and deficit spend-
ing as the economy cools off this winter, it would really cause trouble. We could
see the current inflation rate—and I speak very categorically—the current infla-
tion rate, if we don't do a little sacrificing and belt tightening, that rate could
double by 1976.
That is not a very happy prospect. So, it ought to encourage us to make the big
battle now in order not to have that problem then.
America, as I have seen it, remains a model for the rest of the world. Later
this month, I am visiting the Far East, going first to Japan, then to South Korea,
and then finally to Vladivostok in the U.S.S.R.-the latter, of course, to move
forward, laying additional steppingstones for the culmination of what I hope
and I believe is an agreement in strategic arms limitations beyond the present.
But as I visit these three vital areas of the world, I will seek to cement rela-
tionships essential for world economic stability as well as SALT Two.
It is obvious as we read-and both Secretary Simon and Secretary Lynn have
been abroad—we know that inflation crosses borders and somehow leapfrogs
oceans. And if I can be helpful by going to the other side of the world on this dual
mission—and I think I can be helpful—that is part of my obligation.
As President, I am convinced that this Nation-yours and mine—can show
the world that Americans do retain confidence in our system. We can conserve,
we can stop wasting, we can expand our production base while preserving our
national heritage. We can become more efficient, more productive, and pay for
what we spend in our government as we go.
Now, some cynics and skeptics freely predict the end of America-that great
country that we know and we love. I feel just the opposite. I think they are very
wrong. I intend to prove they are wrong, because I am totally confident in the
dedication of this group and so many others throughout America.
As Abraham Lincoln once put it, this Nation is still "the last, best hope of
earth." And a new and stronger United States will grow from the disillusion of
the past. Indeed, the ordeal that we have gone through since the early sixties may
547
