October 16
[154]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
every one of you in this tremendous audience—one of the most impressive
audiences I have seen in my many travels and many gatherings: Make no mis-
take; that is exactly what you are not going to get if you and other responsible
citizens stay home on November 5.
You won't have that balance, you won't have that check and balance. If you
stay home and do nothing—which I can't imagine you all doing here—you will
only blindly penalize good Republican candidates for the unfortunate misdeeds
of others.
And so,
such a development, as I see it, would be dangerous at any time, but
today perhaps more than perhaps any other time in my political career. We need
the maximum effort by all of you and all the people you can enlist and all of the
people that you can persuade.
I think if you do that, we will have people in Congress willing to work with
us, people who will have a vision, people who will have determination, people
who will have the vigor to do the right thing on the problems that we face at
home and abroad.
Frankly, speaking of inflation, we need people on the Hill who won't go over
the hill on the battle against inflation.
If we end up with a lopsided veto-proof Congress, as some people are saying
they are going to get or they demand or they insist will be the result of the
voters on November 5, let me say this: You will end up with a legislative
dictatorship, which is totally contrary to the concept of a free government.
Our forefathers so wisely decided almost 200 years ago that we needed a strong
President in the White House, we needed a strong Congress in the legislative
branch, we needed a strong judicial system headed by the Supreme Court. But
they were all co-equal, coordinate, and they were to be a check and a balance,
one against the other. Because we had that balance, we have had freedom and
the greatest material benefits and blessings of any nation in the world.
But, if because of negligence, if because of a lack of enthusiasm or participa-
tion we end up with a veto-proof Congress, that delicate balance, that finely tuned
relationship between the three branches of our Government will be destroyed,
and we will have a legislative dictatorship. And believe me, if we have a legis-
lative dictatorship, tighten your seatbelts, folks, the spending will go right out
of the top of the dome of the Capitol.
So, what I am saying: Don't elect the spendthrift Congress; don't elect a veto-
proof Congress. Fight inflation, and send back to the House as well as the Senate
335
