[278]
December 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have heard it said many times—and Rog Morton who formerly served in
the Congress and Gale McGee and George Aiken and Bob McEwen ¹-I hope
I haven't missed any of the Members of Congress-we often say in the Con-
gress that you can disagree without being disagreeable. And that is the way
I think our relations between your country and ours has proceeded in the past,
and I hope will proceed in the future.
We do have some differences. I felt that our meeting today was one of the
most constructive, one of the most friendly, and with each of us expressing
where we had some differences, it was a point of view and an understanding.
If you have an understanding, I think you can come to reasonable and ra-
tional conclusions.
I look forward to subsequent meetings with you to broaden our personal
friendship and to expand our two national relationships. It has been a pleasure
for me to get to know your Ambassador. He did present to me about a week or
10 days ago a very thoughtful gift on behalf of your Government, commemorat-
ing the 1976 Olympics, which are to be held in Montreal.
It brought to my mind the fact that in 1976 we are celebrating our 200th
anniversary. I hope that the people that come to your Olympics—and I hope
to come if you will invite me, Mr. Prime Minister-I like that snow, you
know-and that some of the visitors that come to the United States will go to
Montreal and Canada and vice versa.
But, speaking of Montreal, I have had the privilege a long time ago of ski-
ing at Mont Tremblant and St. Jovite, which I thought were tremendous and
I still do. And that was another experience that gave me a great affection and
admiration for the people of Canada.
So, with my personal affection for you and the Canadian people and the
United States' strong conviction about our relationship, to you and your coun-
try, if I might, I would like to offer a toast to you, Prime Minister of Canada,
and to the Canadian people and to the Queen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:15 p.m. in the Blue
Room at the White House. Earlier in the day, the
President and Prime Minister Trudeau held dis-
cussions at the White House. Prime Minister Tru-
deau responded to the President's toast as follows:
Mr. President, gentlemen, and friends:
When Canadians travel abroad, Mr. President,
they spend lots of time explaining to other people
how they are different from the Americans. There
1
is a great belief in other lands that Canadians and
Americans are exactly the same. I am particularly
distressed to find this when I am dealing with the
Common Market. We are different, and we have dif-
ferent problems and different economic requirements.
But it does happen that we have to show how
similar we are and how close our two peoples are.
And the best example I can find, when I have to
explain that kind of thing, is to talk about in sum-
mer, in the baseball stadium in Montreal where tens
¹ Senator Gale W. McGee of Wyoming and Representative Robert C. McEwen of New York.
712
