Preface
and letters were released from the White House in Washington unless otherwise
indicated.
The items published in this volume are presented in chronological order,
rather than being grouped in classes. Most needs for a classified arrangement are
met by the subject index. For example, a reader interested in the President's
speeches will find them listed in the index under “addresses and remarks."
Appendixes have been provided to deal with special categories of Presidential
issuances and actions, as noted below.
White House releases not included as items in this volume and not appearing
in later appendixes are listed in Appendix A.
A complete listing by number and subject of all Proclamations, Executive
orders, and similar documents required by law to be published in the Federal
Register appears in Appendix B for the period covered by this volume.
The President is also required by law to transmit numerous reports to the
Congress. Those transmitted during the period covered by this volume are listed
in Appendix C.
Appendix D is the condensed transcript of an interview with the President as
published in Newsweek magazine on December 9, 1974. It is printed here in
order to provide more complete coverage of the Presidency in 1974.
This series is under the direction of Fred J. Emery, Director, and Ernest J.
Galdi, Deputy Director, of the Office of the Federal Register. Chief Editor of
the present volume was William R. Minning, assisted by Kenneth R. Payne and
other members of the Presidential Documents Division.
White House liaison was provided by Paul A. Theis, Executive Editor, White
House Editorial Office. Photography was under the direction of David Hume
Kennerly, Personal Photographer to the President, assisted by picture editor
Sandra Eisert.
The typography and design of this volume was developed under the direction
of Robert J. Worley, Acting Superintendent of Typography and Design, United
States Government Printing Office.
JAMES B. RHOADS
Archivist of the United States
JACK ECKERD
Administrator of General Services
December 1975
viii
