December 11
[290]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:26 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Also
honored at the annual awards dinner were Gerald B.
Zornow, chairman of the board of the Eastman
Kodak Company, who received the Foundation's
Gold Medal; 10 new members of the Hall of Fame;
and 11 scholar-athletes receiving graduate fellow-
ships.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
ABC sportscaster Chris Schenkel, who was master of
ceremonies; His Eminence Terence Cardinal Cooke,
Archbishop of New York; and Richard W. Kaz-
maier, Jr., president of the National Football Foun-
dation and Hall of Fame.
290
Remarks at a Meeting of the Business Council.
December 11, 1974
Dave, Anne, members of the Business Council, and guests:
I don't have to tell you I deeply appreciate the opportunity to meet with you
tonight as leaders of commerce and industry, to discuss some very serious
economic problems that we all face.
The mutuality of our problems was never more clearly stated than when I was
introduced at a business conference quite recently. The moderator said, and I
quote: The greatness of America is that anyone can grow up to be president of
an auto company, president of an airline, president of a utility, or President of the
United States.
Then he took a long, long pause and added, “That's just one of the chances
you have to take!" [Laughter]
Four months ago, in my first words as President, I promised my fellow citizens
from time to time "a little straight talk among friends."
I hope I am among friends tonight, because we are all in the same business,
trying to keep this country politically and economically stable and strong, and
to bring about better lives for more and more people through the genius of our
American system.
Businessmen are not the only Americans working toward these goals, but it is
very certain they cannot be reached—these goals—without you.
Now for a little straight talk. The economy is in difficult straits. All the
statistics, or most of them, prove that quite conclusively. We are in a recession.
Production is declining, and unemployment, unfortunately, is rising. We are
also faced with continued high rates of inflation greater than can be tolerated
over an extended period of time.
There is some good economic news, but I can concede much or most of it is bad.
Nevertheless, our country is not in an economic crisis.
733
