October 29
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
It is my deep belief, it is my honest conviction that we are doing right, both at
home and abroad. We have some tough hurdles to cover, but as you look across
the spectrum internationally or domestically and compare the role of our country
with other countries, the problems of our country with other countries, the
United States is doing well, and we should be darned proud to be Americans
and to participate in our society.
In the last 3 months since I became President, I have traveled almost 17,000
miles, met literally hundreds and thousands of citizens in many, many States,
and I think it is the most refreshing, the most helpful experience, because there
are, literally, unbelievably great numbers of wonderful people who have some
thoughts and ideas and suggestions and contributions to make.
I think their help and assistance is just as vital as what I can get sitting in the
White House looking at a lot of memorandums and papers that come from a
fine staff or come from others.
This group here has got the power, the genius, the drive, the help, and I am
darned fortunate to be here and to see you all and to get the message that you
are giving me, which is the message that you gave me in 13 previous elections-
integrity, dedication, work, objectivity, and a love for America as much as you
have it, and I hope I do, and I believe I do.
I am here tonight for a particular purpose, but I must express my gratitude
to the local officials, Jack Root of the county, Lyman Parks of the city, and their
respective associates for the unbelievable reception down at the Vandenberg
Center and in the Calder [Plaza] area.
You know, the weather was a little bad, but I think it is fair to say that they
were not good weather friends. They were there because we had a rapport. And
I did not ask that group because it is a nonpartisan group, but I am here to ask
every one of you to help in any way you can—and this is a message from Betty
as well as from me—to elect Paul Goebel on November 5 so I can have the good
help that I need from the Fifth District in Washington, D.C.
I said a moment ago I have traveled almost 17,000 miles, 16 States. My hope is
that to some extent I can be beneficial, helpful in electing a Congress that will
help me in the battle we are undertaking to lick inflation and to strengthen our
economy.
What I want is a Congress that will help me make sure—and let me emphasize
this very specifically, very categorically-I want a Congress that will help me
make certain and positive that your paycheck buys as much on the day you
cash it as on the day that you earned it. That is our program.
If I know anything about the people of this district, whether you are in
515
