[300]
December 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is the path we followed when it was time to
emerge from the cold war and, on our war-torn
continent, to organize détente, entente, and cooper-
ation, while maintaining actively our desire for in-
dependence in safeguarding our security. It is the
path we recommend be followed in the Middle East
where, in spite of the remarkable efforts of Ameri-
can diplomacy and the useful progress it has
achieved, the situation remains a threatening one.
A just and lasting settlement must, in our view,
take into account the three legitimate aspirations of
all parties concerned: those of the State of Israel, to
live in peace within secure and guaranteed bounda-
ries; those of the Arab States, to recover their terri-
torial integrity; and those of the Palestinian people,
to have, as all peoples, a homeland.
It is also through consultation that we shall suc-
ceed in finding a solution to the problem caused by
the increase in oil prices. This in no way excludes a
prior harmonization of the positions within each of
the major categories involved.
It, however, presupposes that the purpose of this
harmonization process be to prepare the meeting at
the same table and at a fixed date of countries will-
ing to reconcile their respective points of view in
the peaceful interests of the world.
Mr. President, we shall be having talks in a cli-
mate of mutual trust on all these subjects of concern
to the world today. These talks will once again dem-
onstrate that the frankness of our discussions draws
us together much more than it divides us, as should
be between partners and allies when they have for
each other, as I have for your country, a sense of
their dignity and their sovereignty.
Mr. President, we all deeply regret the absence of
Mrs. Ford, and I would like to ask you to be kind
enough to convey to her our very warm and respect-
ful wishes for a prompt recovery.
I drink this toast in your honor, Mr. President, as
well as to the great people of the United States, to
whom the French people, through me, extend their
greetings in testimony of our two-centuries-old and
ever young friendships like our two countries.
301
Toasts of the President and President Giscard d'Estaing
of France at an Informal Dinner Honoring the French
President. December 15, 1974
Mr. President, Madame Giscard d'Estaing, our distinguished guests:
Let me say with great personal conviction and strong feelings, we have
enjoyed being here in a part of France. The warmth of the welcome of the
people, the superb atmosphere created by the beauties of nature have made this
trip a wonderful experience for all of us.
Mr. President, the United States within a relatively few months is going to be
celebrating our 200th anniversary. Whenever we think about that anniversary,
we can't help but feel the participation that France played in the achievement
of our independence. July 4, 1976, will bring back many, many memories of the
help and assistance that France gave to our country at a very difficult and con-
troversial period in our early history in America.
It is my understanding, Mr. President, that one of your ancestors, Admiral
d'Estaing, did have an interest in and did help us at a period when we, the
United States, were in our formative years. For that we thank you, and for all
of the other great Frenchmen who were assisting America in our early days.
It is my understanding, Mr. President, that France is making a very mean-
752
