[179]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
ber 7 or 8, where the matter will be brought before the OAS. But our attitude
as of the present time is, since no change in the attitude of Cuba, we certainly
have to retain our point of view concerning them.
EXTENT OF MEXICAN OIL DEPOSITS
[6.] Q. President Echeverría, I wonder if you could answer one part of Mr.
Shaw's [Gaylord Shaw, Associated Press] question which was not answered,
and that is, can you give us some estimate of the size of the new oil discovery in
Mexico?
PRESIDENT ECHEVERRÍA. Yes, the discoveries are very important and significant,
and the significance we can find in the following figures. Of the 640,000 barrels
a day that are obtained throughout all of Mexico, 37 percent—that is 241,000 bar-
rels-
s—come from only a few wells. This has made it possible for us now to begin
to export, after having transcended the stage where it was necessary for us to
import in order to satisfy our own consumption.
Therefore, this is very important for the Mexican economy, first and foremost,
if we take into account the prices that prevail for oil in the world market, prices
which we respect.
RESULTS OF MEETING
[7.] Q. This is a question for both Presidents. Can you give us a list of the
specific agreements that you reached today?
PRESIDENT ECHEVERRÍA. Actually, no, we did not come to international agree-
ments. It was the first meeting between the President of the United States and the
President of Mexico in order to get together to discuss, to analyze very frankly,
very openly, very clearly, very directly, some of the problems that have already
been dealt with in this room.
For me, the most important part of our meeting is the way in which President
Ford underlined to me personally, and later on here during our meeting in this
place, the importance that he gives the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties
of States.
And I thank President Ford and the people of the United States for this
opinion that has been expressed to me, because actually, this is a complete change
from what it was before, and this is very valuable support for this charter that is
gaining ground within the United Nations, and for the already 100 and some
odd countries that are supporting the charter.
The United States had never before expressed as much interest as it has now
in the approval of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States. Of
420
