[118]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
said, "We see our party not as an end in itself, but as a magnificent means, a
means through which countless thousands of devoted citizens can cooperate in
the conquering of problems that beset free men everywhere.” I think Ike ex-
pressed it about as well as anybody that I know.
Now, at the moment, you are as familiar as I am with the biggest problem
that I think our country faces domestically. It is besetting free men everywhere
throughout the globe, and I speak very candidly of inflation.
We have inflation here that is serious-double-digit inflation-we do not like,
we are not going to tolerate. But it is not just in the United States. And this con-
cern is one of my prime interests in solving, as it is yours.
In the 2 months that I have been privileged to be your President, I probably
spent as much, if not more time in listening to people who had ideas, listening
to groups that had suggestions, trying to sort out the many, many things that
came to us in the Nation's Capital from people all over the United States.
I am sure in the many, many communications that we have gotten and sugges-
tions we have received, Vermont contributed its share. Tomorrow, before a
joint session of the Congress, I will outline a comprehensive plan to deal with
inflation, and I will recommend a two-pronged attack or a two-pronged under-
taking.
First, I will call for strong, broad, and firm legislative action by the Congress
in a number of areas, but it will require a responsive action by the Congress with
the President if we are going to meet this challenge.
In addition, I will call upon the American people, 213 million of you, to join
with me and the Congress in an effort to move ahead to accomplish success, to
win the battle over inflation, and at the same time, to maintain a growing econ-
omy. And I know that I can call upon the fine legislators like George Aiken,
Bob Stafford, Dick Mallary, who worked with me and with their colleagues in
the Senate and the House.
We must win this battle—our public enemy number one—if we are going to
save the political fabric of this country and the political fabric of countries that
believe in freedom around the world.
Yes, I am going to ask every citizen to enlist, every citizen in this country to
participate, to make a sacrifice. And I am going to call upon the Federal Govern-
ment to sacrifice, and State and local units of government to tighten their belts,
and others to cooperate in winning the struggle against our public enemy
number one.
I am particularly mindful of the unemployed and the retired people living on
already small and fixed incomes. And we have to have a program that is designed
224
