September 9
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
65
Remarks to the Sixth International Conference on Urban
Transportation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. September 9, 1974
Will Rockwell, Senators Scott and Schweiker, my former colleagues in the
House of Representatives, Governor Shapp, Mayor Flaherty, distinguished local
officials, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great privilege and an exceedingly high honor for me to participate
in this conference on urban transportation, and I am especially grateful to be
participating here in the Golden Triangle in the area where the city of Pitts-
burgh has done so much in the field of urban transportation.
And may I also express my appreciation for the Secretary of Transportation,
Mr. Claude Brinegar, and Mr. Russell Train of the Environmental Protection
Agency for joining me on this trip on this occasion.
I am told that some people in Europe heard about my nomination of Governor
Rockefeller and concluded that we had solved our transportation problems in
America. The Europeans said that we now have a combination of a Ford, who
makes automobiles, and a Rockefeller, who makes gasoline.
In any event, you are international authorities on-all of you are interna-
tional authorities on urban transportation. You know better than I that we
have too many automobiles at the wrong place and at the wrong time, and not
enough gasoline at the right place at the right time.
So, it is essential that you in this conference proceed, move ahead with the
problems that you see and the problems that must be solved.
Even though I am not in the transportation business, I am dedicated to the
revival of efficient transportation in our great urban centers here in the United
States. Pittsburgh, where we are meeting, in the Golden Triangle, has done an
effective and efficient job, and I compliment the citizens and public officials who
have made this possible.
Your theme of this conference—“Marketing Urban Renaissance”—is appro-
priate, appropriate not only for those of us in America but, I think, worldwide.
And all of our cities obviously will be observing the work, the recommendations,
the proposals that come from this conference.
The relationship between urban regeneration and urban transportation is ex-
tremely close. Among our most pressing urban problems—and your presence
here highlights it—is transportation, especially the automobile. For the last 25
years, two decades and a half, automobiles have been the most important factor
107
