August 21
[25]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
It does provide, in my opinion, for a more effective distribution of Federal
funds to help elementary and secondary schools so that our Federal tax dollars
can be more appropriately and efficiently and economically utilized to improve
education throughout our 50 States.
The legislation also provides for better Federal administration of the vari-
ous programs under the more or less direct control of Federal officials, and this
better management of Federal programs will help States and localities so they
will have a better and more effective input into the management of these Fed-
eral programs.
I think it is fair to say that this legislation places reasonable and equitable re-
strictions upon the problem of busing, and in conjunction with the Supreme
Court decision will hopefully relieve that problem and make the solution
far more equitable and just.
It is my judgment that H.R. 69 represents the kind of an approach that in this
day and age we must follow if we are to do the right thing in education, in hous-
ing, and in a multitude of other highly essential programs for the benefit of our
country as a whole.
This legislation itself does represent the way to solve disagreements, but if we
approach other problems as we have approached this one, with candor on the one
hand, cooperation on another, compromise on a third, I think we can march
together, the executive, the legislative, Democrats, Republicans, liberals, and con-
servatives in working together to make our country what we all want it to be, a
better America.
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in the
auditorium at the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare. In his opening remarks, the
President referred to Frank C. Carlucci, Under Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
As enacted, H.R. 69 is Public Law 93-380 (88
Stat. 484).
25
Statement on the Education Amendments of 1974.
August 21, 1974
I TAKE special pleasure today in signing H.R. 69, an omnibus education bill.
As the first major legislation to become law during my Administration, this
bill symbolizes one of my greatest hopes for the future—the hope that a new spirit
of cooperation and compromise will prevail between the legislative and executive
35
