[121]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
One week from tonight I have a longstanding invitation in Kansas City to
address the Future Farmers of America, a fine organization of wonderful young
people whose help, with millions of others, is vital in this battle. I will elaborate
then how volunteer inflation fighters and energy savers can further mobilize
their total efforts.
Since asking Miss Sylvia Porter, the well-known financial writer, to help me
organize an all-out nationwide volunteer mobilization, I have named a White
House coordinator and have enlisted the enthusiastic support and services of
some 17 other distinguished Americans to help plan for citizen and private group
participation.
There will be no big Federal bureaucracy set up for this crash program.
Through the courtesy of such volunteers from the communication and media
fields, a very simple enlistment form will appear in many of tomorrow's news-
papers along with the symbol of this new mobilization, which I am wearing on
my lapel. It bears the single word WIN. I think that tells it all. I will call upon
every American to join in this massive mobilization and stick with it until we do
win as a nation and as a people.
Mr. Speaker and Mr. President, I stand on a spot hallowed by history. Many
Presidents have come here many times to solicit, to scold, to flatter, to exhort the
Congress to support them in their leadership. Once in a great while, Presidents
have stood here and truly inspired the most skeptical and the most sophisticated
audience of their co-equal partners in Government. Perhaps once or twice in a
generation is there such a joint session. I don't expect this one to be.
Only two of my predecessors have come in person to call upon Congress for
a declaration of war, and I shall not do that. But I say to you with all sincerity
that our inflation, our public enemy number one, will, unless whipped, destroy
our country, our homes, our liberties, our property, and finally our national
pride, as surely as any well-armed wartime enemy.
I concede there will be no sudden Pearl Harbor to shock us into unity and to
sacrifice, but I think we have had enough early warnings. The time to intercept
is right now. The time to intercept is almost gone.
My friends and former colleagues, will you enlist now? My friends and fellow
Americans, will you enlist now? Together with discipline and determination,
we will win.
I thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:02 p.m. in the House Chamber at the Capitol. The address was broadcast
live on radio and television.
238
