[220]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think you have got them in the kind of people I have mentioned, and I know
you have because I have worked with them. I have seen them under pressure.
I have seen them do things that might not have been popular at the moment
because they were right. I have seen them just perform as wonderful representa-
tives of the people of Kansas and the people of the United States.
One of the great men of this and any century, of course, was Winston
Churchill. He led, as we all know, Great Britain through a period of far, far
greater danger than anything we face today. But he, too, like myself, was an
optimist. When many, many in Great Britain, and some of the free world back
in those dark days in the late thirties had given up, Winston Churchill would
not succumb to tyranny or the dark era or age of defeat.
Churchill still—and I can recall vividly because I was driving a car in, I think
it was 1939, and I heard that wonderful blood, sweat, and tears speech. It was
a great speech in an era, in a period, in a day of challenge to Britain.
Sometimes, maybe we ought to go back and listen to what Winston Churchill
said in that hour of darkness for Britain and the free world. He said then, and
not that precise day but on another occasion, and I quote: Do not let us speak
of darker days. Let us speak of sterner days. There are not dark days. These are
just great days.
I say to you in all sincerity, we are living in great days. We are going to have to
work maybe a little harder and sacrifice just a bit more. But if we do our best
and keep faith in ourselves and our values, America and all the other great
things that we as a country stand for, our Nation will emerge stronger and
better than ever.
I know there are some who wish to have the Government do something for
everybody in massive amounts, but as they seek to promote these kinds of
efforts in the short haul, I do not think they really forecast what the long pull
means.
Let me put it this way: I think it is fair to say a government big enough to give
us everything we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we
have.
So, as I close my participation in this great campaign—and I have no apologies
for traveling some 20,000 or more miles, being away from the Oval Office, seeing
people as I did in Los Angeles, in Fresno, in Portland, Salt Lake, and here in
Wichita, being in many other places for the last month or 6 weeks-I think the
American people have the right to see their President and to have him discuss
face-to-face with them his views and to get from them, by one means or another,
574
