[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
which might affect his President's tenure in office. Therefore, I certainly was not
ready even under these new circumstances to make any recommendations about
resignation without having adequate time to consider further what I should
properly do.
Shortly after 8 o'clock the next morning, James St. Clair came to my office.
Although he did not spell out in detail the new evidence, there was no question
in my mind that he considered these revelations to be so damaging that
impeachment in the House was a certainty and conviction in the Senate a high
probability. When I asked Mr. St. Clair if he knew of any other new and dam-
aging evidence besides that on the June 23, 1972, tape, he said "no." When I
pointed out to him the various options mentioned to me by General Haig, he told
me he had not been the source of any opinion about Presidential pardon power.
After further thought on the matter, I was determined not to make any recom-
mendations to President Nixon on his resignation. I had not given any advice
or recommendations in my conversations with his aides, but I also did not want
anyone who might talk to the President to suggest that I had some intention
to do so.
For that reason I decided I should call General Haig the afternoon of August 2.
I did make the call late that afternoon and told him I wanted him to understand
that I had no intention of recommending what President Nixon should do about
resigning or not resigning, and that nothing we had talked about the previous
afternoon should be given any consideration in whatever decision the President
might make. General Haig told me he was in full agreement with this position.
My travel schedule called for me to make appearances in Mississippi and
Louisiana over Saturday, Sunday, and part of Monday, August 3, 4, and 5. In
the previous 8 months, I had repeatedly stated my opinion that the President
would not be found guilty of an impeachable offense. Any change from my
stated views, or even refusal to comment further, I feared, would lead in the
press to conclusions that I now wanted to see the President resign to avoid an
impeachment vote in the House and probable conviction vote in the Senate. For
that reason I remained firm in my answers to press questions during my trip
and repeated my belief in the President's innocence of an impeachable offense.
Not until I returned to Washington did I learn that President Nixon was to
release the new evidence late on Monday, August 5, 1974.
At about the same time I was notified that the President had called a Cabinet
meeting for Tuesday morning, August 6, 1974. At that meeting in the Cabinet
Room, I announced that I was making no recommendations to the President as
344
