August 20
[18]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
The names included individuals who had served their respective States with
great credit. The names included individuals who were in government, but
not in Washington. The names included individuals who were not connected
with government.
But after a long and very thoughtful process, I have made the choice, and
that choice is Nelson Rockefeller of New York State. It is my honor and
privilege to introduce to you a good partner for me and, I think, a good partner
for our country and the world.
So, I now announce officially that I will send the name of Nelson Rockefeller
to the Congress of the United States for confirmation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:04 a.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House. His remarks were broad-
cast live on radio and television.
Vice President-designate Rockefeller responded
as follows:
Mr. President, Mr. Speaker and leaders of the Con-
gress, Mr. Secretary of State and members of the
Cabinet, and friends:
Mr. President, your nomination of me to be
Vice President of the United States under the 25th
amendment of the Constitution makes me very
humble. If I am confirmed, it will be my great
honor to serve you and through you to serve all of
the people of this great country.
18
As you pointed out in your moving message to
the Congress, these are very serious times. They are
times, as you pointed out, that require the closest
cooperation between the Congress of the United
States and the executive branch of Government.
They also require the dedication of every American
to our common national interest.
You, Mr. President, through your dedication and
your openness have already reawakened faith and
hope, and under your leadership, we as a people
and we as a nation have the will, the determination,
and the capability to overcome the hard realities of
our times. I am optimistic about the long-term
future.
Thank you, sir.
Remarks at a News Conference for Vice President-designate
Rockefeller. August 20, 1974
Good morning.
I think all of you have probably heard by now that my nominee for Vice
President is Governor Nelson Rockefeller. I told him I was going to bring him
over to all of my friends to have some discussion, and so if you would like,
I just want to reiterate the fact that I stated, that after I looked at all of the
choices, and they were difficult, after I looked at all of the people, there were
many, but the one that in good judgment under all of the circumstances was
Nelson Rockefeller.
29
