October 16
[154]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
154
Remarks in Indianapolis, Indiana. October 16, 1974
I MUST SAY it is an unbelievable audience, tremendous in size and overwhelm-
ing in enthusiasm. And I thank you not for whatever impact I might have had;
I thank you because you are here to elect Dick Lugar to the United States Senate,
and to pay tribute to an outstanding Governor of the State of Indiana, [Otis R.]
Doc Bowen, and to elect, reelect those fine members of the Republican delega-
tion in the House of Representatives in Washington like Bill Hudnut and the
rest on November 5.
And may I say to the wonderful people who are blocked out by the news
media—and they are all my friends-I am for an open Administration. And I
apologize that the good friends—and the news media inadvertently, unavoidably
are precluding me from looking at you—but I will be talking to you as much as
I am to the others.
Governor Bowen, members of your administration, my former colleagues in
the House of Representatives, Dick Lugar, of course, who I can't wait to be in
the United States Senate, and all of you who have participated in this great
affair, I thank you from the very bottom of my heart. But let me say, I particu-
larly appreciated the invitation to be here tonight because I had a suspicion that
I wouldn't be among enemies, I would be among friendly Americans.
Frankly, I wanted to be visible, and I want to be an accessible President. And
obviously I need it.
Let me tell you why. As I was walking through the lobby, a very friendly lady
came up to me, shook my hand and said, "I know you from somewhere, but I
just can't remember your name." So in a friendly way, I tried to help her out,
I said, "I am Jerry Ford." She said, "No, but you are close." [Laughter]
It is a pleasure to be with you all here tonight—with so many enthusiastic
Indiana Republicans, discerning Independents, and wise Democrats. It has been
my privilege to visit Indianapolis many times, and I have loved every visit. But
I still come away, and particularly on this occasion, more impressed, more
enthusiastic about the great future of this city and this great State, and I
compliment you.
Obviously, one of the reasons why I feel so optimistic about Indianapolis is
here with us tonight, Dick Lugar.
As I traveled around the country for 7 or 8 years, maybe a bit longer—I
traveled some 200,000 miles a year and I had many, many opportunities to meet
331
