[154]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
mayors, other public officials—and I can say without any hesitation or qualifica-
tion that you in Indianapolis, as many of you claim, a vast majority, you have
got the best darned mayor in the United States.
But, you know, the good thing about it is that Dick Lugar will do as much
for Indianapolis and the State of Indiana and the country as he has done for
this city, and that is a darned good recommendation why he ought to be the
next United States Senator.
over.
Dick has got a tough fight on his hands. I don't think we ought to gloss it
I think we ought to be pragmatic and realistic about it. There is a lot of
hard political muscle out to beat him. There is a lot of out-of-State money
involved in trying to defeat Dick. But with your help, Dick Lugar can make it,
and he deserves it.
And if I might add just a little personal note, I think we—and when I say
"we," I mean us Michiganders and all of the rest of us around the country—
need a person like Dick representing Indiana and the country in the United
States Senate, a man who will support economy in Government and fight infla-
tion year around, not just in election time. He will vote in Washington as he
talks in Indiana.
Let me just conclude this comment or two that I have made about Dick, but
I think this represents my firm conviction, and I would be remiss if I didn't say
it. Dick is young, dynamic, honest, smart. He does his homework, he will be a
full-time Senator for Indiana who will represent the responsible, the common-
sense approach to the issues that Hoosiers believe are important for your State
and for our country.
And Dick, I am looking forward to seeing you be sworn in on January 3, 1977
(1975).
I want to add one point that I have indicated at the outset. I have great respect
and admiration for Doc Bowen. Again, I have met many mayors and Governors
and other public officials, and as I travel around the country, I see the good ones
and the bad ones.
It seems to me that you have got one of the best. But you know, I had planned
to meet with Doc at the White House a few weeks or a month or so ago, but I
found out that like so many doctors these days, he doesn't make house calls any
more. [Laughter] So, I have come to see Doc in Indiana.
Well, he is popular. He is hard-working, a great inspiration to the Republican
Party, and I know I speak for everyone here when I say how grateful Republicans
and all other Hoosiers are for his tireless campaigning for a great candidate, Dick
Lugar, in this election in 1974.
332
