October 19
[173]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
saying, because they have read some of the polls, they have listened to some of
the political seers, they are just wringing their hands for the opportunity of
getting in their grasp what they call a veto-proof Congress.
A veto-proof Congress—what does that mean? It means that it will totally
upset the basic concept that has been so good for America-balance. Our fore-
fathers, particularly yours from South Carolina, when they joined with others
and met in the city of Philadelphia to draft our Constitution, wove into our con-
stitutional balance, checks and balances.
They didn't want a dictator in either the Congress or the White House or
the courts. And they had this system of checks and balances, and because of it,
we have ended up with freedom and opportunity and material blessings beyond
any expectation.
But if they get in their grasp a veto-proof Congress, they will upset that bal-
ance. I don't think we want a veto-proof Congress which would be a legislative
dictatorship. You want balance so the President has an input, the Congress has
an input, the Supreme Court has an input.
So, we have a mission, in my humble judgment, between now and Novem-
ber 5, to maximize our efforts to make sure, to make positive that they don't get
this legislative dictatorship which some of them want.
If I have my choice-let's forget the veto-proof Congress, let's get an inflation-
proof Congress. Doesn't that make a lot more sense?
I can't help but say a word or two at this point about a conversation I had, not
too many months before he died, with the late, great President and General,
Dwight D. Eisenhower. Obviously, he was a hero to literally millions of Ameri-
cans, beloved by all. He came into the Presidency with the massive support of
people from all over the country, both political parties.
I don't think Ike really considered himself a politician. No one, on the other
hand, knew better than General Eisenhower how vital a two-party system is to
the future of this country.
Just a few months before his death at his farm in Gettysburg, I had an oppor-
tunity to talk to Ike. He shared with me his own personal views and convictions
on the two-party system. And what he told me is even more timely today than it
was then.
And if I can paraphrase his words, this is roughly what he said: We are tend-
ing too much in the direction of a one-party system in the United States. We are
awfully close to a political monopoly of power in America.
Ike went on to explain, as only he could say it—he said the stakes were very
high; he said that if we have an approximately equal balance, an approximate
399
