October 19
[170]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
theless, it is critically important that our judgments be soundly based so that we
may proceed with the greatest amount of wisdom.
I know I can count on the National Cancer Advisory Board to provide me with
scientific advice on this important matter of public concern. I would greatly
appreciate the Board's assessment by December 1, 1974.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Jonathan E. Rhoads, Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, University of Pennsyl-
vania, 36th and Hamilton Walk, Philadelphia, Pa. 19104]
170
Remarks at Spartanburg, South Carolina. October 19, 1974
Strom Thurmond, Jesse Helms over here, and Secretary Dent, my old friend
General Westmoreland, and Mayor Baehr, and all of you from South Carolina:
As I said a moment ago, it is a great privilege and pleasure to be back in South
Carolina. I have had this opportunity on a number of occasions in the past over
the years, and I thank you now for the warm hospitality extended me then. And
I deeply appreciate this tremendous crowd, the wonderful enthusiasm here on
this occasion at this airport, and I can't express deeply enough my gratitude, my
appreciation. Just thank you very, very much.
But let me say I am here primarily for three, maybe four reasons. Number one,
I am here to enlist every one of you as well as all of your friends throughout the
State of South Carolina in our WIN effort, which is to "Whip Inflation Now.”
And I am here—and I am proud to be—to indicate my pride in the Republican
candidates for State and Federal offices in the great State of South Carolina.
I am also here to extend my acquaintanceship, my friendship with people in
the State of South Carolina. The ones that I have known and gotten acquainted
with over the years are the kind of people we Michiganders like, and I hope I can
find many, many more like you in the travels through the State of South Carolina
today.
Within the last 10 days or 2 weeks, on two occasions I addressed myself to the
basic problems we face in the Nation-number one, to whip inflation; number
two, to keep our economy strong and growing; and number three, to enlist every
one of you as well as 213 million other Americans in this effort which involves
saving not only our economy through prudent use of our funds, through the
prudent use of our energy but through the efforts of every one of you in wasting
less and saving more.
385
