December 2
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
But in the other programs, in our tactical forces and other military programs,
there is an inflationary cost. The military has that inflation just like you and I do,
so we will probably have to increase our military budget next year just to take
care of the costs of inflation.
Q. Just to follow up, we are not quite to that ceiling yet, are we? Do you in-
tend to stay below that ceiling, or are you going to try to reach that ceiling?
THE PRESIDENT. I intend to stay below the ceiling. That is the agreement. But
we do have an obligation to stay up to that ceiling, and the budget that I will
recommend will keep our strategic forces either up to or aimed at that objective.
[5.] Q. Mr. President, since it is widely believed the Soviet Union has larger
rockets capable of carrying heavier payloads and being MIRVed, to a larger ex-
tent carrying more warheads, can you tell us what the relative position would be
between the United States and the Soviet Union in terms of warheads if each
side goes to the maximum number of 1,320 on the MIRVed limit?
THE PRESIDENT. On delivery systems, we are equal. On the MIRVing, we are
equal. I think the question you are asking is throw weight. It is recognized that
the Soviet Union has a heavier throw weight, but the agreement does not pre-
clude the United States from increasing its throw weight capability.
A number of years ago, our military decided that we wanted smaller missiles
that were more accurate. That has been the decision of our military.
Now, if the military decides at the present time that they want to increase the
throw weight, we have that right under the agreement, and I can tell you that we
have the capability to do so.
So, if there is an inequality in throw weight, it can be remedied if our military
recommended and the Congress appropriates the money.
Q. Mr. President, if you find the Soviet Union leaning, then, toward getting
the maximum throw weight or the maximum number of warheads on their
MIRV missiles, would you then recommend that the United States accelerate and
move from smaller missiles to larger ones?
THE PRESIDENT. The Soviet military guidelines were for heavier missiles,
heavier throw weight. Our military took a different point of view some years ago.
The Soviet Union is limited as to delivery systems and as to MIRV's within the
delivery systems. They cannot go beyond those.
The agreement gives us the flexibility to move up in throw weight if we want
to. It does not preclude the Soviets from increasing throw weight, but I think
for good reasons they have no justification for doing so.
Yes, Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling, Christian Science Monitor].
681
