[195]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
their own leadership on both sides of the aisle and to the President of the
United States.
PARDON FOR FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[22.] Q. Mr. President, can I get back to the conversation with General Haig
in early August. I know you said there was no deal or no commitment, but some-
times things are done more subtly. When he brought up as a sixth option the
possibility of a pardon, did you point out to him that in your testimony on con-
firmation you had indicated opposition to such a move, or did you in some way
indicate to him that you might be inclined, without exactly saying so, that you
might be inclined to go along with an early pardon?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the testimony I gave before the House Committee on
the Judiciary or subcommittee of that committee speaks for itself, and I will
stand by that testimony.
I would like to point out, in addition, in the testimony before the Senate
Committee on Rules and Administration, I answered it as follows:
One, I did not think the American people would stand for a pardon, in answer
to the hypothetical question that was asked me.
Secondly, because I was not familiar with the precise authority and power of
a President to grant a pardon, I did not want to get into any of the technicalities
involving that issue, but the testimony I gave before the House committee will
speak for itself, and I will let it stand at that.
FISCAL YEAR 1976 BUDGET
[23.] Q. Mr. President, looking a bit further down the road on your anti-
inflation program, sir, do you have any particular figures or program in mind
for your 1976 budget, which is now in the process of being prepared?
The President. Well, that is another matter that I will be working with Roy
Ash and his people on after we get through the long shopping list of proposed
rescissions, deferrals, and cutbacks for fiscal year 1975.
I can assure you it will be a tight budget, very tight budget, because we do have
to hold the lid on spending, not only in the remaining months of fiscal year
1975 but we have to reassure the American people that in the next fiscal year
we will be just as firm in controlling and holding down expenditures.
Q. Mr. President, when you say a tight budget, do you mean a budget surplus
or balanced or possible deficit?
THE PRESIDENT. Our objective will be a balanced budget. We will do the very
best we can.
492
