December 5
[279]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
of thousands of Canadians get together to cheer for
the Canadian team against the visiting American
team when every one of the players on both sides is
American! [Laughter]
When I have stayed in some of your American
cities, it is another story. In winter at your hockey
forums, they cheer for the local team, and prob-
ably 95 percent of the players on both sides are
Canadians-and the best ones.
And this, I think, shows really how close the peo-
ple are in their goals, in their ways of living,
in their love of sports, in their values, even in stand-
ards of their own lives.
And that makes your job and mine, Mr. President,
so much easier when we meet. We find that most of
the subjects which have to be discussed between
heads of governments or heads of states when they
meet, in our case, have been settled by the people
themselves. The figure I was giving you this after-
noon of 66 percent of the trade between our two
countries being free trade, tariff free, and it will
be 81 percent if that trade reform bill gets passed in
the form that it went to the Senate committee.
So much of this is done by the people themselves
in the trade area, in the cultural area, and the knowl-
edge of each other by the constant visits across the
border, that when we meet it is always a pleasant
occasion.
As you said, and I realized this afternoon, we can
talk to each other in complete candor. We know
how the electorates and the press and the House
of Representatives or the Senate or the House of
Commons will react to various situations. And it is
so much we talk the same language-it is so much
easier to deal with problems in this context.
You, Mr. President, have been exposed to the
electorates much more frequently than I have. I
dare say that I have walked in the valley of the
shadow and feel a little more closer than you have.
But I think we would both agree that our peoples,
Canadian and the American peoples, would cease to
support us overnight if they thought that we were
embarking on courses which were not friendly,
which were not based on cooperation and under-
standing, on the desire to solve any differences that
arise in that spirit of friendship rather than the
spirit of hostility.
We, as your neighbors, realize the importance of
the leadership that the United States is giving to
today's world. Your great success in Vladivostok is
something that was received in Canada with im-
mense satisfaction. We know that in matters of At-
lantic security, détente, and disarmament-we know
that we can follow your lead because the principles
on which your policies are based are the same as ours.
And I think you know that you can trust us to
support those principles in areas we consider essential.
For these reasons, I must say our tasks are much
easier, and I think we should renew the resolve that
we mentioned to each other earlier that we will
continue this type of meeting on an informal, non-
protocol, or the minimum protocol.
It has a great advantage for us to gather around a
table such as this, a very beautiful one. Mrs. Ford
will be told that we were struck by its beauty and
the warmth of this room and the repast. Did she
do the cooking? [Laughter]
Insofar as the Olympics are concerned, we very
much hope you will come-I hope you will come
before that, and that perhaps, perchance, we will
find some way of being the forerunners in some ski
race
THE PRESIDENT. I'm too young! [Laughter]
THE PRIME MINISTER.-prepared to test for the
winter Olympics whenever and wherever they
happen.
Mr. President, we hope you will come before
that, that you will find it convenient, as your prede-
cessor did, to talk on a very informal basis even by
phone or by quick visits in-and-out which do away
with all formality, permit us to come to the point
right quickly, and to solve whatever small problems
we might have.
So, with this in mind and in the hopes that our
friendship of which we talked and the candor with
which we talked will be brought out in the spirit
of cooperation and understanding and the fairness
with which all our meetings together are inspired,
I would ask our guests here to raise their glasses
in a toast to the President of the United States.
279
Remarks of Welcome to Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the
Federal Republic of Germany.
Chancellor Schmidt, gentlemen:
December 5, 1974
I am delighted to welcome you here in Washington, our Nation's Capital,
on behalf of the American people.
713
