[246]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
have lost their confidence, their sense of responsibility, and their creativity. It is
not true.
I have traveled over much of my country during the past year. Each time I re-
turn to Washington refreshed. Our people are determined and realistic; our
people are vigorous. They are solving their problems in countless towns and
cities across the country. They continue to understand that history has placed
great responsibilities on American shoulders. Americans are ready and willing
to play their part with the same strength and the same will that they have always
shown in the past.
Americans also know that no nation, however strong, can hope to dictate the
course of history by itself. But the ability to understand the basic issue, to define
our national interest, and to make common cause with others to achieve common
purposes makes it possible to influence events. And Americans are determined
to do that for the constructive purposes and in the true spirit of interdependence.
In that spirit, let me make a pledge to you today. As we face the problems of
the future, the United States will remain faithful in our commitments and
firm in the pursuit of our common goals. We intend not only to remain a trust-
worthy ally but a reliable trading partner.
We will continue to be suppliers of the goods you need. If shortages occur,
we will take special account of the needs of our traditional trading partners. We
will not compete with our friends for their markets or for their resources. We
want to work with them.
The basic concepts of our foreign policy remain unchanged. Those concepts
have a solid bipartisan and popular support. The American people remain
strong, confident, and faithful. We may sometimes falter, but we will not fail.
Let me, if I might, end on a personal note. It is a privilege to be the first Ameri-
can President to visit Japan while in office. It is also a very great pleasure. I look
forward to seeing Kyoto, the ancient capital of Japan.
Japan has preserved her cultural integrity in the face of rapid modernization.
I have never believed all change is necessarily good. We must try to apply the
enduring values of the past to the challenges and to the pressures of our times.
Americans can learn from Japan to respect traditions even as we,
like you,
plunge ahead in the last quarter of the 20th century.
I also look forward to another deep privilege. Yesterday, during my call upon
His Imperial Majesty, the Emperor of Japan, I renewed our invitation for the
Emperor to visit the United States. It would be a great pleasure to be the first
American President to welcome the Emperor of Japan to Washington and to
640
