[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
sit and wait until Congress acts on this-and I think they ought to act a lot more
quickly than they have-I think would be wrong.
Some things that we have to achieve here are vitally important, and I think
the trip ought to go on, and as far as I am concerned, it is.
FUTURE DIRECTION FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[16.] Q. Jennifer Schanno, College of St. Catherine in St. Paul, Minnesota.
Mr. President, there seems to be some argument as to what direction the Repub-
lican Party should go to avoid another landslide defeat. Some are saying it should
go in a moderate direction, some in a more conservative.
In which direction do you feel it should go?
The President. I think the Republican Party ought to continue to be a middle-
of-the-road party, a party that has a strong, internationally oriented foreign
policy, a party that has a middle-of-the-road to conservative domestic policy—cer-
tainly conservative in the field of fiscal affairs.
I think that is a good policy, and I don't see why we should abandon a good
policy just because we took a licking on November 5.
If you go back in history, in 1946 when Mr. Truman was President, the
Democrats took a worse beating, and the 80th Congress came in with more Re-
publicans in the House and Senate by a substantial number. Mr. Truman and the
Democrats didn't abandon their policies. They went out and fought for them.
They went out and made an effort to sell them. And Mr. Truman and the Demo-
crats were successful in November of 1948.
I think that is what we ought to do as Republicans in 1976.
PARTY CONTROL OF CONGRESS
[17.] Q. Mr. President, Lester Schlangen of the Associated Press.
Why do the Democrats seem to have better luck in electing Democratic Con-
gresses than Republicans do? Why can't the Republicans do that? You haven't
won in 40 years.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am glad you pointed out that the Democrats have con-
trolled the Congress-the House and the Senate-38 out of the last 42 years. So, all
of the evils that you have had, you can blame on them, not on us. [Laughter]
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
[18.] Q. Mr. President, Forrest Boyd, Mutual Broadcasting.
I would like to take that just one step further. Senator Dole suggested that
608
