[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
have certain safeguards today that we did not have in the 1930's. I remember the
depression, Wally; you're too young.
In those days, we didn't have an unemployment compensation insurance which
is a very helpful protection. We didn't have in the 1930's the kind of additional
payments that the autoworkers, for example, get from the auto unions to bolster
the amounts they get from unemployment compensation.
We have a lot of excellent safeguards that protect our economy today from
falling into the depression. I don't think we are going to have one because we have
these safeguards.
What we have to do is to prevent reactions that will really be harmful to the
economy, restimulating or reigniting inflation which is actually starting to recede
at the present time. We have to follow a very narrow path, and the Congress can
help, and if they do, we can avoid the pitfalls of more inflation and economic
conditions worse than we have today.
Q. By way of a followup, Mr. President, if I could, I would like to try to pin
you down on the unemployment figure. Have any of your economists sug-
gested that unemployment might go to 7 percent or do you entertain that
possibility?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not heard any of the economists that advise me saying
that unemployment would go to 7 percent or over. They do indicate that it may
increase above the 6 percent which was last reported.
PROCEDURES FOR SELECTING PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTEES
[24.] Q. John Kolbe from the Phoenix Gazette.
Mr. President, earlier this week you withdrew your nomination of Mr. Gibson
as the new energy administrator in the midst of some discussions and some dis-
closures about his severance agreement from an oil company. The White House
reported that apparently you personally knew nothing of that agreement be-
fore you made the nomination.
Have you taken or do you intend to institute any new staff-type procedures in
the White House that will prevent this kind of embarrassing situation in the
future, and if so, what do you intend to do?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we have. The procedure we intend to follow in the
future is to say that a person is being considered and undertake the FBI or in-
vestigation review prior to making any specific announcement that we are send-
ing a name up to the Senate for confirmation, which gives the individual some
protection and gives us some protection.
In the case of Andy Gibson, he was an excellent head or director, administra-
612
