[220]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
And the result was that you got a better break, and therefore, you ought to sup-
port them just on that ground, if not for any other reason.
Well, I don't have to say a lot about Larry Winn, Joe Skubitz, Keith Sebelius.
They all have tremendous records. They have done a great job. We are not in
their respective districts. You just ought to be darned proud of the Kansas dele-
gation. They are responsible, and they are responsive. And how much better
could you ask a delegation than to have that kind of a reputation?
Now, let me speak, if I might, about some issues. Our biggest problem is two-
fold. Our biggest problem is to keep a strong economy, to whip the problems
of inflation, to save the energy that we have, and develop plans and programs
to produce more. That is our domestic issue.
On the other hand we have a major responsibility of maintaining the peace
and building and broadening and expanding it, working with our allies, trying
to expand our relationship with any potential adversaries.
Yes, those are serious problems, and I know some have predicted that the
United States is in worse shape than some of our partners in Europe. Others
say that they are far worse off than we. And then they make allegations that
the free world as a whole-economically, militarily, diplomatically—is in serious
trouble and that we should be cowed by and we should be fearful of those who
have a different ideology or political philosophy.
Let me start out by making this one strong, categorical, firm statement: I have
faith in America. We are going to make it, and our allies and our philosophy
will prevail, both at home and abroad.
Now, we have to do this with the help and assistance of Republicans, Demo-
crats, Independents. I know in some instances partisanship has interjected it-
self, become a principal element in some of the Congressional or senatorial or
gubernatorial races.
Well, in the case of Bob Bennett, I don't know why it should, because you
have a great candidate and he is going to win. I don't know why it should in the
case of Bob Dole, because he has a proven record, both at home and abroad.
I don't know why it should in the case of Larry or Garner or Joe Skubitz or
Keith or your fine new candidate, John Peterson.¹ These are people who ought
to be supported just on the basis of their background and experience and their
dedication.
And I am not going to condemn a Democrat-because there are some good
1 State Representative John C. Peterson was the Republican candidate in the Second Congressional Dis-
trict of Kansas.
572
