October 19
[175]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Harry Truman had the strength and the will and the desire, and he thought
he was right, and he went out and sold himself and his policies and his programs
to the American people. He didn't sit around the Oval Office cogitating this and
that. He wanted to find out what was in the minds of the American people, and
those suggestions are pretty darned important.
And I intend to do the same thing, because I happen to think the policies we
are pursuing abroad and the policies we are pursuing at home are right, and I in-
tend to try and sell them to the American people. The last thing I am going to
do is be barricaded in Washington, D.C., by people who don't want our point of
view sold to the American people.
I may have a little trouble at home. I might say I got special dispensation from
Betty to come here for Marlow Cook. She was here a few weeks ago, and she
loved it. And you were all great to her, and she said give all of you her very,
very best. She is doing great.
Now, what are the fundamental issues we face here, we face as a nation?
I could go on in the foreign policy area, but the facts of life are we are moving
ahead, we are making headway in foreign policy. This Administration is go-
ing to continue the policy of strength and peace, of negotiation rather than
confrontation.
But let's talk about what the real facts of life are here at home. It has been
alluded to by others before me. Some of our opponents are alleging, in fact are
almost believing themselves, that they are going to end up with significant gains
in the House and the Senate, and the net result is they will have a veto-proof
Congress.
If I could take just a minute, let me illustrate what that means. But I have to
go back just a little bit and point out, if I might, what your forefathers and what
mine did.
When they sat down in the city of Philadelphia to draft a Constitution for
the benefit of a new nation, a new nation which is now almost 200 years old,
most of them had come from areas in Western Europe where they had been
dominated and dictated to by a king or some other kind of dictatorial authority.
And they, after having fought for freedom, decided that they wanted a sys-
tem of checks and balances. They wanted a strong President in the White House;
they wanted a strong Congress heading the legislative branch; they wanted a
strong judicial system headed by the Supreme Court.
But in the process of weaving that Constitution together, they determined
that they wanted a system of checks and balances. They wanted a tripartite form
407
