October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
CONGRESSMAN MANN. Of course, the mandate of the Special Prosecutor's
office was not directed solely at President Nixon.
But is it not so that the pardon in effect terminated that investigation insofar
as other parties, other possible defendants, in getting to the true facts of the
matters that have disturbed our national political life during these past 2 years?
The President. I do not believe that the action I took in pardoning President
Nixon had any impact on any other mandate that that Special Prosecutor's office
had.
CONGRESSMAN MANN. What response would you have if the Special Prosecutor's
office now requested access to certain of the tapes now in the custody of the
Government?
THE PRESIDENT. The material that is still held by the Government, in my
understanding of the Supreme Court decision, permits the Special Prosecutor to
obtain any of that material for its responsibility, and I, of course not in a
personal way, would make certain that that information was made available to
the Special Prosecutor's office.
CONGRESSMAN MANN. According to press reports, Mr. Clement Stone visited
Mr. Nixon on September 2 and thereafter met with you in Washington. Are
you at liberty to tell us the gist of the communication involving President Nixon
from Mr. Stone to you?
The President. Mr. Stone came to see me about a program that he has used
very successfully in his business, a program which he is very proud of, and he
was urging me to institute it in the various bureaus and departments of the
Federal Government.
There was no other message conveyed by him from Mr. Nixon to me.
CONGRESSMAN MANN. Did you ever discuss the pardon with former President
Nixon after his resignation and prior to the granting of the pardon?
THE PRESIDENT. Will you repeat that again, please?
CONGRESSMAN MANN. Did you have any personal conversation with former
President Nixon concerning the pardon, between his resignation and
September 8 ?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely not.
CONGRESSMAN MANN. Now, in response to Mr. Edwards' question about
equal justice under the law, I know that you make a distinction that here we
are talking about the Office of President of the United States.
But let's assume that we are talking about the president of a bank or Governor
of a State or Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and in our minds
those are very high political offices. Do you think any of those persons who are
359
