[154]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
tem. They are the kind of people that you will be proud of on the basis of per-
sonal integrity and Government service dedication. And they are the kind of
people that will be a part of this great bipartisan effort that we have to have if we
are going to solve our problems, either at home or abroad.
Yes, your support for them—not just for you individually, not just because of
what they can do for your Congressional district or your city or your State, but
more importantly, what they can do for what is good for America and what is
good for people around the world.
They will be a part of a strong and responsive Congress. And as one com-
mentator put it on television last week, and let me quote: I am looking for a
Congress that will praise the Lord and pass the legislation.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 p.m. at a din-
ner for Republican candidates at the Indiana Con-
vention-Exposition Center. Prior to the dinner, the
President attended a reception for Republican candi-
dates at the center.
155
Statement and Responses to Questions From Members of the
House Judiciary Committee Concerning the Pardon of
Richard Nixon. October 17, 1974
WE MEET here today to review the facts and circumstances that were the basis
for my pardon of former President Nixon on September 8, 1974.
I want very much to have those facts and circumstances known. The American
people want to know them. And Members of the Congress want to know them.
The two Congressional resolutions of inquiry now before this committee serve
those purposes. That is why I have volunteered to appear before you this morn-
ing, and I welcome and thank you for this opportunity to speak to the questions
raised by the resolutions.
My appearance at this hearing of your distinguished subcommittee of the
House Committee on the Judiciary has been looked upon as an unusual historic
event—one that has no firm precedent in the whole history of Presidential rela-
tions with the Congress. Yet, I am here not to make history, but to report on
history.
The history you are interested in covers so recent a period that it is still not
well understood. If, with your assistance, I can make for better understanding of
338
