November 16
[237]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tor of the Maritime Administration. He took a maritime industry and an agency
in the Federal Government in 1969 that was dead and really made it into an
effective Maritime Administration.
He was a first-class administrator. I regret that the circumstances developed,
because I asked him to serve in a position which requires a first-class administra-
tor. We have not had that kind of firm direction over in the Federal Energy
Administration. Andy Gibson would have been a good one.
I regret very much that he didn't make it, and I regret that our procedure at
that time was inadequate. We made a mistake. It won't happen again.
Q. Do some of the disclosures that have come out about Governor Rockefeller
fit in that same category as Mr. Gibson?
THE PRESIDENT. None whatsoever. In the case of Governor Rockefeller, prior
to the nomination I submitted three names to the FBI and asked them to give me
an updating of their files and to let me know whether there was anything
whatsoever in the files of the FBI concerning Mr. Rockefeller and two others.
I think that was a sound procedure.
The gifts that Governor Rockefeller has given, in my judgment, are the kind
of gifts that a person, if you have that much money, ought to have the right to
give, and there is no political chicanery involved at all. He was generous to
people that he thought ought to be helped, and there is no connection, no relation-
ship between the Rockefeller situation and the Gibson matter.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:04 p.m. in the Kino Room at the Del Webb Towne House.
237
Letter Accepting Withdrawal of the Nomination of Peter M.
Flanigan To Be United States Ambassador to Spain.
November 16, 1974
Dear Pete:
I have your letter of November 16 asking that I not resubmit your nomination
as Ambassador to Spain. Although I fully understand the selfless reasons which
led to your decision it is nevertheless with reluctance and deep regret that I ac-
cept your request. In doing so, I want to assure you once again of my confidence
in you and my admiration for your abilities.
For the past five years as Assistant to the President and Director of the
613
