October 29
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
And they were always gobbled up by thoughtful women who wanted to be
reminded what a good Congressman would do. And we always used to put on
those hot pads, "Vote for some Congressman by the name of Ford who works
for you in Congress." That is what we emphasized-work for you in Congress.
And that is what Paul Goebel will do for you. He will work for you in Congress.
Well, I can see, as I look around this great crowd, some wonderful people from
Ionia, from Montcalm, from Barry, from Eaton, from Clinton, as well as from
Kent County. I love you, and it is just great to see you all.
Naturally, I am delighted to be back home. I just wish Betty were here. But
she did ask me to extend to you, one and all, her gratitude for the many prayers,
many thoughtful messages—all of which have been extremely helpful to her and
to us during this difficult period.
I thank you very much on her behalf.
I think all these wonderful balloons—she is the best part of the family; I have
always said that—but I got a big kick out of watching all these balloons come
down from the ceiling at the start of the program. You might say this is the big
difference between our position on our side of the aisle and their position on the
other side of the aisle. We put hot air in the balloons, and they put it in their
speeches. [Laughter]
You know, a few weeks ago the Ohio State University was thoughtful enough
to ask me to—I said they were thoughtful enough to invite me to come and give
a commencement address. And gee, they could not have been nicer. But it does
create a bit of a problem, with this contest coming up in a couple of weeks be-
tween the Buckeyes and the Wolverines. I try to be nonpartisan as I go from one
State to another, but it is particularly difficult to be nonpartisan when it comes to
such basic matters as football.
Now, take this game between Ohio and Michigan in a couple of weeks. People
keep asking me who I will be rooting for. Well, I think the late President Ken-
nedy had a real good answer. He handled the problem extremely well. He was in
Iowa, just before their big game with Notre Dame. And someone asked him the
very same question, "Who will you be rooting for, Mr. President?".
And Jack Kennedy said, "I will be rooting for Iowa."
And then he added, after a tremendous cheer went up, "But I will be praying
for Notre Dame." [Laughter]
So, come the Michigan-Ohio game, I will let you figure out who I will be
rooting for and who I will be praying for.
Now, every 2 years for the last 25, for 13 campaigns, I have come back to our
513
