[248]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
urge that you continue these efforts in the future, because the Japanese Govern-
ment and the United States Government, after the 2 days of talks we have had,
yesterday and today, are embarking on a stronger unity, a stronger program
of helping both in the maintenance of peace and the stimulation of prosperity.
And this is what we want in Japan and in America and what we want for the
rest of the world.
And so, what you do is of tremendous significance. What you do in explain-
ing to the thousands of Americans who are here in Japan, what the Japanese
who are here can do to explain to the millions of Japanese will not only be better
for Japan and the United States but will be better for the world.
And I congratulate you, I thank you, and I wish you well. And may I offer a
toast at this point to the Government of Japan and the millions and millions of
Japanese.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:08 p.m. in the
Heian Room at the Hotel Okura in Tokyo. In his
opening remarks, the President referred to Shigeki
Tashiro, chairman of the board of the Toyo Rayon
Co., Tokyo.
249
Joint Communique Following Discussions With Prime Minister
Tanaka of Japan. November 20, 1974
I
President Ford of the United States of America paid an official visit to Japan
between November 18 and 22 at the invitation of the Government of Japan.
President Ford met Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress of Japan at the
Imperial Palace on November 19.
II
In discussions held on November 19 and 20, President Ford and Prime
Minister Tanaka agreed on the following common purposes underlying future
relations between the United States and Japan.
1. The United States and Japan, Pacific nations sharing many political and
economic interests, have developed a close and mutually beneficial relationship
based on the principle of equality. Their friendship and cooperation are founded
upon a common determination to maintain political systems respecting individ-
ual freedom and fundamental human rights as well as market economies which
enhance the scope for creativity and the prospect of assuring the well-being of
their peoples.
644
