[254]
November 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
the other members of the National Assembly, including representatives of the
various major political parties.
Having spent, Mr. President, a quarter of a century of my life in the parlia-
ment, or our Congress, I place a great value in the legislative process of a repre-
sentative government.
I came to your country, Mr. President, to demonstrate America's continued
determination to preserve peace in Korea, in Asia, and throughout the world.
Koreans and Americans were friends in war. We will remain friends in peace.
America seeks world peace for the good of all and at the expense of none.
Today, Mr. President, I enjoyed a rewarding and a very inspiring visit with
your people. I also drew great encouragement by meeting with the armed forces
of our American troops in which all of us take such great pride.
I pledge to you, Mr. President, that the United States will continue to assist
and to support you. Our relationship and our dialog will continue.
We live in a time of new international realities and new opportunities for
peace and progress in Asia and elsewhere. President Park, your statesmanlike
initiative in opening a dialog with the North contributed constructively to efforts
to find a peaceful and just solution to the Korean problem. With the persever-
ance and with the courage so typical of the American (Korean) people, I trust
you will prevail in this effort.
Let us recognize the new world in which we all live. Let us envisage the
interdependence of all nations-large and small. When we plan for such new
international problems as energy shortages and financial crises, the United States
considers the interests of all nations. We will continue to consult with you in
common interests and in common problems.
America has great confidence in the people of Korea, just as we have great
confidence in ourselves in America.
Mr. President, I am here on a mission of peace. It is my deepest hope that the
entire world will lift its gaze and broaden its vision. I have said before, but I
repeat here tonight, I would rather walk a thousand miles for peace than take
a single step for war.
Mr. President, the relationship between our two peoples was first formalized
as long ago as May 22, 1882. The preamble to that treaty spoke of permanent
relations based upon amity and friendship. We have proven that by more than
diplomatic phrases. Our relationship has endured through war and through
peace.
The welcome you accorded me today is symbolic of our very close ties. It dem-
onstrated the great strength of the friendship between our two peoples. I was
652
