[209]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congressional district seeking your support and gratefully receiving it. I have
never been disappointed. I have always been most appreciative.
I guess it is kind of a habit to come back, and on the 14th it just seemed to me,
even if I could come back for just one day, it would be like coming home. Now,
it does not mean I can go from Kent to Ionia to Montcalm to Eaton to Clinton to
Barry Counties.
That would be quite a bit in the limited time available, but whether I am in all
six counties or not, my heart, my soul, my conviction, my dedication is there for
the purpose of electing Paul Goebel to Congress from the Fifth Congressional
District.
I thought it was very wonderful for the Governor to come to Grand Rapids
today to participate in our ceremonies down at Vandenberg Center and to
thoughtfully introduce me.
I have known Bill Milliken for a long time. I knew him when he was a State
senator. I knew him in his other responsibilities, and I watched him very care-
fully and extremely closely as Governor of our great State. And in the process,
over the last month, I have had the opportunity of looking—and I say this to
anybody who has any doubt whatsoever—I have had the privilege of looking at
Governors from many States-Democrats, Republicans—and Bill Milliken by
any standard—and I say this as strongly, as vigorously as I can-Bill Milliken by
any standard is at the very top, and I hope he is reelected.
I guess I am prejudiced, but for good reasons. If Bill Milliken is going to do
the job that he is expected to do as Governor of our great State, then Bill needs
support in the State legislature.
You know the ones that have served you well, the ones who are seeking to
serve you well. And I just hope that Bill gets the team that he deserves to do the
best job for the great Wolverine State. Do your best, if you possibly can, for this
great group of State legislative candidates.
You know, I have gotten a lot of advice lately from friends and foes and
neutral observers. They said, "Mr. President, you ought to stay in Washington,
surround yourself with that beautiful atmosphere at the White House, spend
some time with your new dog, Liberty, and cogitate over these great decisions
that are presented to you, and then let the voters out in the respective areas of
this country make up their own minds.”
Well, I respectfully disagree with that view. I happen to believe that a Presi-
dent of the United States who has conviction and dedication ought to go out and
talk to the people and listen to them instead of sitting in the Oval Office at the
time of a great campaign.
514
