[54]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:32 a.m. in the East
Room at the White House. His remarks and both
the morning and afternoon sessions of the con-
ference were broadcast live on public television.
Subject areas for subsequent meetings included
labor, State and local government, agriculture and
food, transportation, natural resources and recrea-
tion, business and manufacturing, housing and
construction, banking and finance, and health, edu-
cation, and welfare.
55
Message for the Jewish High Holy Days. September 5, 1974
ON THE occasion of the High Holy Days, it is my pleasure to send special
greetings to my fellow Americans of the Jewish Faith. Your inheritance of
accumulated wisdom and moral precepts makes you strong guardians of the
ideals of righteousness, justice and human dignity. This has given you a special
sensitivity to the social needs of each generation. And this has also been the
guiding force behind your impressive contributions to the vitality of our Ameri-
can democracy.
These solemn days of worship which you celebrate have a message for all
Americans. They exhort us to search our souls, to render an inner accounting,
and a self-examination of the standards we profess and the actions we perform.
They invite us to a return to righteousness and truth and to a rebirth in the
spirit of neighborliness and brotherhood. They remind us that we are in God's
hands and that He has given us our lives in trust to use in His service.
At a time which urgently tests our will as a people to put humanity's interest
above self-interest, we can be greatly sustained and guided by the traditions of
valor and resilience that mark the history of the Jewish people.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the message was issued by the White House.
56
Remarks Concluding the First Meeting of the Conference
on Inflation. September 5, 1974
LET ME reiterate my appreciation for all of you being here.
I must confess that when I first heard of the resolution [S. Res. 363] that was
proposed in the Senate, I was somewhat apprehensive about an undertaking of
this kind. But in the first few hours of this Administration, I reanalyzed the sug-
gestion in relationship to the economic problems that have been well-displayed
90
