November 20
[248]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
248
Toast at a Reception for Nongovernmental Dignitaries.
November 20, 1974
Mr. Tashiro, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very high honor and a very rare privilege for me to have the opportunity
of joining with all of you on this occasion.
The trip by me as the first American President in office coming to Japan has
been a memorable one-one that I shall never forget. The opportunity to meet
with Their Majesties, the opportunity to meet with your high government offi-
cials, the opportunity to share some thoughts with the members of the Diet,
the opportunity to have a governmental exchange at the highest level is, of
course, of great significance.
It has been my experience in 25 years of political life, when I served in the
House of Representatives, to work hand-in-glove with other Members of the
legislative branch and, of course, in later years as a member of the leadership, to
work with the legislative and the executive branch. And of course, in the last
13 or so months, I have had the opportunity of serving in two offices in the
executive branch.
I have learned, over a period of 26 years serving in the Federal Government,
that all wisdom, all support for policies doesn't necessarily come from govern-
ment, but primarily from people in nongovernmental organizations and individ-
uals who are not directly connected with government itself.
And as I understand it, this group here on this occasion is a nongovernmental
group of Japanese and Americans who have spent a great deal of your time
working together in a nongovernmental capacity to support a greater unity be-
tween our country, the United States, and your country, Japan. I compliment
you, and I thank you. Your contribution is of tremendous significance.
Governments, themselves, can't do it. Decisions can be made at the gov-
ernment level—and in our societies, that is essential. But if those decisions are
not supported, if those decisions are not explained by people in positions of
responsibility in nongovernmental areas, it is impossible for those decisions
to be successful. I learned that early in my career in politics. I always could
be more successful in working to find a solution if I had the support not only
among politicians but by those people, whether they were in management, in
labor, in education, in local government.
So, I am deeply grateful for what you have done in the past, and I strongly
643
