August 22
[30]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Congressman Lud Ashley did a fine job. My former colleague from Michigan,
Garry Brown, did a superb job, and then in addition, Jim Lynn and Jim Mitchell.
So, when we add it all up, that document right there will, I think, write new
pages of history in community development and housing production. I said a
moment ago, we are all the beneficiaries of the dedication, the service, the
patience, the understanding of this group of men and many others.
I thank them on behalf of all of you and many, many millions of others
throughout our country. Congratulations.
I should add a postscript. I have shaken hands, I think, in the last 24 hours
with virtually every Member of the House and Senate, not once but several
times. We are going to have a reception, and I won't feel offended in the least
if the Members of the Congress avoid me and go to the State Dining Room, and
we will have a reception when this breaks up.
Real nice to see you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. In his remarks, the
President referred to James L. Mitchell, Under Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development; Senators
John J. Sparkman, chairman, and John G. Tower,
ranking minority member, Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; and Repre-
sentatives Wright Patman, chairman, William B.
Widnall, ranking minority member, Thomas L.
Ashley, and Garry E. Brown, House Committee on
Banking and Currency.
As enacted, the bill (S. 3066) is Public Law 93-
383 (88 Stat. 633).
30
Statement on the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974. August 22, 1974
IT IS with great pleasure today that I am signing into law S. 3066, the "Housing
and Community Development Act of 1974."
This bill is of far-reaching and perhaps historic significance, for it not only
helps to boost the long-range prospects for the housing market but also marks a
complete and welcome reversal in the way that America tries to solve the prob-
lems of our urban communities. In urging passage of this bill on the Senate
floor, Chairman Sparkman said that "it is probably . . . the most important
legislation on community development since the passage of the Housing Act of
1949."
This bill climaxes years of efforts to replace the rigid programs of the past
with a more flexible approach by sweeping away seven categorical grant pro-
grams such as urban renewal and Model Cities and replacing them with a
single "block grant" program for community development. This new approach
43
