October 29
[205]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
205
Veto of Farm Labor Contractor Registration Legislation
Containing Personnel Reclassification Rider.
October 29, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning today, without my approval, H.R. 13342, The Farm Labor
Contractor Registration Act Amendments of 1974. I am advised by the Attorney
General and I have determined that the absence of my signature from this bill
prevents it from becoming law. Without in any way qualifying this determina-
tion, I am also returning it without my approval to those designated by Congress
to receive messages at this time.
This bill contains provisions designed to strengthen the protection of migrant
farm workers under that Act, which I support. I cannot approve the bill, how-
ever, because it contains an unrelated rider which creates serious inequities and
distortions in the Federal personnel system.
In the decade since the enactment of the Farm Labor Contractor Registration
Act of 1963, it has become apparent that the provisions of that law have not
been adequate to accomplish its purpose of protecting migrant farm workers
from abuses by farm labor contractors. For nearly a year, the Administration
has been working with the Congress to develop legislation which would improve
the Act, and there has been give and take on all sides. I am pleased with this
spirit of cooperation, and endorse those provisions of H.R. 13342 which apply to
migrant farm workers.
Unfortunately, the Congress has seen fit to add a rider to this bill which is
totally unrelated to the needs of migrant farm workers.
Section 17 of the bill would arbitrarily reclassify hearing officer positions in
the Department of Labor, and make existing hearing officers Administrative
Law Judges regardless of their qualifications.
I am gravely disturbed by that part of Section 17 relating to the hearing officers
now employed by the Labor Department to hear and decide "black lung" claims.
These employees would by fiat be declared to be Administrative Law Judges
without regard to their capacity to fill such positions. Since Administrative Law
Judges hired in the usual manner must demonstrate such capacity, this feature
would be contrary to all principles of a civil service system based upon merit and
competition among candidates.
I also cannot accept the feature of Section 17 which would legislatively classify
503
