[276]
December 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
and Fish Refuge, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa and Illinois. I concur in this
finding and in the other recommendations of the Secretaries of the Interior
and Agriculture, all of which are transmitted herewith.
Wilderness designation of both of these new wilderness areas and those
already submitted that are pending before the Congress would dramatically
demonstrate our commitment to preserve America's irreplaceable heritage,
and I urge the Congress to act promptly in this regard.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable James O. Eastland, President pro
277
GERALD R. FORD
tempore, of the Senate, and to the Honorable Carl
Albert, Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Message to the Congress Proposing Establishment of New
National Wilderness Areas. December 4, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
Ten years ago, acting with great wisdom, the Congress enacted and President
Johnson signed into law the historic Wilderness Act of 1964.
That act declared it to be the policy of this Nation to secure for all Americans
the benefits of an enduring resource of wilderness. Some 9.1 million acres were
officially designated as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System,
and the Executive Branch was charged with the responsibility of surveying the
rest of the country and proposing additions to that system which seemed
appropriate.
In the intervening years, there have been some 40 additions, so that the
Wilderness System now covers 12.9 million acres and extends into many differ-
ent States.
Today we reach another milestone in this unfolding story. The Executive
Branch has now completed the initial, decade-long review prescribed by law in
1964, and as a result of this survey, I am hereby proposing 37 new additions to
the Wilderness System. If accepted by the Congress, these recommendations
would add an additional nine million primeval acres to the system.
Wilderness areas are, of course, well suited for low density recreation use that
does not involve motorized vehicles or equipment, such as hiking, backpacking,
primitive camping, and canoeing. They also lend themselves to scientific and
educational uses which do not alter their pristine character. But beyond these
uses, I believe that the Wilderness System serves a basic need of all Americans,
704
