November 27
[265]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Under current tax law, individuals are generally permitted to deduct casualty
losses not otherwise compensated for by insurance, tort compensation, loan
forgiveness, or other means. If individuals choose to deduct these losses, however,
and are subsequently reimbursed, the reimbursement must be included as income
in subsequent tax returns. Otherwise, the individual could receive a tax break
for a loss that had not cost him anything.
H.R. 6191 would provide unwarranted and costly exceptions to the present law
by allowing certain taxpayers who have already deducted their casualty losses to
also exclude from taxable income any amounts received from tort compensation
or Federal loan cancellations based on those losses. The cost of these benefits to
the Government in terms of revenue loss would be about $130 million.
This would result in favored treatment for a select group of taxpayers relative
to others with identical or even larger casualty losses. The individuals benefiting
from this bill have already been treated more generously by the Federal Govern-
ment than the present, more equitable law would allow. Finally, this special tax
consideration resulting in a windfall to a limited group of taxpayers would be a
very undesirable precedent.
If the Congress were to reenact this bill without the undesirable tax riders, I
would be glad to approve it.
The White House,
November 26, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: On December 3, 1974, the House of Representatives sustained the President's veto.
265
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Anne L. Armstrong
as Counsellor to the President. November 27, 1974
Dear Anne:
It was with the deepest regret that I learned that important family respon-
sibilities have prompted your letter of resignation as a Presidential Counsellor
and as a member of my Cabinet.
You will be greatly missed at the White House. I am certain, however, that
the same sense of dedication to family that has characterized your dedication to
country has made your decision a necessary one.
When I assumed the office of the Presidency on August 9, 1974, it was critically
important that I have the immediate assistance and support of highly able,
671
