October 9
[128]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
We are opening together a new chapter in relations between the Polish
People's Republic and the United States of America. As of now, these new
annals will be recording the future of our relations as well as our broader, closer,
and more extensive cooperation. We are opening up that new chapter aware of
the entire tradition of the friendly mutual relations between the Polish and
American peoples, in the desire of tightening the bonds which we have in-
herited from the past and continue to maintain at present.
In enhancing the progress made in our bilateral relations in recent years, we
are likewise creating a groundwork for expanded economic, scientific, and
technical cooperation, for cultural exchanges, and various contacts between our
respective peoples. Particularly important in this regard is expansion of recip-
rocally beneficial economic ties, which form the most durable basis for all
other mutual relationships.
I firmly believe that the inauguration of a future-oriented phase of Polish-
American relations concurs with the interests and wishes of our two peoples.
We are doing it in accordance both with the principles and the spirit of peace-
ful coexistence among states with different systems, for the United States and
modern, Socialist Poland are precisely such states. Poland, for 30 years, has been
shaping new conditions of life and development of her people. She remains
faithful to her alliances, and in the best of her tradition, she is actively involved
in the strife for progress and peace.
I trust, Mr. President, that the results of our meeting will also contribute to
the strengthening of international détente. This latter process, in particular, for-
tified by the improvement of Soviet-American relations which are of exceptional
significance to world peace, has already brought about many favorable changes
in the international situation; it has reduced dangerous tensions and provided
new vistas for constructive cooperation.
We can particularly sense this in Europe, where the process has been advanced
most. Yet, even there, a great deal still remains to be done in order to ensure
peace for the entire future to come. May we all move further along that road to
free mankind completely from the nuclear threat, to give the world of today
and all its nations a feeling of lasting security, and to resolve successfully the
great socio-economic and civilization problems which confront us now and are
likely to emerge in near future.
I am happy, Mr. President, that, as has been reflected in our joint statement,
we are in agreement as to the need for further action at making irreversible the
progress achieved in peaceful relations among states with different socio-
economic systems.
257
