December 2
[270]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
cation and energy, but also an unfailing sense of the needs and well-being of all
our people. Needless to say, your services will be greatly missed.
I welcome this opportunity to also express my own personal appreciation for
the unhesitating and skillful assistance you have rendered to my Administration
these past four months. In particular, I am grateful for your help during those
early, critically important days following my assumption to the Presidency when
I could with confidence call upon your good counsel as well as your leadership.
Also, I deeply appreciate your very kind comments and good wishes in your
letter. In turn, you can be sure that Betty and I extend our warmest best wishes
for every happiness and success in the future to you and your family.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable Dean Burch, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: The President's letter, dated November 30,
1974, was released December 2. Mr. Burch's letter
of resignation, dated November 29 and released with
the President's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
For more than five years, it has been my pleasure
to serve in the government, both at the Federal
Communications Commission and here at the White
House. These have been momentous years for me,.
at once satisfying, frustrating, rewarding and painful.
It is now time for me to return to the private sec-
tor to carry out my non-delegable duties as a father
and husband. I therefore submit my resignation
effective December 31, 1974.
JERRY FORD
These past months in your administration have
been truly gratifying and the courtesies you have ex-
tended will never be forgotten. You have grasped the
falling standard and by generous applications of hard
work, wisdom and above all, human sensitivity, have
restored this country's faith in the constitutional
system.
I wish for you and your lovely family all the good
things which are so richly deserved.
Sincerely,
DEAN BURCH
Counsellor to the President
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
270
Message to the Senate Transmitting Agreement on the
International Office of Epizootics. December 2, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
To receive the advise and consent of the Senate to accession, I transmit here-
with the International Agreement for the Creation at Paris of an International
Office of Epizootics, originated in Paris on January 25, 1924.
In the nearly fifty years of its existence, the International Office of Epizootics
(OIE) has become the most important organization in international control of
animal diseases. Its current 79-nation membership includes most major developed
countries other than the United States. The OIE provides timely warnings to
its members of animal disease outbreaks, a form of exchange of technical infor-
677
