October 15
[150]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
prove that we are a people who can do anything we want to do when we really
want to do it. We are going to win in America.
Now some have said that instead of asking Congress and the Nation to bite the
bullet, I offered only a marshmallow. Well, I had already asked the Congress to
postpone for 3 months a 5.5 percent pay increase for Federal Government em-
ployees which would have saved $700 million. Congress wouldn't even chew
that marshmallow. They haven't, as yet, shown much appetite for some of
the other "marshmallows" in my latest message.
But if they don't like the menu, I may be back with some tough turkey.
It is my observation and view that the American people are hungry for some
tough stuff to chew on in this crisis. I don't know of any better place to look
to the future of America than right here in the 13,000 faces of the Future
Farmers of America.
I don't see anyone in this auditorium, not one, wearing a button that says
"lose." You want to win, and we are going to win.
When your State presidents came to Washington last July during a time of
tension in our national affairs, I pointed out to them that people around the world
have great faith in America. I asked Future Farmers to have confidence in
themselves, in our system of Government, and in our free competitive society.
I appreciated their response and your response. I think it is well expressed in
the creed of the Future Farmers. I believe with you, for example, “in the future
of farming, with a faith born not of words but of deeds . . . in the promise of
better days through better ways, even as the better things we now enjoy have
come to us from the struggles of former years." It couldn't be expressed better.
Number one of the major points in my address to the Congress last week was
food. In a war against inflation, farmers are the frontline soldiers. They have
done a great job in America, making our country the breadbasket of the world.
To halt higher food prices, obviously we must produce more food. I called
upon, in that message, every farmer to grow to full capacity. In return—and
properly so I promised every farmer the fuel and the fertilizer that he needs
to do the job, plus a fair return for the crops that he produces.
It is not only the young people in this auditorium who must lend their hands
and their hearts to this task. I need help from young Americans all over this
great land. The creative energy and the enthusiasm of youth in my judgment is
our sure guarantee of winning.
But in all honesty, youth has the most to gain. Restoring stability and strength
to our economy doesn't call for sacrifices so much as for contributions to one's
own future well-being.
305
