November 1
[215]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Now, let me take just a minute to make two very simple points. I know it is
crowded, it is hot—or at least I am hot up here-and the night is young, and we
have to, you know, get organized here.
I looked at some figures the other day of some of these experts, and they say
there is great public apathy. There is a great lack of public interest in voting on
November 5.
And the pollsters say that there will be the lowest percentage participation in
this Congressional election on a national basis in the history of the United States.
That is unbelievable.
With the problems we have, both at home and abroad, it is hard to comprehend
that people won't go to the polls to exercise their sacred privilege of voting yes
or no, or for or against somebody. They say that approximately 42 percent of the
eligible voters in America will make the effort, sometime between 7:00 in the
morning and 8:00 at night, to just say yes or no, or I am for or I am against.
Gee, that is hard to believe. And you know what that means if that happens
or transpires? Supposing 42 percent vote, out of all of the people that are eligible
to pull that lever. It means that a little more than 21 percent of the American
people will decide your fate for Governor, for Senator, for Members of the House,
for members of your State legislature or local office.
That means a little more than 21 percent of the American people will decide
what will be done locally, statewide, or nationally.
That is a real small minority deciding what is right or wrong. I just cannot
believe the American people will tolerate that.
I don't know how many are here-about 300, 500-but you can multiply your
activity and influence by getting many, many, many people all over this great
State of Oregon to go to the polls, so that your State will not be one that lets
21.1 percent of the people decide your fate for the next 2 years, whether it is
taxes or spending, this legislation or that legislation.
You know, an awful lot of our fellow citizens over the years, almost 200 years,
have given a great deal to keep that right to vote; some of them made the maxi-
mum sacrifice. And for us now to abuse it or to leave it unused is beyond my
comprehension.
Now, I know, because you are here, you are going to vote. You are going to get
a lot of people to vote. But the message I want to go out, here in this State and
elsewhere, is that we all have to vote, and then we can say the public made a
decision, right or wrong.
Let me talk about two of my favorite subjects; I think they are crucial. Public
enemy number one in this country is inflation. About a month ago, I submitted
551
