October 24
[191]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
What we need, what we must have if we are to see America through this
very difficult economic period is not a veto-proof Congress but, in my judgment,
an inflation-proof Congress. And that is the issue on November 5.
All of you are a very sophisticated group. You have learned that in life prob-
lems that plague you at home or the office or elsewhere—the really big problems
that you have—just don't spring up overnight, and they don't get solved over-
night either. And of course, inflation is precisely that kind of a problem.
It has been building up over a long period of years like a disease in our econ-
omy. Curing it, unfortunately, will take a little time, but it can be done with
the right kind of a program, patience, work, dedication.
Let's take a minute to analyze why it happened, how it happened. There is
no single answer, I concede, but there is an answer that ought to be reflected
here. One big reason is excessive Federal spending over a long, long period of
time.
This excessive spending that has gone on and on seems to go hand in glove
with the problems of an increase in the cost of living. Each unbalanced budget,
each wasteful spending bill rammed through the Congress has added to your
cost of living and fed inflation.
It is legitimate to ask—and I concede this-who is to blame? I recognize there
are many villains, but the biggest burden of guilt lies specifically on the shoulders
of the big spenders in the Congress of the United States.
The fact of life is that one political party has run the Congress, as Les Arends
knows and others here in this head table complex likewise know. One political
party has run the Congress, opened up the Nation's purse strings—your tax
dollars—for 38 out of the last 42 years and, incidentally, unfortunately, for the
last 20 years consecutively.
So, I think it is pretty simple that if excessive Federal spending is the prin-
cipal villain, those in control of the Congress have to bear the responsibility.
That party is the Democratic Party, and we cannot, as I look at it anyhow, allow
it to drive the budget deeper and deeper and deeper into the red and the rate of
inflation higher and higher in the blue sky.
That is why each of you is more important than ever this year when so much,
such a crucial part of our society actually hangs in the balance. Your enthusiasm
tonight is tremendous, your support I am deeply grateful for, your volunteer
work which I have heard about is unbelievable, your vote November 5—these are
the keys that we can use in whipping inflation and preserving a two-party sys-
tem in the United States.
I
471
