October 22
[184]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
184
Remarks in Cleveland, Ohio. October 22, 1974
Bob Taft, Ralph Perk, distinguished members of the official family in the great
State of Ohio, and candidates, and ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have an opportunity
to be back in Cleveland.
In talking to Bud, it brought back some very great memories. A good many
years ago, longer than I would like to remember, I had my first opportunity of
meeting Bud Humphrey.¹ He was an aspiring football player at Yale University,
and I was a young and not very competent football coach. But Bud made it then,
and he has made it since.
I also had the privilege in those days, a good many years ago, of coaching Bob
Taft and Bud Brown and working with Del Latta. It is just nice to be here with
old friends that have done so well and contributed so much. And I thank you
very, very much, Bud and Bob, Bill [Bud] and Del.
You know, when I was down at Ohio State about a month ago—and they
were so kind to ask a Michigander to make a commencement address and were
so kind to make available two tickets to the Michigan-Ohio State game—I
thought it was wonderful. And I went back to Washington, and I had my daily
meeting the next morning with Henry Kissinger-we usually discuss things for
about an hour every morning—and I found that Henry is a great football
enthusiast. And I said to Henry, the people at Ohio State had been generous
and invited me and given me two tickets to come out to that classic
game be-
tween the Buckeyes and the Wolverines, and I said, "Henry, would you not
like to join me?”
And he said, "Well, what time is it, or what is the date?"
And I gave him the date. He looked sorely disappointed. He said, “The Japa-
nese have invited you to a Presidential visit to Japan during that period of time.”
And I looked at Henry, and I said, "That is the first mistake you have ever
made." [Laughter]
Let me thank Jack Dwyer and Tim Timkins and all of you for participating
in this affair and the many others that you have on behalf of the Republican
Party and its candidates. Those who head these meetings and work to make
them successful seldom get the recognition that they deserve.
¹ Gilbert W. (Bud) Humphrey was chairman of the dinner.
John J. Dwyer was chairman of the Cuyahoga/Lake Counties Republican Finance Committee, and Tim
Timkins was chairman of the Ohio Republican Finance Committee.
437
