[218]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
We need them now, much more than ever. As one TV commentator put it
recently, and let me quote him: I am looking for a Congress that will praise the
Lord and pass the legislation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. at the
University of Utah Special Events Center. In his
opening remarks, the President referred to Stephen
Harmsen, Republican candidate in the Second Con-
gressional District of Utah, and Ronald W. Inkley,
Republican candidate in the First Congressional
District.
219
Remarks in Grand Junction, Colorado. November 2, 1974
Pete, Governor Vanderhoof, Lieutenant Governor Strickland, my former col-
leagues in the House of Representatives, Jim Johnson, who represents an area of
this great country that I love and adore:
It gives me a lot of trouble-Vail, Colorado-but let me also say it is wonder-
ful to be here with my old and very, very dear friend, Wayne Aspinall, who
took the same oath of office that I did on January 3, 1949. I am proud—you know,
I just feel emotional about our relationship over a long period of time.
I can tell you that his office was opposite mine on the corridor—as a matter of
fact, Jack Kennedy's was just a couple of offices down-and all I am saying is
that in Wayne Aspinall, I developed a close, personal rapport that transcends
partisan politics. He and I disagreed, but friendship you don't sell out. You
keep it. You love it. And that is my relationship with Wayne Aspinall.
You know, it is great to be in Colorado—West—again. It has often been said
that Colorado is a land of breathtaking beauty, and after crowning your home-
coming queen and her lovely court-I would have a tough time picking who
was going to win, I might add—a breathtaking beauty as well, and I congratu-
late you for everything. A college homecoming is a happy time and I wish Mesa
College Mavericks-Mesa-but we have some community names out in Michi-
gan all of you could not pronounce, either. I love you, anyhow.
But I understand this has been one of your better years, and as a former football
player at the University of Michigan, I know what a 1-5-1 season is. You know,
my senior year at Michigan, after being national champions with undefeated
teams for 2 years, the year that I was supposed to be constructive we ended up
with a one win and seven lost-and we lost to Ohio State 34 to 0. We are going
to do better this fall.
1
562
