September 16
[79]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
79
Remarks at a Luncheon for Members of the Republican
National Committee and Republican National Finance
Committee. September 16, 1974
Thank you very, very much, Nelson. Mary Louise, Dick, George, Senator Bill
Brock, Congressman Bob Michel, members of the National Republican Com-
mittee, members of the Finance Committee, and others:
It is really a great privilege and a high honor to have an opportunity of partic-
ipating with all of you on this fine occasion.
At the outset, let me congratulate Mary Louise on being unanimously selected
this morning. That is a lot better than I did before the Congress, and I suspect
it might be a little better than what Nelson will do. [Laughter]
I also wish to congratulate all of you on the selection of Dick Obenshain. As
Nelson said, it reflects in this team the recognition that we wish to give as a politi-
cal party to the women throughout the country who over the years have done as
much, if not more, to make our political system work by working in the grass-
roots, unselfishly dedicating themselves to the necessary efforts that had to be
made the length and the breadth of our country.
And Mary Louise, I am positive, will end up being an outstanding chairman
of the Republican National Committee.
We have been a long time working on trying to make the Republican Party
a viable, effective party in all 50 States. When I came to the Congress 26 years ago,
the Republican Party was practically prohibited from having an impact politi-
cally in a number of our States in the South.
Patiently, constructively, and effectively, today the Republican Party is viable.
It is constructive in every one of our 50 States. And the Republican Party can
only expand and broaden that total effort by making certain that the voices in
that area of our country are heard, and heard at the highest level.
And in Dick Obenshain we have a man who will represent that overall view-
point and represent it well, as he has in the State of Virginia, where now we have
a second Republican Governor elected, one after another, where we now have
more Republican Congressmen on our side of the aisle than the opposition does
on their side of the aisle.
We want this kind of effort made in every State, and Mary Louise and Dick,
in my judgment, make that kind of a team.
141
