[277]
December 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
(5) Sheldon Wilderness, Sheldon National Antelope Refuge, Nevada-20,100
acres. This refuge in the high sagebrush desert of the northern Great Basin is
devoted primarily to the preservation of antelope but also supports deer, bighorn
sheep, coyotes, bobcats, mountain lions and burros.
(6) Monarch Wilderness, Sequoia and Sierra National Forests, California—
30,689 acres. This proposed area is located on the west slope of the Sierra Nevada
Mountain Range, contiguous to Kings Canyon National Park. The landscape is
characterized by steep ridges, deep canyons, and multicolored geological
formations.
(7) Santee Wilderness, Santee National Wildlife Refuge, South Carolina—
163 acres. This area is composed of coastal plains which protect such threatened
species as the wood ibis, bald eagle, peregrine falcon, red-cockaded woodpecker,
osprey, and American alligator.
(8) Everglades Wilderness, Everglades National Park, Florida—1,296,500
acres. A remarkable blending of climates makes this proposed area at the south-
ernmost tip of the Florida mainland hospitable to pine trees as well as man-
groves, panthers, and alligators.
(9) Salmon River and Idaho Wildernesses, Boise, Challis, Payette, Salmon,
Bitterroot, and Nezperce National Forests, Idaho—1,143,487 acres. Bighorn
sheep, deer, and elk abound in this region of deep gorges and lofty peaks.
(10) Parker River Wilderness, Parker River National Wildlife Refuge, Mas-
sachusetts-3,110 acres. This recommended area on the north shore of the
State, about 35 miles from Boston, is one of the few natural barrier beach-dune
areas remaining in the northeastern United States.
(11) Hawaii Volcanoes Wilderness, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park,
Hawaii-123,100 acres. Two major active volcanoes, Kilauea and Mauna Loa,
are the focal points of this park. Kilauea erupts frequently and is readily acces-
sible at protected vantage points. Thus, this area is particularly rich in the
scientific and educational opportunities envisaged by the Wilderness Act.
(12) Big Lake Wilderness, Big Lake National Wildlife Refuge, Arkansas—
1,818 acres. Believed to be the product of an earthquake in the 1800's, the lake
supports a peak population of 30,000 waterfowl during the winter. The pro-
posed wilderness is a cypress-timbered area that has remained in its natural
state.
(13) Aleutian Islands Wilderness, Aleutian Islands National Wildlife Ref-
uge, Alaska-1,395,357 acres. Located among the islands that stretch from the
Alaska mainland along a thousand-mile chain toward the Soviet Union, this
706
