[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
And how, also, can you explain not having consulted Leon Jaworski, the
Special Prosecutor, before approving of the tapes agreement? And I think,
Mr. President, that these are only a few of the questions that have existed in the
public's mind before and, unfortunately, still remain not resolved. And since
I have very brief time, I would like to ask you, in addition to these questions, one
further one, and that is that suspicions have been raised that the reason for the
pardon and the simultaneous tapes agreement was to insure that the tape record-
ings between yourself and Richard Nixon never came out in public. To alleviate
this suspicion once and for all, would you be willing to turn over to this sub-
committee all tape recordings of conversations between yourself and Richard
Nixon?
The President. Those tapes, under an opinion of the Attorney General which
I sought, according to the Attorney General—and, I might add, according to past
precedent-belong to President Nixon. Those tapes are in our control. They are
under an agreement which protects them, totally, fully, for the Special Prosecu-
tor's office or for any other criminal proceedings.
Those tapes will not be delivered to anybody until a satisfactory agreement
is reached with the Special Prosecutor's office. We have held them because his
office did request that, and as long as we have them held in our possession for
the Special Prosecutor's benefit, I see no way whatsoever that they can be
destroyed, that they can be kept from proper utilization in criminal proceedings.
Now, those tapes belong to Mr. Nixon according to the Attorney General, but
they are being held for the benefit of the Special Prosecutor, and I think that is
the proper place for them to be kept.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Hogan.
CONGRESSMAN LAWRENCE J. HOGAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am frankly
amazed at my good friend, the gentlelady from New York, and her accusatory
opening speech, because certainly, the gentlelady knows it is the usual and
ordinary and routine procedure of this subcommittee and this committee, to
operate under the 5-minute rule.
There is nothing extraordinary about us today allocating 5 minutes of time
for questioning to each member of the committee. We always operate this way.
Her other observation about not doing any preparatory work by calling other
witnesses was rejected as far as I recall by all other members of the subcommittee
on the basis that this resolution of inquiry is directed to the President of the
United States and properly so.
So, it would be totally inappropriate for the resolution of inquiry to address
itself to individuals other than the subject of that resolution of inquiry.
364
