[81]
September 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Middle East, and in Indochina. Peace cannot be imposed from without, but
we will do whatever is within our capacity to help achieve it.
-We rededicate ourselves to the search for justice, equality, and freedom.
Recent developments in Africa signal the welcome end of colonialism. Behavior
appropriate to an era of dependence must give way to the new responsibilities of
an era of interdependence.
No single nation, no single group of nations, no single organization can meet
all of the challenges before the community of nations. We must act in concert.
Progress toward a better world must come through cooperative efforts across
the whole range of bilateral and multilateral relations.
America's revolutionary birth and centuries of experience in adjusting demo-
cratic government to changing conditions have made Americans practical as
well as idealistic. As idealists, we are proud of our role in the founding of the
United Nations and in supporting its many accomplishments. As practical peo-
ple, we are sometimes impatient at what we see as shortcomings.
In my 25 years as a Member of the Congress of the United States, I learned two
basic, practical lessons:
First, men of differing political persuasions can find common ground for co-
operation. We need not agree on all issues in order to agree on most. Differences
of principle, of purpose, of perspective, will not disappear. But neither will our
mutual problems disappear unless we are determined to find mutually helpful
solutions.
Second, a majority must take into account the proper interest of a minority
if the decisions of the majority are to be accepted. We who believe in and live by
majority rule must always be alert to the danger of the "tyranny of the majority."
Majority rule thrives on the habits of accommodation, moderation, and con-
sideration of the interests of others.
A very stark reality has tempered America's actions for decades and must now
temper the actions of all nations. Prevention of full-scale warfare in the nuclear
age has become everybody's responsibility. Today's regional conflict must not
become tomorrow's world disaster. We must assure by every means at our
disposal that local crises are quickly contained and resolved.
The challenge before the United States [Nations] is very clear. This organiza-
tion can place the weight of the world community on the side of world peace.
And this organization can provide impartial forces to maintain the peace.
And at this point I wish to pay tribute on behalf of the American people to the
37 members of the United Nations peacekeeping forces who have given their
158
