[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. There are no conditions that I can imagine or know of under
which I would withdraw Governor Rockefeller's name. As I said in my pre-
pared remarks, I think he is the most qualified person to be Vice President. I in-
tend to do all I can to see that he gets confirmed, and I hope that the Congress
will respond constructively and act before adjournment sine die in 1974.
HOUSE MINORITY LEADER RHODES
[5.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I am Bill Close from KOOL Radio
and Television in Phoenix.
Congressman John Rhodes is seated over there, and my question concerns
him. A move is underway in the House to challenge John Rhodes of Arizona as
the Republican minority leader. In your opinion, is John Rhodes doing a satis-
factory job, or would you rather see someone else in his place?
THE PRESIDENT. John Rhodes, in my judgment, is an outstanding Member of
the House of Representatives. He has done a superb job as the Republican leader
in the House since he took over when I became Vice President. I see no reason
whatsoever for any change in that position in the House of Representatives on
the Republican side.
THE ELECTIONS AND THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[6.] Q. Hampden Smith, Washington and Lee University in Lexington,
Virginia.
Another political question, if I may, sir. The Republican Party lost 45 seats in
the House of Representatives and 5 in the Senate and 6 Governorships in last
Tuesday's election, and further public opinion polls seem to indicate that the
percentage of Americans who consider themselves Republicans has been declin-
ing for quite a while, even before the Watergate reaction set in.
And my question, sir, is how could you explain this seeming decline in the
Republican Party?
THE PRESIDENT. You know, it was bad enough, but it is not quite as bad as
the numbers you used. We didn't lose quite as many Republicans in either the
House or the Senate, but I concede it was not good from our point of view. But
I would also like to add this:
As people have indicated, they are leaving the Republican Party, and you are
accurate in that the polls show that. They have not gone to the Democrats, they
have gone to the Independent category. The Democrats, as a matter of fact, have
either lost a little or maintain only their former numerical position. So, the net
602
