August 19
[16]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Peace-it depends upon the strength and readiness of our defenses. And I
will support every sensible measure to enhance the morale and the combat
readiness of our Armed Forces.
The United States, our allies, and our friends around the world must main-
tain strength and resolve. Potential adversaries obviously watch the state of our
readiness and the strength of our will. I will offer them no temptations.
America is not the policeman of the world, but we continue to be the back-
bone of a free world collective security setup.
Just as America will maintain its nuclear deterrent strength, we will never
fall behind in negotiations to control—and hopefully reduce—this threat to
mankind. A great nation is not only strong but wise, not only principled but
purposeful. A fundamental purpose of our Nation must be to achieve peace
through strength and meaningful negotiations.
Our good will must never be construed as a lack of will. And I know that I
can count on you and the families of each and every one of you. Peace and
security require preparedness and dedication.
You have experienced war firsthand. I want to make certain and positive that
Washington never sends another tragic telegram. The list of mourners is
already far too long. So is the list of those who wait and wonder—the families
of those missing in action. I will never forget them.
Together we are going forward to tackle future problems, including the
scourge of inflation which is today our Nation's public enemy number one.
Our task is not easy. But I have faith in America. Through our system of
democracy and free enterprise, the United States has achieved remarkable,
unbelievable progress. We have shared our plenty with all mankind.
This is the same Nation that transcended inflations and recessions, slumps
and booms, to move forward to even higher levels of prosperity and produc-
tivity. This is the same Nation that emerged from the smoke of Pearl Harbor
on December 7, 1941, to change its own destiny and the history of the world—
and for the better.
During the first few months that I was Vice President, I traveled some 118,000
miles and visited 40 of our great States. What I saw and what I heard gave me
renewed inspiration. It made me proud, proud of my country. It sustains me
now.
Our great Republic is nearly 200 years old, but in many, many ways we are
just getting started. Most Americans have faith in the American system. Let us
now work for America, in which all Americans can take an even greater pride.
27
