[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Secondly, he did indicate that in the White House among the President's ad-
visers there were many options being discussed as to what course of action the
President should take, and in the course of my discussion on August 1 with Gen-
eral Haig, he outlined, as I did in the prepared text, the many options that were
being discussed.
He asked for any recommendations I would make, and as I indicated in the
prepared text, I made none.
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. Thank you.
Mr. President, Mr. Buchen said several times, and I believe you mentioned,
that the pardon did involve a certain aspect of mercy. Would not the same con-
siderations of mercy apply to the Watergate defendants downtown who now are
putting forth as their chief defense their allegation that they were merely acting
under orders of Mr. Nixon, then President and their boss?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Edwards, in light of the fact that these trials are being
carried out at the present time, I think it is inadvisable for me to comment on any
of the proceedings in those trials.
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. Mr. President, put yourself in the position of the high
school teacher, shall we say, in Watts or the barrios of San Jose or Harlem, and if
you were such a teacher, how would you explain to the young people of America
the American concept of equal justice under law?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Edwards, Mr. Nixon was the 37th President of the United
States. He had been preceded by 36 others. He is the only President in the history
of this country who has resigned under shame and disgrace.
I think that that, in and of itself, can be understood, can be explained to stu-
dents or to others. That was a major, major step, and a matter of, I am sure,
grave, grave deliberations by the former President, and it certainly, as I have
said several times, constituted shame and disgrace.
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. Thank you, Mr. President.
Mr. President, do you think that it is wise to pardon a man before indictment
or trial for offenses that are completely unknown to you and which might pos-
sibly be terribly serious?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I indicated, Mr. Edwards, I did to the best of my
ability check with probably the best authority in the country on what, if any,
charges would be made against Mr. Nixon. Those were, or potentially were,
serious charges.
I think that in taking the action I did concerning those charges, I was exer-
cising in a proper way the pardon authority given a President under the
Constitution.
356
