October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
that the disclosure was made on September 4, 1974, when Mr. Buchen, accom-
panied by Benton Becker, met with Mr. Miller. Mr. Becker had been asked,
with my concurrence, to take on a temporary special assignment to assist
Mr. Buchen, at a time when no one else of my selection had yet been appointed
to the legal staff of the White House.
The fourth question in the resolution also asks about "negotiations" with
Mr. Nixon or his representatives on the subject of a pardon for the former
President. The pardon under consideration was not, so far as I was concerned,
a matter of negotiation. I realized that unless Mr. Nixon actually accepted the
pardon I was preparing to grant, it probably would not be effective. So I cer-
tainly had no intention to proceed without knowing if it would be accepted.
Otherwise, I put no conditions on my granting of a pardon which required any
negotiations.
Although negotiations had been started earlier and were conducted through
September 6 concerning White House records of the prior administration, I did
not make any agreement on that subject a condition of the pardon. The cir-
cumstances leading to an initial agreement on Presidential records are not
covered by the resolutions before this subcommittee. Therefore, I have men-
tioned discussions on that subject with Mr. Nixon's attorney only to show
they were related in time to the pardon discussions but were not a basis for my
decision to grant a pardon to the former President.
The fifth, sixth, and seventh questions of H. Res. 1367 ask whether I con-
sulted with certain persons before making my pardon decision.
I did not consult at all with Attorney General Saxbe on the subject of a pardon
for Mr. Nixon. My only conversation on the subject with Vice Presidential
nominee Nelson Rockefeller was to report to him on September 6, 1974, that
I was planning to grant the pardon.
Special Prosecutor Jaworski was contacted on my instructions by my Counsel,
Philip Buchen. One purpose of their discussions was to seek the information
I wanted on what possible criminal charges might be brought against Mr. Nixon.
The result of that inquiry was a copy of the memorandum I have already refer-
red to and have furnished to this subcommittee. The only other purpose was to
find out the opinion of the Special Prosecutor as to how long a delay would
follow, in the event of Mr. Nixon's indictment, before a trial could be started
and concluded.
347
