[290]
December 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
buying power. If these measures reasonably approximate the criteria I set 2
months ago, I will support adequate dollar amounts now indicated by worsen-
ing employment statistics, especially in some industries.
Tomorrow I intend to meet with the leaders of the automotive industry-Roy
Chapin of American Motors, Lee Iacocca of Ford, Tom Murphy of General
Motors, Lynn Townsend of Chrysler, and Leonard Woodcock of the UAW.
This will be a face-to-face discussion of the industry's very special problems, but
problems that affect our economy on a very broad basis.
My door has been open, and remains open, to the responsible spokesman of
any segment of our economy which has been unduly damaged by our present
economic difficulty.
I will continue to press for legislation and regulatory policies providing
increased incentives and assistance for industrial modernization, replacement,
and expansion to assure a sound industrial base now and for future generations,
so that new jobs will be created.
Increased productivity lies at the heart of our free enterprisę system which
made America what it is today. And I have been a firm believer in that very im-
portant ingredient all of my adult life, and I will say without any hesitation I am
not going to change that conviction as President of the United States.
In short, what I am saying is quite precisely this: that insofar as I can prevent
it, the fundamental rules of the economic game are not going to be changed
every month or every other year in the short or the long haul. But I am also
saying that insofar as I can achieve it, the programs and the policies of the
Federal Government will be responsive to changed circumstances and our best
available economic forecasts.
Some factors—especially fuel and food production-contribute formidably, as
you well know, to our current economic problems. And when I fly to meet the
President of France this weekend, I will be by no means neglecting our domestic
difficulties if I improve the climate of cooperation among the fuel-consuming
industrial nations by a common effort to ensure adequate food and fuel supplies
at acceptable prices.
Just as all of your businesses depend upon enough energy, they also depend
upon enough customers. "Customers" is a lovely word to you, and "consumers"
sounds like an organized pressure group. The facts are that they are interchange-
able. And consumers in America are concerned about the economy as employees
and stockholders-in fact, they are one and the same people.
This Administration, I can assure you, is pledged to protect the consumer
736
