October 21
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
While not agreeing with all the provisions of the act, I strongly believe in its
overall purpose. We must save as many of our young people as we can before.
they become trapped in a life of crime. And we owe every juvenile the full pro-
tection of his or her constitutional rights.
In signing this bill, I said that it represents a constructive effort to consoli-
date and make more efficient the various Federal programs to assist States and
localities in dealing with juvenile delinquency. The direction of our Federal pro-
grams has been fragmented for too long.
This restructuring will better assist State and local governments to carry out
the responsibilities in this field—a responsibility which should remain at the
local level. I also expressed the hope that the result will be greater security for all
citizens and more purpose, sense, and happiness in the lives of young Americans.
No group worked longer or harder for the passage of this milestone legisla-
tion than you have. No group deserves greater credit for transforming it from a
goal to a reality.
I am proud that the signing of this measure was one of my earliest official
acts as President of the United States, and I salute you for your magnificent
work in making it possible.
Again, I only regret that I cannot be with you in person this afternoon, speak-
ing from the same rostrum as Francis Dale and Elliot Richardson.
The more all of us do to prevent juvenile crime, the more we protect its poten-
tial victims-before, rather than after the damage has been done.
You have my personal assurance that I am fully committed to meeting the
Federal Government's fair and attainable share of this responsibility. Working
together with the general public and State and local governments, we can make
the year ahead another year of progress of making America a better, safer coun-
try for young and old alike.
NOTE: The President's remarks were filmed for use
at the council's meeting in New York City on Octo-
ber 21, 1974. In his remarks, the President referred
to Francis L. Dale, chairman of the council's board
of directors, and Elliot L. Richardson, Attorney Gen-
eral of the United States from May to October 1973,
and member of the board of directors.
423
