[214]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
has come for action as well as for talk. Accordingly, the function of leadership
belongs to those placed in responsibility.
As President, I accept my obligation, and I call upon every Member of the
Congress, Governors, mayors, and all others concerned with government, and
the leaders of every private sector in America, including all of you represented
here. We, individually and collectively, must provide that leadership. A free
government, if we look over history, cannot cope with inflation or energy short-
ages or any other problem without the consent and the total cooperation of
those governed.
Too many people have been saying what the other guy should do to whip
inflation. We hear that all the time. We hear business complaining about labor
and labor complaining about business. We hear about other segments com-
plaining about their adversaries, never reflecting as to what their own respon-
sibility might be. Some tell us what the oil companies should do. Others would
instruct labor on its responsibilities. Yet others have all kinds of sacrifices to
suggest. Almost inevitably, it is not how they can sacrifice.
Our great Northwest-and I am pleased to be here again-is aware that
inflation has dried up the supply of mortgage credit and sent housing into a
tailspin. Now, Jim Lynn over here is going to solve all of those problems for you,
along with the money provided by Bill Simon, but it is a lot broader and a lot
deeper subject than what those two fine Secretaries in the Cabinet can do. And it
has been inflation that hit consumer confidence and put the brakes on consumer
spending harder than at any time since World War II.
I assure the people of the great Northwest that I do not accept the dismal
projection that pollution is the inevitable price of prosperity, nor that we must
compromise the environment to gain economic growth in the future.
We cannot enrich our lives by impoverishing our land. We can raise both the
standard of living on the one hand and the quality of life on the other. The
worst inflationary toll of all is the most subtle-the erosion of confidence in the
future, the loss of faith in the American society and our government.
Indeed, this disenchantment seems to grow at the same pace that prices in-
crease. That is why fighting inflation is my priority as President of this great
country.
Americans do have the will to preserve our economy and our institutions.
The central, absolutely crucial need my program underscores is to control gov-
ernment spending on the one hand and to finance any new outlays with new
taxes. Government simply can no longer go on spending beyond its means.
546
