[150]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
market, homebuilders and home purchasers need your dollars. For those who
can't save much, or anything, under the present circumstances, here is a very
simple formula—every time the cost of living drops 1 percent in the [Con-
sumer Price] Index, put just 1 percent of your spendable income into savings.
Committee recommendation number four: Conserve energy, save on fuel, and
take the pressure off scarce supplies. The committee advocates observance of the
55-mile speed limit. It urges that we use public transit and carpools. And they
respectfully suggest that all of us walk a bit more.
Enforcement of the 55-mile speed limit is largely a State and local respon-
sibility with voluntary cooperation from all of you, which is an essential ingre-
dient. Here, we can save both gasoline and lives. Yesterday, I wired every
Governor and many local officials urging them to follow through on this recom-
mendation.
At the same time, I directed the strict enforcement of the 55-mile speed limit,
except in emergencies, on all Federal property and by drivers of all Federal Gov-
ernment cars, including my own. And I say this now, with some firmness, but
some trepidation: I will ask for voluntary cooperation and compliance from the
four younger Fords in our family.
From Hillsboro, Oregon, the Stevens family writes they are fixing up their
bikes to do the family errands. They are also using fewer electrical appliances,
turning the thermostat down, and the lights off.
Bob Cantrell, a 14-year-old in Pasadena, California, gave up his stereo to save
energy. Bob urges the initiation of high school courses that teach students how
to conserve energy. He adds, and I quote: If a kid nags his parents to conserve
energy long enough, it will help.
And I might add from my own experiences, believe me, it will.
Committee recommendation number five is directed at business and labor.
It calls upon them not to raise prices or wages more than costs or services abso-
lutely require.
Admittedly, this is a very complex subject, and it cannot be handled on a na-
tionwide basis. I believe that local citizen action committees, including labor
and management representation, should be set up in every community to inter-
pret this recommendation, set realistic goals for themselves, and to report by
Thanksgiving just 6 weeks away-which plants, which stores, or other enter-
prises are doing the best job of holding the line in their community on costs and
on prices.
If they do a good job, and we find the winners around the country in every
308
