September 12
[73]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
plish this objective without resorting to a subsidy from either the Social Security
System or the general taxpayers.
Court congestion impairs fair and speedy trials. The Administration supports
legislation to create new Federal District Court Judgeships. While this measure
has been slow to move, I would hope Congress could expedite consideration in
order to alleviate overcrowded court calendars.
A bill to renew my authority to submit Executive Reorganization Plans has
been sent to the Congress. During the past 25 years all Presidents have used this
authority to improve management in the executive branch. I would like my
Administration to be able to utilize this effective tool of good government. I
urge prompt bipartisan consideration of this bill.
It is apparent that I have referred to some legislative matters and omitted
reference to others. This is not an inventory of my total legislative concerns. I
will send the traditional message to the Congress in January covering the broad
spectrum of legislative programs. This will afford me an interim opportunity for
detailed study and review.
The 93rd Congress, in which I am proud to have served, has an opportunity
to join with the Executive Branch at this turning point of history. We can
respond together in the constructive harmony that ought to exist between Repub-
licans and Democrats, between Federal and local governments, between the
Executive and Legislative branches, and between America and other nations.
A momentous challenge confronts me as well as the 93rd Congress. Together,
we can summon forth the reserves of energy, imagination, and devotion neces-
sary to generate a new and proud era of American achievement. We cannot and
will not fail the American people.
The White House,
73
September 12, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-Bulgarian
Consular Convention. September 12, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit for the Senate's advice and consent to ratification the
Consular Convention between the United States of America and the People's
131
