October 22
[183]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
call for the election of more fighters in the war against inflation? If the Demo-
crats, for example, gain 7 Senate seats on November 5, and 25 or more House
seats on that day, they will make, in effect, the Congress veto-proof.
Such a Congress, unrestrained by any veto powers of the President, could
resurrect those wild spending programs of the years of 1965 and 1966. Refresh
your memory, if you will. The election of these additional extremists in the
Democratic Party-and they would come from that element-could threaten
the internal balance of our legislative process.
In my judgment, this would endanger our basic concept of government in
America, the system of checks and balances. I have found in my time in the
Congress of the United States that one of the greatest protections we all have—
it is not a part of the Constitution as such, but it has grown up with our political
history-I have found that a two-party system is good for America in every
State, in all 50 States. And I am deeply concerned that this system of checks and
balances, through a two-party system, faces its greatest threat in our lifetime on
November 5.
I ask all voters across the political spectrum-Democrat, Independent, and
Republican—to think as inflation fighters and not along strictly partisan political
lines.
The record ought to be reviewed, and let me take just a minute, if I might. The
Democrats have controlled the national legislature, our Congress in Washington,
for 38 out of the last 42 years. The last 20 years they have controlled it consecu-
tively. Fiscal responsibility has not been in this instance, for this span of time,
honored except in words—they certainly have not honored it in votes.
During this period of time, unfortunately, Pandora's box of inflation has
been opened. Today's Congress is stacked, in my judgment, against fiscal
responsibility.
Let me cite another thing here that ought to awaken our concern, our interest.
For 19 out of the 25-plus years that I served in the House, we ended up with defi-
cits in the Federal Treasury. Nineteen out of 25 years, your Federal Govern-
ment spent more money than it took in. Twenty-three of the 25-plus years that
I served in the House, the Democrats controlled the Congress. I think these sta-
tistics, these facts illustrate who has been responsible for the irresponsible spend-
ing of your tax dollars.
Now, if this heavy spending majority in the Congress of the United States is
substantially increased in the next Congress, the two-party system will be in
jeopardy. We must not permit a legislative dictatorship. We must elect an in-
flation-proof Congress and not a veto-proof Congress.
433
