[208]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
But Paul Goebel, Sr., set a great example for his son, as my father did for me.
As you know, my father, I think, was one of the great citizens of this community,
our State, and the Nation.
And I think Paul Goebel, Sr., fits the same pattern and the same category, but
he has got a great son in Paul, Jr. I hope and trust that Paul, Jr., will be elected to
the Congress.
I know Paul. I have known him from his early youth. I have watched his
political progress. I have seen what he can do and how he has made honest,
conscientious, tough decisions.
I cannot imagine someone doing a finer job in this Congressional district than
Paul Goebel, Jr., and I strongly urge you, from the depth of my conviction and
dedication, urge you to maximize your efforts on behalf of Paul. He is the kind
of guy I would like in Washington.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:40 p.m. in the ballroom at the Hospitality Inn.
209
Remarks at Calvin College in Grand Rapids. October 29, 1974
Thanks, Bill Farr, Bob VanderLaan, Milt Zaagman, Pete, Marty, all of the
other candidates at the State and local level, all of you who in all honesty over-
whelm me as they did down at the Vandenberg plaza:
I have been in a good many States in recent weeks, and I am going to a couple
more the latter part of this week and the first of next. And let me say that this is
beyond—above and beyond the call of duty. I thank you. It is just wonderful to
be here. I am deeply indebted to each and every one of you.
You know Bill Spoelhof, the great president of Calvin College. Bill and I
started out as precinct workers together a long time ago. I was always scared to
death that he would be a candidate for Congress. [Applause] Thank goodness
he did not, after that reaction.
But Bill, I want to thank you for always making the Calvin facilities avail-
able. I have been here a number of times. As you know, I have always had a warm
welcome, and this crowd tonight reminds me of a good Calvin-Hope basket-
ball contest. Since I did not go to either one, I could be completely objective,
pulling for both.
But I did see something that was on the chair as I sat down. It has been sort of
a tradition of my campaign to put out these hot pads, or whatever they call them.
512
