September 23
[94]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I
Project Independence will also require us to increase the output of existing
domestic resources.
In mobilizing to achieve long-term goals, we will fully exploit one of our
most powerful natural resources-U.S. technology. We are moving in this
direction.
Last year, for example, the United States Government funding for energy
research and development was approximately $1 billion. This year, we will
spend over $24 billion. These funds, together with those provided by private
industry, will support a growing national effort. In terms of joint private and
public resources, it will mean a commitment in excess of the successful one
made by John F. Kennedy to put a man on the Moon in the last decade.
I mention this highly successful Moon landing to dramatize the magnitude
of the energy task before us, the dedication with which we approach it, and
the national mobilization of attention and talent it will require.
We are also moving to improve the organization of the U.S. Government for
carrying out our energy programs. A key step now awaiting final action by
the Congress is the creation of an Energy Research and Development Adminis-
tration. It will provide coordination and leadership, in cooperation with private
industry, in developing the necessary technology to fulfill our long-range energy
requirements.
Even if there had been no political interference in the production and dis-
tribution of petroleum, nations today would still be facing the problem of
finding enough fuel at reasonable prices to continue the modernization of our
world. Our needs then and now for energy are increasing much, much faster
than our ability to produce it. But, in addition, most industrialized nations
experienced the direct impact of the oil embargo which, obviously, greatly
intensified the problem. All nations have been adversely affected by price
increases.
When nations use their resources as political weapons against others, the
result is human suffering. It is then tempting to speculate on how much better
off man would be if nature had distributed vital resources more evenly around
the world, making every nation self-sufficient. But perhaps nature had a better
idea. Because vital resources are distributed unevenly, nations are forced to
choose between conflict and cooperation.
Throughout history, nations have gone to war over natural advantages such
as water, or food, or convenient passages on land and sea. But in the nuclear
age, when any local conflict may escalate to global catastrophe, war brings
unacceptable risks for all mankind.
179
