November 14
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Primarily because of a sharp spurt in the cost of money—although fortunately
it has now started back down-and shortages of mortgage money, housing sales
are off substantially in many, many parts of America.
Unemployment in the construction industry is more than double the national
average. It has always been higher, unfortunately, because of the nature of the in-
dustry. But we must reduce that figure.
Public officials would rather swallow this grim statistic than speak about it,
but it is my duty to face unpleasant facts, unpleasant circumstances, and it is my
responsibility to do something about them—mine and the Congress'. I assure you
that I will do more than my part in this situation.
In recent weeks, as you know, this Administration has authorized $3 billion
under the Home Purchase Assistance Act for the purchase of mortgages on new
single family homes. This program aims to not only help ease the high jobless
rate in the construction trades but to add to our housing inventory.
This $3 billion could mean up to 100,000 new homes for Americans with mort-
gage payments that they can afford. I know this action, as first announced, would
not have helped you realtors directly. Your commodity is primarily in existing
homes, not new homes under this program. But you understand, and you went
along with us, because your commitment was to the industry across the board,
and I salute all of you, and I thank you on this occasion today.
I think you provide a good example for the rest of us. You did not say, “Me
first." You said, "We first." We-all Americans. Let's do what is best for
America.
Now, as we face the Nation's major problems in the weeks and months ahead,
it will be well to remember this: It is not I alone, the President, who faces these
enormous tasks and problems; it is not you who must battle them individually
and collectively; it is we who must win, or we will lose-the President and the
Congress together, Republicans and Democrats alike, Nevadans and Michigan-
ders and New Yorkers, rich and poor, black and white, young and old.
I am no arm twister-never have been. And I see no reason to become a
prophet of gloom. But in the weeks and the months ahead, I will call upon the
American people—and I underline “people”—to sacrifice for the national good.
And I happen to think that the American people will respond.
We, the Congress and I, must reduce Federal spending. At the same time, we,
the Congress and I, must increase Federal tax revenues. And we, all of us, must
save energy so that we will import less high-priced foreign oil.
Although you will be called upon to make additional sacrifices, so will your
Government. I will send to the Congress shortly after it reconvenes, my recom-
591
