September 18
[81]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
lives in the Middle East and in Cyprus in the past 10 months, and I convey our
deepest sympathies to their loved ones.
Let the quality of our response measure up to the magnitude of the challenge
that we face. I pledge to you that America will continue to be constructive,
innovative, and responsive to the work of this great body.
The nations in this hall are united by a deep concern for peace. We are united
as well by our desire to ensure a better life for all people.
Today, the economy of the world is under unprecedented stress. We need new
approaches to international cooperation to respond effectively to the problems
that we face. Developing and developed countries, market and nonmarket coun-
tries—we are all a part of one interdependent economic system.
The food and oil crises demonstrate the extent of our interdependence. Many
developing nations need the food surplus of a few developed nations. And many
industrialized nations need the oil production of a few developing nations.
Energy is required to produce food and food to produce energy—and both to
provide a decent life for everyone. The problems of food and energy can be
resolved on the basis of cooperation, or can, I should say, [be] made unmanage-
able on the basis of confrontation. Runaway inflation, propelled by food and
oil price increases, is an early warning signal to all of us.
Let us not delude ourselves. Failure to cooperate on oil and food and infla-
tion could spell disaster for every nation represented in this room. The United
Nations must not and need not allow this to occur. A global strategy for food
and energy is urgently required.
The United States believes four principles should guide a global approach:
First, all nations must substantially increase production. Just to maintain
the present standards of living the world must almost double its output of food
and energy to match the expected increase in the world's population by the end
of this century. To meet aspirations for a better life, production will have to ex-
pand at a significantly faster rate than population growth.
Second, all nations must seek to achieve a level of prices which not only pro-
vides an incentive to producers but which consumers can afford. It should now
be clear that the developed nations are not the only countries which demand and
receive an adequate return for their goods. But it should also be clear that by
confronting consumers with production restrictions, artificial pricing, and the
prospect of ultimate bankruptcy, producers will eventually become the victims
of their own actions.
Third, all nations must avoid the abuse of man's fundamental needs for the
159
