December 5
[280]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Mr. Chancellor, America bids you and your party a most cordial welcome.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:41 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where Chancellor
Schmidt was given a formal welcome with full mili-
tary honors. The Chancellor responded as follows:
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you, Mr. President, very much for your
warm welcome and for the kind words, regardful
words addressed to me and my party.
As you said, this is not my first visit to the United
States, but the first time that I have come to this
country as the head of government of the Federal
Republic of Germany.
I am particularly glad to have this opportunity so
soon after you, Mr. President, have assumed your
office in order to exchange views on the main ques-
tions which do concern us both.
In today's world, we are faced with a multitude
of difficult problems whose solutions will make un-
precedented demands on our countries and will re-
quire us to harness our strength in the common
effort.
The world is threatened by severe economic dis-
ruption. The Middle East conflict, whose settlement
your Administration is working so hard to bring
about, and the energy crisis which followed in its
wake, have suddenly opened our eyes to the fragile
nature of the foundations on which our economic
and social and political stability does rest.
The strengthening of these foundations is a task
which does concern us all and which we can only
master through broad international cooperation, as
you said.
We in Germany are conscious of this challenge,
and we are preparing ourselves to meet it. In this
search we do attach specific importance to close co-
operation and consultation between the United States
of America and Europe and my own country.
The partnership between the United States and
Europe has stood the test. It has existed for more
than 25 years in the Atlantic Alliance, which was
strengthened by the Declaration of Ottawa in the
middle of this year. It has also reflected our com-
mon efforts to promote détente in Europe and in
the world.
We are resolved to do everything within our
capability to strengthen and to further develop this
partnership.
The untroubled friendship between the United
States and the Federal Republic of Germany seems
to be an excellent basis for this, and it is my firm
conviction that our meeting, Mr. President, will
bring us closer to this goal.
Thank you very much.
280
Statement on Signing the Joint Funding Simplification
Act of 1974. December 5, 1974
I HAVE today signed into law the Joint Funding Simplification Act of 1974.
This is significant legislation. It is a further step in our continuing effort to
simplify and streamline grant administration. I am pleased that the legislation
had strong bipartisan support in both Houses of Congress.
The act will simplify funding and other procedures in cases where a grantee
receives assistance from two or more different agencies or programs within an
agency. It provides a means by which funds, procedures, and administra-
tive requirements of related programs can be brought together simply and
speedily to support a particular project or group of projects for which Federal
assistance is being sought.
More specifically, it provides a basis for:
—meeting interrelated needs with one comprehensive plan for receiving
grants from several Federal agencies through one Federal funding source;
53-528 O
- 76 48
715
