[39]
August 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
more expensive public service program. We will approach this problem with
compassion and action if there is a need for it.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[4.] Q. Sir, two political questions: Do you definitely plan to run for Presi-
dent in 1976, and if so, would you choose Governor Rockefeller as your running
mate or would you leave that choice up to the convention's free choice?
THE PRESIDENT. I will repeat what has been said on my behalf, that I will prob-
ably be a candidate in 1976. I think Governor Rockefeller and myself are a good
team, but, of course, the final judgment in this matter will be that of the dele-
gates to the national convention.
POSSIBILITY OF PARDON FOR FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[5.] Q. May I just follow up on Helen's question. Are you saying, sir, that the
option of a pardon for former President Nixon is still an option that you will
consider, depending on what the courts will do?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, I make the final decision. And until it gets to me,
I make no commitment one way or another. But I do have the right as President
of the United States to make that decision.
Q. And you are not ruling it out?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not ruling it out. It is an option and a proper option for
any President.
ACTION BY THE SPECIAL PROSECUTOR
[6.] Q. Do you feel the Special Prosecutor can in good conscience pursue
cases against former top Nixon aides as long as there is the possibility that the
former President may not also be pursued in the courts?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Special Prosecutor, Mr. Jaworski, has an obligation
to take whatever action he sees fit in conformity with his oath of office, and that
should include any and all individuals.
PREVENTION OF FURTHER "WATERGATES"
[7.] Q. What do you plan to do as President to see to it that we have no
further Watergates?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I indicated that, one, we would have an open Adminis-
tration. I will be as candid and as forthright as I possibly can. I will expect any
individuals in my Administration to be exactly the same. There will be no tightly
controlled operation of the White House Staff. I have a policy of seeking advice
from a number of top members of my staff. There will be no one person, nor any
58
