December 11
[290]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
buying power, or customer purchasing power, as an essential element of sus-
taining and strengthening the free enterprise system. This is where the volun-
tary part of my economic program comes in—primarily in each individual's
purposeful determination to reduce conspicuous waste and to spend wisely.
The WIN campaign—a volunteer, nonpartisan citizens' effort—is yet an
unexploited success. It has my full support, and it deserves yours.
I can tell you this: I have received more than 200,000 pieces of mail in support
of the WIN program, by far the largest amount of favorable public response to
anything that I have done since taking office.
Now personally, I don't care whether WIN spells "Whip Inflation Now" or
"Work Is Needed.” America needs the winning spirit to surmount its present
economic difficulties. Whatever the challenge, Americans like to win. If there
are any among you who want me to take a 180 degree turn from inflation fight-
ing to recessionary pump priming, they will be disappointed.
The fact of the matter is I am deeply concerned about all three domestic
devils—inflation, recession, and energy. They are all part of the same economic
torment that now afflicts every industrial nation. I will continue to treat this
general economic ailment with a balanced program. We have not, should not,
and will not concentrate exclusively on any single aspect of our complex
economy. I think it is wise, and I intend to concentrate on the total picture.
Heretofore I have emphasized the distortions of inflation, because price in-
creases must be blunted before we can realistically expect to restore employment
gains and capital investment. There are now early signals that price pressures
are beginning to ease. I expect inflation will move steadily down from the in-
tolerable double-digit level.
The facts are, conditions are changing rapidly. Only by acting in a responsible
manner can we strengthen confidence and move toward recovery without
destroying the accumulated anti-inflation pressures that are just now beginning
to work.
I know that the Business Council can rise to this challenge, and I will tell you
why. I remember a little history. You and your predecessors were a very key
factor in helping the Government mobilize the economy for World War II, and
what an incredible record that you wrote-in top managerial posts in Govern-
ment, in industry, and in the war itself.
Gentlemen, you have to—and we need you to―mobilize again. This Admin-
istration will do its part. I will personally do my part. The country needs your
full cooperation and your full support.
737
