[226]
November 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
So I, for one, am very grateful and most appreciative of the almost superhuman
efforts that the Secretary has made on this trip as well as in the past, and we are
looking forward to a constructive trip to Japan and South Korea and to the
Soviet Union.
So, let me just thank you very, very much, Henry, for a great job for us as
Americans and for me personally.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:11 p.m. at the South
Portico of the White House following his return
from Camp David, Md., where his meeting with
Secretary Kissinger was held.
227
Remarks of Welcome to Chancellor Bruno Kreisky
of Austria. November 12, 1974
MR. CHANCELLOR, it is a great privilege and a very high honor to welcome
you to the United States. I might apologize for the weather. We could not do
much about that.
But speaking on behalf of the American people, let me say how very happy we
are for this further opportunity to strengthen the ties of affection and the ties
of respect that bind our two nations and our two peoples together.
Like all of the world, America has profited very greatly, Mr. Chancellor, from
Austria's great contributions to the arts, to the law, education, medicine, and
psychology; and of course, there is the great legacy of music, the legacy of
Vienna that the whole world treasures, the music of Mozart, the Strausses, and
so many others; additionally, the great importance that Austria has served as a
continuing force for peace and stability throughout the world.
Mr. Chancellor, modern Austria has proven beyond any doubt again and
again in recent years that a small country can make big contributions to world
peace and world understanding. Your positive involvement in world affairs,
your generous support of the United Nations, including an important role in the
peace-keeping forces in the Middle East and Cyprus, your gracious hosting of
important international conferences, such as the initial phase of the Soviet-
American strategic arms negotiations and the force reduction talks now in proc-
ess—all of these Austrian contributions are helping to build a better and more
peaceful world.
We Americans, of course, are very, very proud of our long and sincere
friendship with Austria. We cherish our many, many American citizens of
580
