October 15
[150]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Balance your family budget and expect your Government officials to do exactly
the same thing.
I have already asked the Congress to work with me on this, the handling
appropriately of the Federal budget. As to your family budget, I know how hard
it is to balance, but many of your letters prove that it can be done. For example,
Mr. and Mrs. Roland Spaek live in Holland, Michigan. He is a locomotive
engineer working on a freight run between Grand Rapids and Chicago. Mr. and
Mrs. Spaek describe in their letter to me how they are cutting their household
budget, but they urge, and I quote: Our Federal budget should be pared to the
bone.
Don't we all agree?
Robert Stewart writes from Waverly, Tennessee, that he has a heart condition,
unfortunately, and draws a pension of only $251.28 a month. This allows him
just two meals a day. “But thank God, we are not on welfare," says Mr. Stewart.
He asks me, and again I quote: Cut our Government spending except for
national defense.
Again, I think his example is a good one for all of us to observe.
Committee recommendation number two was stated to me this way by
Sylvia Porter: Learn how to use credit wisely. Postpone unnecessary borrowing.
Wait for interest rates to come down, as they will, and pay down as much as
you can, and pay off as quickly as you can. The cheapest way to buy anything,
we all know, is to pay cash. But credit wisely used is essential to our way of life
in America.
Committee recommendation number three is to save as much as you can
and watch your money grow, which it will. Mrs. Frank Tennant writes from
Climax, Michigan, that her husband works hard and she helps stretch the
paycheck through systematic savings. Mr. Tennant is a self-taught machinist
and a veteran who lost his leg in Korea. But it is his ability rather than his
disability that comes through in his dear wife's letter. The Tennants report they
do not use credit cards. They put something in their credit union each week and
buy a Government bond every month. They should be applauded.
James Kincaid of Belleville, Illinois, suggests a new type of Government anti-
inflation bond, purchased through payroll deduction in which the interest rate
is more competitive. Because I received many communications in this area, I
have asked the Treasury Department to look into the possibility of issuing a
new series of WIN bonds and report to me the feasibility of Mr. Kincaid's idea.
Meanwhile, if you can save more, the hard-pressed homebuilding mortgage
307
