November 18
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
We have strong, ably led, well-equipped, dedicated, superb individuals in the
Armed Forces of the United States, and I, as Commander in Chief, am very, very
proud of the job that has been done and will be done in defense of our country
and freedom throughout the world.
Let me assure you that there will be no lessening in this Administration of
my support for a strong Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, and the Coast
Guard. All of us have an interest in the defense of Alaska. Your defense is our
defense.
Just a few weeks ago the Secretary of Defense visited Alaska, and I am deeply
interested in his recommendations. And upon my return from this mission
abroad, I will discuss with the Secretary his recommendations for the strengthen-
ing of our defense forces in all of the United States, including Alaska.
Let me reassure Alaska on another subject. It relates to the depletion of our
fishery resources by other nations. You can be sure that this matter is high on the
agenda, on the list of priorities for diplomacy as far as I am concerned.
As I said at the beginning, I am departing today as a “chee cha ko," a new-
comer, but I hope to return next week on my way home as a “sourdough.”
I thank all of you for taking the time on a beautiful Sunday and coming to
give me and my party a send-off welcome. I am deeply appreciative and very,
very grateful. I can assure you that I and the others will do our best on an
important and constructive mission.
I thank you all for the send-off. May God bless our efforts as we go forth from
here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. at Elmen-
dorf Air Force Base. In his opening remarks, the
President referred to Lt. Gen. James E. Hill, USAF,
Commander-in-Chief, Alaska; Maj. Gen. Jack K.
Gamble, USAF, Commander, Alaskan Air Com-
mand; Maj. Gen. Sidney M. Marks, USA, Com-
manding General, United States Army, Alaska; Lt.
Gov. H. A. Boucher of Alaska; and mayors George
M. Sullivan of Anchorage and Jack Roderick of the
Greater Anchorage Area Borough.
240
Message to the Congress on Legislative Priorities.
November 18, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I regret that commitments which I believe will advance the cause of inter-
national understanding prevent my delivering this message personally. On two
previous occasions when I returned to the Capitol for formal communication
617
