September 16
[79]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
A few months ago, when Ray Bliss ¹ asked me to come out to make a speech in
Chicago to a regional gathering of Republicans, I went and made some re-
marks that I won't dwell on this morning, but I would like to say that what I said
there is the criteria by which we will meet the campaign problems of 1976. The
campaign will be in the hands of the Republican National Committee.
But that is all I am going to say about 1976, because we have a more important
job in 1974.
A few months ago there were dire predictions about the fate of the Republican
candidates from Governor down through local offices, from candidates for the
United States Senate, candidates for the House of Representatives in the Federal
Congress.
I can remember some great predictions by some of our adversaries who said
we were going to have a net loss of 100 or a net loss of 50, and there was great glee
on the part of some of our adversaries that they were going to have a veto-proof
Congress.
Well, we took on that challenge, and we pointed out what a veto-proof Con-
gress would mean. It would mean a Congress that would spend more and
more—and I repeatedly alerted people around the country that if we had a veto-
proof Congress, they better tighten their seatbelts because they were going right
through the sky in spending. They backed off from that, and we on the other
side have coined, I think, a better campaign slogan, because it involves our num-
ber one public enemy domestically: inflation.
What we want to elect to Congress-Senators and Members of the House-is
an inflation-proof Congress, and we will get it with Republican candidates.
And I am quite frank to tell you that those Members of Congress who sup-
port our efforts to win the battle against inflation will get my wholehearted en-
dorsement.
But we need strong and tall candidates who will stand up and fight the battle
of inflation in fiscal policy and in any other of those policies that involve saving
this country from the ravages of inflation.
So, urge your incumbents who are running for reelection, urge your candi-
dates who are seeking the high office of the Congress, to campaign, to vote for
economy, for strength in our battle against inflation.
You can have a big impact. Your influence can be significant. And we have
got some tough votes coming up right soon in the Senate and in the House. Let
¹Ray C. Bliss, chairman of the Republican National Committee 1965–69.
143
