October 24
[187]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
lives. If you take this time to reflect, I think you will find that people-yourself
and others—can determine their own priorities, and that sense of community
has not been lost here in Iowa.
In the coming years, we will continue to see Iowa, under the leadership of
Bob Ray, serving as a model for the rest of the Nation. You have in this great
State what so many people all over the United States are seeking. You have the
basic values upon which America was built over a period of some 200 years. I
personally think of Iowa when I think of stability, of progress, and just as im-
portantly, balance. I like the balance that you are achieving in Iowa between
industry and agriculture.
Some of my advisers in Washington have suggested that I should avoid the
subject of agriculture here today. They said our Iowa farmers and farmers
throughout the Midwest are especially frustrated this year. I certainly and very
deeply share the concern of farmers whose corn and soybean crops were stunted
by drought and destroyed by early frosts.
The trend, however, for urbanization during the past few decades resulted
in the downplaying of the farmer's central role in America's society. But recent
problems have refocused our national attention on the farmer as one of our
greatest national assets—an asset we should be proud of. It is my judgment that
this is the time that we should be expanding farming in America. Let us en-
courage our young people to remain on the farms and others to return to them.
Iowa, your great State, for obvious reasons, is aware of the importance of agri-
culture, not only to your State but to our Nation and to the world. It is absolutely
essential to the well-being of our total society here as well as around the world.
America can no longer expect the farmer to sacrifice so that others can live
well. All Americans now realize that we are all in this problem together, and
the farmer should not be called upon to make an extra sacrifice. It must be
shared by all.
We rely upon the farmer for the strength of the community. The American
farmer can outplant, outgrow, and outmarket any farmer-I don't care what
nation in the world. However, if the farmer gets a fair shake, the American
farmer can not only feed the people of the United States but human beings all
over the world. And this in itself is something that we should appreciate and
be grateful for.
In the immediate years ahead, American agriculture will be our greatest asset
in the world trade market. In the last 2 or 3 years, the availability of the produc-
tion of the American farmer has been extremely helpful as we try to help those
who are less well-off than ourselves, for good humanitarian reasons.
451
