[72]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
now passed both Houses and hopefully will soon be considered by a conference
committee. In its consideration of this legislation, I recommend to the confer-
ence committee that the provision calling for an Energy Policy Council be
deleted and several other undesirable provisions be revised in accordance with
current discussions.
To increase the availability of clean natural gas through competitive pricing of
newly developed gas supplies, I urge this Congress to enact the Natural Gas Sup-
ply bill. As we enter the winter months, our energy resources must be effectively
utilized for the benefit of all Americans. Gas deregulation which would increase
supply is a vital part of the Administration's response to the energy shortage.
Of major importance to our ability to provide sufficient energy in the years
ahead is a proposal for the Federal Government to grant permits for construc-
tion, licensing and operation of Deepwater Ports beyond the three-mile limit.
The House has passed a bill. Hopefully, the Senate will also move forward on
this key measure.
Among the many energy-related bills before Congress, is the important Energy
Tax Package. This measure imposes a windfall profits tax on the selling price of
domestic crude oil, eliminates the percentage depletion deduction for U.S. taxes
on foreign production of oil and gas, and limits foreign tax credits available to
U.S. oil and gas companies operating in foreign lands.
We learned from the recent oil embargo that we must be better prepared to re-
duce the impact of any future supply interruptions. At the time of the embargo
our Naval petroleum reserves, set aside through the foresight of the Congress
for the specific purpose of assuring adequate supplies of essential fuels, could
not be used in time to contribute to our national defense requirements.
In a moment of need, oil in the ground is useless. We must have authority to
produce and deliver our emergency petroleum reserves to the user. Presently,
the Navy Petroleum Reserves at Elk Hills, California, have proven reserves of
approximately one billion barrels. The Navy Petroleum Reserves in Alaska,
although unexplored, have estimated reserves of up to 33 billion barrels. I in-
tend to consult with the Congress on the best way to assure that the reserve
capacities of these fields are in a state where they can contribute effectively to
our national security in any future energy crisis.
The House and Senate conferees are now addressing the difficult issues in-
volved in striking a balance between the environmental effects of surface coal
mining under the proposed Surface Mining Act and the nation's need for coal
as an essential source of energy. This issue has been under consideration
128
