October 24
[188]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
world, or at least around the country. And if it is, the country will be far better
off.
You might ask yourself what can your vote accomplish? The answer is very
simple: It can send to the Congress men and women who are not big spenders.
Look at the record. Look at the promises. We need men and women in
Congress who can say no to programs and to policies and projects which are
completely unnecessary at the present time—programs that we can get along
without for the time being.
We don't need men and women in Congress who talk about halting inflation
or cutting spending in their home States, their home Congressional district, and
vote the opposite way in the Congress.
Let me add a personal postscript, if I might. Wiley Mayne, Bill Scherle,
H. R. Gross-they talk like they vote. They are against big spending, and I
can show you the record to prove it. That is why you ought to send them back
there.
But I have a second postscript, if I might. Dave Stanley is a man who has
the same dedication to saving, who has the same opposition to spending, and
although I know his opponent and his record, I can assure you that Dave Stanley
is a saver, and his opponent is a big, big spender.
Now, the next Congress needs Members who will, in my judgment, rise
above short-term thinking Representatives who recognize that the red ink
route that we have traveled for 19 out of the last 25 years is a losing game, losing
from the point of view of our Nation's future.
Nobody benefits from inflation-not business, not labor, not the rich, not the
poor, not the farmer, not anybody. It is the losing proposition across the board.
Everybody gets hurt. Oh, I know it is easy to yield to that temptation to give
people what some politicians think they want. But I remind you, a government
big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to take
from us everything we have.
Despite some of the skeptics, the foundation of our economy in all 50 States
is strong. It has been the most productive economy in the history of civilization.
We have an abundance beyond the wildest imagination of our parents or our
grandparents.
We are able to share, fortunately, our wealth with the poor of our own Nation
as well as the poor of the world, but we must defend this economy from the
attacks which would erode it.
Now, some of my friends in the opposition seem to think that what is needed
to solve the problem is a veto-proof Congress. The fact of the matter is, it was
459
