October 14
[145]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
seek to maintain the strength and cooperation in our relationship that is a corner-
stone to Western security in the Mediterranean.
It is for these reasons that I return this resolution to the Congress and ask
that it thoughtfully reconsider its position.
I pledge to continue working closely in partnership with the Congress to en-
able the United States to play a useful role in helping the parties toward a
peaceful resolution of the Cyprus dispute.
I am now signing my veto message, which will be delivered today to the
Congress.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:23 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
145
Veto of Continuing Appropriations Resolution.
October 14, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
At the beginning of my Administration I pledged to work closely and co-
operatively with the Congress. I believe I have kept that promise. I have ap-
peared before two joint sessions of the Congress, I have met frequently with the
leadership of both Houses, and I have agreed to appear personally before a
subcommittee of the House of Representatives—a step no other President has
undertaken in more than a century.
These actions are an earnest of my commitment to a new partnership be-
tween the legislative and executive branches of our government. They reflect
my deep belief that the antagonisms that have too long divided our Nation must
be resolved, that hopes for partisan advantage must be put aside, and that we
must get on with the business of doing the best we can for our country.
The cooperation I have received from the leadership of the Congress-Demo-
cratic and Republican alike—has been truly remarkable. The leaders have ad-
vised me and I have listened; I have explained my problems to them and they
have responded with understanding and support. For this I am deeply grateful.
It is, therefore, with deep regret that I am returning today without my ap-
proval the recently passed Continuing Resolution, H.J. Res. 1131, granting funds
for the operation of several departments and agencies and for the temporary
continuation of our foreign aid programs. I take this step with great reluctance,
but in the belief that I have no other choice.
299
