September 25
[104]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
But to be serious, Mr. President, in all of the time that I had the privilege of
serving in the Congress, the United States and Italy were building together. We
were building in the process of reconstruction following the war. We were
building in the process of Europe as a whole in the reconstruction period.
This 25-year span led, of course, to our alliance, where we have developed a
friendship and an agreement for diplomatic, military, economic, and cultural
expansion and reciprocity.
We dealt with Italy on a personal basis, and we have worked together in our
relationships with our allies in Western Europe. And the net result has been a
better relationship between us as people and our Governments on behalf of our
people.
But, Mr. President, it was a pleasure for me to meet you this morning and to be
reassured of your willingness to talk in a frank and candid way about our mu
tual problems. And from one who spent a good share of his life in the political
arena in the United States, I was greatly impressed with your wise statesmanship
and your great knowledge of the problems in Europe and the rest of the world.
And So, it was a privilege and a pleasure for me to meet you and to discuss
these matters with you and to help in the process of building a better relationship
between Italy and the United States.
And if I might, may I ask all of you to stand and join with me in a toast to the
President of the Republic of Italy.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:03 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
President Leone spoke in Italian. His remarks were
translated by an interpreter as follows:
For the second time today, Mr. President, I take
my set speech and I set it aside. I am putting it back
into my pocket, because I want to speak from my
heart. The set speech, the written paper, will remain.
It will perhaps go into the archives of state, but
my speech will spring from my heart.
You, Mr. President, have said some very nice.
things about me and about my country. Now the
things you said about me, I am sure, were totally
undeserved, and they merely stemmed from your
very great kindness. But what you said about my
country makes me very proud indeed.
You recalled the contribution that Italy has made
to arts and to civilization. We present this heritage
to you, which is the heritage of centuries. We present
it to you as our friendly ally, not with pride-which
might perhaps be justified-but as a sort of visiting
card for you to understand us better.
Italy has inherited the greatest legal tradition of
all times, and Italy is the mistress of the arts. It
can, therefore, only pursue ideals of democracy and
freedom for all. And what other nation can better
support us in these ideals than the United States?
Your Constitution, Mr. President, the first written
constitution that ever existed, has laid the founda-
tions of the free world. And we are making this visit
to this great country with the Foreign Minister, Mr.
Moro, who is an authoritative representative of my
Government, to reassert four things: The first is the
faithful, loyal, and constant friendship between our
two nations which is based, as you said, in part also
on our common ancestry.
The second point is the Atlantic Alliance. That
is the second point we want to reassert. As I said
this morning, it is seen by Italy, by the United States,
and by all the member countries, as an instrument
for détente and peace.
And we want to reassert, thirdly, our firm belief
in the need to build a united Europe which will be
complementary to the Atlantic Alliance and which
will not be against America, but with the United
States of America.
And, fourthly, we want to tell you how very
much we support your policy of détente, in which
you have the great cooperation of your Secretary of
197
