August 12
[6]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
ported the outstanding foreign policy of President Nixon. This policy I intend
to continue.
Throughout my public service, starting with wartime naval duty under the
command of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, I have upheld all our Presidents
when they spoke for my country to the world. I believe the Constitution com-
mands this. I know that in this crucial area of international policy I can count
on your firm support.
Now, let there be no doubt or any misunderstanding anywhere, and I
emphasize anywhere: There are no opportunities to exploit, should anyone so
desire. There will be no change of course, no relaxation of vigilance, no aban-
donment of the helm of our ship of state as the watch changes.
We stand by our commitments and we will live up to our responsibilities in
our formal alliances, in our friendships, and in our improving relations with
potential adversaries.
On this, Americans are united and strong. Under my term of leadership, I
hope we will become more united. I am certain America will remain strong.
A strong defense is the surest way to peace. Strength makes détente attain-
able. Weakness invites war, as my generation—my generation—knows from
four very bitter experiences.
Just as America's will for peace is second to none, so will America's strength
be second to none.
We cannot rely on the forbearance of others to protect this Nation. The power
and diversity of the Armed Forces, active Guard and Reserve, the resolve of our
fellow citizens, the flexibility in our command to navigate international waters
that remain troubled are all essential to our security.
I shall continue to insist on civilian control of our superb military establish-
ment. The Constitution plainly requires the President to be Commander in
Chief, and I will be.
Our job will not be easy. In promising continuity, I cannot promise simplicity.
The problems and challenges of the world remain complex and difficult. But
we have set out on a path of reason, of fairness, and we will continue on it.
As guideposts on that path, I offer the following:
-To our allies of a generation in the Atlantic community and Japan, I pledge
continuity in the loyal collaboration on our many mutual endeavors.
-To our friends and allies in this hemisphere, I pledge continuity in the
deepening dialog to define renewed relationships of equality and justice.
-To our allies and friends in Asia, I pledge a continuity in our support for
their security, independence, and economic development. In Indochina, we are
11
