October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
has raised such high expectations and, unfortunately, will not be able to respond
to them.
I would like to point out, Mr. President, that the resolutions of inquiry which
have prompted your appearance here today have resulted from very dark sus-
picions that have been created in the public's mind.
Perhaps these suspicions are totally unfounded, and I sincerely hope that they
are. But nonetheless, we must all confront the reality of these suspicions and the
suspicions that were created by the circumstances of the pardon which you issued,
the secrecy with which it was issued, and the reasons for which it was issued
which made people question whether or not, in fact, it was a deal.
THE PRESIDENT. May I comment there? I want to assure you, the members of
this subcommittee, the Members of the Congress, and the American people, there
was no deal, period, under no circumstances.
CONGRESSWOMAN HOLTZMAN. Mr. President, I appreciate that statement, and
I am sure many of the American people do, as well. But they also are asking
questions about the pardon, and I would like to specify a few of them for you so
that perhaps we can have some of these answered.
I think, from the mail I have received from all over the country, as well as my
own district, I know that the people want to understand how you can explain
having pardoned Richard Nixon without specifying any of the crimes for which
he was pardoned. And how can you explain pardoning Richard Nixon without
obtaining any acknowledgement of guilt from him? How do you explain the
failure to consult the Attorney General of the United States with respect to the
issuance of the pardon, even though in your confirmation hearings you had in-
dicated the Attorney General's opinion would be critical in any decision to par-
don the former President?
How can this extraordinary haste in which the pardon was decided on and the
secrecy with which it was carried out be explained, and how can you explain the
pardon of Richard Nixon, accompanied by an agreement with respect to the tapes
which, in essence, in the public's mind, hampered the Special Prosecutor's ac-
cess to these materials, and this was done, also, in the public's mind, in disregard
of the public's right to know the full story about Richard Nixon's misconduct in
office?
And in addition, the public, I think, wants an explanation of how Benton
Becker was used to represent the interests of the United States in negotiating a
tapes agreement when at that very time, he was under investigation by the United
States for possible criminal charges?
363
