[182]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
So far, the response from the American people has been excellent. So far, the
Congress has done a part-time job. I ask particularly for a proposal in the Con-
gress to set a spending ceiling of $300 billion, which is about $5,400 million less
than the budget that was submitted in January of this year. If we are to call upon
the American people, whether it is individual or otherwise, to sacrifice, it seems
to me that the Federal Government itself—the White House, the Congress, the
executive branch-must do the same. We cannot expect people, 213 million
Americans, to sacrifice as we get over this economic hump unless the Govern-
ment does it.
So, the Congress, unfortunately, did not respond. But I can tell you that in
Henry and in Dewey and in Happy Camp, you have the kind of people that do
respond to a requirement to hold down Federal spending, and I compliment you
for it.
Something that has, I think, attracted a great deal of attention that ought to
be discussed quite frankly is the demand on the part of some of our opponents—
opponents, philosophically, who are saying this election on November 5, which
is 15 days away—for what is commonly called a veto-proof Congress.
A veto-proof Congress, in my judgment, would have two serious end results.
Number one, undoubtedly, it would result in the election of candidates who
would be bigger spenders, not bigger savers. So, if we cannot hold down Federal
spending with this Congress, I can assure you a veto-proof Congress will be a
Congress that will spend more and more and more, and they will do it over
Presidential veto.
So, if you want a Congress that is fiscally responsible, I think you have to
defeat what is broadly called a veto-proof Congress. I think we ought to have
an inflation-proof Congress, not a veto-proof Congress.
But there is a broader problem that I see if a veto-proof Congress is elected.
And what would that mean in numbers? For example, to get a veto-proof Con-
gress, they need on the other side of the aisle roughly 50 more Members, so they
would have not what the margin is today—roughly 3-to-2-but a margin that is
far better than 2-to-1. And in the United States Senate, it would undoubtedly call
for the defeat of Henry and Pete Dominick and some of the other stalwarts.
Now, if a veto-proof Congress is elected, it will destroy, to a substantial degree,
the necessary balance that we have in the Federal Government. Let's go back
historically just a minute. Our forefathers put together probably the greatest
document for the governing of people when they wrote the Constitution of the
United States.
They didn't want an all-powerful President. They didn't want an all-powerful
428
