October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
be established, and I would ask the chairman if that is not his recollection, that
originally, the President did say that he would be glad to appear on October 1.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Not being under oath, the Chair is glad to reply.
The gentleman's recollection is the same as mine.
CONGRESSMAN MAYNE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just think the point
should be made that there has been no stalling at all or delay on the part of
the President in making this appearance, but that he was not only willing to
make the statement but to do it much earlier.
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. If the gentleman would yield briefly-that is precisely
the fact, and it was consideration on behalf of many of us concerning the proper
effect on any trials that held us till this day.
CONGRESSMAN MAYNE. Now, Mr. President, I think there was perhaps one
part of Mr. Kastenmeier's questioning of you that was left unanswered, and I am
going to try to go into that again.
Did you, by granting this pardon, have any intention of stopping the investiga-
tions of any other defendants or potential defendants?
THE PRESIDENT. None whatsoever.
CONGRESSMAN MAYNE. Mr. President, ever since I first heard of the Watergate
break-in, I have felt that this was a matter which should be fully investigated and
prosecuted, and that anyone found to be criminally involved should be punished
as provided by the law, and I have repeatedly stated I thought our American
system of justice, as administered in the courts, was fully capable of handling
the situation if permitted to proceed without interference.
I have been apprehensive that the activities of some of the legislative commit-
tees and the large amount of publicity attending upon those activities might
make it impossible for our court system to function as it should, and I have also
been fearful that the executive branch would intervene to limit or handicap the
normal functioning of the courts.
Now, Mr. President, I must say to you I am deeply concerned that both the
legislative and executive branches have indeed interfered with our courts making
it extremely difficult for the traditional American system of justice to proceed in
the regular manner in this case, and I was very disturbed by the granting of this
pardon, particularly at such an early stage, even though, certainly, there is no
question that under the law, you had the right to act as you did.
Now, I realize that hindsight is always better than foresight, but I am wonder-
ing if after all that has happened and with further opportunity for reflection, if
you do not now feel that you perhaps acted too hastily in this case.
361
