October 29
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
between our three coordinate branches of Government has given us more free-
dom, more opportunity, and more blessings than any people in the history of
mankind. And we have got to keep that balance.
But you can destroy that balance. You can destroy that balance if the opposi-
tion were to gain a net of 50 in the House or 7 or 8 in the Senate. It would put a
stranglehold on the legislative process, because it would mean the inevitable elec-
tion of those of the most liberal persuasion in the Democratic Party.
I am not condemning all Democrats, because some of them have been ex-
tremely helpful, and particularly the Democratic leadership in the House and
the Senate. But their troops run wild. They are like a commander who tells
them to do what is right, and then they scatter all over the ballpark.
And so, what I am saying to you is what we really need is competition in the
Congress, not an overwhelming majority in the ranks of one political party,
because if you get that kind of 2-to-1, 3-to-1, 4-to-1 strength in one political party,
inevitably you have this legislative dictatorship which destroys that very fun-
damental concept that has made it so great for all of us in America, a balance.
So, a veto-proof Congress is not what we want. I have got a better idea, this
forecast: We want an inflation-proof Congress, not a veto-proof Congress. And
Paul Goebel will give us that result.
Now, if you get a veto-proof Congress, if you get a legislative dictatorship, as
I have indicated, the whole system of checks and balances go out the window.
Now, some of my good Democratic friends have a different idea of checks and
balances—a little different from mine. They write the checks even though there
are never any balances.
And from your own personal experience, you know where that could lead.
But let me make this observation, if I can. I am told that there is a great degree
of apathy in America, and yet when I go to Sioux Falls, South Dakota, they had
10,000 in an auditorium like this and 5,000 people who could not get in. When I
went to Lincoln, Nebraska, they had 5,000 or 6,000 at an airport rally. We have
been to other communities where the crowds have been good. We have had a few
disappointments, but we have had good reception.
Tonight is the best, and I thank you for it.
But do you realize that all of you here tonight can directly affect this election
come November 5? You have it within your own grasp. You have it by your own
vote and how you can persuade, how you can help, by just what this group
does here tonight.
517
