[180]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
As I say goodby and take leave, let me wish you a safe and pleasant return jour-
ney, Mr. President. I will not say goodby but rather, following the tradition of
your country, I will say hasta luego.
I know there will be other opportunities in the future to meet, to discuss the
vital questions, but more importantly, to get better acquainted.
It is a privilege and a pleasure to have had this opportunity on your border and
ours.
Mr. President, I thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:35 p.m. at Davis-
Monthan Air Force Base.
President Echeverría spoke in Spanish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
President Ford, it is only due to the great spirit of
friendship which unites our two countries that it
has been possible in a few hours, and without any
personal contact between the two of us previously—
it has been possible, I repeat, to revise the enormous
amount of matters that we have between our two
countries.
We are practicing-and this is well for the people
of the United States and for the people of Mexico
to know we are practicing a simple type of
democracy, a democracy in which there is no secrets,
a democracy in which there is nothing hidden, a
democracy that is characterized by frankness.
I believe that this conference between the United
States and Mexico can set an example, can set an
example that should be followed by all-by the great
and the small countries, by the industrialized nations
and the developing nations.
I see that from here on in, with good will, with the
study of our common problems, with mutual under-
standing, the relationship between our two govern-
ments will improve.
Mr. President, in expressing my gratitude for
your personal acquaintance, Mr. President, and for
the hospitality that has been shown to us by the
United States and also this expression of good will
on the part of the people of the United States, I, too,
wish to say hasta luego, until we meet again, because
we hope that we will have you in Mexico City so
that the Mexican people will get to know you as
I do.
Mr. President, in taking my leave, I do so with a
warm handshake, with an abrazzo-Mexican style-
with an embrace that we hope will travel to all the
homes of the United States and convey the great
affection of Mexico.
181
Remarks to a Meeting of the National Council on Crime and
Delinquency. October 21, 1974
IT IS a pleasure for me to address this gathering of the National Council on
Crime and Delinquency. I only regret that a tight schedule has forced me to
appear on film instead of in person.
In a year when we as a nation have begun to pay long overdue attention to
conserving our energy and natural resources, it is only fitting that we have also
taken a major stride forward in preserving our greatest resource of all-our Na-
tion's youth.
It was in this spirit that on September 7, I signed S. 821, the Juvenile Justice
and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, into law.
422
