[289]
December 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
289
Remarks on Presenting the National Football Foundation
and Hall of Fame's Distinguished American Award to
Bob Hope in New York City. December 10, 1974
Chris, Your Eminence, President Dick Kazmaier, distinguished guests:
It is a very high honor and a very great privilege to have the opportunity of
participating in this program this evening, and may I at the outset congratulate
the new inductees as well as the scholar-athletes.
Bob Hope and I were commenting, as all of these fine young athletes were
being introduced, we never saw such a packaging of brains, appearance, and skill,
and I congratulate each and every one of you.
Let me thank you, Chris, for that introduction. It is kind of the routine intro-
duction that comes with this office. [Laughter]
You know, since I became President, I am usually introduced in a more
dignified and stately manner. On some occasions there is a variation, however.
But there was one dinner a few weeks ago when I was introduced by a former
teammate of the University of Michigan back a good many years, and frankly
I will never forget that introduction.
He said, "Ladies and gentlemen, it might interest you to know that I played
football with Jerry Ford for 2 years, and it made a lasting impression on me. I was
a quarterback, Jerry Ford was a center, and you might say it gave me a completely
different view of the President." [Laughter]
If you stopped to think about it, there are many similarities between football
and government. For instance, in both areas nothing is ever done without dis-
cussing it first; in football you call it a huddle, in Washington you call it a debate.
And sometimes the talk goes on for many, many hours without really saying
anything; in Washington it is called a filibuster, in football it is called Howard
Cosell.' [Laughter]
You know, Howard Cosell takes a lot of kidding, but in all fairness, someone
once said, "To me, Howard Cosell will always look 10 feet tall." I don't know
who said it, but I think it was Abe Beame.² [Laughter]
It is a real honor to be here tonight, because football has meant so much to me
for a good many years. You might be interested to know that I have put together
1 An ABC sportscaster.
2 Abraham D. Beame, mayor of New York City.
730
