September 19
[88]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
as possible, within the prescribed discretionary limits, on the precise amount
of the raise.
The need to reduce Federal spending continues. I sincerely hope that the
Congress will join with me in this effort.
88
Remarks at a Reception for Representative Stanford E. Parris
in Alexandria, Virginia. September 19, 1974
I THINK MOST of you know I was originally scheduled to get together and
help Stan, if he thought it might be helpful, before I got this new job and this
new responsibility. I wanted to do it then, and I am here now because the Fords
lived in Stan's Congressional district a good part of the time in the last several
years, and we thought as a constituent of Stan's that he did a first-class job.
We talked with our neighbors. That was their impression, and of course, it
fortified my own deep conviction that Stan was an outstanding Member of
the Congress.
I had an opportunity to work with him following his swearing in. I was
impressed not only with his background when he served all of you so well, I
was impressed with Stan's willingness to look at an issue and to decide it on
its merits.
He was independent when he thought he was right and I was wrong. It
didn't happen too often. [Laughter] But when he agreed with me, he was a
strong and staunch ally and was very effective in helping to get others to join
us in whatever the issue was.
So, on the basis of his experience, on the basis of Stan's willingness to be a real
teamplayer, and yet on the respect that I had for him to be independent when
he thought it was the right thing to do, I am delighted to be here and to show
to all of you and to any others that might be interested that I think Stan Parris
has done a great job, and I surely hope he is reelected.
It was a wonderful thing for me to meet, as I came to the door, your fine
Governor, Mills Godwin. I said to Mills, when he was campaigning last fall,
that I envied the State of Virginia when he was a Democratic Governor because
I thought he did a great job. And I was so pleased to contribute to a very minor
degree last fall when he was a candidate, because I think he has proven to all
of us that the State of Virginia is lucky to have him as a Governor.
169
