November 19
[245]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
prosperity on a worldwide basis and peace on a global basis are beneficial to your
country and to ours and to the world as a whole.
Our two countries, by working together, can significantly contribute to world
peace, and we will. Our two nations, cooperating with one another, can make a
significant contribution to prosperity in both of our countries and to the world
at large.
Mr. Prime Minister, we must discuss and coordinate our economic policies in
an era of energy shortages and some international monetary crises. We must work
together in order to produce and distribute, make available the need of mankind
for food throughout the world.
Mr. Prime Minister, we must join together in helping those nations through-
out the world that are less fortunate than we. We have in the past, and we will
expand those efforts in the future.
In contemplating these problems, the expansion of peace and the betterment
of the world economically, it is good to know that we can discuss the issues and
problems in an attitude and an atmosphere of mutual understanding in a spirit
of good will.
Mr. Prime Minister, let us join in a toast which honors the friendship and the
collaboration between our people and our nations. This is a characterization of
what is good for all and in the best interests of each.
To Japan.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. at a luncheon hosted by Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka. No tran-
script was issued of the Prime Minister's toast.
245
Toast at a Banquet at the Imperial Palace.
November 19, 1974
Your Majesties:
I am honored to be the guest of Your Imperial Majesties, and it is with a very
deep sense of this special moment that I speak this evening.
The first state visit of an American President to Japan is an occasion of very
great importance to all Americans. Your gracious hospitality symbolically honors
the 213 million Americans that I have the honor to represent. I can reassure
Japan that the United States is determined to perpetuate the unique ties that
link our two nations for the common good.
635
