[218]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
218
Remarks in Salt Lake City, Utah. November 2, 1974
Jake Garn, Senator Wallace Bennett, my good friend, Steve Harmsen, Ron
Inkley:
It is wonderful to be here in this wonderful, just tremendous basketball arena
and to be on the campus of the University of Utah, and to you, President David
Gardner, I thank you very, very much.
I am delighted that Jake Garn did not mention too much about my career as
a football player. I played at the University of Michigan so far back—it was back
when the ball was round-and after winning the national championship for my
first 2 years, my senior year we won one and lost seven. And at the end of the
season, my teammates voted me the most valuable player. I don't know what
they were trying to tell me. [Laughter]
But I am particularly pleased to be in Utah, because I have been here many,
many times. I have skied at Alta, Park City, Snow Basin. I hope to come out
again and ski at Snow Bird.
I like people from Utah. Some of our closest and best friends come from your
great State.
Let me express my deep appreciation to the Kearns High School band as well
as to the Davis High School band. The music that was played by both was
wonderful, stirring, the kind of music that I like.
You know, music usually provides us with great beauty, but sometimes it
provides us with the truth as well.
Last week, I went back to my hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan, and we
had a big night rally in an arena at Calvin College, much like this one. As I came
into the building, I heard the master of ceremonies ask the band for just one more
selection, something that would be appropriate for the President of the United
States.
So, they played "Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen." [Laughter]
But I do express my gratitude for the warm and very friendly welcome, and
I cannot think of one trouble I could ever have in the State of Utah. You are the
kind of people I like and enjoy.
It convinces me that when I agreed to come to visit Utah today, this is one
Ford who really did have a better idea.
And let me congratulate you—because I know them, I have met them, I have
worked with them—on the exceptional slate of Republican candidates that you
556
