[94]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, more than any time in the history of man, nations must accept and
live peacefully with the fact that they need each other. Nations must turn to
international cooperation as the best means for dealing with the uneven dis-
tribution of resources.
American foreign policy rests on two obvious new facts: First, in the nuclear
age, there is no rational alternative to international cooperation. Second, the
more the world progresses, the more the world modernizes, the more nations
need each other.
As you know, a theme of the foreign policy of this Administration is “inter-
national cooperation in an interdependent world." Stressing interdependence,
you may ask why is our domestic energy program called Project Independence?
As I see it, especially with regard to energy, national sufficiency and inter-
national interdependence fit together and actually work together.
No nation can be part of the modern world and live unto itself. No nation
has or can have within its borders everything necessary for a full and rich life for
all its people. Independence cannot mean isolation.
The aim of Project Independence is not to set the United States apart from
the rest of the world; it is to enable the United States to do its part more effec-
tively in the world's effort to provide more energy. Project Independence will
seek new ways to reduce energy usage and to increase its production. To the
extent that we succeed, the world will benefit. There will be much more energy
available for others.
As America expands existing sources and develops new ones, other nations
will also benefit. We especially want to share our experience and our technology
with other countries in efforts to increase their own energy supplies. We are
also aware that in some respects other countries are ahead of us, and we will
seek to learn from them.
Sovereign nations try to avoid dependence on other nations that exploit their
own resources to the detriments of others. Sovereign nations cannot allow their
policies to be dictated, or their fate decided, by artificial rigging and distortion
of world commodity markets.
No one can foresee the extent of damage, nor the end of the disastrous con-
sequences, if nations refuse to share nature's gifts for the benefit of all mankind.
I told the United Nations assembly last Wednesday, and I quote: The attempt
by any country to use one commodity for political purposes will inevitably tempt
other countries to use their commodities for their own purposes.
There are three ways, fortunately, that this danger can and must be avoided:
-first, each nation must resolve not to misuse its resources;
180
