[171]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
And so, I congratulate John Ginn and his associates. I congratulate all of you.
I thank you again.
And join me in that campaign to WIN. We don't want to be a loser. We will
be a winner for America.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. Prior to his remarks, the President participated in the unveiling of
the dedicatory plaque for the building.
172
Remarks in Rock Hill, South Carolina. October 19, 1974
Len Phillips, Strom Thurmond, Mayor Lyle, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is a real thrill to be here in Rock Hill, to see this tremendous gathering,
and to see the enthusiasm that you have and the warm welcome that you are
giving me. I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Now, some of you may not have noticed when this fine young lady came up
to give the Pledge of Allegiance. I shook hands with her and thanked her, Len
Phillips shook hands and thanked her, but you know what Strom Thurmond
did? He kissed her. [Laughter]
Well, you know we have had a wonderful day so far. We were in Spartanburg,
we were in Anderson, and now we are here in Rock Hill. It is obvious to me that
when you get a little tired, the days get a little long. It is great to come to South
Carolina and get revitalized.
I found that it gives you new life. Don't take my word for it. Ask Strom
Thurmond. [Laughter]
You know, the motto of the sovereign State of South Carolina is "Prepared in
Spirit and Resources." Strom Thurmond certainly has that. In fact, there are 2
days in particular when Strom really proves that he is prepared in spirit and in
resources. One is election day, the other is Father's Day. [Laughter]
I do, of course, want to add something that I say from the bottom of my heart.
I have known Strom Thurmond all the time that I have been in Congress, the
Vice Presidency, and the Presidency, and I can say nothing but the very finest
about your senior Senator.
He is strong, he is courageous, he is intelligent, he is dedicated, he is a great
Senator, and I admire him, as I am sure all of you do.
But Strom and I need some help. Strom needs a good, strong Congressman
392
