October 19
[174]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
That admonition from a great American ought to be your motto between
now and November 5. That is what I ask of each and every one of you. Do your
best, yes, your best for your party, your State, and your Nation. And if we all
do it, we can transform these difficult days, the problems at home, and our chal-
lenges abroad. And instead of looking at America from the dim eyes of the
prophets of doom and gloom, we can look at the future of America that will be
the America of our fondest visions.
And we have that obligation—an obligation to ourselves, yes, but more im-
portantly, to those generations to come. That is what you want. That is what I
want. That is what we must do.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:01 p.m. at a Republican fundraising luncheon in the Greenville Memorial
Auditorium.
174
Remarks at Greensboro, North Carolina. October 19, 1974
Bill [Stevens], my former colleagues in the House of Representatives, Governor
Jim Holshouser, our other candidates for the Congress, Jim Carson, the candidate
for the Attorney General's office, and all of you who are here:
It is just great to be in Greensboro, and you are wonderful. I love it, and I
appreciate it. Thank you very, very much.
Let me start out by saying I am no stranger to North Carolina. I was down here
a couple of months ago and played golf. For your safety's sake, I want you to
know I didn't bring my golf clubs. [Laughter]
But anyhow, I have been here a good many times. I served here for 9 months
in the Navy. I went to law school here one summer. I have been down here to
make a good many political campaign speeches. I had one son that went to
Wake Forest University. I had another one that was entered in Duke this year,
but decided he wanted to go out and be a ranch hand for 12 months, so he may
come back.
But anyhow, I like North Carolina, and I am proud of my association with it.
This is a great crowd, but I want to warn you, this morning we started bright
and early from Washington, D.C. We flew to Spartanburg, and then to Ander-
son, South Carolina, Rock Hill, and then to Greenville. They had anywhere from
7,000 to 12,000 people down there to see a Republican President, and believe me,
they are on the move, and so are you in North Carolina.
401
