[42]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
The States have always assumed the primary responsibility for public edu-
cation. That tradition in my judgment is very sound and Ohio State University
and my alma mater, the University of Michigan, are excellent examples. But
there is now too much confusion about which level of Government is to play
which role in post-secondary education.
I am directing the responsible agencies of the Federal Government to make a
new evaluation of where we are, where we want to go, and where we can rea-
sonably expect to be 5 years from now.
Discussions will be held with Governors, State legislators, academic leaders,
Federal officials, and the consumers of education.
Our goal of quality education is on a collision course with the escalating
demands for the public dollar. Everyone must have a clearer understanding and
a clearer agreement on who is responsible for the specific aspects of the direction
and the financing of a college education.
Oftentimes our Federal Government tries to do too much and unfortunately
achieves too little. There are, for example, approximately 380 separate Federal
educational programs beyond the high school level, some duplicating others,
administered by some 50 separate executive agencies. The result inevitably is a
bureaucracy that often provides garbled guidelines instead of taut lifelines to
good and available jobs.
But let us look for a moment beyond the campus and beyond Washington.
In 1972, I was fortunate to visit the People's Republic of China. With four
times the population of the United States, a nation growing at the rate of two
New York City's every 12 months, that vast nation is making very significant
technological progress. From a personal observation as well as by records, you
can see the Chinese productivity is gaining momentum, and the majority of the
Chinese on the mainland today are young people, highly motivated, extremely
well disciplined.
As fellow human beings, we celebrate the rising capacities of the Chinese
nation, a people with a firm belief in their own destiny.
However, as Americans, motivated by free competition, we see a distant chal-
lenge. And I believe all Americans welcome that challenge.
We must compete internationally not only to maintain the balance of trade
in our standard of living but to offer to the world's impoverished, examples and
opportunities for a better life. We should do that for humane and for perhaps
even self interest.
Let this peaceful competition, however, animate the last quarter of the 20th
century. And I am confident that America's youth will make the difference.
72
