October 10
[135]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
help of a lot of others in the House as well as in the Senate if we want to help
Greece, if we want to keep the NATO organization strong, if we want to solve
the humanitarian problems in Cyprus.
Let me conclude with these final observations and comments. We have got not
only problems at home in the economic field and problems in foreign policy
around the world, but we have the basic problem of trying to maintain the
political structure of our country.
I know that some people fear the demise of some of our basic political institu-
tions, one of them being the two-party system. And if you look at the Gallup or
Roper polls, you can see that the Republican Party has suffered greatly according
to their calculations. The Democratic Party has not picked up, in fact they have
lost a few, too, and there is a great mass in the middle who call themselves
Independents.
I respect and admire Independents, but as I look back over the history of this
country, I find that the periods of greatest political stability and progress and
movement have come when we had two strong political parties. It seems to me
that our history has been greater and more glorious when we have had no splinter
parties, that we have been unified in one of two major political parties.
Now, independence is good, but if we are to make our system work in the tra-
ditional way where you have competition from the Democrats on one hand
and the Republicans on the other, we have got to maintain these organizations
which give to every American an opportunity to be a participant.
Now, I have some prejudice as to which party I think people ought to belong,
but the main problem we have is to make sure that these two political parties
survive, grow, and participate in a more meaningful way. This is the way that
our party can nominate people like Bill Milliken, John Damman, Bob Griffin,
the members of the Michigan Congressional delegation, the members of the
State legislature. And so I plead with you to support a strong two-party system.
History throughout the world tells us that if you have a multitude of political
parties, you have chaos and you end up in that nation suffering with no progress.
On the other hand, if you have one political party, we have the evils of dictation
and all that goes with it.
So, let's make the choice of a two-party system. And this election has some-
thing to do with that. A catastrophic defeat, as some forecasters are predicting
for the Republican Party, could have a terribly depressing effect on the
Republican Party and could-could, I say-write the obituary.
I don't think it will happen to the Republican Party and all for which we
stand. So as I close, let me say I am confident of our faith in the Republican
283
