October 16
[154]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
person to recommend some increases on certain elements of our population
and taxes.
Well, I wonder if all of you know the real impact of that proposal-5 percent
on personal income for everybody who files an income tax with taxable income
of over $15,000. And if it is that, you don't pay any additional tax. If you have a
family of four and a $20,000 income, you pay $42 more a year or 12 cents every
day. Aren't you willing to make that sacrifice to win the battle against inflation?
I just happen to think that the American people at this critical time, at this
serious period in our American history, are willing to do battle today if we are
going to preserve our form of government, if we are going to win the battle
against inflation and keep a healthy economy. Hoosiers have never backed
away from anything, and they are not going to back away from this struggle.
And you have the opportunity in this great State-as I look at the eyes of the
people out here to be the leaders, to be the leaders in meeting this challenge.
Yes, I think this inspirational group here tonight can be what all of us hope for
and seek for, a group of 5,500 people who have got the courage and the wisdom,
the vision, the imagination to meet the challenges, the challenges that are
important to the preservation of those things that we think so dear, that have
been given to us by the sacrifices of so many before us.
And let me conclude, if I might, by reminding Democrats, Independents, and
Republicans, and the like, November 5 is just a few days away. It is closer than
you think. And Congressional elections for the Senate and for the House are
really what it is all about in 1974.
I think you have to sit back and take a close look at the stewardship of people
who are candidates for reelection and candidates who seek election. I have no
doubt that you can support the people that have served you on our side of the
aisle, because they are first-class. I have no doubt that as you reflect in your home
or in that voting booth, that you can support a person like Dick Lugar.
And if I were a Hoosier, believe me, I could support him with vigor and
vehemence and with a good, clear conscience.
There is nothing in America really like the sanctity of the voting booth. That
is where you have an opportunity to reflect on what is best for America. And
as I talk to Dick, and as I have worked with our candidates and our incum-
bents from Indiana, my reflection in that voting booth would give me a clear
message: They are the kind of people that will lick inflation. They are the kind
of people that will give America the leadership in trying to preserve the peace.
They are the kind of people that will fight for and preserve the two-party sys-
337
