October 18
[162]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I do thank you all very, very much. As I said, we are going to move ahead, I
hope, in some other areas, and we will get a lot more homes built.
Thank you all for being here.
I should have said the Secretary is going to start implementing, I think, this
next Tuesday. I do want to compliment the Secretary, who I think worked with
the Congress and did a fine job in moving with the Congress and getting it
through, and now he is going to make it work.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:36 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his remarks,
the President referred to Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development James T. Lynn.
As enacted, the bill (S. 3979) is Public Law 93-
449 (88 Stat. 1364).
162
Statement on the Emergency Home Purchase Assistance
Act of 1974. October 18, 1974
IT IS with great pleasure today that I am signing into law S. 3979, the Emergency
Home Purchase Assistance Act of 1974.
In my remarks to the joint session of the Congress on October 8, I urged the
Congress to enact, before recess, additional legislation to make most home
mortgages eligible for purchase by an agency of the Federal Government. I also
remarked that I remembered how much Congress can get done when it wants to.
I am most pleased that exactly one week after my remarks, the Congress
responded with passage of the Emergency Home Purchase Assistance Act of
1974.
This bill authorizes the Government National Mortgage Association in the
Department of Housing and Urban Development to make commitments at pre-
determined interest rates to purchase mortgages, both on new and existing
homes, which are not Federal Housing Administration insured or Veterans
Administration guaranteed—the so-called “conventional" mortgages which
comprise about 80 percent of all mortgages. The advantage of the plan is that
with the GNMA commitment, the home buyer, builder, and lender have an
assured source of financing at a known, favorable interest rate. The cost to the
Government is limited to the loss which GNMA realizes if its selling price for a
mortgage is less than its original purchase price.
Like most emergency measures, this bill has some minuses. Notwithstanding
the increasing proportion of American families that choose each year to live in
377
