[184]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me say from the bottom of my heart, I am deeply grateful, as all the rest
of us are, for what you have done, Jack. Thank you, and you, too, Tim.
Before I get into some substance, I would like to thank Virginia Coy³ for creat-
ing this wonderful button. It says, as I am sure all of you know, "President Gerald
Ford, Model A-1 Ford."
Thank you, Virginia. That is very kind.
Some of us here are old enough to remember what a Model A Ford was. As I
recall, it was brand new. It was economical. It was dependable. It was uncompli-
cated. And it got us where we wanted to go. And that is exactly the kind of
Ford I would like to be.
And to you, Virginia and Frank, I express my deep appreciation and
gratitude.
As I intimated, I am no stranger to Ohio. I think the first two times I came to
Ohio was down in Columbus. We were lucky once and were badly beaten the
second time, but the people were friendly and very kind.
I have been to Cleveland several times in recent years. In fact, I was here in
this very hotel—and perhaps in this same room—just a few months ago.
Now, all of you in Ohio have a great reputation for being honest and very
frank-direct is another way of saying it—but I never knew how honest and di-
rect Ohioans were until that last visit. After making my remarks that night,
I was invited to a reception in another part of town. And at the reception a very
sweet, wonderfully thoughtful grandmother came up to me, put her gloved
hand in mine and said, "I heard you gave a speech here in Cleveland tonight.”
And trying to be a little modest, I said, "Oh, it was nothing." And she said,
"That is exactly what I heard." [Laughter]
Well, such a warm and personal touch is, of course, what we all like to hear,
but I am deeply grateful on this occasion for Bud's introduction. As I said, our
friendship goes back a long, long time, and I appreciate, Bud, your very kind and
your very thoughtful remarks here tonight.
From my experiences going back to the 1930's when I first got interested in
collegiate athletics, but also interested in politics, I found that people from Ohio
had a very emphatic way, a reputation for carrying the ball and winning. I think
that is indicative of the kind of Congressional team you have in Washington.
You cannot argue with the scoreboard. Your Congressional delegation on the
Republican side of the aisle is outstanding, and I hope and trust that you in Ohio
Wife of Francis A. Coy, chairman and chief executive officer of the May Department Stores Co.
438
