August 12
[6]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
role of the Congress in our constitutional process. I love the House of Repre-
sentatives. I revere the traditions of the Senate despite my too-short internship
in that great body. As President, within the limits of basic principles, my motto
toward the Congress is communication, conciliation, compromise, and coopera-
tion.
This Congress, unless it has changed, I am confident, will be my working
partner as well as my most constructive critic. I am not asking for conformity.
I am dedicated to the two-party system, and you know which party I belong to.
I do not want a honeymoon with you. I want a good marriage.
I want progress, and I want problemsolving which requires my best efforts
and also your best efforts.
I have no need to learn how Congress speaks for the people. As President,
I intend to listen.
But I also intend to listen to the people themselves—all the people—as I prom-
ised last Friday. I want to be sure that we are all tuned in to the real voice of
America.
My Administration starts off by seeking unity in diversity. My office door has
always been open, and that is how it is going to be at the White House. Yes, Con-
gressmen will be welcomed—if you don't overdo it. [Laughter]
The first seven words of the Constitution and the most important are these:
"We the People of the United States . . . ." We the people ordained and estab-
lished the Constitution and reserved to themselves all powers not granted to
Federal and State government. I respect and will always be conscious of that
fundamental rule of freedom.
Only 8 months ago, when I last stood here, I told you I was a Ford, not a Lin-
coln. Tonight I say I am still a Ford, but I am not a Model T.
I do have some old-fashioned ideas, however. I believe in the very basic
decency and fairness of America. I believe in the integrity and patriotism of the
Congress. And while I am aware of the House rule that no one ever speaks to the
galleries, I believe in the first amendment and the absolute necessity of a free
press.
But I also believe that over two centuries since the First Continental Congress
was convened, the direction of our Nation's movement has been forward. I am
here to confess that in my first campaign for President-of my senior class in
South High School in Grand Rapids, Michigan-I headed the Progressive Party
ticket, and lost. Maybe that is why I became a Republican. [Laughter]
Now I ask you to join with me in getting this country revved up and moving.
7
