[218]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
you any happier for me to be able to say that our inflationary rates, our increases in
the cost of living are less than those in Japan or Great Britain or any one of a
number of other countries; that does not help us do something about the
problem.
But we have to understand that it takes patience, it takes hard work, it takes
strength of character, and it takes a little time, unfortunately.
It will also require some short-term sacrifices to serve our long-term national
interest. As I said in my 31-point program to Congress, which is aimed at con-
trolling inflation and stabilizing and strengthening our economy and also calling
upon people to help us in the conservation of energy, in the building of greater
energy potential—in the 31-point program that I submitted to the Congress were
suggestions by individual citizens who might participate in the battle against in-
flation so that we as a country, 213 million of us, can share that burden equally.
Each of us must make a little sacrifice so that none will suffer. And as you
know, the sacrifice that all of us make, I think, will make it better for everybody.
Now, one important recommendation in my inflation-fighting and energy-
saving program, one of the 31 proposals that I made was to tighten up and to
increase the penalties for antitrust and price-fixing action.
That legislation has been lying dormant in the House Committee on the
Judiciary. I think it is legitimate to ask every member of that committee why
haven't they acted.
If we can do something about price fixing, if we can do something about the
antitrust action-and let me illustrate what I recommended: that we increase
the penalties for violations from $50,000 to $1 million—and nothing has hap-
pened in the Congress or in the Committee on the Judiciary.
You may remember that I recently made a speech to the Future Farmers of
America in which I attempted to outline some specific ways in which all Ameri-
cans could pitch into the fight against inflation.
But as I prepared these remarks for this wonderful audience in Utah and as
I thought about your wonderful way of life in this tremendous State, it oc-
curred to me that perhaps what I was suggesting in the speech to the Future
Farmers of America was not really sacrifice at all. Perhaps I was just suggesting
that my fellow Americans return to those good, sound, basic values of self-suffi-
ciency, thrift, and self-reliance.
Those are the values, combined with a belief in God and a love of family,
that built this great State of Utah.
Fortunately, those are the same fundamental values that made America great.
560
