[80]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
sion with extraordinary powers to look into all of the evidentiary material and to
write that chapter and not leave it to later history?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it seems to me as I look at what has been done, I think
you find a mass of evidence that has been accumulated. In the first instance, you
have the very intensive investigation conducted by the House Committee on
the Judiciary. It was a very well-conducted investigation. It came up with volumes
of information.
In addition, the Special Prosecutor's office under Mr. Jaworski has conducted
an intensive investigation and the Special Prosecutor's office will issue a report at
the conclusion of their responsibilities that I think will probably make additional
information available to the American people.
And thirdly, as the various criminal trials proceed in the months ahead, there
obviously will be additional information made available to the American people.
So, when you see what has been done and what undoubtedly will be done, I think
the full story will be made available to the American people.
SUCCESSORS TO GENERAL HAIG AND PRESS SECRETARY TER HORST
[12.] Q. Mr. President, could you give us an idea who will succeed General
Haig, and how are you coming on your search for a Press Secretary?
THE PRESIDENT. Do I have a lot of candidates here? [Laughter] No shows.
[Laughter]
I have several people in mind to replace General Haig, but I have made no
decision on that. It was just announced today that the NATO countries have
accepted him as the officer handling those responsibilities.²
I think he is to take office succeeding General Goodpaster on December 15. He
assumes his responsibilities as the head of U.S. military forces November 1. In the
next few days undoubtedly I will make the decision as to the individual to suc-
ceed him.
As far as the Press Secretary is concerned, we are actively working on that,
and we hope to have an announcement in a relatively short period of time.
THE FORMER PRESIDENT'S HEALTH
[13.] Q. Mr. President, prior to your deciding to pardon Mr. Nixon, did you
have, apart from those reports, any information either from associates of the
President or from his family or from any other source about his health, about
his medical condition?
2 The President's nomination of Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., to be Supreme Allied Commander, Europe,
was approved by the NATO Defense Planning Committee.
154
