September 16
[80]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
FORMER PRESIDENT'S TAPES AND DOCUMENTS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you a question about the decision
relating to custody of the Nixon tapes and documents. Considering the enor-
mous interest that the Special Prosecutor's office had in those documents for
further investigation, I am wondering why the negotiations with Mr. Nixon's
representatives were conducted strictly between the counsel in your office without
bringing in discussions with either Mr. Jaworski's representatives or those from
the Justice Department?
The President. In the first place, I did receive a memorandum, or legal
opinion, from the Department of Justice which indicated that in the opinion
of the Department of Justice, the documents, tapes—the ownership of them—
were in the hands of the former President.¹ And historically, that has been the
case for all Presidents.
Now, the negotiations for the handling of the tapes and documents were
undertaken and consummated by my staff and the staff of the former President.
I believe that they have been properly preserved, and they will be available
under subpoena for any criminal proceeding. Now, the Special Prosecutor's
staff has indicated some concern. I am saying tonight that my staff is working
with the Special Prosecutor's staff to try and alleviate any concerns that they
have. I hope a satisfactory arrangement can be worked out.
PREVIOUS STATEMENTS ON PARDON
[3.] Q. Mr. President, during your confirmation hearings as Vice Presi-
dent, you said that you did not think that the country would stand for a President
to pardon his predecessor. Has your mind changed about such public opinion?
THE PRESIDENT. In those hearings before the Senate Committee on Rules and
Administration, I was asked a hypothetical question. And in answer to that
hypothetical question, I responded by saying that I did not think the American
people would stand for such an action.
Now that I am in the White House and don't have to answer hypothetical
questions but have to deal with reality, it was my judgment, after analyzing all
¹In a news briefing held on September 8, 1974, Counsel to the President Philip W. Buchen announced,
in regard to the status of the Presidential materials of Richard Nixon, that Attorney General William B. Saxbe
had determined that "such materials are the present property of Mr. Nixon; however, it is also concluded
that during the time the materials remain in the custody of the United States, they are subject to subpoenas
and court orders directed to any official who controls that custody."
The texts of the Attorney General's legal opinion, dated September 6, 1974, and a September 6 letter of
agreement between Mr. Nixon and Administrator of General Services Arthur F. Sampson concerning control
of and access to Mr. Nixon's Presidential materials, were released by the White House September 8. They
are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 10, pp. 1104 and 1105).
149
