[41]
August 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is a tribute to the Congress that the necessary legislation reached my desk in
less than 2 weeks. That is the kind of responsible leadership we can and must
provide. Let me reemphasize, however, that the new wage and price council
is not a forerunner of new wage and price controls. Americans have learned
from experience that controls are not the answer to our economic troubles.
In the next few weeks, as we engage in a series of economic summit meetings
here in Washington, I hope we can determine just what the best answers are.
But one thing is already clear: There will be no instant miracles. This is an uphill
struggle. We're all in it together. We must be tough with ourselves, we must be
ready for sacrifices, and we must be prepared to stick it out over the long haul.
But I am certain that if we work together and if we summon the same courage
and wisdom that built America, then we can lick inflation and put our economic
house in order.
42
Remarks at Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
August 30, 1974
President Enarson, President Fleming, Governor Gilligan, Senator Metzenbaum,
Congressman Sam Devine, Congressman Chalmers Wylie, Mr. Mayor, honored
graduates, members of your family, and friends and guests:
It is a very great privilege and an exceedingly high honor to participate in this
wonderful graduation ceremony. And at the outset, may I congratulate each and
every one of the graduates.
But if I might add, I think, appropriate congratulations to the members of your
family-husbands, wives, mothers, fathers, and others who have done so much
to make it possible for you to be here on this wonderful occasion.
And I think it is appropriate also that we add a special tribute to the members
of the faculty who have likewise contributed to this very wonderful occasion.
So much has happened in the few months since you were so very kind to ask
me to participate on this occasion. I was then America's first instant Vice Presi-
dent—and now, America's first instant President. The United States Marine
Band is so confused they don't know whether to play "Hail to the Chief” or
"You've Come a Long Way, Baby." [Laughter]
Obviously, it is a very great honor for me to be at Ohio State University, some-
times known as the "Land of the Free and the Home of Woody Hayes.” ¹ I met
¹ Head coach of the Ohio State University football team.
68
