October 18
[163]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
and dozens of other programs of assistance to America's working men and
women.
Since 1913, which, incidentally, was the year that I was born, the United
States has protected workers with a very broad network of legislation and admin-
istrative safeguards.
In recent years, we have sought to attack the problems of hard-core unemploy-
ment. We have sought to assist the chronically unemployed who lack the skills
required for today's job market.
Over the past 10 years, the manpower training programs of the Department
helped provide over 9½ million workers with the skills needed to move up that
important job ladder. Working standards have been upgraded as they should
have been, and job discrimination has been curbed, although, I think we have
to recognize, not totally ended. We will work on that; we will continue to make
a maximum effort in that regard.
I am very, very proud, Mr. Secretary, of the 13,000 people who work in this
Department, and I am told some 5,000 will work in this new building.
In demonstrating the competence and the creativity of their work, they help
State and local governments cut through Federal redtape and afford these units
maximum latitude in adapting programs to local needs.
The 13,000 people that work for the Department, not only here but all over
the world—primarily, of course, in our country-they help to build a constructive
State-Federal relationship.
In short, they help the working people of this country who we all recognize
are the indispensable ingredient of America's greatness.
During the economic summit meeting last month, I got some good advice
from Secretary Brennan and from our national labor leaders on how to cope with
our number one problem, a problem which affects every citizen, every worker,
every one of us. And of course, I refer to public enemy number one-inflation.
What is needed to whip inflation, it was suggested, are compassionate, sen-
sible, equitable policies presented to the American people with honesty and with
candor.
In outlining my programs to Congress to overcome this threat, I tried my very
best to meet this standard, to offer policies that are compassionate, that are sen-
sible, and of course, are equitable.
In calling on the American people to join in this effort, I used the very same
yardstick. And let me, if I might, emphasize this particular point. Whatever
they deal with, whether the economy at home or our foreign relations abroad,
379
