[25]
August 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
branches. Enactment of this bill was possible only because the two branches set-
tled their policy differences in that spirit. If it continues, I am confident that we
can make equally effective progress on other pressing issues.
While I would have preferred different provisions in some sections of this bill,
the overall effect of H.R. 69 should be a significant step forward in our quest for
more effective distribution of Federal education funds and for better administra-
tion of Federal education programs.
Federal funding will be improved through a new formula for distributing
Federal assistance for training educationally deprived children. Under the old
formula, assistance was directed to States and localities which needed help several
years ago, but may no longer need it. Under the new formula, it will be directed
to those areas where help is definitely needed today. This change should make the
distribution of funds more effective and more equitable.
The Congress has also acted wisely to improve the administration of Federal
programs by consolidating a number of categorical programs supporting librar-
ies, educational innovation, and other services. For the first time, State and
local education officials will have an important degree of authority over Federal
funds in these areas. I hope that this consolidation will become the trend of the
future.
Another positive feature of this bill is that it provides for advanced funding of
certain education programs. This provision should help to end much of the un-
certainty that local school boards have had over the continuity and prospective
funding levels of Federal education programs. In the near future, I will send
to the Congress a supplementary appropriations request to carry out this ad-
vance funding provision.
I am also pleased that H.R. 69 provides new safeguards to protect the privacy
of student records. Under these provisions, personal records will be protected
from scrutiny by unauthorized individuals, and, if schools are asked by the
Government or third parties to provide personal data in a way that would in-
vade the student's privacy, the school may refuse the request. On the other
hand, records will be made available upon request to parents and mature
students. These provisions address the real problem of providing adequate
safeguards for individual records while also maintaining our ability to insist
on accountability for Federal funds and enforcement of equal education
opportunity.
Much of the controversy over H.R. 69 has centered on its busing provisions.
In general, I am opposed to the forced busing of schoolchildren because it does
36
