October 16
[153]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
sidized foreign dairy imports destroy the American dairy farmers' domestic
market.
Now, having made these pledges to the farmers who have done so much over
the years and who will do so much in the future, I feel obligated to make a
comment on a sad and tragic incident that happened in Wisconsin yesterday.
Although I understand the frustrations of the farmers in Wisconsin who
slaughtered their cattle yesterday, I am deeply concerned at this wasteful pro-
test when we as Americans are trying to increase the supply of food for 213
million Americans and millions all over the world. Unfortunately, these ac-
tions contributed nothing to the solution of the problem or to the problem of
inflation which concerns all of us.
I am aware, as I said earlier, of the cost-price squeeze in which livestock
producers and feeders and dairymen find themselves. And to do whatever I can,
I am meeting with representatives from those groups in Washington within a
relatively short period of time to find out what they recommend that their Gov-
ernment do in this very serious problem, in this dilemma that they face.
I can only say that I hope and trust that what transpired in Wisconsin yester-
day will not be duplicated. It didn't help them. It won't help solve the problem
that they face, and it won't help the problem that we face as Americans, which is
more food for all of us. And so I urge, to the extent that you can, that you coun-
sel with them or with those who have any similar ideas. We are going to work
with them. We are going to solve their problem, and they should not do in the
future what a few did yesterday.
In conclusion, let me discuss very quickly these problems that I think we face
here in Nebraska and others face around our 50 States. We have a problem
concerning our economy.
About a week or 10 days ago, I submitted to the Congress, to the American
people, a 31-provision program that is aimed at tightening up the screws on
inflation and, at the same time, giving us the strength to improve our economy.
This program requires certain actions by the Congress. This program requires
certain individual efforts by volunteers throughout the country. I have faith
in the Congress and faith in the American people. We are going to win the
battle against inflation, and we are going to have a strong, burgeoning economy
so all of us will be better off.
The role of the United States on a global basis is aimed at building peace not
only for ourselves but for the world as a whole. I was in Kansas City this
morning, and I stayed last night in a hotel where a great Democratic President,
329
