October 21
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
and that it is easy to perceive that you are embued
with good faith in our bilateral relations, and that
this will be beneficial for an international life which
every day becomes more complex throughout the
world and which makes it necessary for political
leaders to contribute with the greatest intelligence
and experience and all of their good will.
We know that the world is living through very
difficult times and that it is only through the spirit
of understanding, of frankness that we can transcend
these difficult times so that they will not become
too long.
And Mr. President, I do believe that if in the
future the problems and all other matters that
should come up are to be dealt with as we have dealt
with our problems today in this border area, we will
have done a great deal to lighten our burden and to
solve these problems.
Mr. President, it has been a great pleasure for
me to meet you personally, to dialog with you, Mr.
President, in the direct and clear manner in which
you speak, not only from conviction but also be-
cause this is your way. And in Mexico, we have no
doubt that this is a very, very favorable sign so that
the friendship between the two countries will be-
come deeper and will continue into the future,
strengthened, vigorous, and without ever being
blemished.
Gentlemen, I offer a toast to the health of the
President of the United States and of the friendship
of the two countries.
179
News Conference of the President and President Echeverría of
Mexico in Tubac, Arizona. October 21, 1974
PRESIDENT FORD. [1.] It has been a very great privilege and pleasure, Mr. Presi-
dent, to have the opportunity of visiting your country today and to discuss with
you a number of very important issues. And let me just emphasize one.
You, of course, are the author and promoter of some very far-reaching action
in the United Nations which we believe, as a charter for economic development
throughout the world, has very great merit and very great support, and I com-
pliment you for it. And I can assure you that I and Secretary Kissinger will work
with you and others in your Government in trying to find the key and the an-
swer to the economic development of all parts of our great globe.
It is nice to have you in the United States, and I thank you for the warm wel-
come given to me by you as well as all the people of Mexico.
QUESTIONS
ACCESS TO MEXICAN OIL
[2.] Q. I would like to address a question to both Presidents. Among the
issues you discussed today, was there a discussion of American access to the re-
cently discovered oil deposits in southern Mexico, and could you give us an
estimate of the size of those deposits?
PRESIDENT ECHEVERRÍA.¹ Yes. Mexico is selling to whoever wants to buy the oil
¹ President Echeverría spoke in Spanish and his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
417
