October 29
[200]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
from harmful regulations of the sort imposed by title I of S. 3838. I strongly
urge the Congress to pass S. 2591.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3838, approved October 29, 1974, is Public Law 93-501 (88 Stat. 1557).
200
Statement on Signing Legislation Increasing Federal Deposit
Insurance. October 29, 1974
I HAVE signed H.R. 11221, which provides important new consumer protec-
tion in the area of credit and finance.
This legislation would double the basic Federal insurance limits for deposits
and savings accounts in insured banks, savings and loan associations, and credit
unions from $20,000 to $40,000. This increase will help these financial institu-
tions to attract larger deposits. It will also encourage savers to build up funds for
retirement or other purposes in institutions with which they are familiar and
which are insured by Federal agencies that have earned their confidence over
the years.
H.R. 11221 also contains fair credit billing provisions which will protect con-
sumers against the repeated incorrect billings of computers that sometimes fail
to respond to consumer's inquiries. Now creditors must acknowledge customer
inquiries within 30 days. Moreover, the creditor must resolve and dispute within
90 days either by correcting the customer's bill or explaining why the original
bill is correct. Until these requirements have been met, there can be no dunn-
ing letters sent or other action taken to collect amounts in dispute.
Another extremely important provision in this legislation prohibits discrimi-
nation on the basis of sex or marital status in the granting or denying of credit.
While there has been a voluntary improvement in credit procedures in recent
years, women are still too often treated as second-class citizens in the credit
world. This legislation officially recognizes the basic principle that women should
have access to credit on the same terms as men.
This bill should also have a beneficial impact on the availability of mortgage
credit, since it returns to institutions insured by the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation well over a billion dollars in insurance premiums not
now required by the corporation.
One provision of H.R. 11221 is particularly unfortunate, however, in that it
will severely undermine the present method of gathering legitimate views of
497
