December 2
[272]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
272
Remarks at the Boy Scouts' Annual Awards Dinner.
December 2, 1974
Bill, Mark, Rudy, Reid, all of you wonderful ladies and gentlemen, and the fine
young people, young boys, young girls as well:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to be here tonight, and I thank
you very much for the award. It is one of those things I, for one, will never forget.
I think they say once a Scout always a Scout, and I can tell you from my own
experience that is true. After all these years I still love the outdoors. I still know
how to cook for myself, at least at breakfast. And as anyone who saw those pic-
tures of me in Japan will know, on occasion I still go around in short pants.
[Laughter]
I am particularly grateful for your invitation to be here tonight for a very per-
sonal reason. It has recently been said that I am too much of a Boy Scout in the
way I have conducted myself as President, and so I reviewed the Boy Scout laws
and Boy Scout oath.
They say that a Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind,
obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent. That is not bad for some-
body who knew it 46 years ago.
And the Boy Scout oath is, “On my honor, I will do my best to do my duty to
God and my country, to obey the Scout laws, to help other people at all times, to
keep myself physically strong, mentally awake and morally straight.”
Well, if these are not the goals of the people of the United States, what they
want their President to live up to, then I must draw this conclusion: Either you
have the wrong man or I have the wrong country, and I don't believe either is so.
I happen to believe that the ideals and the aspirations of all Americans and all
Boy Scouts are one and the same, and I will continue to use those ideals as a
guide and as a compass in all of my official duties. I think our goal ought to be,
or should be, more Boy Scouts in government, not less.
Coming here this evening, after an interesting press conference, to receive this
coveted award takes me back a good many years to one of the proudest moments
of my youth: the day I was awarded the Eagle Scout badge, more than 46 years
ago.
I remember the pride I felt then in the court of honor and the pledge that
I made to myself never to dishonor that badge. As Betty knows, I still have that
badge, by the way. It is a very treasured possession, and over the years it has been,
691
