December 5
[281]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
In a free society like our own where education is open to many, not just the
few, the university's light, liberty, and learning must not be abstract but rather
must relate to reality. A sound liberal education can and should be the key to
preparing young people, men and women, for a full life beyond their student
years that is, as I see it, at least a creative, productive member of our greater
community.
This is not just a democratic ideal, it is a practical necessity, one on which we
are working at this time in the preparation of our domestic policy recommenda-
tions for the State of the Union.
I met this week, earlier this week, with Secretary Weinberger, Dr. Trotter,
and Ted Bell. We focused on maximizing available Federal resources to improve
opportunities for and the quality of postsecondary education.
In addition, Secretaries Dent, Weinberger, and Brennan are working to build
a better relationship and a better balance between the world of work on the one
hand and education on the other.
This is vitally important to our young peoples' search for meaningful and satis-
fying careers. It is equally vital to our Nation's continued requirements for well-
educated and well-qualified manpower.
I am hopeful that the National Institute of Education will play an important
part, an important part in research and development role in meeting these two
important goals. Changing population trends and the emotional aftermath of
the turbulent 1960's have contributed to the problems facing liberal education
today.
And as I see it, with two sons in college and one about to enter next year and
a daughter also about to enter a year from now, the problems remain serious.
However, I deeply believe that they can be overcome.
Part of the reason for my belief is programs like yours, programs that articulate
and strengthen the bonds between learning and living, between the world of
books, philosophy, and ideas and the world of human problems and human
solutions.
Dr. Samuel Johnson recognized the need for this link, this vital interrelation-
ship. He urged his readers to pause a while for learning to be wise, to take time
to understand and apply the lessons of the classroom to the conditions of the
world.
As I understand it, that is what you are doing, developing human and humane
insights that only a liberal education provides and applying them to the many
professional jobs that must be done in a modern society.
717
