August 30
[42]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I
Woody at the airport. We just had our picture taken together, and when the pic-
ture appears in today's [Columbus] Dispatch, I am pretty sure what the cap-
tion will say: "Woody Hayes-and Friend." [Laughter]
As many of you know, I have had a great interest in football for a good many
years. I played center for the University of Michigan, and I still remember my
senior year back in 1934. The Wolverines played Ohio [State] in Columbus, and
we lost 34 to 0. And to make it even worse, we lost seven out of our eight ball
games. But what really hurt was that my teammates, after the end of the sea-
son, voted me the most valuable player. I didn't know whether to smile or
sue. [Laughter]
But I want you to know that I have a great feeling of kinship with this graduat-
ing class. I understand that you have all taken your final examinations this week.
As your new President, I feel like I am just beginning mine. They are tough,
both at home and abroad, but we will make it. Instead of dwelling on how my
team lost here in Columbus in 1934, I would prefer to advance the clock to 1974
and talk about winning against the odds that confront today's graduates and all
America.
The first of these problems is summed up by the editor of your campus news-
paper. She reports that the one dominant question in the minds of this year's
graduates is very simple: How can I get a job that makes sense as well as money?
Your professors tell you that education unlocks creative genius and imagina-
tion and that you must develop your human potential. And students have ac-
cepted this. But then "Catch 22" enters the picture: You spend 4 years in school,
graduate, go into the job market, and are told that the rules have changed, there
is no longer a demand for your specialty—another educational discipline is now
required.
And so one or two more years of study inevitably follows, and you again re-
turn to the job market. Yes, what you now offer is salable except that competition
is very tough. To succeed you must acquire further credentials so you go back to
the university and ultimately emerge with a master's or even a Ph. D.
And you know what happens next? You go out and look for a job and now
they say you are overqualified.
In one form or another, this is a "three shell game." Our society has been play-
ing tricks with our greatest natural energy source—that is, you. And this has got
to stop.
Although this Administration will not make promises it cannot keep, I do
want to pledge one thing to you here and now. I will do everything in my power
69
