December 10
[289]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
over the years a small collection of memorable football quotations, and I would
like to share with you tonight two of them.
The first quotation is from Grantland Rice, who was a great, great sports-
writer many years ago, and he said: "When the one Great Scorer comes to write
against your name, he marks not that you won or lost, but how you played the
game.” And the other is from Woody Hayes: “Bah, humbug!” [Laughter]
Incidentally, I wish Woody Hayes—he is an ex-Big Tenner—and the Ohio
State Buckeyes good luck in the Rose Bowl. But as a former Michigan football
player and a 12-term Congressman from Michigan, I think that is about as far as
I ought to go. You know, I may cook my own breakfast, but I am not about to
cook my own goose. [Laughter]
Well, obviously, the Michigan Wolverines are not the only team I root for.
In fact, back in the Capital we have a professional team we are very, very proud
of—the Washington Redskins, more affectionately known as the Over-the-Hill-
Gang.
You know, it is always exciting to watch the Redskins play, because you are
never quite sure what they are going to reach first—the playoffs or social secu-
rity. [Laughter]
And the Redskins have one of the most colorful quarterbacks in the history
of the game, Sonny Jurgensen. And isn't George Allen lucky to have two great
quarterbacks like Billy Kilmer and Sonny Jurgensen?
Well, earlier I was saying a word or two about my good friend Woody Hayes.
I think it is well known that Sonny Jurgensen has a much more relaxed attitude
toward the game. I can remember back in 1968 when Sonny, throwing with a
very, very sore arm, scored five touchdowns passes against the Chicago Bears.
And as he came off the field at the end of the game, Otto Graham, who was then
the coach of the Redskins, asked him, "Sonny, how's your arm?"
Sonny said, "It hurts me awful."
Graham looked worried. He said, “It is going to be a problem.”
Sonny said, "It is. Did you ever try to drink left-handed?" [Laughter]
Well, somewhere between Sonny Jurgensen and Woody Hayes I think
there is a little room for compromise.
In my lifetime I have attended a lot of sports dinners, and it has been some-
thing of a ritual to honor the exercise, the sportsmanship, the teamwork, the
good fellowship that we all receive and have received from football. And that is
as it should be.
But what about winning? How about a good word for the ultimate reason
53-528 O -76
·
49
731
