[160]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
I shall submit shortly language which would dispel my concerns regarding
the manner of judicial review of classified material and for mitigating the ad-
ministrative burden placed on the agencies, especially our law enforcement
agencies, by the bill as presently enrolled. It is only my conviction that the bill
as enrolled is unconstitutional and unworkable that would cause me to return
the bill without my approval. I sincerely hope that this legislation, which has
come so far toward realizing its laudable goals, will be reenacted with the changes
I propose and returned to me for signature during this session of Congress.
The White House,
October 17, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: H.R. 12471 was enacted over the President's veto on November 21, 1974, as Public Law 93-502 (88
Stat. 1561).
161
Remarks on Signing the Emergency Home Purchase Assistance
Act of 1974. October 18, 1974
LET ME at the outset express my appreciation to the Congress for responding
so quickly and, I think, basically so well, in passing this housing legislation,
which is needed for an industry that is in serious trouble.
We cannot tolerate a building program at the present rate for homebuilding.
And this legislation which the Congress has passed will materially help, in my
judgment, in turning the corner as far as the housing industry is concerned.
It is not enough, and other things have to be done, but it will provide a shot in
the arm for the housing industry. I regret, of course, that it didn't include con-
dominiums and apartments, but be that as it may, it is good legislation. We will
make it work.
I wish there was a little more flexibility in one or two of the provisions, but
nevertheless, considering the time factor, I compliment the Congress for moving
so quickly and, particularly, Senator Cranston and Senator Brooke, who were
instrumental in the first instance. But I think the credit goes to the Congress as a
whole in moving ahead so rapidly at a time when the housing industry needed
help.
So, it is a privilege and a pleasure for me to sign this bill in the presence of a
number of Members who had a very major factor in making this possible.
376
