[268]
December 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
person who has achieved what we think in the sports world is a great accomplish-
ment—the right to compete in the Master's Tournament at Augusta.
I just watch that. I could never compete in it, but I admire and respect every-
body who has accomplished that great objective. Now, you know, next April
when Lee is a participant, I am going to be watching on that television set, pulling
for Lee to show them that the guy that makes it one year can also win the
tournament.
But the reason all of you are here is to contribute to a Lee Elder scholarship
fund, a fund that is aimed at giving a better education to one or more young
people. And as we look around the world today, I think we have to recognize
that better education is one way for not only us, individually, but our country and
the world to do better in the future. So, I thank all of you who have come here
and have contributed, because you are not only paying a tribute to Lee but you
are making a good investment in a better America.
Now, one final comment. I don't think many people will remember 1975
as the year that Jerry Ford was President, but they will remember that 1975 was
the year that Lee Elder won the Master's.
Good luck to you, Lee. It is nice to be here. You are a great American and a
great tribute to golf. I am going to see you at the Kemper. I am going to see you
at Doral-I have been to the Doral several times. And I am going to—there is
one other that I have committed-Jackie Gleason in Inverrary. I am honorary
chairman of that.
It is nice to be here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:05 p.m. at the
Washington Hilton Hotel. In his remarks, the
President referred to professional golfers Jim Col-
bert, Jim Weickers, and Jim Dent, and to Washing-
ton, D.C., area automotive dealer John Pohanka.
269
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Dean Burch as
Counsellor to the President. December 2, 1974
Dear Dean:
I have your letter and it is with the deepest regret that I accept your resignation
as Counsellor to the President, effective December 31, 1974, as you requested.
For more than five years, you have served our Nation, first as Chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission and then here at the White House. In
each of your responsibilities, we have come to expect of you not only great dedi-
676
