November 24
[258]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
The Sides believe that the Geneva Conference should play an important part
in the establishment of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East, and should
resume its work as soon as possible.
IV
The state of relations was reviewed in the field of commercial, economic,
scientific and technical ties between the USA and the USSR. Both Sides con-
firmed the great importance which further progress in these fields would have
for Soviet-American relations, and expressed their firm intention to continue
the broadening and deepening of mutually advantageous cooperation.
The two Sides emphasized the special importance accorded by them to the
development on a long term basis of commercial and economic cooperation,
including mutually beneficial large-scale projects. They believe that such com-
mercial and economic cooperation will serve the cause of increasing the stability
of Soviet-American relations.
Both Sides noted with satisfaction the progress in the implementation of agree-
ments and in the development of ties and cooperation between the US and the
USSR in the fields of science, technology and culture. They are convinced that
the continued expansion of such cooperation will benefit the peoples of both
countries and will be an important contribution to the solution of world-wide
scientific and technical problems.
The talks were held in an atmosphere of frankness and mutual understanding,
reflecting the constructive desire of both Sides to strengthen and develop further
the peaceful cooperative relationship between the USA and the USSR, and to
ensure progress in the solution of outstanding international problems in the
interests of preserving and strengthening peace.
The results of the talks provided a convincing demonstration of the practical
value of Soviet-American summit meetings and their exceptional importance in
the shaping of a new relationship between the United States of America and the
Soviet Union.
President Ford reaffirmed the invitation to L. I. Brezhnev to pay an official
visit to the United States in 1975. The exact date of the visit will be agreed upon
later.
FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
GERALD R. FORD
President of the United States of America
661
