September 16
[78]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
address, to report for or submit to preinduction or induction examination, to
report for or submit to induction itself, or to report for or submit to, or complete
service under Section 6(j) of such Act during the period from August 4, 1964 to
March 28, 1973, inclusive, and who has not been adjudged guilty in a trial for
such offense, will be relieved of prosecution and punishment for such offense if
he:
(i) presents himself to a United States Attorney before January 31, 1975,
(ii) executes an agreement acknowledging his allegiance to the United States
and pledging to fulfill a period of alternate service under the auspices of the
Director of Selective Service, and
(iii) satisfactorily completes such service.
The alternate service shall promote the national health, safety, or interest. No
draft evader will be given the privilege of completing a period of alternate service
by service in the Armed Forces.
However, this program will not apply to an individual who is precluded from
re-entering the United States under 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(22) or other law. Addi-
tionally, if individuals eligible for this program have other criminal charges out-
standing, their participation in the program may be conditioned upon, or
postponed until after, final disposition of the other charges has been reached in
accordance with law.
The period of service shall be twenty-four months, which may be reduced
by the Attorney General because of mitigating circumstances.
2. Military Deserters—A member of the armed forces who has been adminis-
tratively classified as a deserter by reason of unauthorized absence and whose
absence commenced during the period from August 4, 1964 to March 28, 1973,
inclusive, will be relieved of prosecution and punishment under Articles 85,
86 and 87 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice for such absence and for
offenses directly related thereto if before January 31, 1975 he takes an oath of
allegiance to the United States and executes an agreement with the Secretary
of the Military Department from which he absented himself or for members
of the Coast Guard, with the Secretary of Transportation, pledging to fulfill a
period of alternate service under the auspices of the Director of Selective Service.
The alternate service shall promote the national health, safety, or interest.
The period of service shall be twenty-four months, which may be reduced by
the Secretary of the appropriate Military Department, or Secretary of Transpor-
tation for members of the Coast Guard, because of mitigating circumstances.
139
