December 4
[277]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
even those who may never visit a wilderness area—the preservation of a vital ele-
ment in our heritage.
As we approach the Nation's two hundredth birthday, it is well to remember
that we are a pioneering people. For our ancestors, the ability to live in rugged,
undeveloped countryside was often a matter of survival. The influential Ameri-
can historian Frederick Jackson Turner considered the frontier-the invisible
but very real barrier between civilization and wilderness-to be the dominant
force in shaping the American character. American writers from James Fenimore
Cooper to Ernest Hemingway and William Faulkner have recognized and
depicted the almost religious regard which Americans have for their wild places
and creatures. Throughout our history, we have felt a need for rugged interac-
tion with nature, for the solitude and the self-reliance that a wilderness experi-
ence can foster.
We have tamed and developed much of our original wilderness endowment,
but a surprisingly large amount of it is left. The preservation of wilderness areas
across the country today enables us to recapture a vital part of the national
experience: like our forebears, we can journey into primeval, unspoiled land. The
Nation as a whole is enriched by the availability of the wilderness experience to
those who are able and willing to seek it. Wilderness preservation insures that a
central facet of our Nation can still be realized, not just remembered.
Briefly described, the additions to the National Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem which I am proposing today are:
(1) Mount Rainier Wilderness, Mount Rainier National Park, Washington—
210,700 acres. The ice-clad, dormant volcano after which this park is named
towers above the landscape. The park serves as a habitat for deer, bear, elk, and
mountain goats.
(2) Kenai Wilderness, Kenai National Moose Range, Alaska-829,000 acres.
This is a diverse area near Anchorage which contains scenic mountains, glaciers,
lowland lakes, forests, muskegs, and rivers. The range's wide variety of wildlife
includes black and brown bear and the Kenai moose.
(3) Cloud Peak Wilderness, Bighorn National Forest, Wyoming-150,490
acres. This proposed wilderness stretches some 27 miles along the backbone of
the Bighorn Mountain Range and includes the rugged Cloud Peak and Black
Tooth Mountain.
(4) Agassiz Wilderness, Agassiz National Wildlife Refuge, Minnesota-4,000
acres. Located on prehistoric Lake Agassiz, this area provides nesting grounds for
the Canada goose and several species of ducks, as well as a habitat for moose,
white-tailed deer, and elk.
705
