October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
H. Res. 1370³ is the other resolution of inquiry before this subcommittee.
It presents no questions but asks for the full and complete facts upon which was
based my decision to grant a pardon to Richard M. Nixon.
I know of no such facts that are not covered by my answers to the questions in
H. Res. 1367. Also:
Subparagraphs (1) and (4): There were no representations made by me or
for me and none by Mr. Nixon or for him on which my pardon decision was
based.
Subparagraph (2): The health issue is dealt with by me in answer to question
10 of the previous resolution.
Subparagraph (3): Information available to me about possible offenses in
which Mr. Nixon might have been involved is covered in my answer to the first
question of the earlier resolution.
In addition, in an unnumbered paragraph at the end, H. Res. 1370 seeks in-
formation on possible pardons for Watergate-related offenses which others may
have committed. I have decided that all persons requesting consideration of
pardon requests should submit them through the Department of Justice.
Only when I receive information on any request duly filed and considered
first by the Pardon Attorney at the Department of Justice would I consider the
matter. As yet no such information has been received, and if it does I will act or
decline to act according to the particular circumstances presented, and not on
the basis of the unique circumstances, as I saw them, of former President Nixon.
By these responses to the resolutions of inquiry, I believe I have fully and
fairly presented the facts and circumstances preceding my pardon of former
President Nixon. In this way, I hope I have contributed to a much better under-
standing by the American people of the action I took to grant the pardon when
I did. For having afforded me this opportunity, I do express my appreciation to
you, Mr. Chairman, and to Mr. Smith, the ranking minority member, and to
all the other distinguished members of this subcommittee; also to Chairman
Rodino of the Committee on the Judiciary, to Mr. Hutchinson, the ranking
minority member of the full committee, and to other distinguished members
of the full committee who are present.
In closing, I would like to reemphasize that I acted solely for the reasons
I stated in my proclamation of September 8, 1974, and my accompanying mes-
sage and that I acted out of my concern to serve the best interests of my country.
8 Tab D attached [page 352].
349
