[151]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Well, we got the dog and in the true Bicentennial spirit, we named the dog
Liberty. And one of the inquisitive reporters asked Susan, "Who is going to take
care of Liberty? Who is going to feed her? Who is going to groom her? Who is
going to take her out at night and br⚫g her in in the morning?"
And of course, Susan, in a typical 17-year-old daughter fashion, said, “Daddy."
[Laughter]
Well, I have a little feeling that this Liberty is going to restrict just a bit of mine,
but with a great dog like that, we are very fortunate.
Let me make about four points this morning. I can recall very vividly quite
a few years ago, when I first started campaigning for Republican candidates,
coming to the great State of Missouri. And at that time, if my memory is accu-
rate, there wasn't a single statewide public office held by a Republican.
There was just one Republican Member of the House, Tom Curtis. A few
years later, I had the privilege of coming back to campaign on behalf of our
candidates. At that time, we had two Republican Members of the House of
Representatives-Tom Curtis and that venerable Doc Hall.²
And at that time, you had just elected a fine, outstanding Attorney General,
Jack Danforth. And then, in 1972, I came back and you had a superb ticket
headed by Kit Bond. And on that occasion, you elected Kit, his running mate,
Bill Phelps, and you also elected Gene Taylor to replace Doc Hall.
It just seems to me that what the Republican Party has presented to the State
of Missouri at the State level is a ticket that believes in reform and who does
something about it—a ticket that gives honesty and integrity and vision to the
State of Missouri.
And I can say to you it is a privilege and pleasure for me to be here in the
company of this group of State officeholders represented at the top by Kit Bond.
And I congratulate you in this State for what you have done.
But the problem we face in 1974, particularly as I see it from Washington, is
how we can strengthen the Congress, strengthen the Congress in the United
States Senate and the House of Representatives.
Now, you have in Gene Taylor, of the Seventh District, a strong, strong
Member of the House, a small businessman who knows not only his own busi-
ness but the needs and the requirements of the people of that Congressional dis-
trict. And during the time that I was the minority leader of the House of Repre-
sentatives early in this present Congress, Gene Taylor was a big help to me in
fighting the problems that we face—inflation, inadequate national defense pro-
2 Durward G. "Doc" Hall, United States Representative from Missouri 1961-73.
314
