[271]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
which is a keystone of this program, to have an adequate amount of military
expenditures. But I can say this without hesitation or qualification: If we had not
had this agreement, it would have required the United States to substantially
increase its military expenditures in the strategic areas.
So, we put a cap on the arms race. We actually made some reductions below
present programs. It is a good agreement, and I think that the American people
will buy it, because it provides for equality and it provides for a negotiated
reduction in several years ahead.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press].
[3.] Q. Mr. President, there are reports that you and Mr. Brezhnev made
some progress in maybe fashioning a complementary approach to negotiations
in the Middle East. More specifically, perhaps the Soviets would agree to try to
persuade the PLO [Palestine Liberation Organization] to acknowledge that
Israel has a right to exist, and we then might try to persuade Israel to talk to the
PLO. Is there any truth to this?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier, Mr. Brezhnev and I did discuss at some length
our different views on the settlement of the Middle East. There are some
differences, but they are not as major as it would appear.
We indicated that, in our judgment, it was important for continuous progress
to be made, perhaps with negotiations between Israel and one or more of the
other Arab nations.
We also agreed that at a certain point a Geneva conference might be the final
answer. So, as we discussed our what appeared to be different views at the outset,
I think we came to an agreement that it was in the interest of the nations in the
Middle East, the interest of the world at large, that both parties make a maximum
effort to keep negotiations going.
We think our step-by-step approach is the right one for the time being, but we
don't preclude the possibility of a Geneva conference.
[4.] Q. You say that this is going to reduce a part of the buildup. Does that
mean, then, that we are going to spend less on defense next year than we are
spending this year?
THE PRESIDENT. It does not mean that, because only a part of our total defense
program is related to strategic arms research, development, deployment, and
operations and maintenance. We do have an obligation within the limits of 2,400
on delivery systems and 1,320 on MIRV's to keep our forces up to that level.
And I think we can, with about the same expenditure level for the next fiscal
year, as at the present.
680
