October 16
[152]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Leo, as you know better than I-well, he mentioned as we were coming in
that the hunting season opened in South Dakota last Saturday, and by coin-
cidence, you might have seen in the newspapers or on TV in the last week or so
that the White House has a new addition.
My daughter Susan and Dave Kennerly, the new White House photographer,
got together and surprised me and my wife Betty with a new, 8-month-old golden
retriever. The Fords had had two golden retrievers in the last 20 years. Unfor-
tunately, both had passed away. So, I would like to tell you a story about how
Dave and Susan acquired this new White House tenant.
They called up a very highly recommended kennel and said they wanted to
buy a golden retriever puppy. The owner of the kennel said, "Fine. Who will the
owner be?" And they said, “It is a surprise." They would like to keep it a secret.
Well, the kennel owner said he didn't sell his fine dogs under those circum-
stances. He would have to know if the puppy was going to have a good owner, a
nice home.
So, Susan and Dave assured the kennel owner that it would be and that the
parents were friendly, middle-aged, and lived in a big white house with a
fence around it.
The kennel owner said, well, that sounded all right. Do they own it or do
they rent it?
Well, Susan and Dave thought a minute and said, “Well, I guess you might
call it public housing."
Well, the kennel owner said that was all right. Now, he also added, “This is a
big dog. It likes to eat. It will need a lot of food. Does the father have a steady
job?”
Well, Susan and David were stuck with an answer to that question.
[Laughter]
All I can say is I've heard a lot about your great hunting out here. I sometime
hope that I can come out and enjoy the great outdoor facilities and the great out-
door opportunities you have in South Dakota which I don't think are matched
by any State in the Union.
Your fine Congressman, Jim Abdnor, flew with me from Washington, and
I can assure you from the time that I had a close opportunity to work with him in
the House of Representatives-he was sworn in in January of 1973—that you in
South Dakota are fortunate to have someone who understands the problems of
the farmers, the problems of balancing a budget, the problems of handling taxes
319
