September 12
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
nize that the inevitable consequence of any legislative Message in the twilight of
the 93rd Congress is to suggest deferment of some desirable legislation in favor
of imperatives that are realistic in the time we have left.
The Trade Reform bill has passed the House of Representatives but remains
pending before the Senate Finance Committee. Efforts are underway to find a
reasonable and mutually acceptable compromise to restrictive language that
would deny Most Favored Nation status and Export-Import credits to the
Soviet Union. I want to emphasize the importance I attach to the granting of
Most Favored Nation status to the USSR. Careful attention should also be given
to the importance of Title V concerning tariff preferences for developing coun-
tries and providing appropriate limits for Trade Adjustment Assistance. This
legislation is close to enactment. It would be a tragedy not to pass it.
In the area of foreign policy, Congress should enact the Export-Import Bank
Authorization, Asian and African Development Bank Authorizations, and the
Foreign Assistance Act.
I know that a troublesome piece of legislation for me—and perhaps one of the
most important for the Nation—is the Foreign Assistance Act. I am disturbed
over the deep cuts in many essential and worthwhile programs which contribute
to our overall efforts to attain peace and stability in the world. In addition, the
bill contains several restrictions on the Executive which would reduce my ability
to meet obligations to American security and that of our friends abroad. I re-
spect and strongly support the role of Congress in the area of foreign policy.
But under the Constitution, the Executive is the spokesman for the Nation and
must have adequate freedom of action. I may recommend changes in our ap-
proach to foreign aid in the coming year and will propose realistic programs in
the national interest. I strongly urge this Congress to continue the current pro-
grams unencumbered by amendments which prevent the effective implemen-
tation of policy.
There are several significant problems in the State Department Authoriza-
tion. I have requested Secretary of State Kissinger to work with appropriate
leaders in an effort to resolve these differences.
The USIA Authorization has been passed by both bodies and should be finally
considered by a conference committee. The House version is preferred.
Both bodies have passed an extension of the Defense Production Act. I hope
the differing versions will be reconciled and sent to me for signature.
To promote more effective management of the Government's approach to our
national energy resources, the Administration recommended creation of an
Energy Research and Development Administration. This key legislation has
127
