[58]
September 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have decided that the first priority for us as a nation, domestically, is an
all-out war against inflation. Like the patriots who met here some 200 years
ago, we may seem to be moving cautiously and too deliberately. But I hope no
one will underestimate the generalship or fighting ability of all Americans today
the same way they did in 1774. I warn you, as wise old Ben Franklin did, that
if we do not all hang together, we certainly will hang separately. But we will
not hang separately, nor will we fall divided. We are going after—one and all,
Democrats, Independents, and Republicans—we are going after what I term
public enemy number one, inflation, in 1974, and we will lick it by July 4, 1976.
I think we must recognize, to be honest, that we will have our Valley Forges,
our summer soldiers and sunshine patriots. But we are the descendants, we are
the heirs, spiritually if not genealogy—genealogically, excuse me―of the patriots
who assembled here 200 years ago tonight.
I told my wife Betty that I knew this speech backwards, and I think that is
the way I am doing it. [Laughter]
And we may truly say, as Joseph Warren of Massachusetts wrote in the Suffolk
Resolves, delivered to the First Continental Congress by Paul Revere, and again
I quote: On the fortitude, on the wisdom and on the exertions of this important
day, is suspended the fate of this new world, and of unborn millions.
We must not let them down.
With your help, we will-we will win our battle against inflation.
What better way can we begin our third century of independence as a nation
of liberty under God and brotherly love for all.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:44 p.m. at Inde-
pendence Mall. Prior to the President's remarks,
Governor Milton Shapp of Pennsylvania invited the
President to visit Philadelphia on the Nation's Bi-
centennial, July 4, 1976.
Participants in the 2-day reconvening of the First
Continental Congress included Governors and legis-
lative leaders from the original 13 States.
59
Remarks at the Alexandria Police Association Picnic in
Fairfax, Virginia. September 7, 1974
WELL, thank you very, very much for the invitation to be here and the warm
reception that I have received.
I wanted to come out here because it was one way that I could express my
appreciation for the warm and kind things that were done by so many of the
98
