1
Remarks on Taking the Oath of Office. August 9, 1974
Mr. Chief Justice, my dear friends, my fellow Americans:
The oath that I have taken is the same oath that was taken by George
Washington and by every President under the Constitution. But I assume the
Presidency under extraordinary circumstances never before experienced by
Americans. This is an hour of history that troubles our minds and hurts our
hearts.
Therefore, I feel it is my first duty to make an unprecedented compact with
my countrymen. Not an inaugural address, not a fireside chat, not a campaign
speech—just a little straight talk among friends. And I intend it to be the first
of many.
I am acutely aware that you have not elected me as your President by your
ballots, and so I ask you to confirm me as your President with your prayers. And
I hope that such prayers will also be the first of many.
If you have not chosen me by secret ballot, neither have I gained office by any
secret promises. I have not campaigned either for the Presidency or the Vice
Presidency. I have not subscribed to any partisan platform. I am indebted to no
man, and only to one woman-my dear wife—as I begin this very difficult job.
I have not sought this enormous responsibility, but I will not shirk it. Those
who nominated and confirmed me as Vice President were my friends and are
my friends. They were of both parties, elected by all the people and acting under
the Constitution in their name. It is only fitting then that I should pledge to them
and to you that I will be the President of all the people.
Thomas Jefferson said the people are the only sure reliance for the preser-
vation of our liberty. And down the years, Abraham Lincoln renewed this
American article of faith asking, "Is there any better way or equal hope in the
world?"
I intend, on Monday next, to request of the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate the privilege of appearing
before the Congress to share with my former colleagues and with you, the
American people, my views on the priority business of the Nation and to solicit
your views and their views. And may I say to the Speaker and the others, if I
could meet with you right after these remarks, I would appreciate it.
1
