[33]
August 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
action against inflation is precisely what America needs, and that is the kind of
leadership that must be provided by the Federal Government.
This new Council on Wage and Price Stability will provide us with one means
of identifying and exposing some of the causes of inflation. It will bring into
sharper focus the critical developments of industrial performance, wage and
productivity performance, and the effect on inflation of actions taken by the
Federal Government.
I must reemphasize that the Council should not be a steppingstone back to
mandatory wage and price controls. We have learned from experience that in
today's economy, controls lead to disruptions and new troubles.
It would also be unrealistic to expect this Council to bring any immediate
relief from inflation. Establishment of the Council is but one step along a difficult
road that all of us must travel in the months ahead. We in the Federal Govern-
ment must hold to a firm, responsible policy of fiscal and monetary restraint.
Industry and labor will have their work cut out for them in exercising every
responsible restraint in price and wage increases. We face an uphill road, and we
will make it through only if we all pull together.
I will announce shortly the membership of the Council so that it can convene
promptly and develop an agenda for action in the immediate future.
Once again, I commend the Members of Congress for their quick and respon-
sible action in helping to establish this Council.
34
Statement on Signing the Small Business Amendments
of 1974. August 24, 1974
LATE yesterday I signed into law S. 3331, the "Small Business Amendments of
1974."
Most of the provisions of this bill are essential to the ongoing programs of
the Small Business Administration or are desirable amendments to existing law.
This legislation, for instance, raises ceilings on the SBA's loan programs. It
increases the agency's flexibility to establish interest rates on guaranteed loans
purchased from financial institutions. It expands the authority to carry out lease
guarantee and surety bond guarantee programs. And it authorizes disaster loans
with terms of up to 30 years for small business concerns affected adversely by
energy shortages.
Each of these provisions was either requested or supported by the executive
50
