[240]
November 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
with the Congress, I emphasized my sincere desire for partnership with you in
the interests of our country. Nothing has changed that intention on my part.
On August 12, three days after assuming the office of President, I asked the
Congress to join with me in a new spirit of action and accommodation in getting
America moving again. On October 8, I presented a comprehensive 31-point
program to strengthen our economy, share the burdens of inflation and stagna-
tion and significantly reduce this Nation's dependence on outside sources of
energy which is both strategically and economically undesirable.
There has been piecemeal criticism of my program and I expected it. But
there has been no specific and comprehensive alternative program advanced and
time is passing. I do not read any mandate in the recent election so clearly as
the American people's concern about our economy and their urgent demand
for fiscal restraint and responsible action on the economic front.
I am still ready to meet the Congress more than half way in responding to this
call from our constituents. We cannot wait and the country cannot wait until
next March or April for needed action.
I will always have a special affection for the 93rd Congress-the last one to
which I was elected and in which I served both as Minority Leader of the House
and as President of the Senate. But I hope this pride can be more solid than
sentimental.
Time is short, but time remains for this Congress to finish its work with a real
record of accomplishment. Your leaders have given me their assurance of a
desire to do as much as possible.
There is much to be done. I am confident that if we all declare a moratorium
on partisanship for the rest of 1974 we can still achieve much for America.
In this message I am listing those legislative actions, among the many I have
proposed, to which I attach the highest priority. I respectfully request their
careful consideration and resolution before the 93rd Congress takes its place in
history.
NOMINATIONS
I regret that neither body of the Congress has acted on my nomination of
Nelson Rockefeller to be Vice President of the United States.
It has been nearly thirteen weeks since I nominated Governor Rockefeller. Our
recent experience with the 25th amendment makes it plain that an incumbent
Vice President is essential to continuity in Government. I appreciate the need for
a thorough examination of this nomination, but it is in the highest national
interest that I urge speedy confirmation.
618
