[277]
December 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
snowfields and small glaciers dominate the landscape; at lower elevations dense
stands of trees and patches of wild flowers clothe the mountain ridges. Black
bear, mountain lions, and black-tail deer are the area's major animals.
(23) Assateague Island Wilderness, Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge
and Assateague Island National Seashore, Maryland and Virginia-1,740 acres.
The dunes and marsh lands of this area serve a variety of wildlife, including the
endangered Delmarva Peninsula fox squirrel, the white-tail deer, red fox,
raccoon, sika deer, and the Chincoteague pony.
(24) Death Valley Wilderness, Death Valley National Monument, Califor-
nia and Nevada-1,908,000 acres. Despite the seeming barrenness of this area,
where rainfall averages less than 2 inches a year, life flourishes here in a tribute
to nature's adaptability. Even fish have managed to cling to life in the parched
valley: two species of pupfish inhabit desert springs.
(25) Cedar Island Wilderness, Cedar Island National Wildlife Refuge, North
Carolina-180 acres. The salt marsh and islands here constitute a developing
habitat for waterfowl.
(26) Fort Niobrara Wilderness, Fort Niobrara National Wildlife Refuge,
Nebraska-4,635 acres. The high grazing lands and rolling plains of this refuge
are managed primarily to support herds of American bison, elk and Texas long-
horns.
(27) Medicine Lake Wilderness, Medicine Lake National Wildlife Refuge,
Montana-11,366 acres. A large portion of this refuge consists of lakes and
ponds; the peak fall population of waterfowl using the area frequently exceeds
a quarter of a million birds.
(28) Great Smoky Mountains Wilderness, Great Smoky Mountains Na-
tional Park, North Carolina and Tennessee-390,500 acres. Beneath the smoke-
like haze that envelops these mountains and gives them their name lies an im-
pressive array of unspoiled forests. Among the animals found in the park are
black bear, white-tailed deer, wild hogs, and 27 different kinds of salamanders.
(29) Big Blue, Courthouse Mountain, Dolores Peak, Mount Sneffels and
Mount Wilson Wildernesses, San Juan and Uncompaghre National Forests,
Colorado-80,130 acres. This area is characterized by high, jagged peaks and
deep, narrow canyons interspersed with forested and alpine grassland ridges.
The largest wildlife species indigenous to it include elk, mule deer, bighorn
sheep, bear and mountain lion.
(30) Lake Woodruff Wilderness, Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge,
708
