[138]
October 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
to achieve the greatest benefit from this investment of public funds. By combin-
ing the research and development capabilities of AEC with the fossil fuels re-
search capability of the Interior Department, and with energy research skills
from EPA and the National Science Foundation, we are bringing together in
ERDA the best of our government skills in energy research and development.
From these agencies, we will be drawing upon a highly respected team of sci-
entists, engineers, and program managers, capable of making immediate con-
tributions to research on all forms of energy. Bringing together these skills,
using AEC as its base, represents the quickest way in which the Federal Govern-
ment can work with industry and others in mobilizing the talents, facilities, and
skills needed to undertake the major expansion and extension of the Nation's
energy research and development programs.
The Energy Research and Development Administration is being given a broad
range of challenging and important research missions:
1. It will continue the research of the present Atomic Energy Commission in
nuclear fusion and fission, working with the American industry to design, de-
velop, and demonstrate increasingly more effective nuclear power systems to
meet our growing electric power needs, and to see to it that these systems are
completely safe in operation, economically feasible, and environmentally clean.
2. It will continue to expand fossil fuels research programs which the Depart-
ment of the Interior initiated to capitalize on our immense national reserves of
coal and oil shale, with emphasis on advancing the technology for the clean use
of coal, including gasification and liquefaction.
3. It will continue to serve our national security needs by carrying on AEC's
responsibility for the design, development, and fabrication of weapons systems
for the Department of Defense.
4. It will maintain our nuclear materials production capability which serves
both military and civilian needs, including international commitments for
supplying nuclear reactor fuel.
5. It will give us greatly strengthened Government scientific and engineering
capability to expand and upgrade our research into making use of new and
potentially important forms of energy such as solar and geothermal sources.
6. It will move immediately into a substantial new effort in energy conserva-
tion research and development, including the utilization of the best scientific
and engineering talent to find new ways to make our factories, our automobiles,
our buildings, and our appliances more energy efficient and economical.
7. It will additionally continue and expand a program of environmental con-
288
