December 15
[301]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
ingful contribution to our 200th anniversary with the "sight and sound" program
that will be a highlight in Washington for the many, many thousands who will
visit the Nation's Capital. We thank you for this contribution, and we are grate-
ful for your feeling that France should participate in this way.
If I might now turn to our own personal relationship, which I say without
any hesitancy or qualification—it was a pleasure to meet you and to have the
opportunity of broadening a relationship and developing a friendship. It seems
to me this can be meaningful in our relations between France and the United
States, but even more meaningful on a far broader basis, I am grateful for your
statesmanship; I am most appreciative for your views that we have exchanged
here on this occasion in a part of France.
And so, Mr. President, may I offer a toast to you and Madame Giscard
d'Estaing and to the Republic of France. It is a pleasure and a privilege.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:38 p.m. at the
Swimming Pool Terrace of the Meridien Hotel,
Martinique. In his remarks, the President referred to
the "sound and light" show to be installed at Mount
Vernon as France's gift to the American Bicen-
tennial celebration.
President Giscard d'Estaing spoke in French. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, we have both come into office very
recently, only a few months ago, and so-this is a
source of deep satisfaction-we are both extremely
young. Indeed, one can say it is a secret of youth,
in fact, to be elected President.
Now, we are, however, young Presidents of coun-
tries whose relations are very longstanding, indeed,
as you yourself have just mentioned. And indeed,
all you have to do is to look behind you at Fort-de-
France-Fort-de-France, which has carried that
name for three centuries and, two centuries ago,
harbored the French Fleet that sailed off the coast of
the then young and new United States.
I would add that the relations between France
and the United States are not merely a matter of
what you might call the picturesque side of history,
or simply a matter of stories on the subject. No, it
is something which reflects a deep and reciprocal
mutual interest; it is something which has been
borne out in numerous circumstances. For instance,
when at the time of the First World War the United
States came to the defense of France, the landing of
the Americans on French territory was met with tre-
mendous enthusiasm on the part of the French
population.
And so, when at the end of the Second World
War, I myself was involved in the last stages of
the war, the unit that I served in was a part of the
First French Army which, itself, was under the
Seventh United States Army.
But the great problems of our times-even to
those of us who, like ourselves, are deeply attached
to tradition-the big problems of our time, I say,
are in fact ahead of us and will call for considerable
imagination and action. And that is why it was very
important for me, Mr. President, to know whether
these new problems and tasks could, in fact, be
tackled with the very great country that you repre-
sent in a spirit of openness and mutual understand-
ing.
And so, it was important for me to establish this
personal contact with you yourself, sir, and the
distinguished persons accompanying you. And yes-
terday morning, when I was meeting you at the air-
port, it occurred to me that during these 2 days we
were, in fact, going to, perhaps, take initiatives and
perform actions which would lead to solutions
which could well have a lasting effect, not only on
our own relations but also, perhaps, on world
affairs.
The results of our talks will be embodied in a
communique which will be issued at the end of to-
morrow morning, and if I were to divulge right now
what the results of our talks have been, this would
deprive the members of our staff from the pleasures
of the late evening and early morning during which
they would engage in the arduous task of prepar-
ing the suitable form of words.
But what I can say something about is the atmos-
phere of our talks, and what I would like to men-
tion is their very cordial nature, the very simple
way in which our talks have proceeded, the great
frankness and the clarity of your positions, and the
great competence with which you have led our
discussions.
Now, on international gatherings or occasions
753
