[128]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow I shall be leaving Washington
to visit other centers of your great and beautiful country. On behalf of Mrs.
Gierek and persons accompanying me, as well as in my own name, I wish to
thank you, Mr. President, for the friendly reception and hospitality accorded to
us. Permit me at the same time to reiterate my very cordial invitation for you and
Mrs. Ford, whom we wish a very speedy recovery, to pay a visit to Poland. With
the fresh memories of our Washington encounter, I shall be looking forward to
meeting you again, this time in our capital, the city of Warsaw.
I would also like to say once more how happy I was to have met the prominent
Representatives of the U.S. Congress. My meeting with them has reaffirmed me
of the Congressional favorable attitude towards matters concerning further
development of Polish-American cooperation.
I take this opportunity to thank the Secretary of State, as well as your other
collaborators, for their contribution to the fruitful results of my visit to Washing-
ton. I thank all who helped make this visit a success.
Through you, Mr. President, I wish to convey to the American nation my
heartfelt greetings and best wishes which I am bringing from the people of
Poland.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much, Mr. First Secretary. I have en-
joyed meeting you, becoming well-acquainted with you, and I look forward to
the opportunity of visiting Poland.
I told Mrs. Ford on the telephone today of your kind invitation, and she re-
members vividly our visit to Poland some years ago. She, as well as I, are looking
forward to a return to your nation and to meet again the wonderful Polish
people.
I can assure you, Mr. First Secretary, that as you travel around the rest of the
United States—and I wish you could stay longer and visit more places—that you
will find a great warmth on the part of the American people for the people of
Poland, and you will be welcome wherever you go. I know the warmth of the
welcome here will be equal wherever you visit in our country.
We hope you will come back. I look forward to seeing you in the future.
The First SECRETARY. I wish to thank you most heartily, Mr. President, and
we are expecting you in Warsaw, and Mrs. Ford. We shall be trying to greet
you, Mr. President and Mrs. Ford, according to the Polish tradition and our
saying, "My home is your home."
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:31 p.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
258
