October 16
[151]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
151
Remarks at a Breakfast for Republican Candidates in
Kansas City, Missouri. October 16, 1974
Thank you very, very much, Tom.¹ Governor Bond, your associates of State gov-
ernment, public officials, wonderful people from Missouri and elsewhere:
It is a great privilege and pleasure to be here for this occasion.
I had a great meeting last night with some 13,000 or 14,000 Future Farmers of
America. I looked outside this morning and the weather is super. I have met
some grand people here today, and I ate a breakfast I didn't have to make myself.
[Laughter]
Let me just summarize by saying everything is up-to-date in Kansas City.
I might tell one story about the White House of the last few weeks. We have
a new addition—you might have seen it on television or on the media. My daugh-
ter Susan and our new White House photographer, Dave Kennerly, got together
and surprised me with a beautiful 8-month-old golden retriever.
The Fords had had two over the last 20-some years, the last one dying a year
ago in August.
Let me tell you the story of how Susan and Dave acquired this beautiful new
dog for the White House. They called up a very highly recommended kennel and
said that they wanted to buy a golden retriever puppy. The owner said that was
fine, but who will the owner be.
And they said it is a surprise, they wanted to keep it secret. Well, the owner
said he didn't sell dogs that way. He would have to know whether the dog was
going to have a good home.
So Susan and Dave said to him, said to the kennel owner, that the parents
were friendly, they were middle-aged, and they lived in a big, white house with
a fence around it.
The kennel owner said that was good, do they own or rent?
Well, Dave and Susan were a little perplexed with that question, and they
thought for a moment and said, "Well, I guess you might call it public housing.”
The kennel owner said, well, that was all right-the way they explained it.
They said the dog was healthy and was going to eat a lot. Does the father have a
steady job?
Well, they were stuck for an answer with that one. [Laughter]
¹ Thomas B. Curtis, United States Representative from Missouri 1951-69, was the Republican candidate
for United States Senator.
313
