[73]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Republic of Bulgaria, with an Agreed Memorandum and a related exchange of
letters, signed at Sofia on April 15, 1974. I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to the Convention.
The signing of this Convention is a significant step in the gradual process of
improving and broadening the relationship between the United States and Bul-
garia. Consular relations between the two countries have not previously been
subject to formal agreement. This Convention will establish firm obligations
on such important matters as free communication between a citizen and his con-
sul, notification to consular officers of the arrest and detention of their citizens,
and permission for visits by consuls to citizens who are under detention.
I welcome the opportunity through this Consular Convention to strengthen
the ties between the United States and Bulgaria. I urge the Senate to give the
Convention its prompt and favorable consideration.
The White House,
September 12, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive H (93d Cong.,
2d sess.).
74
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-Canadian
Treaty on Extradition. September 12, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Treaty on Extradition between the United States of
America and Canada, signed at Washington on December 3, 1971, as amended
by an exchange of notes of June 28 and July 9, 1974.
The Treaty is one of a current series of extradition treaties being negotiated
by the United States and contains provisions regarding extradition for the
offenses of aircraft hijacking, narcotics and conspiracy to commit listed offenses.
The Treaty will facilitate the mutual efforts of the United States and Canada
in combating international crime. In addition, modernization of the extradition
relations between the United States and Canada is especially important in light
of the ease of travel between the two countries. I recommend that the Senate give
132
