[235]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
diligently flight-tested the F-15 Eagle. All of you can underline my feeling that
we are still pilgrims on this Earth, and there still is a place for pioneers in
America today.
The challenges involving our country here at home and abroad, we all recog-
nize, are enormous. But I am confident that the F-15 and your example here
today is that this Nation is a nation of limitless horizons. There is no boundary
to the energy, the ingenuity of the American people. Frankly, that is why we
will whip inflation, conquer our energy problems, and win the battle to make
a stable economy.
It is the job of all of us, it is our job, in this last quarter century of the 20th
century, to prepare our country for leadership in the 21st century. And we can
do this by economic strength at home and by peaceful partners abroad. These
are my aims, my goals, and the goals of America now and in the future.
As I said in a Thanksgiving message [Proclamation 4333] which I made just a
few days ago, and I quote: Let us pray for the courage, resourcefulness, and sense
of purpose we will need to continue America's saga of progress and to be
worthy of the Pilgrim spirit. May we, too, find the strength and the vision to
leave behind us a better world and an example that will inspire future genera-
tions to new accomplishments.
So I say to you, congratulations, best wishes to all who had any part whatsoever
in this great accomplishment. It will serve the purpose of freedom and peace for
a generation and more.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon. In his open-
ing remarks, the President referred to Gen. David C.
Jones, USAF, United States Air Force Chief of Staff;
Gen. Robert J. Dixon, USAF, Commander, Tactical
Air Command; Brig. Gen. Fred A. Haeffner, USAF,
Commander, 58th Tactical Fighter Training Wing;
James S. McDonnell, chairman and chief executive
officer, and George S. Graff, president, McDonnell
Douglas Corporation.
236
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the Annual
Convention of the Society of Professional Journalists, Sigma
Delta Chi, Phoenix, Arizona. November 14, 1974
President Otwell, Gene Pulliam, Governor Williams, Senator Fannin, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and pleasure to participate in another meeting of this
596
