September 25
[103]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Ethiopia, were substantial. In both East and West Africa, United States food aid
represented about 40 percent of the total supplied by the international com-
munity. The level of U.S. contributions to the World Food Program and the
U.S. voluntary agencies was maintained and the Title I concessional sales pro-
grams continued in such high-priority countries as Bangladesh, Bolivia, Cam-
bodia, Israel, Pakistan, and Vietnam.
The Food for Peace program continues to be the primary U.S. food aid activity.
Concessional sales programs continued to encourage recipient countries to
establish self-help objectives and also support economic development projects.
The program retains its emphasis on improving the nutrition of pregnant and
nursing mothers, babies, and pre-school children, the most nutritionally sig-
nificant periods of human life. Although most programs have aspects of agricul-
tural market development, specific programs for trade expansion have been
limited because of strong commercial demand. Such programs could be resumed
under changed supply conditions.
As 1973 legislation authorized the extension of the Public Law 480 program
through 1977, it will go on playing its vital role in terms of development assist-
ance, trade expansion, and promotion of our foreign policy objectives.
The White House,
September 25, 1974.
NOTE: The report is entitled "The Annual Report on
Activities Carried Out Under Public Law 480, 83d
Congress, as Amended, During the Period January 1
GERALD R. FORD
Through December 31, 1973" (Government Print-
ing Office, 115 pp. plus tables).
103
Memorandum on the Combined Federal Campaign.
September 25, 1974
MEMORANDUM FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES AND MILITARY PERSONNEL:
Those of us who work for the Federal Government have a special responsibility
to demonstrate our generosity and compassion toward fellow citizens and
concern for our communities.
Through the Combined Federal Campaign, we have an opportunity to meet
these commitments in a positive, productive way by supporting the services of
voluntary health and welfare agencies, including the United Way, the American
195
