December 19
[311]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
With kindest personal regards.
Sincerely,
JERRY FORD
[The Honorable W. Eugene Ainsworth, Jr., The White House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: Mr. Ainsworth's letter of resignation, dated
December 9, 1974, and released with the Presi-
dent's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Because of very pressing personal and profes-
sional demands which no longer can be postponed,
I have regretfully concluded that I must submit my
resignation as Special Assistant to the President
effective December 31, 1974.
To represent the President with Members of the
United States House of Representatives is a unique
responsibility and a special trust. I have had the
good fortune to serve you in this capacity as you
seek the objectives of domestic prosperity and a
lasting world peace. I will always be grateful for
your confidence and many acts of personal kindness.
Your special relationship with the Congress will
be vital to the Nation in the years ahead and I assure
you of my continuing support in your efforts to de-
velop the programs necessary for the good of our
Nation. It has been an honor to serve you and your
Administration.
Sincerely yours,
W. EUGENE AINSWORTH, JR.
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
311
Remarks at American Freedom Train Ceremonies in
Alexandria, Virginia. December 19, 1974
Thank you very, very much, John Warner, Don Kendall:
Let me say at the outset I am most grateful for the participation by the Jeffer-
son High School Band and the T. C. Williams High School Band, and I thank
very deeply those who have participated and made it possible for this Freedom
Train to undertake its journey throughout the United States.
Obviously I am tremendously pleased to participate in the official ceremony
recognizing the American Freedom Train as a major Bicentennial effort.
When this train begins its 17,000-mile journey through 48 of our 50 States this
spring, the Freedom Train will serve as one of the focal points for our Bicenten-
nial commemoration. It will visit 76 cities and give Americans a once-in-a-
lifetime opportunity to view some of the most historic national documents—
documents which relate directly to our history for the last 200 years.
I strongly urge parents and teachers to make sure that your children and
students take advantage of this wonderful opportunity. The cargo on this train
represents much of our Nation's past history and our hopes for the future.
This exhibit touches virtually every phase of the American experience. The
train will carry, for example, George Washington's personal copy of the Con-
stitution. It will contain the handwritten draft of President Kennedy's inaugural
765
