[150]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
joint review of restrictive and outdated rules by the Federal Government and its
independent regulatory agencies.
Yesterday, I called upon Governors and mayors and others to do the same
thing.
Committee recommendation number nine is do it yourself. Plant WIN gardens
for yourself or within your community. Pool other do-it-yourself skills, and you
can.
Sylvia Porter tells me that $10 worth of seeds on a 25′-by-30′ plot will grow
$290 worth of vegetables. And she contends that community gardens can grow
even in the inner cities of our major metropolitan areas. Many letters to the
White House propose WIN gardens.
Rick Jacobsen of the fifth grade at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, writes the
White House that “we planted our own garden so we could save on vegetables.”
In southern areas of our country, there is still plenty of time to plant WIN
gardens. The rest of us who come from the northern States can plan for the next
spring.
Committee recommendation number ten asks Americans to assist in recycling
programs and the reuse of scrap metals.
Margaret and Bill Dalton of High Falls, New York, write me on recycled
paper that 1 ton of recycled fibers saves 17 live trees and a ton of waste.
Talbert and Elaine Stein of Detroit ask for more recycling centers at local
sites so you don't have to travel so far to deposit a few cans or bottles.
Mrs. Laird Barber of Morris, Minnesota, wants to know if a national program
can be organized to collect cans, glass, newspapers. The Citizens' Committee
is going to stimulate local organizations throughout our country in this regard.
I cite these because they are typical of thousands and thousands of creative sug-
gestions from Americans in all 50 States.
I would like to add, if I might, just two points on my own to round out the
committee's ten to make it a daily dozen.
Number eleven, waste less in every way. Unfortunately, Americans have an
international reputation as the world's worst wasters. We waste food, gaso-
line, paper, electricity, natural resources. As a matter of fact, we waste most
everything. We litter our streets and countryside with waste.
One friend told me we could probably whip-just understand this-whip
inflation with the contents of our trash cans. In your own home, let me make
a simple suggestion. Just take one hour to make a trash inventory.
310
