[209]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
He taught me how to work with Democrats. He taught me the right approach
as far as foreign policy was concerned. And the net result was we have had, rel-
atively speaking, in Western Europe and many other parts of the world, a pol-
icy that was basically bipartisan—some variations, some deviations—and all of
us, in my judgment, have been better off. It has led to peace in Europe. It has
led to the détente that was initiated in the last 5 years. It has led to the achieve-
ments of a new approach to our relations with the People's Republic of China.
This bipartisanship under the leadership of our party has given to us, I think,
the most solid foundation for peace over a long period of time.
Now, this last session of the Congress was very difficult. The Democratic lead-
ership and the Republican leadership have worked with me, a Republican Presi-
dent. But unfortunately, too many of the troops have gone off in a hundred
different directions.
And the consequence is, we have not had the support to find the proper an-
swer to help the Greeks and Turks resolve their problems in Cyprus. There has
not been the kind of support which we need to keep a sound policy in Southeast
Asia. There has not been the kind of support that I think is needed to help us
find the difficult key to the problems of the Middle East. And they are tough,
and they are treacherous, and they are explosive.
Now, what I am saying is we have got some tough problems overseas, and
Paul Goebel-because I know him, I have talked to him, and because I have
looked at the record of his opponent-in my judgment is the best man to help
me keep the peace and strengthen the peace in the months ahead. And I hope
you will support him.
Well, it has just been wonderful to be here. I love every one of you. You have
put up with me in the past. You have been kind to me when you thought I
was wrong. You supported me much too often, for which I am grateful. But I
hope and trust that in the months ahead, whatever I do will justify your faith,
because I promise you, as I did the day I was sworn in, that I will do everything
I can to make America strong and good, and do everything I can to make Amer-
ica for the best of all.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:02 p.m. at Knoll-
crest Fieldhouse. In his opening remarks, the Presi-
dent referred to William S. Farr, Jr., chairman of the
Fifth District Republican Committee; Robert Van-
der Laan, Republican candidate for State senator;
and State Senator Milton Zaagman, who was run-
ning for reelection.
520
