November 1
[216]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Now, I am sure that the people here who are seeking office, or seeking reelec-
tion, are the kind that won't play politics with peace, who will give to a President
the kind of flexibility he needs to negotiate with the Russians, or to broaden our
relationships with China, or strengthen our allies in Europe, or negotiate be-
tween Israel and Arab nations on a fair and equitable basis in the Middle East,
or to bring together our two allies, Greece and Turkey.
These are the kind of people we want in the Congress, who will trust the
President as a Republican Congress did in 1947 and 1948 when they trusted a
Democratic President to give us the leadership to build NATO, to strengthen
Western Europe. And it has been the bulwark of strength as we meet the chal-
lenges, or have met them, for the last 25 years.
I am confident that the kind of Members of the House and Senate that you
will send to Washington next Tuesday will win the battle against inflation,
stabilize and build up our economy, and lead the charge for the extension of
peace throughout the world. And in the process, you are going to give us a
Governor in the great State of Oregon to follow the pattern, the practices, the
leadership of Tom McCall. I cannot imagine a better man than Vic Atiyeh.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:02 p.m. at the Benson Hotel.
1
216
Remarks at the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry's
Annual Auction in Portland. November 1, 1974
THANK YOU very, very much, Bob, for the more than generous introduction,
and I think for any of us in political life, that is the one thing that we want and
cherish. And you have it, and I am proud to be here in Oregon with you on that
basis.
You know, I feel very much at home here in Oregon. Our new White House
photographer, Dave Kennerly, he comes from Portland, and he keeps me up to
date on everything that happens out here. Dave, stand up and give us a bow.
Oh, there he is. Right over there.
As you all know by now, I am sure—if you don't know in Portland, there are
some down here in the Washington photographic corps who know it—that Dave
is Washington's number one bachelor.
So after this talk, for the men, we are going to auction off a special set of
553
