Appendix D
industry has been far more serious. So, the plan
we submitted in light of this deterioration may have
to be modified some. But I think we probably have
another month or so at the most before we would
have to make any major changes.
The Congress has done very little on the plan we
submitted. The only bill they have really passed is
the housing bill.
Q. Is your suggestion of a $4.6 billion budget cut
instead of your earlier proposal for a larger reduc-
tion a reflection of your new appraisal of the econ-
omy, and in effect, a beginning of pump priming?
A. No, no. There were several, I think, significant
things that ought to be pointed out. We put them
in the message. You see, we started out with $305.4
billion. Then for various reasons it had gotten up to
$306.9 billion, primarily because of the increase in
interest of about $1.5 billion, the increase in in-
terest cost.
What we did was-and this took an awful lot of
time department by department we made a reduc-
tion of $4.6 billion. Now, actually we are below
$300 billion, except for an increase of $2.6 billion
in unemployment compensation which has taken
place or will take place because of the deterioration
in the employment situation.
Now, I rationalize by saying at the time I made
the commitment of $300 billion we did not antic-
ipate that extra $2.6 billion in unemployment com-
pensation. So, we took $4.6 billion and we took
credit for a change in circumstances of $2.6 billion
because of increased unemployment, plus I reminded
the Congress that if they had deferred the Federal
employees' pay increase for six months it would
have saved $700 million this fiscal year.
I reminded them I had vetoed a railroad retire-
ment bill that took an extra $284 million out of the
Federal Treasury, not out of the retirement funds.
And I also said that I was vetoing the veterans' edu-
cation bill. That added $502 million to expenses over
and above what we had anticipated when we thought
of the figure of $305.4 or $306.9 billion.
Now, that is a lot of words, but if you sit down
and analyze it, we really maintained our credibility
substantially, but had to take into account the Con-
gress's failure to cooperate in cutting back on the
items I mentioned on expenditures, plus the in-
crease in unemployment, which we did not fore-
sce at the time.
Q. What kind of numbers would it take to lead
you to think that it was time to begin pump prim-
ing? What level of unemployment, what rate of
GNP fall-out?
A. Well, I think a substantial increase. The last
figure of unemployment was 6 per cent. It had gone
from 5.7. Previous to that it was 5.4, I think. So,
there has been a steady climb. The jump to 6 was a
signal. In the interim, we have had the additional
layoffs in the automotive industry. I would say 6.5,
a half per cent, would be indicative of a very serious
added deterioration.
Now, we could have cranked into it short-
term problems, though. We are going to have less
employment at the next count because of the coal
strike. Now that really is not unemployment, but if
you have less jobs at the top and you have the same.
amount of unemployment or increased unemploy-
ment, the percentage of unemployment gets dis-
torted.
Q. What sort of modification in your economic
policies would be triggered by a 6.5 per cent unem-
ployment rate?
A. Well, I would not want to make any definitive
comment in that regard, but I do have my top
economic people reviewing so that they are pre-
pared for any alternatives in case this deterioration
continues.
As a matter of fact, I have asked them to come
back in the next week or ten days with some
choices for me in case these unemployment figures,
the GNP figures, show a circumstance quite different
from when we had the summit and when we made
the decision on Oct. 8.
But I have not seen the options they are work-
ing on. I simply know that they have been told by
me to come up with some option papers in case
there is a significant change.
Q. Have you ruled wage and price controls out
of their option thinking?
A. Yes.
Q. They are still ruled out?
A. Yes. The encouraging thing we see-now the
drop in the increase in the cost of living from 1.3
per cent to .9 per cent in the figures that came out
while we were overseas is significant; .9 per cent is
not good by any standards, but the drop and the
areas of reduction within the .9 per cent from the
previous level are very encouraging.
Now, if you are making headway in holding the
line, not that you have achieved what you want, but
if you are making headway in getting a handle on
inflation, and you are beginning to have not short-
ages, but surpluses, I just do not see the need for
wage and price controls.
You are sort of getting away from conditions that
would, in my judgment, from an economy point of
view, justify wage and price controls. Now, the
other side of the coin, if we get a runaway in wage
settlements, which I hope is not going to be the
case that is why the wage-price policy board is
on board, why they are working, what they hope
to do through advice-I just think it is less and less.
needed at the present time, when you are talking
about wage and price controls.
I cannot help but note what the Congress is not
doing. They are not going to do it in the lame-
807
