December 12
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
our need for energy and our desire to protect the environment. By eliminating
waste in the use of energy, and by increasing the efficiency of the energy we
use, we can move toward both goals simultaneously. Our experience this year
has shown that there are major opportunities to conserve energy. And we are
coming to understand that actions which temper our growing use of energy
contribute to self-sufficiency as well as actions which increase our domestic
supply.
We must also recognize that, even with a strong conservation program, we will
still have to mine more coal, drill for more oil and gas, and build more power-
plants and refineries. Each of these measures will have an impact on the environ-
ment. Yet this can be minimized, and the last five years have shown that we
have the capacity and the willingness to do so. Science and technology, in which
America excels, provides one means of limiting environmental damage; careful
analysis and planning, with broad public participation, offers another.
Let us also be guided by our increased recognition of the interdependence of all
nations of our globe and the fundamental relationship between population, re-
sources, economic development, world stability, and the environment.
No longer is concern for the environment the dream of a few. Instead, it is
reflected in countless actions by many citizens, by industry, and by government
at all levels every day. The environmental movement has matured, and the na-
tion and its environment have benefited in the process. Looking to the future, we
can expect further accomplishment in enhancing our environment and, along
with it, further improvement in our quality of life.
The White House,
December 12, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "The Fifth Annual Report of the Council on Environmental Quality-
December 1974" (Government Printing Office, 597 pp.).
293
Remarks on Awarding the Congressional Medal of Honor to
WO Louis R. Rocco and S. Sgt. Jon R. Cavaiani,
United States Army. December 12, 1974
Secretary Schlesinger, Secretary Callaway, our distinguished recipients, ladies
and gentlemen:
It is, of course, a great blessing that the last American soldier is home from the
battlefields of Vietnam. Our landing ships again, fortunately, have long since
741
