[210]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, I strongly urge just on this very, almost selfish ground, that you make
certain that Wiley continues this representation.
I do not mean to infer that Wiley Mayne rubberstamps everything I suggest,
either as President or as I did as Vice President or even as Republican leader in
the House. He does not. He is an independent guy who gets your ideas and
translates them into legislative action.
But even in those areas where we disagree, one thing that I particularly like
about Wiley is the fact that we can disagree without being disagreeable, and
that is a pretty darn good trait in any American.
And let me give you one illustration. Just recently, Wiley let me know very
candidly, very forcefully, that he protested the action that I took on a certain
Saturday to suspend—and I say suspend-certain sales of corn and wheat to the
Soviet Union.
It did not take Wiley Mayne very long to get from Capitol Hill down to the
White House to let me explain to him the justification for the action and to
inform him that what I did was not a permanent one, involving this sale to the
Soviet Union.
I assured Wiley at that time that my action on that particular occasion was
not to limit exports on a permanent basis but to make certain that no single
nation cornered either the corn or wheat market.
Forty million bushels of corn, 40 million bushels of wheat, have already
been released since that time to the Soviet Union.
But the point I wanted to make, and make most emphatically, was that
Wiley Mayne was on the firing line protecting your interest and your concern,
and I congratulate you for it, Wiley.
One other area of great concern to you as citizens—and here is an area where
both Wiley and Dave, I think, agree with me without any question—and this
is the determination by them and by me to stop the rising cost of living, to do
something effectively, as far as our Government is concerned, about inflation.
The principal cause of rising prices is the fact that our Government has been
spending more than it takes in. Wiley Mayne has voted to cut spending and to
balance the Federal budget in the past, and I can assure you he can be counted
upon to do so in the future.
That is why I am here personally asking each of you, the people of the Sixth
District, to send Wiley Mayne back to Congress on election day next Tuesday.
I can reemphasize, it really matters. America needs his very strong and his
very reliable vote in the House of Representatives to help us keep back rising
prices and the problems of inflation.
526
