November 14
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
This indicates that mortgages on both new and existing homes will be available
on somewhat easier terms in the future.
The dramatic decline in short-term interest rates over the last 3 months is
particularly encouraging. And please take note, if you will, that this was not
produced by any undue inflationary expansion of the money supply. Rather, this
decline stemmed from a return to a more normal market in business loan de-
mand. As the yield on instruments that compete with savings deposits decline,
the supply of funds to and from the thrift institutions will continue to grow.
In short, the signs are becoming quite clear that the real estate picture will
brighten. And as inflation recedes, which it will, we expect that the forces sup-
pressing new construction, not only new construction but sales as well on new
and existing homes, will ease.
The $300 million funding which will be made available to strengthen the
existing home market is only part of the $7,750 million Home Purchase Assist-
ance Act approved by the Congress. In signing the bill into law, I referred to
some shortcomings in that act. If Congress really wants to help when it recon-
venes next Monday, why not include in that new legislation privately financed,
multi-family projects and individual condominium units?
Rising land costs, rising material costs underline the importance of utilizing
all of our housing resources. Condominiums and rental housing are a very vital
part of our national housing program, and I hope and trust that Congress will
respond.
Our inner cities must not be denied assistance because the high cost of land
could be, and in many instances is, a barrier to a housing assistance program. The
public knows all too well that the housing needs of our major metropolitan areas,
the inner cities, must be met in significant part through the construction of
rental housing.
Further, I believe that more fundamental reforms are necessary to put a clamp
on the up-and-down cycles in the housing industry. The current downturn
should be clear indication that the stopgap and patchwork solutions in the past
are not adequate for the future.
In my judgment, we must make basic changes in the way in which we supply
capital, in the way in which we supply credit for the housing industry. The
cyclical variations in the industry that you represent may thus be brought within
more reasonable limits.
Therefore, let me mention another piece of legislation that is currently before
the Congress. There is a bill called the "Financial Institutions Act," which is
one of 31 economic proposals that I recommended to the Congress on October 8.
593
