October 29
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
and if our relationship with Turkey is destroyed or harmed, it will hurt our
interest as well as NATO's.
Secondly, we do have an agreement with Turkey as to some military installa-
tions, and those installations are important for both Turkey and ourselves.
And if, through Congressional action, we undercut our relationship with
Turkey, hurt our relations with NATO, hurt the Greeks, because it will make
it more difficult for a settlement of the Cyprus matter, then I think the Congress
has made a mistake. And if a Congress that is more prone to do that is elected
on November 5, it will make our efforts much harder to execute and implement
foreign policy to build for peace and maintain the peace.
As Mr. Nessen explained in a subsequent press conference, I was referring as
much to Republicans as I was to Democrats who don't cooperate in giving a
President of the United States an opportunity to meet the day-to-day problems
that are involved in foreign policy.
A President has to be able to act. He has to be able to work with allies and
with some potential adversaries. And if the Congress is going to so limit a
President, whether he is a Democrat or Republican, that he has no flexibility,
in my opinion, the opportunity for a successful foreign policy is harmed
considerably.
Q. A followup question, please, Mr. President.
How would overwhelming Democratic majorities in Congress undermine
your policy and Secretary Kissinger's policy of détente and relations with China?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say at the outset the Democratic leadership-both
Senator Mansfield and the Speaker of the House and other leading Democrats—
were very helpful to me in that struggle that I just described.
If you will carefully read, which I have, reread my statements both in Okla-
homa City and Cleveland, I was very careful not to be critical of the Democratic
leadership, because they did try very hard.
The problem was the troops did not believe either their own leadership or
the President of the United States.
If we have a runaway Congress that does not understand the need and neces-
sity for the broadening of détente, that does not understand the need and neces-
sity for a continuation of our policy vis-a-vis the People's Republic of China,
then it is going to make it much harder for a President to carry out a policy of
peace abroad.
Now, a runaway Congress is one that does not, at least, pay some attention to
491
