[191]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
igan, and I will never forget that introduction. He said, and I quote: Ladies and
gentlemen, it might interest you to know that I played football with Jerry Ford
for 2 years, and it made a lasting impression on me. I was a quarterback, Jerry
Ford was the center. And you might say it gave me a completely different view
of the President. [Laughter]
Chicago is getting to be quite a habit with me, as well as my bride Betty, and
both of us love the place. I was here in June for a Congressional booster's fund-
raiser and again at a July dinner for the State Senate incumbents and their
candidates. And Betty was here in September for a luncheon honoring Repub-
lican women candidates.
I might say, incidentally, Betty, who is a native of Chicago, sends her love.
She is doing excellently, and she hopes to be back here again in Chicago real
soon to see her old friends.
I happen to think as a Michigander it is true what they say about the big
dynamic city of Chicago. It looks tough on the outside, but at heart, as all of
you know, it is a real softy, a warm and very friendly place, and I thank you for
your warm and enthusiastic welcome here tonight.
That is why I am glad to be back, and that is why I am so proud—and I say
this with conviction and enthusiasm of the outstanding, the fine slate of can-
didates of the Republican Party which you are fielding here for this great
election on November 5.
Chicago is one of the biggest, the best, one of the outstanding communities
in our whole United States. It deserves the best, and your blue-ribbon slate, in
my judgment, is an outstanding group that every one of you should support
from top to bottom.
I sat and listened to the people that preceded me-George Burditt, Harry Page,
Chuck Percy, Bill Croft, Dan Terra-every one of them super guys dedicated
to the same basic principles that each and every one of us espouses, principles
that are sound, constructive, good for America. And I hope and trust that
George and Harry and the rest, including Pete Bensinger, are elected on
November 5. They have my full, unequivocal support.
3
I have known Chuck Percy a long, long time. As a matter of fact, back in
1949-wasn't it, Chuck?-he and I, along with 8 others, were selected by the
Jaycees as one of the 10 outstanding young men in America. That was my first
exposure to Chuck, and I was impressed then.
3 Peter B. Bensinger was the Republican candidate for sheriff of Cook County, Ill.
468
