[214]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
serve, as I see it, like a national purge, clearing our system, renewing our ener-
gies, and creating a new and more realistic American ethic and, perhaps, an
American lifestyle.
The bountiful resources of this blessed land are available, and you in Oregon
are about as blessed as any of the 50 States, and you should be happy and proud
that you are so blessed.
Let us, on the overall, however, devise a future based on conservation as well as
consumption. The truth is, if you look at the statistics, and I get them weekly—
I used to from Bill Simon, now from Rog Morton-we have run short of energy.
But we are going to do something about it as we conserve on the one hand and
build a productive base on the other.
We have run short of mortgage credit-and don't blame Jim Lynn alto-
gether-and we have run short of a lot of other things. But we have not, as I see
it, run short of American know-how or the American spirit of fairplay or of
American forgiveness or American self-respect or American pride, nor will we
ever.
A great national test will be imposed in the days and the months ahead. But
that ought to be a challenge. That ought to appeal to us. We ought to respond to
it. If we do, we will meet the test. And I pledge all of my energies to a free
society with a strong economy, a sound environment, sufficient energy,
and a
secure and inspiring future.
And I ask each and every one of you here, and those that follow in other meet-
ings, to join with me in that wonderful quest.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:10 p.m. at the
Memorial Coliseum. In his opening remarks, the
President referred to Leland H. Johnson, president of
the Portland Chamber of Commerce, and Dean Kil-
lion, president of the Oregon AFL-CIO.
The White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs held in Portland was the third in a
series of conferences co-sponsored by nongovern-
mental organizations in various cities throughout
the Nation.
215
Remarks at a Reception for Republican Candidates in
Portland. November 1, 1974
IT IS just wonderful to be here in a gathering of this magnitude and friendliness.
Every time I come to Oregon, I seem to find more friendly people, more diversi-
fication in all the things you do.
548
