[262]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
basic legislation and in pending appropriations. I am also transmitting proposed
rescissions and deferrals, as required by the Congressional Budget and Impound-
ment Control Act, to reduce programs for which funds have already been ap-
propriated. The rescissions would result in decreased outlays of over $200 mil-
lion in 1975. Deferrals would reduce 1975 outlays by over $300 million.
Normally, funds are already being withheld when reports on rescissions and
deferrals are transmitted to the Congress. Recognizing that these rescissions
and deferrals are an integral part of a more far reaching and comprehensive
proposal, I will not begin to withhold funds for the affected programs until
December 16 although the law permits me to do so immediately.
The reductions I propose focus on programs that have grown rapidly in re-
cent years or that have been increased substantially over budget proposals. In most
cases, the level of 1975 outlays will be materially above actual spending last year.
Even after the proposed cutbacks, Federal benefit payments to individuals are
estimated to be $131.5 billion. This is $1.0 billion above the July estimate, and
$21.4 billion, or 19%, above actual spending last year.
While I am recommending further cuts in defense spending, I have taken into
account the substantial reductions already made by the Congress. My current ex-
pectation for defense spending is $83.2 billion, $2.6 billion below the June esti-
mate. I believe that further cuts in defense spending would be exceedingly un-
wise, particularly at this time.
In determining which budget programs should be reduced, I have tried to
eliminate the less essential and to overcome inequities. I have tried to avoid ac-
tions that would unduly add to unemployment or adversely affect those hurt
most by inflation.
The $4.6 billion budget outlay reduction I now propose is not large when
compared with total Federal spending. Nevertheless, the Congress may find it
difficult to agree with all my proposals. I strongly urge the Congress to accept
them and join with me in this belt tightening. The reductions are essential to
demonstrate to the American people that the Federal Government is working
seriously to restrain its spending. They are also a start toward the imperative of
gaining control over budgets in the future.
The White House,
November 26, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: A summary of the deferrals and proposed rescissions was also released with the message and is
printed in the Federal Register of December 5, 1974 (39 F.R. 42524).
668
