[88]
September 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I see some of my former House colleagues here. They are the kind of
people that, in my judgment, make a good representative in the House of
Representatives.
Bob, it is nice to see you. Is anybody else here? Dan? Is Kenny here? Well,
those are the kind of people that I think are first-class.
I did see Dick Obenshain, and I think you know how strongly I feel about
him. He is our new cochairman of the Republican Party in the United States,
and we are fortunate to have Dick joining us in trying to broaden our party's
representation on a nationwide basis.
I just would like to conclude by expressing my appreciation for all of you
being here to show your support for Stan. Stan is a first-class Member of the
House of Representatives, and I am going to rely on him in this session, and
I know that he will be back so I can rely on him in the next Congress.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:45 p.m. at the Belle
Haven Country Club. In his remarks, the President
referred to Representatives Robert W. Daniel, Jr..
W. C. (Dan) Daniel, and J. Kenneth Robinson.
89
Special Message to the Congress Transmitting Budget
Deferrals and Proposed Rescissions. September 20, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
The recently enacted Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act
of 1974 provides new procedures for executive reporting and congressional
review of actions by the executive branch affecting the flow of Federal spending.
It thereby serves to make the Congress a full partner in the continuing struggle
to keep Federal spending under control.
The new law provides that the executive branch may seek to alter the normal
course of spending either through deferrals of spending actions or by asking
the Congress to rescind authority to spend. The use of funds may be deferred
unless either House of the Congress enacts a resolution requiring that they be
made available for spending. For executive rescission proposals to take effect,
the Congress must enact rescission bills within 45 days of continuous session.
Following these procedures, I am today reporting the first in a series of
deferrals and proposed rescissions.
As is often the case in the institution of new procedures, and in the imple-
170
