[280]
December 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
-receiving Federal funds at the same time as the grantee's own planning
and funding cycles;
-simplifying and standardizing administrative requirements;
-simplifying paperwork and recordkeeping;
-reporting progress to one Federal agency rather than several;
-replacing separate Federal agency audits with a single audit by only one
agency.
The procedures which this act provides have been tested in a number of pilot
projects throughout the country with most encouraging results. Not only are the
recipients of grants in a better position to apply Federal assistance more ef-
fectively but taxpayers will be able to expect more from each tax dollar thus
expended.
However, we must not rest here. The explosive growth of Federal grants in
recent years makes it imperative that we continue an unrelenting effort towards
further improvement in grant administration.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 2299), approved December 5, 1974, is Public Law 93-510 (88 Stat. 1604).
281
Remarks to the Lilly Endowment Continuing Conference
for the Liberal Arts. December 5, 1974
Dr. Bell, Dr. Trotter, distinguished college and university presidents, I think
some of my former colleagues in the House as well as the Senate, students, and
others:
It is a privilege and a pleasure to be here, and I welcome you on not only my
behalf but on behalf of the White House Staff, and I certainly hope that your
trip here is worthwhile and will be very beneficial.
As a former member of the board of trustees of one of the participating col-
leges here, Albion College, I appreciate the important relationship between
liberal education and professions and the need to understand that relationship
better.
Since the early Middle Ages, colleges have been sheltered, almost cloistered
communities set apart from general society. Unfortunately, this has caused a
certain amount of suspicion and, in some cases, unfortunate distrust. And I don't
think, in the current environment, we can afford that today.
Benjamin Disraeli once said, and I quote: A university should be a place of
light, liberty and of learning.
716
