December 11
[290]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I happen to believe that instincts must be overruled by intelligence and
politics must yield to principles if we are to make reasonable economic progress
that can honestly be sustained in the future, whether it is short-term or long-
term. And let me say without any hesitation or qualification, that is what I
intend to do.
Today I met with the bipartisan leaders of the House and Senate at the White
House in the Cabinet Room. The campaign is over, the voters have spoken,
and the present Congress is about to adjourn. At that meeting there was a spirit
of concern for the country in that representative roomful of responsible Demo-
crats and responsible Republicans which I wish I had the eloquence to describe.
Really, you would not believe how well we all get along when the doors are
closed.
So, I asked my former colleagues how well we all could get along, and I think
most of them sincerely agreed that it would be wise if we could have a sort of
an informal moratorium on partisan economics, at least until the next Congress
convenes in January. Could not we sort of bite our tongues when tempted to say
things that might further weaken confidence in the economy and compound
the confusion in many Americans' minds about their future?
I was encouraged by the meeting this morning-I thought it was whole-
some, beneficial, and I think it will have an impact. But, for a start, let me say
this: Do not believe I have made any economic decisions unless you hear those
decisions from me personally. There can be only one person that makes those
decisions. And when I make them, I'll announce them.
I intend to keep my experts working over the holidays, translating into specif-
ics a number of new or alternative measures to augment and update the
economic package that I will place before the Congress within the next 2
months. We will meet the changing priorities of our present based on future
realities.
I will have new proposals on the desks of the new Members of Congress
when they convene in mid-January, if not sooner. In the few days left before
this Congressional session, I assured the leaders that I would communicate, con-
ciliate, compromise, and cooperate to the outer limits of my fundamental prin-
ciples in order to assure prompt enactment of the most urgent economic
measures.
Among these are long-delayed trade reform legislation as well as legislation to
make sure that unemployed workers receive temporary assistance, including
public service jobs and extended unemployment compensation to protect their
735
