December 1
[268]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
poses of putting my affairs in order until my retire-
ment, on December 31, 1974.
The basic reason for the above request is that the
Board is about to become involved in the determina-
tion of several major policy areas. Under the cir-
cumstances, I believe the continuing Members should
have a free hand in making these decisions during
this last phase of my transitional period.
Sincerely,
W. S. WHITEHEAD
Chairman
[The President, The White House]
268
Remarks at a Reception Honoring Professional
Golfer Lee Elder. December 1, 1974
LET ME just make a few observations and comments. It is so nice for me per-
sonally to have an opportunity to be here with Lee and Rose and to pay tribute
not only to Lee's great prowess and capability, skill, competitive spirit on the
golf links but also to pay tribute to a wonderful pair. Between Lee and Rose, I
don't think, from my observations, you could find a nicer pair, and I compliment
both of them.
I think most of you know that I am a sports buff, a has-been who really reads
the sports page first every morning, because you at least get a 50-50 break on the
sports page. But nevertheless, to be here and to participate in a small way in
paying tribute to Lee and to Rose, I consider a great privilege and a high honor.
I have watched Lee, of course, over the years. I do watch those tournaments. I
have some work in my lap, and then I watch the drives and the putts and wish I
could do as well. And I get about half the work done and the rest of the time I an
envious of all the skill of Lee. I met Jim Colbert here, Jim Weickers, and I met
Jim Dent's wife. I don't know whether I met Jim or not.
But anyhow, I think sports, athletics are very important in our American
society, and it was a great thrill for me a couple of weeks ago to play 18 with Lee
and John Pohanka and Les Arends. Lee gave me a little advice, and that advice
was very sound. In fact, it was very good, and the newspapers printed it. It was
so good that Henry Kissinger was getting a little worried.
But anyhow, I think that Lee and I have a great deal in common. You won't
think so at the outset. We both are in occupations where there is some spotlight.
We are both in occupations where there is a lot of competition. We are both in
occupations where the press kind of look at you and see whether you make a
mistake or not. All I can say is that the goofs that we make really get publicized.
The good part of it is that Lee doesn't make as many as I do.
But the thing that really impresses me about this turnout is the fact that all of
you people are here—and many from all over the country-to pay tribute to a
675
