[219]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the difficult areas of the city of Denver. He has got range and depth and ex-
perience. He served on the school board and has been a leader in trying to give
quality education to the people and to the students of Denver. I congratulate
him and urge his full and total support.
But now I come to something that really-if I could just make a special contri-
bution here, it is to Pete Dominick. You know, Pete and I have known one
another for 30 years, so it is not one of these political convenience acquaintance-
ships. I have known Pete when he was a law school student and I was. I have
known Pete in subsequent years. I knew him as a Member of the House of Repre-
sentatives. I watched him when he was a Member of the Senate and I was the
presiding officer as Vice President. I have watched him intimately as I have
been President and he has been a Senator. I think he has done a great job. And
if I were in Colorado with the right to vote, I would vote for Pete Dominick as
strongly and as effectively as I possibly could.
Well, Pete gives me the kind of representation that I would like, and there-
fore, I am delighted to be in Grand Junction. He has all the attributes, the wis-
dom, the experience, and the kind of knowledge that makes the difference
between doing what is right and what is wrong.
Well, let me turn very quickly, if I might—I am going to throw away this part
of my prepared text and talk to you frankly. I come from an area in Michigan
that probably has more people with the name of "Van" of any area in the whole
United States. I had Holland, Michigan; Zeeland, Michigan; Great London,
Michigan, et cetera. Gee, they had good judgment. They voted 76 percent Repub-
lican. And I was not a Hollander, but I had, I think, a sound philosophy, or at
least they think I did.
And so, when I come out and see a Vanderhoof, that is like talking to my old
friends that I tried hard to represent in Holland and Zeeland and Great London
and all the other places for 26 years. So, I understand a good public servant in
John Vanderhoof. You better reelect him. He is good for Colorado.
Now, certainly, after I meet this great gang here today on this platform, I am
going to meet with the Colorado cattlemen. This is not the first group of cattle-
men that I have met with in the last week. I have met with a group in Oklahoma
City. I met with a group in Washington. I met with a group in Portland,
Oregon, yesterday, and I am looking forward to meeting this group in Colorado
this afternoon.
I know that they have got particular problems, and you have similar prob-
lems here in this area of this great State. But let me make an observation or two.
566
