[134]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
134
Remarks to the Seventh General Convention of the American
Lutheran Church, Detroit, Michigan. October 10, 1974
Dr. Preus, delegates to the Seventh General Convention of the American Lu-
theran Church, and friends:
I am deeply indebted to and most grateful for the extremely warm welcome
and the wonderful opportunity to meet with all of you just for a few minutes
here this evening.
I would like to address my remarks, if I might, not only to those who are here
but also to the more than 2,500,000 Lutherans each of you represent in this
gathering here tonight, and the more than 9 million Lutherans in the United
States, our homeland.
Very honestly and frankly, I am very moved by the theme of the American
Lutheran Church-this convention-both as a President and as a Christian.
"Ministering to a hungry world" would serve, in my judgment, as a very
stimulating, a very enthusiastic call to any assembly of committed people.
I think all of us recognize that the world hungers not only today but yesterday
and tomorrow for food. And as I look at the facts and the figures in the office I
presently hold, I think even more will be needed in the future.
Equally, perhaps more importantly, is the need, as I see it, for spiritual sus-
tenance. Your president, Dr. David Preus, said it so well in his report to the
convention, and let me quote, if I might: Bread is no little word designed only
to describe the loaves we place in our mouth. It signifies the answer to all our
deep human needs. It points beyond the loaf and the kernel of wheat to the
Almighty, ministering in love to a hungry world.
As I entered this room, I was taken by the simple but very dramatic backdrop
that has been provided by the Seventh American Lutheran Church General
Convention—a child, a mother, a native mother with child, a couple, all look-
ing hopefully toward the light that flows from the bread and the cup, the wheat
and the grape.
I think the facts are that we all yearn to feed the starving, and when I say that,
I mean all Americans. We all thirst for those who are living out their lives in
desperation. We all want to win the fight against inflation, maintain peace, and
assure justice for all people.
The lesson, I think, is that of every Sabbath, for everyone to hear in our
churches and our synagogues, as Americans we must live it.
274
