[95]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
our continuing interest in and support for the courageous efforts which you and
your people are making to alleviate human distress and initiate recovery from
this tragedy.
Sincerely,
NOTE: The text of the message was issued by the
White House, together with details on relief efforts.
GERALD R. FORD
Hurricane Fifi struck Honduras on September 18,
1974.
96
Remarks to the Annual Convention of the International
Association of Chiefs of Police. September 24, 1974
Chief Looney, distinguished guests, members of the International Association
[of Chiefs] of Police:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have an opportunity of par-
ticipating with you here this morning.
Frankly, if there had been enough room, I really wanted to bring the United
States Marine Corps Band with me, but it might have been a little embarrassing.
Can you imagine if they played “Hail to the Chief” and all 3,000 of you stood
up? [Laughter]
But frankly, I have to admit being a little worried and a little concerned about
standing up here this morning. You can imagine how it feels to be facing 3,000
of the most capable, the most diligent, the most conscientious police officers in
the world—and right outside, I am parked in front of a fire hydrant. [Laughter]
Six weeks ago, I told the American people and the Congress that we all have
a lot of work to do. We have a long national agenda, and I stress today that the
control of crimes, especially violent crime, is one of the top items on that agenda.
I think it is fair to say that all Americans can agree on some conclusions about
crime. There is far too much of it. It can no longer be ignored. It can no longer
be rationalized away. The time has come for all of us to act.
The point in dispute is precisely how crime can be reduced. I have some
proposals that I will spell out later to both the Nation and to the Congress.
Crime is scarcely a new concern in this country. For more than 50 years, its
level has steadily increased. Crime is still on the rise. In fact, most of our
statistics seem to be on the increase. Prices are up; unemployment is up. In
addition, we face some serious shortages.
184
