November 10
[226]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
225
Statement on the Results of the 1974 Elections.
November 5, 1974
THE PEOPLE have spoken, and for 26 years I have accepted the verdict of the
people, which is the essence of our system of free government.
First, may I congratulate every citizen who did his duty by voting today.
I have not seen the total turnout, but I am sure it was greater than anticipated
in many places.
I also congratulate the winners of both parties and extend my sympathy to
those who lost. The willingness of candidates to fight for their convictions and
their party is an important ingredient of representative democracy. And those
who lose often come back to win another day.
There was no argument about the number one issue in this campaign: infla-
tion and its crippling effect on our economy and on the lives of all Americans.
The mandate of the electorate places upon the next Congress a full measure of
responsibility for resolving this problem. I will work with them wholeheartedly
in this urgent task which is certainly beyond partisanship.
Also beyond partisanship, I am confident, is the necessity of keeping America
strong both economically and militarily as the leader of the free world, of mov-
ing forward toward a safer and saner international order, of strengthening our
cooperation with old allies and old adversaries alike. I am confident that the
new Congress will work wholeheartedly with me in this urgent task.
226
Remarks Following a Meeting With
Secretary of State Kissinger. November 10, 1974
I JUST want to announce that I had a very, very interesting, helpful, and in-
depth 3-hour meeting with the Secretary of State. He reviewed the 17 countries
on a backbreaking 17-day trip, and I can say on the basis of his analysis that it was
basically very encouraging; the meeting with Mr. Brezhnev was very helpful.
The various capitals that the Secretary stopped in in the Middle East I think
also brought back some encouraging news. The trips that he made to the sub-
continent were very helpful in redirecting our policies in that vitally important
area of the world.
579
