September 16
[80]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. Prior to the decision that I made granting a pardon to Mr.
Nixon, I had no other specific information concerning his health other than
what I had read in the news media or heard in the news media. I had not gotten
any information from any of the Nixon family.
The sole source was what I had read in the news media plus one other fact.
On Saturday, before the Sunday, a member of my staff was working with me on
the several decisions I had to make. He was, from my staff, the one who had been
in negotiations on Friday with the President and his staff. At the conclusion of
some decisions that were made, I asked him, how did the President look, and he
reported to me his observations.
But other than what I had read or heard and this particular incident, I had no
precise information concerning the President's health.
Yes, Mr. Joyce [Thomas H. Joyce, Newsweek Magazine].
POSSIBILITY OF A DEPRESSION
[14.] Q. Mr. President, your own economic advisers are suggesting-say
the economy is very bad and they're very pessimistic-we are hearing the word
"depression" used now. I wonder how you feel about whether we are heading
for a depression?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say very strongly that the United States is not going to
have a depression. The overall economy of the United States is strong. Employ-
ment is still high. We do have the problem of inflation. We do have related
problems, and we are going to come up with some answers that I hope will solve
those problems.
We are not going to have a depression. We are going to work to make sure
that our economy improves in the months ahead.
FOOD AID POLICY
[15.] Q. Mr. President,in the face of massive food shortages and the pros-
pects of significant starvation, will the United States be able to significantly
increase its food aid to foreign countries, and what is our position going to be at
the Rome conference on participation in the world grain reserves?
THE PRESIDENT. Within the next few days a very major decision in this area
will be made. I am not at liberty to tell you what the answer will be because
it has not been decided.
But it is my hope that the United States for humanitarian purposes will be
able to increase its contribution to those nations that have suffered because of
drought or any of the other problems related to human needs.
155
