August 24
[33]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
not the forerunner of any wage and price controls. This is a monitoring piece of
legislation to give guidance in very broad terms to management and labor so
they don't take advantage of a free economy in this critical situation.
I am not going to ask for wage and price controls, and we generally agreed
last week that the Congress in 1974 would not respond to any wage and price
control recommendation.
We are going to do some other things, and I think all of this ought to be
encouraging to the American people and to our friends around the world. We
are going to hold the line on spending. The target, of course, is a figure in this
fiscal year of under $300 billion. We can do it. We are going to do it. And that
ought to be reassuring, I think, to the American people.
There will be some other things that will undoubtedly come out of the eco-
nomic summit which is being put together by cooperation with the Congress
and with the White House.
This battle has to be won, and it will be won, and the cooperation that I have
gotten from not only the Congress but from some in industry, and I hope from
those in labor, should absolutely reassure the American people that inflation can
be licked here as well as abroad.
So, with those remarks I would like to sign this bill which I appreciate and I
think the American people will be glad to have on the statute book.
Thank you very much. I appreciate everybody being here, and now we are
going back to work without any further ado.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:07 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his remarks,
the President referred to Representatives John J.
Rhodes, House minority leader, and Leslie C.
Arends, House minority whip.
As enacted, the bill (S. 3919) is Public Law
93-387 (88 Stat. 750).
33
Statement on the Council on Wage and Price Stability Act.
August 24, 1974
ONE OF my first acts as President was to ask the Congress to reactivate a wage
and price monitoring agency before its Labor Day recess. Today—less than 2
weeks later—I am gratified to sign the legislation authorizing me to create such
a council, and I hereby announce its creation without further delay.
It is certainly encouraging to me, as it must be to all Americans, to know that
the Government can act so swiftly on the inflation front. Prompt and aggressive
49
