September 9
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
be viewed as a means to stimulate urban area economic growth or to increase
central-city density.
Federal taxpayers just can't afford to pay for the whole package, and I won't
ask them to do so.
Washington, obviously, has to help with the funding, but that funding must
have realistic restraints. This is especially true as the Congress, Members of the
House and the Senate, join with the White House as inflation fighters in a policy
of fiscal responsibility. Investments in local mass transit systems must have
reasonable cost-to-benefit ratios or relationships. The House-passed Federal Mass
Transit Act of 1974 proposes an $11 billion spread over a 6-year period and, I
add emphatically, an absolute upper dollar limit.
In addition, I have a problem with the program structure in the House bill
and its treatment of Federal operating assistance for public transit. A committee
of the Senate will be considering a transit bill whose program structure is
similar to the Administration's transit proposal. I am confident that this problem,
or this conflict between the House and Senate versions, can be overcome in a
House and Senate conference.
It is probably known to many here, I have opposed in the past transit operating
subsidies, particularly out of the Highway Trust Fund, because of my strong
belief that such a program would lead to the Federal Government in the local
day-to-day transit operating matters. And also, I have learned, from my experi-
ence with other Federal categorical grant programs for operating expenses, that
these funds often do not result in better or more service. Instead, they simply
result in greater cost and less efficiency.
It is my conclusion, however, that our current inflexible urban mass transit
grant program encourages States, encourages cities to adopt what you can call
capital-intensive solutions, such as subways, as a response to their transportation
problems.
Accordingly, as a compromise for my own long, deeply held previous convic-
tions, I am supporting some limited Federal operating assistance such as the pro-
posal I mentioned a few moments ago, submitted in February and currently
being considered by the Senate.
I recognize that this change will allow a limited portion of Federal urban tran-
sit funds to be used for operating expenses as an integral part of a comprehen-
sive transit program and as a result, primarily, of decisions by local and State
officials.
The key here, therefore, is that Federal officials are not involved in the capital
operating tradeoff. Local officials will make that decision.
111
