August 19
[16]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Selective Service [Act] or the Uniform Code of Military Justice—offenses loosely
described as desertion and draft-dodging.
These two Cabinet officers are to consult with other Government officials
concerned and communicate me their unvarnished views and those of the full
spectrum of American opinion on this controversial question, consolidating the
known facts and legal precedents.
I will then decide how best to deal with the different kinds of cases-and
there are differences. Decisions of my Administration will make any future
penalties fit the seriousness of the individual's mistake.
Only a fraction of such cases I find in a quick review relate directly to Viet-
nam, from which the last American combatant was withdrawn over a year ago
by President Nixon.
But all, in a sense, are casualties, still abroad or absent without leave from the
real America.
I want them to come home if they want to work their way back.
One of the last of my official duties as Vice President, perhaps the hardest of
all, was to present posthumously 14 Congressional Medals of Honor to the par-
ents, widows, and children of fallen Vietnam heroes.
As I studied their records of supreme sacrifice, I kept thinking how young
they were.
The few citizens of our country who, in my judgment, committed the supreme
folly of shirking their duty at the expense of others, were also very young.
All of us who served in one war or another know very well that all wars are
the glory and the agony of the young. In my judgment, these young Americans
should have a second chance to contribute their fair share to the rebuilding of
peace among ourselves and with all nations.
So, I am throwing the weight of my Presidency into the scales of justice on the
side of leniency. I foresee their earned re-entry-earned re-entry-into a new
atmosphere of hope, hard work, and mutual trust.
I will act promptly, fairly, and very firmly in the same spirit that guided
Abraham Lincoln and Harry Truman. As I reject amnesty, so I reject revenge.
As men and women whose patriotism has been tested and proved—and yours
has-I want your help and understanding. I ask all Americans who ever asked
for goodness and mercy in their lives, who ever sought forgiveness for their
trespasses, to join in rehabilitating all the casualties of the tragic conflict of the
past.
Naturally, I am glad to see the VFW at this convention install a veteran of
25
