October 24
[188]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
could be independent. When they had deep convictions, they differed with me,
and I respect them for it.
They are not rubber stamps for the Republican Party. They were not rubber
stamps for me. But they make a tremendous, conscientious, effective—I think-
intelligent effort to represent their respective districts. And I hope and trust
that both Wiley Mayne and Bill Scherle are sent back with a sound, strong vote
from their districts.
I have had the privilege of looking into the backgrounds and qualifications of
your other Congressional candidates. I know one or two of them, but Jim Leach,
Charley Grassley, Tom Riley, Charles Dick 2—they are out campaigning, and
they need your help. And we need their kind of representation in the House of
Representatives. I urge you, I implore you to give them the hand that will get you
and, I think, us a victory on November 5.
Let me be quite categorical and explain, as I see it, why we need tightfisted
Members of the House and Senate to help us in this battle against inflation.
In every poll that I see, whether it is national or in Iowa, there is a clear indica-
tion that inflation is the one problem that transcends all others, and it is the one
problem where the American people want some action by their Government—
and for good reason.
Inflation means money stolen out of your pocketbook by a thief as real as a
pickpocket. The rising cost of living is a problem which is not matched in
magnitude nor equaled in its impact on our Nation's future.
I didn't come all this way out to Iowa to talk to you or tell you about a
problem that you know as much about as I do or as any other politician does.
I came out here to tell you that, in my judgment, we have got a program that
will be an answer, and we want Members of the Congress sent down who are
going to help us find those answers.
We searched very hard for the right answers. I think we have now a better
understanding as a result of our various mini-summit and summit economic
meetings. It is now time, as I look at it, not to point the finger of blame at just
a few people or a few institutions. Most institutions—and, I think, most people—
are involved in the inflationary process. But just as much responsibility, if not
more so, for inflation today rests squarely on the Federal Government, the
Congress in Washington, D.C. And that is where we better do something about
it.
2 Republican candidates for Congress from the First, Third, Second, and Fourth Districts of Iowa,
respectively.
457
