August 21
[25]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
not lead to better education and it infringes upon traditional freedoms in
America.
As enacted, H.R. 69 contains an ordered and reasoned approach to dealing
with the remaining problems of segregation in our schools, but I regret that it
lacks an effective provision for automatically re-evaluating existing court orders.
This omission means that a different standard will be applied to those districts
which are already being compelled to carry out extensive busing plans and those
districts which will now work out desegregation plans under the more rational
standards set forth in this bill. Double standards are unfair, and this one is no
exception. I believe that all school districts, North and South, East and West,
should be able to adopt reasonable and just plans for desegregation which will
not result in children being bused from their neighborhoods.
Another troublesome feature of this bill would inject the Congress into the
process of administering education laws. For instance, some administrative
and regulatory decisions of the Department of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare would be subjected to various forms of Congressional review and possible
veto. As a veteran of the Congress, I fully appreciate the frustrations that can
result in dealing with the executive branch, but I am equally convinced that
attempting to stretch the constitutional role of the Congress is not the best
remedy. The Congress can and should hold the executive branch to account for
its performance, but for the Congress to attempt to administer Federal pro-
grams is questionable on practical as well as constitutional grounds. I have
asked the Attorney General for advice on these provisions.
Closely related to this issue is my concern about substantially increased Fed-
eral funding for education, especially at a time when excessive Federal spend-
ing is already fanning the flames of inflation. I hope the Congress will exercise
restraint in appropriating funds under the authorizing legislation included in
H.R. 69 and will carefully avoid increasing the budget.
In conclusion, I would re-emphasize that this bill shows us the way for fur-
ther legislative and executive branch cooperation in the future. I congratulate
all of those who participated in this endeavor. Today, and for generations to
come, America will benefit from this law which expresses our national com-
mitment to quality education for all of our children.
37
