[39]
August 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
agreement by the leadership on both sides of the aisle that there was no possi-
bility whatsoever that this Congress in 1974 would approve any such legislation.
Number three, labor and management almost unanimously agree that wage
and price controls at the present time or any foreseeable circumstances were
unwise.
Under all of those circumstances, it means wage and price controls are out,
period.
DUTIES OF THE VICE PRESIDENT
[11.] Q. Can you give us your present thinking on how best you might use
Mr. Rockefeller as Vice President once he is confirmed?
THE PRESIDENT. I have a lot of ideas. Until Congress confirms Mr. Rockefeller,
we are sort of in a honeymoon period. I really shouldn't make any commitments
until we actually get married.
But to be serious, if I might, I think Governor Rockefeller can be extremely
important in the new Administration as my teammate in doing effective work in
the area of the Domestic Council. We have to prepare legislative proposals that
will go to the Congress when the new Congress comes back in January.
I believe that Governor Rockefeller will take over my responsibilities heading
the subcommittee of the Domestic Council on privacy. Governor Rockefeller,
with his vast experience in foreign policy, can make a significant contribution
to some of our decisionmaking in the area of foreign policy. Obviously, in addi-
tion, he can be helpful, I think, in the political arena under certain guidelines and
some restrictions.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, you just ruled out wage and price controls, but I
just would like to ask you why Mr. Nixon, when he was President, felt he was
compelled to go back to them because the situation was getting out of hand?
Can you just reinforce what you told Mr. Brokaw [Tom Brokaw, NBC News],
why you think the situation is not that much out of hand yet?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only refer you to the circumstances and the decision of
President Nixon in August of 1971. That was a decision he made under quite
different circumstances. We are in totally different circumstances today. We have
gone through a 3-year period, more or less. I think we have learned a few
economic lessons that wage and price controls in the current circumstances
didn't work, probably created more dislocations and inequities. I see no justifica-
tion today, regardless of the rightness or wrongness of the decision in 1971, to
reimpose wage and price controls today.
60
