December 4
[277]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Florida-1,106 acres. This proposed area is located along the flood plain of the
St. Johns River, one of the few large northerly-flowing rivers in the United
States. Among the remarkable variety of wildlife found here are threatened
species such as the Everglades kite, Southern bald eagle, Florida sandhill
crane, manatee, Florida panther, and American alligator.
(31) Anaho Island Wilderness, Anaho Island National Wildlife Refuge,
Nevada-747.73 acres. The island is a sanctuary for a multitude of birds, in-
cluding the largest nesting colony of white pelicans on the continent.
(32) Noxubee Wilderness, Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge, Mississippi—
1,200 acres. Consisting of flat and slightly rolling hardwood and pine lands, the
refuge provides habitats for the Canada goose, such rare birds as the endangered
red-cockaded woodpecker and southern bald eagle, and a good-sized herd of
white-tailed deer.
(33) UL Bend Wilderness, UL Bend National Wildlife Refuge, Montana—
19,693 acres. Located along the Missouri River's Fort Peck Reservoir, this refuge
is primarily a habitat for migratory waterfowl. Among the land birds found
here is the unique burrowing owl, which nests in abandoned "dwellings” in
prairie dog towns..
(34) Pea Island Wilderness, Pea Island National Wildlife Refuge, North
Carolina-180 acres. A part of the Cape Hatteras National Seashore, this refuge
is a winter spot for greater snow geese, Canada geese, brant, and many species
of duck.
(35) Bombay Hook Wilderness, Bombay Hook National Wildlife Refuge,
Delaware-2,000 acres. This salt marsh estuary serves as a habitat for migratory
waterfowl and such other birds as the endangered southern bald eagle and
peregrine falcon.
(36) Back Bay Wilderness, Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge, Virginia—
2,165 acres. A focal point along the Atlantic Flyway, the refuge is the winter
home of up to 40,000 Canada geese per year and the rare Ipswich Savannah
sparrow.
(37) In addition, the first wilderness area-the Gila Wilderness-in New
Mexico, would be enlarged by the addition of 115,648 acres.
Three other areas-Kofa Game Range, Arizona; Charles Sheldon Antelope
Range, Nevada and Oregon; and Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Range,
709
