[143]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
The First Secretary extended an invitation to the President of the United
States and Mrs. Ford to pay an official visit to the Polish People's Republic at a
time convenient to them. The invitation was accepted with pleasure.
144
Remarks on Signing Veto of Continuing Appropriations
Resolution Containing an Amendment Suspending
Military Aid to Turkey. October 14, 1974
TODAY, in the interest of preserving the ability of the United States to assist
the Governments of Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus to negotiate a peaceful settle-
ment of the Cyprus dispute, I am returning to the Congress without my ap-
proval the continuing resolution which the Congress has amended to cut off
military aid to Turkey.
In so doing, I want to clear the air of a number of misunderstandings con-
cerning the U.S. position toward the Cyprus crisis.
Since the outbreak of the crisis, our objectives have been to establish a cease-
fire, to provide humanitarian aid to the refugees, to assist the parties toward a
negotiation and a settlement, and to strengthen and to improve our historically
friendly ties with Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus.
I have discussed these goals with the bipartisan leadership of the Congress and
have received their unanimous and vigorous support. Our ability to pursue
these goals depends, however, on being able to maintain a constructive relation-
ship with the parties involved. The cutoff of assistance to Turkey is destructive
of that relationship.
Further, it in no way helps the Greek people or the people of Cyprus who have
suffered so much in the past months. In fact, by dashing hopes for negotiations,
it prolongs their suffering.
We recognize clearly the need to ensure that the honor and the integrity of
the Greek people be maintained. We seek a settlement which ensures that funda-
mental requirement. United States friendship with Greece has been estab-
lished through generations of cooperation and mutual respect, based on shared
values and common goals. I intend firmly to carry on and strengthen that
relationship.
I cannot, however, carry out this pledge if my ability to act in the current
crisis is undercut by restrictions imposed by the Congress. We all seek a peaceful
resolution of this problem; we all seek justice for the people of Cyprus; we all
298
