PREFACE
IN THIS VOLUME are gathered most of the public messages and statements
of the 38th President of the United States that were released by the White House
during the period August 9-December 31, 1974. Volumes covering the Adminis-
trations of Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, and the
first year of President Hoover are also available.
The series was begun in 1957 in response to a recommendation of the National
Historical Publications Commission. An extensive compilation of the messages
and papers of the Presidents, covering the period 1789 to 1897, was assembled by
James D. Richardson and published under Congressional authority between
1896 and 1899. Since then, various private compilations have been issued but there
was no uniform publication comparable to the Congressional Record or the
United States Supreme Court Reports. Many Presidential papers could be found
only in mimeographed White House releases or as reported in the press. The
National Historical Publications Commission therefore recommended the
establishment of an official series in which Presidential writings and utterances
of a public nature could be made promptly available.
The Commission's recommendation was incorporated in regulations of the
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register issued under section 6 of the
Federal Register Act (44 U.S.C. 1506). The Committee's regulations, establishing
the series and providing for the coverage of prior years, are reprinted as
Appendix E.
CONTENT AND ARRANGEMENT
The text of this book is based on Presidential materials that were White House
press releases, on material issued by the White House Press Office, and on
transcripts of news conferences. Where available, original source materials,
including tape recordings, have been used to protect against errors in
transcription.
The dates shown at the end of item headings are White House release dates.
In instances where the date of the document differs from the release date, that
fact is shown in the note immediately following the item. Textnotes, footnotes,
and cross references have been supplied only where needed for purposes of
identification or clarity.
Remarks or addresses were delivered in Washington, D.C., unless otherwise
indicated, and all times shown are local time. Similarly, statements, messages,
vii
