[156]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mediterranean. It is for these reasons and those previously stated that I must
reluctantly veto the bill before me.
In addition, I am compelled to point out again that should this measure become
law, the United States would have lost the ability to play a useful role in this dis-
pute and would in effect have to withdraw from the negotiations. Should the
Congress force such an action, it must do so in the clear knowledge that it as-
sumes full responsibility for the situation which would then prevail.
I ask that the Congress not choose that path but that it reconsider its action and
provide a bill which will permit the continued execution of United States foreign
policy in a constructive and responsible manner.
The White House,
October 17, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained the President's veto on October 17, 1974.
157
Message to the Senate Transmitting Amendments to the
International Convention for the Safety of Life
at Sea. October 17, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate, amendments to
seven regulations contained in Chapters II, III, IV and V of the International
Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1960, and an amendment replacing and
superseding the regulations in Chapter VI of that Convention, all of which were
adopted on November 20, 1973, by the Assembly of the Inter-Governmental
Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO) at its eighth session.
The amendments to Chapters II, III, IV and V are directed toward the
improvement of safety of navigation and were recommended by the Maritime
Safety Committee of IMCO at its 24th through 27th sessions. The amendment to
Chapter VI, Carriage of Grain, will replace and supersede the existing Chapter
VI in its entirety. It is directed toward the improvement of safety requirements
for the carriage of grain in bulk, and was recommended by the Maritime Safety
Committee at its 27th session.
The United States Delegation to the IMCO Assembly actively supported the
amendments, some of which had been formulated at United States initiative. The
372
