October 9
[131]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
As I was sitting here, I looked around at the head table and there were three
people on the podium, or at the head table, that I had the privilege of serving
with in the House of Representatives Bill Scranton, Hugh Scott, Dick
Schweiker.
Let me first speak about Hugh, if I might. He was a more senior Member of
the House of Representatives when I came to Washington in January of 1949. He
was friendly, courteous, helpful. And then you sent him to the United States
Senate. We had many opportunities to work together during the early days of
his Senate service, and then he and I became the minority leaders in the Senate
and in the House.
I can say without any hesitation or qualification that I've had nothing but
the finest opportunities to work with Hugh, to do things on the plus side, to
work together in total unison, and to fight for those things that are important
to your State and to our country and to peace throughout the world.
And this working relationship, Hugh—then, when we were together in the
Congress, and now—I cherish. And I am deeply grateful and thank you very,
very much.
Then back in 1960 you all sent from his particular Congressional district, Dick
Schweiker, and then subsequently you sent him to the United States Senate. I
remember when Dick and Bill Scranton came to the House. I thought I was a
pretty senior person and knew a lot and so forth. I did know one thing. I could
tell that in Bill Scranton and Dick Schweiker, the Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
vania had sent two first-class Members of the House.
And when I ran for the minority leadership in 1965 and won by the landslide
margin of 73 to 67, those two fellows were very, very helpful in my behalf.
So, I express to Dick my appreciation, and I wish him the very best, because
in the limited time that I served as the presiding officer, as a first instant Vice
President, I noticed that Dick Schweiker did a great job for you in Pennsylvania,
for the country, and Dick, I know you will when all of these good people with
thousands of others in Pennsylvania send you back for another 6 years.
If I might, I would like to make one observation. In the 8 or 9 years that I was
the minority leader, I traveled an awful lot. You have no idea how many air-
ports I have slept in and aircraft I have dozed in because I wanted to help the
party and good candidates the length and the breadth of the country.
Most years during that period of time I traveled some 200,000 miles each
year. And during the period of this experience, I met many outstanding candi-
dates for public office-Governors, et cetera. And I learned a bit about judging
267
