[80]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND INTERNATIONAL LAW
[16.] Q. Back to the CIA. Under what international law do we have a right
to attempt to destabilize the constitutionally elected government of another
country, and does the Soviet Union have a similar right to try to destabilize the
Government of Canada, for example, or the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to pass judgment on whether it is permitted
or authorized under international law. It is a recognized fact that historically, as
well as presently, such actions are taken in the best interest of the countries
involved.
ADMINISTRATION OPENNESS AND CANDOR
[17.] Q. Mr. President, last month when you assumed the Presidency, you
pledged openness and candor. Last week you decided on the ex-President's par-
don in virtually total secrecy. Despite all you have said tonight, there would
still seem to be some confusion, some contradiction.
My question is this: Are your watchwords of your Administration still open-
ness and candor?
The President. Without any question, without any reservation. And I think
in the one instance that you cite, it was a sole decision, and, believe me, it wasn't
easy. And since I was the only one who could make that decision, I thought I
had to search my own soul after consulting with a limited number of people.
And I did it. And I think in the long run it was the right decision.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's second news conference began at 8 p.m. in the East Room at the White House. It
was broadcast live on radio and television.
81
Address to the 29th Session of the General Assembly of the United
Nations. September 18, 1974
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, your Excellencies:
In 1946, President Harry Truman welcomed representatives of 55 nations to
the first General Assembly of the United Nations. Since then, every American
President has had the great honor of addressing this Assembly.
Today, with pleasure and humility, I take my turn in welcoming you, the dis-
tinguished representatives of 138 nations.
When I took office, I told the American people that my remarks would be
156
