[300]
December 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
300
Toasts of the President and President Giscard d'Estaing of
France at a Dinner in Martinique. December 14, 1974
MR. PRESIDENT, the hospitality extended to me has reflected in the warmth
of the climate of this most remarkable island and the spirit of your kind words
of welcome, and I am deeply grateful.
I am very, very proud to be the first American President in office to visit this
part of the Caribbean, and I would like to express again my appreciation to you
personally for suggesting Martinique as the location of our first meeting.
The United States and France, we all know, have been very, very close. We
have been extremely close friends for over two centuries. From our American
Revolution through the darkest days of World War II, our countries have stood
together in moments of crisis. And today, of fundamental importance to our
countries and to the West, a strong Atlantic Alliance safeguards our security.
As old friends and allies, Mr. President, we have much to talk about. On many,
many points we shall agree; on others we may differ. But it is of the greatest
importance, in my judgment, that we will talk with full candor, since we share
the same ideals. A relationship of confidence is absolutely essential. It is only
through such a relationship, Mr. President, that our common objectives can
best be served and our differing views reconciled.
As in the past, we jointly face, Mr. President, major challenges. This time the
immediate danger is not war but the problems of peace: inflation, balance of
payments deficits, energy shortages, and for many throughout the world,
shortages of food itself. These problems unfortunately accentuate the inter-
dependence of nations and the need for communication and cooperation.
At stake is the stability of every economy, the welfare of every nation.
Unilateral measures, Mr. President, can no longer suffice in solving problems of
such universal dimension.
Mr. President, you recently described this situation very vividly when you said
the world is unhappy. Indeed, the world is troubled. But if we are to transcend
our difficulties and successfully meet our challenges, we, France and the United
States, must cooperate.
We face a major problem in the field of energy. In dealing with it on the basis
of consumer solidarity, we seek constructive dialog, not confrontation. The
United States is convinced that cooperation and solidarity among the consumer
750
