August 29
[41]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Nonetheless, I also recognize that this bill is the product of much hard work
and deliberation and contains funds for many worthy projects. A veto would
commit us to the time-consuming process of reformulating a public works
appropriations bill at a time when our energies should be focused on more
pressing matters.
After discussions with Congressional leaders, I have therefore decided to sign
this bill with the hope and expectation that under the budget act, the Congress
will work in cooperation with the executive branch to defer for one full year
the expenditure of that amount of appropriated funds which would contribute
excessively to inflationary governmental spending.
I am totally committed to close cooperation between the Congress and the
Executive, and I know that this spirit will continue to prevail as we work
together to halt the inflationary spiral.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15155, approved August 28, 1974, is Public Law 93-393 (88 Stat. 782).
41
Statement Announcing Appointment of Chairman and
Members of the Council on Wage and Price
Stability. August 29, 1974
LAST SATURDAY, when I signed the legislation creating a Council on Wage
and Price Stability, I said that Washington must provide prompt and aggressive
action in the fight against inflation.
Today I want to move forward in that fight by appointing the members of the
new Council and asking them to begin work as quickly as possible. I am asking
Mr. Kenneth Rush, my Counsellor for Economic Policy, to serve as Chairman of
the Council. I am also asking seven other members of the Administration to
serve as members of the group:
WILLIAM SIMON, Secretary of the Treasury
EARL BUTZ, Secretary of Agriculture
Frederick DenT, Secretary of Commerce
PETER BRENNAN, Secretary of Labor
ROY ASH, Director of the Office of Management and Budget
VIRGINIA KNAUER, Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs, and
ANNE ARMSTRONG, Counsellor to the President
In the near future, I also intend to set up an advisory committee to the Coun-
cil, drawing upon the best talent we can find in labor and industry.
One of my first acts as President was to ask that this Council be established.
67
