[86]
September 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
United Nations forum in dealing with the problem, a start was made in 1973
with the adoption by the General Assembly of the Convention on the Preven-
tion and Punishment of Crimes Against Internationally Protected Persons,
Including Diplomatic Agents. On the other hand, neither the International
Conference on Air Law nor the Assembly of the International Civil Aviation
Organization, which met simultaneously, made progress on measures to improve
security for aircraft passengers.
An important part of the United Nations record in 1973 was the admission to
membership of the Federal Republic of Germany, the German Democratic
Republic, and The Bahamas-admissions the United States supported. The
United Nations has thus become still more representative of the world
community.
Our participation in the United Nations reflects our fundamental belief that
to assure a peaceful world it is necessary to cooperate with other nations in a
multilateral framework on mutually agreed upon activities. This report records
the successes and failures, the hopes and frustrations of many of those activities.
Above all it records what we tried to accomplish through the United Nations
to further the many interests that our citizens and our country share with the
world community.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
September 19, 1974.
NOTE: The 416-page report is entitled "U.S. Participation in the UN, Report by the President to the Congress
for the Year 1974."
87
Statement on Senate Action Disapproving Deferral of a
Federal Pay Increase. September 19, 1974
WHILE disappointed in today's Senate vote, I am in agreement with the
Congress that Federal employees deserve this pay increase. It was painful for
me to ask the Congress to defer this raise for 3 months. I know I had asked the
Congress to do a difficult thing. But there was a compelling reason. I refer to
the inflationary momentum which I regard as domestic public enemy number
one. That is why I had requested the Congress and the Federal employees to
cooperate.
Now that the Congress has acted, I will proceed to reach a decision as quickly
168
