[27]
August 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is a beautiful house down there, as all of you know, not only beautiful in
appearance inside and out, but it has great, great traditions.
But, Mr. Speaker, let me say that our—and when I say “our” I mean my
wife Betty and the family and myself—our affections for the White House will
never surpass our love for the House of Representatives and for the fine men
and women who work here.
You have all been extremely generous in your support, extremely generous
in your good will, and you have been extremely generous in your advice. But
it has all been good, and I hope you keep the flow going.
I said on the other side of the Capitol, in the other body, a few moments ago,
that I was making a few remarks as an inauguration of Pennsylvania Avenue as
a two-way street.
I have asked your help in the past when I was in the House, and I am going
to ask it now. This is a standard procedure for Presidents, but I am not making, I
hope and trust, a pro forma gesture when I ask your help in the remaining days
of the Congress. You know and I know that I do not believe in gestures. I never
have and I never will. So when I ask your help, I mean it.
I want to reiterate, the help I have sought in the last 10 days has been responded
to in a beautiful way, and, Mr. Speaker, your leadership in this has made it much,
much easier for me, and for that I am deeply grateful.
Together we have got a big job ahead, and I emphasize "we" on the basis of
togetherness, for if we do work together as we have in recent days, we can get the
job done.
I want to express my appreciation for the response that has come already in the
Cost of Living Council monitoring legislation; the action taken in reference to
some of our spending problems; the action taken in housing, in education, and
in pension reform. These are all landmark pieces of legislation. This is a good
achievement for the Congress, and this is legislation that I am proud of and
privileged to sign as President of the United States.
I will be coming back when you return from your much-deserved recess, and
I will be coming back to ask your help in the future. I think we can continue to
work together, and if we do, it will be the best for the country, and the best for
you, and certainly the best for me.
I have noted in my contacts throughout the country that the public wants us
to work together, and we can prove that such togetherness will be beneficial.
Let me conclude by simply saying that I think we have a good team in the
executive branch, and it can work as a team with a good team on Capitol Hill,
40
