September 24
[96]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
One shortage particularly bothers me. This is the shortage of easy answers.
We are faced with growing problems on all fronts, and there is no easy answer
to any of them.
We all know that earthy description which President Truman gave to the
Oval Office some years ago: "The buck stops here." When it comes to fighting
crimes, most of the buck stops at your offices. You are in the frontline; you are
the top commanders in the war on crime.
As you well know, most police powers are reserved to the States and largely
delegated to local communities. I think this is a good and key feature of our
Federal system. It will remain a key feature as long as I have anything to do
with it.
The Federal role is essentially supportive. The solution depends upon State
and local efforts under the leadership and the guidance of all of you.
As you know, Washington provides direct assistance to States and local com-
munities through the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration. Grants have
increased to about $880 million annually and most of it in block grants to the
States. That is a lot of money, and I look back to the first year, about 7 or 8 years
ago, when it amounted to approximately $50 million in the first instance.
But the total of $880 million, which is roughly the annual appropriation now
at the Federal level, it is actually only 5 percent of the total spent on State and
local crime justice systems. Actually, Federal money is essentially seed money.
Perhaps the most important activity of the Federal Government in this area is
research and development. We have learned very valuable lessons about the
nature of crime and its prevention.
We are cooperating with local agencies in pilot development and in testing
new law enforcement tools.
In this process we have learned that there is need for better management,
particularly the need to concentrate limited resources where they will be most
effective.
There is also a need for greater citizen cooperation, particularly as ready and
willing witnesses.
For effective management, we first have to have some hard decisions on
priorities. As a starter, I would suggest a high priority on violent crime and
street crime in the inner city. There is where crime does the most damage to our
whole urban structure. There is where crime most hurts the poor who already
suffer enough.
One bright spot in the crime scene is the success of your efforts against ur-
ban crime. Your concentration on street crime seems to be paying off, and I com-
185
