[289]
December 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
any of us have for going into a competitive sport? As much as I enjoyed the
physical and emotional dividends that college athletics brought me, I sincerely
doubt if I ever suited up, put on my helmet-and yes, I did wear a helmet—
[laughter]—without the total commitment of going out there to win, not to
get exercise, gold, or glory, but simply to win.
To me, winning is not a shameful concept. I would like to think that win-
ning is in the great American tradition. Two hundred years ago we fought for
our freedom, and we won; and for the next hundred years we challenged a
continent, and we won.
But somebody once said the problem with winning is you have to keep on
doing it. And so today, we Americans face another historic struggle to maintain
our strength as a nation, as a people, and our economic well-being for all of
us. And believe me, in this battle against inflation, or recession, there are no
playoffs, and there is no "wait till next year.” It is winner take all, or loser have
nothing.
As I see it "win"—it is a very small word, but let's be careful not to lose it.
Tonight I have come to New York for a very, very personal reason, and it also
has something to do with winning. I have come to do honor and to pay tribute
to a man who has won the admiration, the affection, and the everlasting grati-
tude of all Americans—a superstar before the term was ever thought of.
Bob Hope has consistently brought to our lives the warm glow and the sus-
taining lift of that precious gift of laughter. And to those of us who served in
the Armed Forces, Bob's eagerly awaited visits brought home an awful lot
closer.
But Bob Hope is more than a superlative entertainer-much, much more.
His dedication to the needs and the welfare of Americans has made him a leader
in humanitarian activities. It would be a monumental task to list all of the
charities and causes that have said "thanks for the memory" of Bob Hope's
helping hand.
Throughout the years I have always looked forward to sharing a head table,
a foursome, and many a memorable hour with Bob Hope. I am proud to call
him my friend.
And So, it gives me a great deal of personal pleasure to present tonight the
Distinguished American Award of the National Football Foundation and Hall
of Fame to Bob Hope-patriot, ardent sportsman, indomitable, courageous,
unselfish American whose lifetime credo is the lifting of the human spirit.
Gentlemen, Bob Hope.
732
