November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
moment's notice without all the participation in the Executive process that a
President can extend to his Vice President.
In this dangerous age, as the 25th amendment attests, we need a Vice President
at all times. And I speak as one who ought to know.
I will be glad to answer your questions.
QUESTIONS
ECONOMIC POLICY
[3.] Q. Michael Pakenham of the Philadelphia Inquirer.
Mr. President, on Tuesday the word "recession" made its debut in the official
diagnostic language of your Administration. Could you tell us if you are of a
mind now to press forward with any significant economic policies that are new,
beyond and perhaps including wage and price controls?
THE PRESIDENT. At the time we put together the 31-point program that I sub-
mitted to the Congress on October 8, 1974, which was a finely tuned program to
meet the challenges of a softening economy—and there were definite signs at
that time—and on the other hand, to tamp down inflation, we believed then,
and I believe now, that the plan is sound, that it is constructive, that it will meet
the two problems that we face.
And may I add most affirmatively, putting wage and price controls on in a
period of recession would be just the absolute wrong approach to the solution of
a weakening economy. I never heard of the proposal to use wage and price con-
trols to stimulate an economy. The only time I have heard of wage and price
controls being advocated was when we had inflation as our major problem.
I happen to think we have got two problems—a weakening economy and in-
flation that is too high. The proposals that I submitted, 31 in number, try to meet
both, and at the moment, I see no justification for any major revisions.
VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Gaylord Shaw with AP [Associated Press].
You said just a few moments ago that in this dangerous age we need a Vice
President at all times. My question is this: Would you withdraw Governor
Rockefeller's nomination if it is not confirmed before Congress adjourns next
month, or to put it another way, are there any conditions under which you would
withdraw the nomination and submit another name?
601
