November 26
[263]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
263
Veto of Vietnam Era Veterans' Education and Training Benefits
Legislation. November 26, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning today without my approval H.R. 12628, a bill which would
provide what I consider an excessive increase and liberalization of veterans' edu-
cation and training benefits.
Instead, I urge the Congress to send me a veterans' education bill along the
lines that I have proposed. By doing so, we can avoid adding another half billion
dollar load to the already overburdened taxpayer. Failure to do so will mean that
the Congress will in the aggregate-Federal pay deferral, Railroad Retirement
and Veterans Education-add over one and a half billion dollars to the Federal
deficit in 1975.
This bill which I am returning to the Congress provides benefits that are
greater than those granted to World War II and Korea veterans. It would cost the
taxpayers half a billion dollars more in fiscal year 1975 than is appropriate in
view of the country's current economic circumstances.
The decision not to sign this bill has not been an easy one. But it is necessary if
all of us are to operate with essential budgetary restraint. The Nation must reduce
Federal spending if we are to stop the inflation spiral.
I have asked the Congress on previous occasions to join with me to hold down
Federal spending and help whip inflation. In two important instances, the Fed-
eral pay deferral plan and the Railroad Retirement bill, the Congress refused to
join with me and the result has added an additional one billion dollars to the Fed-
eral taxpayers' burden.
Veterans' benefits should-and can be improved. I continue to support a re-
sponsible increase in education benefits for veterans. I again urge the Congress,
as I have on many occasions, to enact a GI Bill providing for an 18.2 percent bene-
fit increase rather than the 23 percent in this bill. Such action would be in keep-
ing with the needs for fiscal responsibility while recognizing the Nation's special
debt to our veterans.
Since the Vietnam-era GI bill first went into effect in 1966, the total of veterans'
benefit increases enacted through 1972 have substantially exceeded the rise in cost
of living. Not including the provisions of this bill, the basic monthly education
allowance has increased by a $120 per month or 120 percent since 1966. This com-
pares with an actual rise of 55 percent in the Consumer Price Index.
669
