September 16
[80]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
To my knowledge, nobody has charged that. The facts are we had no in-
volvement in any way whatsoever in the coup itself.
In a period of time, 3 or 4 years ago, there was an effort being made by the
Allende government to destroy opposition news media, both the writing press
as well as the electronic press, and to destroy opposition political parties.
The effort that was made in this case was to help and assist the preservation of
opposition newspapers and electronic media and to preserve opposition political
parties.
I think this is in the best interest of the people in Chile and, certainly, in our
best interest.
Now, may I add one further comment.
The 40 Committee was established in 1948. It has been in existence under
Presidents since that time. That Committee reviews every covert operation un-
dertaken by our Government, and that information is relayed to the responsible
Congressional committees where it is reviewed by House and Senate committees.
It seems to me that the 40 Committee should continue in existence, and I am
going to meet with the responsible Congressional committees to see whether or
not they want any changes in the review process so that the Congress, as well as
the President, are fully informed and are fully included in the operations for any
such action.
Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling, Jr., Christian Science Monitor].
FURTHER QUESTIONS ON PARDON DECISION
[6.] Q. In view of public reaction, do you think that the Nixon pardon
really served to bind up the Nation's wounds? I wonder if you would assess pub-
lic reaction to that move.
THE PRESIDENT. I must say that the decision has created more antagonism than
I anticipated. But as I look over the long haul with a trial, or several trials, of a
former President, criminal trials, the possibility of a former President being in
the dock, so to speak, and the divisions that would have existed not just for a
limited period of time but for a long period of time, it seems to me that when
I had the choice between that possibility and the possibility of taking direct ac-
tion hoping to conclude it, I am still convinced, despite the public reaction so
far, that the decision I made was the right one.
Q. Mr. President, in regard to the pardon, you talk about the realities of
the situation. Now those realities, rightly or wrongly, include a good many peo-
ple who speculate about whether or not there is some sort of arrangement—
they even, some of them, call it a deal-between you and the former President,
151
