[239]
November 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States, is a great and wonderful partner of all of the rest of us in this great
land.
There is something very special, I have observed, very special about the pioneer
spirit that is not only alive but is growing in Alaska. Alaska gives all of us an
inspiring farewell boost as Secretary Kissinger and I proceed to enhance the
quest for peace and improved international relations.
I would like to commend Alaska for its determination to be a leading State
in providing the United States with self-sufficiency in energy.
I commend you that Alaska is proceeding, with careful and efficient planning,
to produce more oil in harmony with appropriate environmental concerns. This
is important for you and for the rest of us.
Personally, I am very proud to stop and visit with you for a few minutes
today. It has been my good fortune to be in Alaska on several occasions in the
past and travel over a good part of this great State.
Then as now, it brought back the memories in the Congress of the United
States where, on more than one occasion, I was called upon to vote on whether
Alaska should be given statehood. You wouldn't be familiar with the record,
but I am. I was proud then, and I am proud now, to have always voted for
Alaskan statehood.
I deeply regret the very severe storm and flood damage that ravaged Nome
and the Seward Peninsula area in recent days. It is a sad and tragic story, and
at the Governor's request, a major disaster declaration was issued by me in
Washington so that the area could and will receive immediate assistance.
That is the least we can do, and with that assistance goes our prayers for the
very best under those difficult circumstances.
Quick action in this emergency must be taken to aid those affected and afflicted,
the Eskimos and others, and we wish them the best in their hour of need.
The State of Alaska is geographically separated from our other States-it
took us 7 hours and 20 minutes, I think, to fly from Washington, D.C.—but let
me say with emphasis, Alaska is very close to our hearts, to all of those in the
"Lower 48."
The hearty people of Alaska, together with the alert Armed Forces stationed
in this very strategic area, are a source of great pride to all of us, all of us
Americans.
Let me reassure you today that this Administration is energetically seeking
world peace but remains very aware that the best insurance for peace is the
maintenance of a first-class military force ready for action for the defense of
America and freedom everywhere.
616
