November 22
[255]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
program is of major importance to the security of the Republic of Korea and
peace on the Korean Peninsula. President Ford took note of the increasing share
of the defense burden which the Republic of Korea is able and willing to assume
and affirmed the readiness of the United States to continue to render appropri-
ate support to the further development of defense industries in the Republic of
Korea.
President Ford expressed his admiration for the rapid and sustained economic
progress of the Republic of Korea, accomplished in the face of various obstacles,
including the lack of sufficient indigenous natural resources and continuing ten-
sions in the area. President Park noted with appreciation the United States
contribution to Korea's development in the economic, scientific and technologi-
cal fields.
The two Presidents examined the impact of recent international economic
developments. They agreed that the two countries should continue to foster close
economic cooperation for their mutual benefit, and that they should guide their
economic policies toward each other in the spirit of closer interdependence
among all nations. They shared the view that coordination of their policies on
new problems confronting the international community is necessary. Both
Presidents expressed mutual satisfaction over the continuing growth of sub-
stantial bilateral economic relations which have been beneficial to both coun-
tries. They agreed that continued private foreign investment in Korea by the
United States and other foreign countries is desirable. It was agreed that inter-
national efforts should focus on the reduction of trade distortions, establishment
of a framework for ensuring stable food supplies, and realization of stable sup-
plies of energy at reasonable prices.
President Park expressed his high expectations and respect for the efforts being
made by President Ford to establish world peace and to restore world economic
order.
On behalf of the members of his Party and the American people, President
Ford extended his deepest thanks to President Park and all of the people of the
Republic of Korea for the warmth of their reception and the many courtesies
extended to him during the visit.
President Ford cordially invited President Park to visit the United States of
America and President Park accepted the invitation with pleasure. The two
Presidents agreed that the visit would take place at a time of mutual convenience.
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was released at Seoul, Republic of Korea.
655
