August 24
[35]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
branch. Their enactment is welcome evidence that the executive branch and the
Congress can work together to meet the needs of small business. In the Congress,
I have long supported small business as the backbone of our American enterprise
system. As President, I intend to encourage small business in every way I can.
There is one provision in this bill which disturbs me. That provision would
require SBA to make direct loans under its regular business loan program in an
aggregate amount of at least $400 million during fiscal year 1975. The 1975
budget, however, provides only $40 million for this direct loan program. Thus,
in the absence of reprograming, the effect of S. 3331, if fully funded, would be
to increase Federal budget outlays by $360 million this year.
At a time when both the Congress and the Administration are committed to
fighting inflation by reducing Federal spending, outlays of this magnitude
would be excessive. Therefore, I do not intend to request additional appropria-
tions to carry out the $400 million authorization for fiscal year 1975. The present
1975 budget request of $40 million, combined with the continuing success of
SBA's loan guarantee program, should ensure an adequate level of assistance for
small businessmen.
In sum, the bill is generally responsive to the needs of small businesses.
I commend the Congress for enacting it.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3331, approved August 23, 1974, is Public Law 93-386 (88 Stat. 742).
35
Remarks to the Michigan Republican State Convention.
August 24, 1974
Governor Milliken, Members of Congress, State candidates, and delegates to the
State Convention:
Greetings from Betty and me from the White House. You know I would have
liked to greet you in person as I have done so many times in the past at our State
conventions. However, the very sudden change in circumstances has made that
impossible at this time.
But I want you to know that I am thinking about my many, many good Michi-
gan friends gathered in Detroit. I want you to know, too, that there are many
good Michiganders who are helping greatly here in Washington in moving the
Ford Administration through the very difficult transition period. It is tough,
demanding work, but it is accomplishing our great goal.
The transition is going very smoothly. I can assure you that the Ford Admin-
51
