October 9
[127]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tion allowance but it provides for a gradual phase-out of the domestic oil deple-
tion allowance.
I am not going to quibble with the committee in every detail. I think we have
to buy a package that has far more good in it than those things that I might
object to.
Q. Mr. President, is it your own view that the oil depletion allowance should
be phased out?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes.2
FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION
[13.] Q. Mr. President, on another question other than the economy, on a
subject you haven't talked about before I don't believe, what is the Federal role
in public education as you see it? And I have a follow-up.
THE PRESIDENT. The role of the Federal Government-
Q. How little?
The President.————in the field of education is about what we are currently
doing with the Federal aid to education legislation for primary and elementary
schools. And I just signed the new education act. It was a step in the direction of
consolidating some 35 categorical grant programs into six or seven. I think this
is approximately the role of the Federal Government in primary and secondary
education.
In higher eduction, if my recollection is correct, I voted for the existing
higher education act. Therefore, I feel that it fundamentally is what the Fed-
eral Government should do in this area.
Q. Specifically, what are your views on Federal aid to private and parochial
schools?
The President. Well, I have personally expressed, over a long period of time,
that I think a tax credit proposal is a good proposal. The Supreme Court, unfor-
tunately a year or so ago, in effect declared such a program—I think it was in
the Pennsylvania case ³—as unconstitutional. I think that is regrettable because
3
2 At his news briefing on October 10, 1974, Press Secretary Ron Nessen said:
"The President, after reviewing the transcript of yesterday's news conference, asked me to state more
precisely his position on the oil depletion allowance.
"As long as the price of oil continues to be controlled, the President believes the elimination of the per-
centage depletion on domestic oil production would be a mistake.
"The President feels that oil should be sold on a free market basis, and he thinks that many oil producers
would be glad to trade percentage depletion in order to achieve the important result of a free market for oil.
"As for the foreign oil depletion allowance, the President believes that should be phased out imme-
diately and finally."
3 Committee for Public Education and Religious Liberty v. Nyquist, Commissioner of Education of
New York (413 U.S. 756).
251
