[121]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Three weeks ago, I released funds which, with earlier actions, provide public
service employment for some 170,000 who need work. I now propose to the
Congress a two-step program to augment this action.
First, 13 weeks of special unemployment insurance benefits would be pro-
vided to those who have exhausted their regular and extended unemployment
insurance benefits, and 26 weeks of special unemployment insurance benefits
to those who qualify but are not now covered by regular unemployment in-
surance programs. Funding in this case would come from the general treasury,
not from taxes on employers as is the case with the established unemployment
programs.
Second, I ask the Congress to create a brand new Community Improvement
Corps to provide work for the unemployed through short-term useful work
projects to improve, beautify, and enhance the environment of our cities, our
towns, and our countryside.
This standby program would come alive whenever unemployment exceeds
6 percent nationally. It would be stopped when unemployment drops below 6
percent. Local labor markets would each qualify for grants whenever their
unemployment rate exceeds 6.5 percent.
State and local government contractors would supervise these projects and
could hire only those who had exhausted their unemployment insurance bene-
fits. The goal of this new program is to provide more constructive work for all
Americans, young or old, who cannot find a job.
The purpose really follows this formula: Short-term problems require short-
term remedies. I therefore request that these programs be for a 1-year period.
Now, I know that low- and middle-income Americans have been hardest hit
by inflation. Their budgets are most vulnerable because a larger part of their
income goes for the highly inflated costs of food, fuel, and medical care.
The tax reform bill now in the House Committee on Ways and Means, which
I favor, already provides approximately $1.6 billion of tax relief to these groups.
Compensating new revenues are provided in this prospective legislation by a
windfall tax, profits tax on oil producers, and by closing other loopholes. If
enacted, this will be a major contribution by the Congress in our common effort
to make our tax system fairer to all.
Number six: stimulating housing. Without question, credit is the lifeblood of
housing. The United States, unfortunately, is suffering the longest and the most
severe housing recession since the end of World War II. Unemployment in the
construction trades is twice the national average.
One of my first acts as President was to sign the Housing and Community
234
