[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
At a White House press briefing on September 8, 1974, the principal portions
of Mr. Jaworski's opinion were made public. In this opinion, Mr. Jaworski
wrote that selection of a jury for the trial of the former President, if he were
indicted, would require a delay “of a period from nine months to a year,
and perhaps even longer." On the question of how long it would take to
conduct such a trial, he noted that the complexities of the jury selection made it
difficult to estimate the time. Copy of the full text of his opinion, dated Septem-
ber 4, 1974, I have now furnished to this subcommittee."
I did consult with my Counsel, Philip Buchen, with Benton Becker, and with
my Counsellor, John Marsh, who is also an attorney. Outside of these men, serv-
ing at the time on my immediate staff, I consulted with no other attorneys or
professors of law for facts or legal authorities bearing on my decision to grant
a pardon to the former President.
Questions eight and nine of H. Res. 1367 deal with the circumstances of any
statement requested or received from Mr. Nixon. I asked for no confession or
statement of guilt, only a statement in acceptance of the pardon when it was
granted. No language was suggested or requested by anyone acting for me to
my knowledge. My Counsel advised me that he had told the attorney for
Mr. Nixon that he believed the statement should be one expressing contrition,
and in this respect, I was told Mr. Miller concurred. Before I announced the
pardon, I saw a preliminary draft of a proposed statement from Mr. Nixon,
but I did not regard the language of the statement, as subsequently issued, to be
subject to approval by me or my representatives.
The tenth question covers any report to me on Mr. Nixon's health by a physi-
cian or psychiatrist, which led to my pardon decision. I received no such report.
Whatever information was generally known to me at the time of my pardon
decision was based on my own observations of his condition at the time he
resigned as President and observations reported to me after that from others
who had later seen or talked with him. No such reports were by people quali-
fied to evaluate medically the condition of Mr. Nixon's health, and so they
were not a controlling factor in my decision. However, I believed and still do,
that prosecution and trial of the former President would have proved a serious
threat to his health, as I stated in my message on September 8, 1974.
Tab C attached [page 351].
348
