[152]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me add one special concern that I had for the people of South Dakota when
this issue was presented to me and I rejected it. I thought of the people of South
Dakota and other States who have to travel not a couple of miles but many
miles to go to the doctor or to the hospital. I thought about the people in South
Dakota who have to go from their farms or their ranch to the implement dealer
or to the community where they trade.
A gasoline tax would unfairly, in my judgment, penalize those people. And
for that reason, among many others, I rejected it. And we are not going to have
it as long as I am in the White House.
There are some other things that have to be done, not just in agriculture, but
they have to be done in agriculture. We have got to increase productivity. But I
always like to add, when talking about productivity, that the statistics show that
in the last 20 or more years, the farmers of America have increased their
productivity more than any other segment of our economy in the whole United
States, and I applaud you for it.
But just because you are the champs doesn't mean you can't do better. And so
I am urging every one of you to make that little extra effort to make sure that we
get the maximum from our soil and from the toil of all of you.
Now there is one question that is always raised that if the farmer produces
more, responds to the demands of people in this country and around the world,
what kind of protection, what kind of guarantee does the farmer who has made
this special effort get?
Let me add this: I promise a fair return, a fully fair and adequate return to
the farmers of America, a fair profit on what you put in on your time, your labor,
your investment, and your facilities. This is what you deserve, and this is what
we have to guarantee.
And let me add, if I might, the problems and the concerns of the people of rural
America will not be buried under the concrete of big city interests.
There is one comment I would like to make, and it is somewhat a sad one. I am
particularly disturbed by the wasteful protest, the protest resulting in the
slaughtering of calves in Wisconsin just yesterday, at a time when we are trying
to increase the supply of food.
I fully recognize the frustration that prompted this shocking demonstration,
but their actions, I think, even if they reflect on it themselves, will contribute
nothing, nothing toward a solution to the problem that they face or the problems
that our country faces.
I am aware of the cost-price squeeze in which livestock producers and feeders
find themselves. I have requested from the Department of Agriculture and
322
