October 29
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Now, let me talk about why I am here. I came back to Grand Rapids because
on 13 different occasions in the past, over a period of 26 years, I campaigned in
the Fifth Congressional District-which originally was Ottawa and Kent
Counties and is now Kent and Ionia and four other counties-because I love
people, because I love the communities. And whether it was Ottawa, Kent,
Ionia, Clinton, Montcalm, et cetera, I love the communities and the people.
And as many of you know, I have taken "Jerry Ford's Main Street" office to
Byron Center, Standale, Caledonia, Alto, Rockford, Kent City, Sand Lake, Ionia,
Belding, Wells, Portland, and everyplace else, and it was a great privilege for me
to talk with you in the trailer.
It was a great privilege to go to your service club, to your farm bureau com-
munity meetings, to go to your churches, to your city hall, to meet you on the
street, to go to the Lowell Showboat, the Sparta rodeo, the red flannel celebra-
tion—well, you name it, wherever you had five people I went there, because I
like you. And I am back here today because I just could not stay away from this
area one more time. I thank you again for the opportunities of the past.
As I have seen so many of you here today, and as I said a moment ago, Grand
Rapids, Kent County, Ionia, Ottawa County, and the others—you are a good
cross-section of America. You represent all segments of our society. We have
some wonderful farms, we have some excellent businesses, we have some
tremendously productive working people in this community. We have—I am
prejudiced—but I think we have the best here, and all of you who are here
represent the best in America.
As I have said to our good friend, Mayor Lyman Parks, Grand Rapids is big
enough to have many of the problems of some of the major metropolitan areas.
We have enough diversification in agriculture, so that I learned from firsthand
experience the problems of the dairymen, the cattlemen, the applegrower, the
other people that produce so that all of us can eat.
But the main thing that I loved about this area was we had some big city
problems, but we were small enough so that you got to know people. You have
got to love them. You have got to enjoy working for whatever the problem was.
I do not know how many times I have walked down Cedar Springs behind about
five bands in that Cedar Springs Red Flannel Parade, or how many times I have
had the privilege of visiting one community or another.
It is a warmth, it is a friendliness, it is a look in the eye of people that makes
you welcome. And the most important thing is that people in this area seem to
want to work out the problems that they have, whether they are labor and
management on the one hand or consumer and producer on the other.
507
