December 10
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
assess administrative civil money penalties. Private individuals also have the
right to bring civil suits. Those discriminated against are offered means to exer-
cise their rights under the act. The Labor Department is also given increased
investigatory authority. In short, crew leaders now have greater responsibili-
ties toward the migrant workers they recruit.
-Other leaders' responsibilities are increased. Under this legislation, crew
leaders must obtain increased vehicle insurance coverage and provide transporta-
tion and housing which satisfy State and Federal health and safety require-
ments. Crew leaders must make a complete employment disclosure to the
migrant workers they recruit. This disclosure must now be written, and in a
language in which the workers are fluent.
—The act prohibits use of unregistered crew leaders and calls for improved
recordkeeping.
I strongly believe that these and the other amendments to the Farm Labor
Contractor Registration Act will go a long way toward improving the working
conditions of our Nation's migrant farm workers. I therefore am pleased to
have signed into law the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act Amendments
of 1974.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3202, approved December 7, 1974, is Public Law 93-518 (88 Stat. 1652).
287
Remarks at the Unveiling of a Portrait of
Representative George H. Mahon, Chairman of the
House Committee on Appropriations. December 10, 1974
Thank you very much, Jamie. Helen and George, Mr. Speaker, the distin-
guished leadership of the House, my former colleagues and friends:
You don't know how honored and wonderful I feel about coming up here to
say the things that come from the heart concerning George Mahon.
I am proud to say to George and his lovely wife Helen that I consider them
among the very best friends that I have ever had in the Government of the
United States.
In the House, according to the titles, George sat on the other side of the aisle,
but that is one of the things that I think are great about this Government, that
it doesn't really make much difference where Republicans or Democrats sit on so
many, many issues, and of course, the friendships that you develop over the
727
