October 13
[143]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
by a substantial intensification of general economic relations between the two
countries. They considered a mutual trade turnover of one billion dollars by
1976 and two billion dollars by 1980 to be a realistic and desirable goal.
They also agreed that the provisions contained in the “Joint Statement on the
Development of Agricultural Trade between the United States of America and
the Polish People's Republic" create possibilities for a further expansion of trade
in food and agricultural products as well as for cooperation in various sectors of
the agricultural economy.
They noted that the Joint American-Polish Trade Commission plays an
important role in the development of trade and economic cooperation.
President Ford and First Secretary Gierek expressed their deep satisfaction at
the conclusion during the visit of agreements in the fields of: Coal research;
Health; Environmental Protection; Cooperation in Science and Technology;
and Avoidance of Double Taxation.
They also welcome the conclusion of an agreement on the establishment of
working relationships between the U.S. and Polish Chambers of Commerce.
Both leaders stressed the significance of the broad development of cultural
and scientific cooperation between the United States and Poland and expressed
their conviction that this cooperation should be further developed.
The President and the First Secretary emphasized the importance of historical
traditions in strengthening the bonds of sympathy and friendship between the
United States and Poland. A positive role in this strengthening of mutual
relations has been played by American citizens of Polish descent. Both leaders
undertook to encourage and support further development of those and other
contacts between the American and Polish people.
The President and the First Secretary conducted a broad and useful exchange
of views on the most important international issues with special emphasis on
European questions. They agreed that there exist a number of spheres in which
both countries can contribute to the strengthening of peace and international
security.
Both leaders expressed satisfaction with the results of the talks they held and
agreed that consultations will continue between the two countries at various levels
on matters concerning their mutual relations, including the assessment of the
implementation of the agreements that were concluded as well as on important
international issues of mutual interest.
The First Secretary and Mrs. Gierek expressed their warm gratitude for the
hospitality and friendliness accorded to them in the United States.
297
