[39]
August 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
SALT TALKS
[27.] Q. Mr. President, when do you expect the SALT talks to resume, and
is there a disagreement over our position in the Pentagon and State Depart-
ment and other agencies?
THE PRESIDENT. At the present time, there is an effort being made to bring
the Department of Defense, the State Department, and any others together for
a resolution of our, the United States, position regarding SALT Two. This deci-
sion will be made in a relatively near future. I don't think there are any basic
difficulties that cannot be resolved internally within our Government. I believe
that Secretary Kissinger is going to be meeting with representatives from the
Soviet Union in the near future, I think in October, if my memory is correct,
and we, of course, will then proceed on a timetable to try and negotiate SALT
Two. I think a properly negotiated, effective strategic arms limitation agreement
is in the best interests of ourselves, the Soviet Union, and a stable international
situation.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press). Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's first news conference began at 2:30 p.m. in the East Room at the White House. It
was broadcast live on radio and television.
40
Statement on Signing the Public Works for Water and Power
Development and Atomic Energy Commission Appropriation
Act, 1975. August 29, 1974
I HAVE signed H.R. 15155, a public works appropriations bill for fiscal year
1975 providing funds for water and power development, the Atomic Energy
Commission, and related agencies and commissions.
The bill raises for one of the first times the question of how well the executive
and legislative branches can cooperate in carrying out the new Congressional
Budget Act of 1974. Under that act, a President who signs an appropriations bill
but wishes to avoid spending all of the funds may either seek a rescission of
appropriations or seek a deferral. In either case, the President's action requires
the concurrence of the Congress.
This public works bill is troublesome because it would increase the 1975 out-
lays by $80 million above the budget and would commit us to major outlay
increases in future years. I am strongly opposed to those increases because they
would intensify our number one problem—inflation.
66
