November 2
[219]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I intend to carry out the meat import law, which means there will be no meat
imports in violation of that legislation. We will not grant any exceptions or
waivers thereto. And I suspect there are a few dairy farmers in this group. How
many are here? Aren't we lucky? They are all out working, and we are having
a good time.
But let me say this: I intend to not change the present dairy import quotas,
because I do not think we can, under the present circumstances, justify any in-
crease in the quotas. And therefore, I think the dairy people will support the
fine, firm, discerning action that Secretary Butz has recommended to me.
But let me add one other thing. You know, we as Americans like competition.
I don't mind a German or a Dutchman or a Frenchman competing with me on
an equal basis, but I will be doggone if I want the Government to subsidize the
product he is trying to sell to the American people.
We will challenge him on the open fields, head-to-head, and we will do all
right. Some of the foreign governments in Western Europe have been doing—
by what they call countervailing duties—subsidizing dairy products in their
countries. We won't stand for it, and if they are going to do that, we will chal-
lenge them, head-to-head.
Now, one final observation in the great field of agriculture: You produce
tremendous cattle in this country, either cattle feeders or out on the range. I like
it either way, but let me say this: We know that in some of the countries such as
Australia, Argentina, and elsewhere, they have got tremendous numbers that
are about to be exported, some perhaps to us.
In the meantime, Japan, Western Europe, Canada has imposed arbitrary limi-
tations on the export of American products to those countries. I will say to you:
They are not going to limit our imports, and we are going to hold the line on
exports to the United States.
Let me make one final observation and comment. Inflation, according to all
the scorecards, is the biggest problem that faces most Americans. Eighty-three
percent of the American people think this is the hardest, the toughest, thè
strongest issue in this great campaign, and I think I agree. As I travel around
the country, I have listened to a lot of people; I talked with many. And it does
bother people.
One of the root causes of inflation in America is the irresponsible fiscal policy
of your Federal Government. We have to change it. Now, I don't believe that in
good conscience I could stand here and say that every Republican is an inflation
fighter and every Democrat is a spender. I could not honestly say that, and if I
567
