August 28
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. I had no part in just how that House action was taken. I did
discuss, coming back from the VFW meeting in Chicago, with a number of
Members of the House and Senate, the problem that I faced with the bill that
came out of conference, which would have added $780-some million over and
above the budget for this year and a substantial increase for a number of succeed-
ing years.
But that particular compromise was put together and brought to the floor
of the House without any participation by me. I think there are some good
provisions in that particular House action. It does tend to equalize the benefits
for Vietnam veterans with the benefits that were given to World War II and to
Korean veterans.
There are some, I think, inequities, and you probably pointed out one. I hope
when the Congress reconvenes within a week or so that they will go back to
conference, take a good look, and hopefully eliminate any inequities and keep
the price down because it is inflationary the way it was and it may be the way it
was proposed by the House.
ANTI-INFLATION MEASURES AND THE FEDERAL BUDGET
[19.] Q. Mr. President, concerning the Federal budget, will the domestic
social programs have to bear the whole brunt of the anti-inflation fight or can
some money come out of the defense budget, and if so, how much?
THE PRESIDENT. No budget for any department is sacrosanct, and that includes
the defense budget. I insist, however, that sufficient money be made available to
the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force so that we are strong militarily for the
purpose of deterring war or meeting any challenge by any adversary. But if there
is any fat in the defense budget, it ought to be cut out by Congress or eliminated
by the Secretary of Defense.
In the meantime, all other departments must be scrutinized carefully so that
they don't have any fat and marginal programs are eliminated.
Mrs. Tufty [Esther Van Wagoner Tufty, Tufty News Service].
DOMESTIC PRIORITIES
[20.] Q. Mr. President, you have given top priority to inflation. Do you have
a list of priorities, and if so, what is number two?
The President. Well, of course, public enemy number one, and that is the
one we have to lick, is inflation. If we take care of inflation and get our economy
back on the road to a healthy future, I think most of our other domestic programs
or problems will be solved.
63
