December 18
[307]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
spoken about the true meaning of Christmas. None have ever said it more
eloquently than "on earth peace, good will toward men." And that is my final
Christmas wish for all of us.
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:55 p.m. at the 21st
annual Pageant of Peace ceremonies on the Ellipse
near the White House.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Walter E. Washington, mayor of the District of
Columbia, and Edwin K. Hoffman, vice-chairman
of the 1974 Christmas Pageant of Peace Honorary
Committee.
The President's remarks were broadcast live on
radio and television.
307
Veto of Willow Creek, Oregon, Flood Control
Project Legislation. December 18, 1974
To the United States Senate:
I have withheld my approval from S. 3537, "To modify section 204 of the Flood
Control Act of 1965."
This bill would authorize a revised Willow Creek Project in Oregon and
provide for advance payment of the Federal share of the cost to relocate the
water system of the nearby town of Heppner.
The Department of the Army, on behalf of the Administration, opposed this
bill in committee on the grounds that it raised unresolved issues relative to the
general principles and standards governing the evaluation of water resources
projects.
These departures include:
-Re-evaluation of the project by using questionable methods for calculating
benefits.
---Coupled with these methods of computing benefits, retention of an interest
rate of 3¼ percent provided for in the original 1965 project authorization, com-
pared to the present rate of 5% percent now being used.
-Authorization for advance payment of the Federal share of the costs to
relocate the town's water system, as compared to the standard approach—to await
the actual beginning of construction of a project.
While I fully understand the desire of the town of Heppner to obtain Federal
assistance in financing its water system, I cannot, in good conscience, accept the
departures which S. 3537 would make from the established principles and
standards that are employed in the evaluation of other water resources projects.
761
