[123]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
tribution to the Vienna talks on troops and arms
reduction in Central Europe.
We are convinced that the United States is also
vitally interested in a lasting peace on our continent
and can indeed make a substantial and constructive
contribution to that cause. We rest assured of the
indivisibility of and the universal need for peace and
of the desire common to all nations for security,
justice, and a better morale.
I trust that also in the strivings to achieve these
great objectives closer cooperation between both our
countries is possible and necessary.
My first day in Washington and, above all, the
talks I had with you, Mr. President, reaffirm me in
my conviction that together we can open up new,
broader prospects for the development of Polish-
U.S. cooperation. I am reassured in this also by
the good climate in which all our meetings are held
and which is typical of the friendly relations ob-
taining between our two peoples.
Mr. President, I should like to propose a toast. To
your very good health and all success in steering the
affairs of the great United States, for the speediest
recovery of Mrs. Ford, to your good health, ladies
and gentlemen, to the development of friendly co-
operation between our peoples and states, to world
peace.
124
Remarks on Departure of Secretary of State Henry A.
Kissinger for the Middle East. October 9, 1974
IT IS nice to see you all, and I just came out with all the Cabinet members and
others in the Administration to express our appreciation to the Secretary of State
for going on this vitally important mission and to indicate my full support and
the support of the Administration for the, I think, tremendous efforts to bring
peace in an area of the world that has been so volatile and controversial that it
is important for the world, as well as the countries involved, that the maximum
efforts for peace be made.
This country and this Administration are going to work with the skill and
imagination of Dr. Kissinger in seeking that result.
We wish you the very best.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 a.m. at Andrews
Air Force Base, Md., where Secretary Kissinger
departed for a 7-day trip to seven Middle East
countries.
Secretary Kissinger responded to the President's
remarks as follows:
I appreciate very much, Mr. President, your com-
ing out to see me off. The problem of contributing
to peace in the Middle East is a very complicated one,
but as I have had occasion to say before, it is a source
of pride to all Americans that it is the United States
that all parties trust, and that we will attempt to
make some progress.
I would like to say to the President that this is
the first time in a long time that one can go on these
missions with an America that is at peace with
itself.
Thank you very much.
242
