August 18
[14]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Specifically, His Majesty and the President recalled that the joint U.S.-Jordanian
statement issued June 18 at the end of President Nixon's visit to Amman an-
nounced that Jordan and the United States agreed to establish a Joint Commis-
sion to oversee and review at a high level the various areas of cooperation
between the two countries. In fulfilling this agreement, the U.S. and Jordan
have pledged to make every effort to expedite the development of an effective
structure of cooperation and have agreed on the following concrete steps:
The United States and Jordan have established a general Jordan-United
States Joint Commission under the chairmanship of the Jordanian Prime Min-
ister and the U.S. Secretary of State. The first meetings of this Commission
were held during the Prime Minister's visit to Washington August 5–8 and
August 16–17 during which promising areas of mutual interest were identified.
The Commission will sponsor a meeting on economic development, trade
and investment before the end of the year to review plans for Jordan's economic
development and identify additional areas in which the United States can be of
assistance. Work will begin immediately in Amman and Washington to pre-
pare for this meeting. The Commission will also explore possibilities for in-
creased American private participation in Jordan's economic development and
ways of increasing trade between the two countries. Mr. Daniel Parker will
head the American Delegation to the economic meeting, which will also include
representation from various government agencies. The Jordanian Economic
Delegation will be headed by Dr. Khalil Salem, President of the National
Planning Council.
The Commission will arrange meetings on military assistance and supply
problems at a mutually acceptable date to review implementation of continuing
U.S. assistance to the Jordanian Armed Forces and to advance planning for
future assistance. Jordan's Chief of Staff, Major General Zaid bin Shaker, and
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Ambas-
sador Robert Ellsworth, will head the respective delegations.
It was further agreed that Jordan and the United States will give attention
to the means by which educational, cultural, and scientific cooperation between
the two countries can be enhanced.
Finally, the President and His Majesty agreed that they would remain in
close contact with each other with a view to giving their full support to the
efforts being made to achieve peace in the Middle East and to the further
strengthening of the ties between their two countries.
His Majesty expressed the hope that the President would be able to visit
Jordan at some future date. The President said he would be happy to do so.
21
