October 28
[192]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
spect and with understanding. Eighty percent also said that if they needed hospi-
tal care again, they would want to come back to the very same hospital. That is,
in my judgment, a pretty impressive vote of confidence from the veterans
themselves.
By and large, the report concludes that, in general, VA medicine is first-rate.
Where problems still exist, I have asked the VA Administrator, Dick Roude-
bush, to let me know what is needed to eliminate those problems. I am deter-
mined to do everything I can to make a good system even better—and it will
be-to make sure that the veterans receive the best possible treatment. Dick
Roudebush understands veterans' problems and has the legislative experience
it will take to work with the Congress as well as with the Administration and
veterans organizations in meeting this very great challenge.
In difficult times, our veterans of all ages agreed with and kept faith with us.
They kept America free and enabled us to keep faith with the free world. On
this historic day, let us resolve anew to keep faith with them.
One of the first and the greatest men to serve the American flag was George
Washington, and he left behind an eloquent warning, and I quote: “To be pre-
pared for war," George Washington said, "is one of the most effectual means of
preserving peace."
More than once in our history we have forgotten that warning. Each time we
have paid a very, very heavy toll in human suffering.
As a young man myself in the 1930's, I remember the isolationism that blinded
so many Americans to the menace of Hitler's Germany and its totalitarianism.
Most of us regrettably thought that the vast oceans, the Atlantic and the Pacific,
would somehow insulate our country from any foreign danger. We thought,
mistakenly, that we could go it alone, but we had a very rude awakening Decem-
ber 7, 1941.
Then a young generation of Americans witnessed firsthand the devastation
of World War II and vowed never again to repeat the mistakes of the twenties
and the thirties. We vowed to keep America strong. Never again would our
weakness invite attack. We built an international network of mutual security
so that the strength and the solidarity of the free world would deter any adver-
saries from aggression.
During the past decade, our whole fundamental policy of mutual security and
strength has come under sharp attack. I do not intend on this occasion to go into
any detailed justification of our entire post-World War II national security
policy.
477
