[80]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. What reports have you received on Mr. Nixon's health, and what effect,
if any, did this have on your decision to pardon him now?
THE PRESIDENT. I have asked Dr. Lukash, who is the head physician in the
White House, to keep me posted in proper channels as to the former President's
health. I have been informed on a routine day-to-day basis, but I don't think
I am at liberty to give any information as to those reports that I have received.
You also asked what impact did the President's health have on my decision.
I think it is well known that just before I gave my statement, at the time that
I gave the pardon, I personally wrote in a phrase "the threat to the President's
health."
The main concern that I had at the time I made the decision was to heal the
wounds throughout the United States. For a period of 18 months or longer, we
had had turmoil and divisiveness in the American society. At the same time,
the United States had major problems, both at home and abroad, that needed
the maximum personal attention of the President and many others in the
Government.
It seemed to me that as long as this divisiveness continued, this turmoil existed,
caused by the charges and countercharges, the responsible people in the Govern-
ment could not give their total attention to the problems that we had to solve
at home and abroad.
And the net result was I was more anxious to heal the Nation-that was the
top priority. And I felt then, and I feel now, that the action I took will do that.
I couldn't be oblivious, however, to news accounts that I had concerning the
President's health, but the major reason for the action I took related to the effort
to reconcile divisions in our country and to heal the wounds that had festered
far too long.
Q. Mr. President, after you had told us that you were going to allow the
legal process to go on before you decided whether to pardon him, why did
you decide on Sunday morning, abruptly, to pardon President Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't decide abruptly. I explained a moment ago the process
that I went through subsequent to the last press conference. And when I had
assembled all of that information that came to me through my counsel, I then
most carefully analyzed the situation in the country, and I decided that we
could not afford in America an extended period of continued turmoil. And the
fact that the trial and all of the parts thereof would have lasted a year, perhaps
more, with the continuation of the divisions in America, I felt that I should
take the action that I did promptly and effectively.
148
