September 5
[54]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
wonderful addition to our community. And I think it is indicative of what can
be done and will be done in the months and years ahead under the leadership
of the Council of Arts and the leadership of Nancy, because you have to have
a broad-based public, I think, range of activities, ranging from those that I know
best to those that others know far better than I.
And the arts are an important and integral part of our better society. And I
compliment you all, those on the Council at the present, those who have been
there in the past, and those who will be assuming responsibilities in the future.
I think it is a great addition to our society here in the United States, and we
can be as proud as any of our old countries in what we have done in America, and
we are going to do infinitely better.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:55 p.m. in the
Atrium at the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, after being introduced by Nancy
Hanks, Chairman of the National Council on the
Arts.
54
Remarks Opening the Conference on Inflation.
September 5, 1974
Good morning:
It is a pleasure to be here with the distinguished Members of the Congress,
both Democratic and Republican, and the very eminent group of economists
and guests.
I look forward to a very beneficial and fruitful meeting this morning. This
meeting marks the start of our national Conference on Inflation. I have called
this series of working conferences in response to a bipartisan recommendation
by the United States Senate and with the cooperation of concerned citizens
representing all elements of our American society.
Our purpose is to find ways by which we, the American people, can come to
grips with our economic difficulties and surmount them.
This has been called a summit conference. Maybe that title is a bit misleading.
Recent summit conferences have been held between leaders of international
adversaries with the hope of reducing their differences. Around this table there
are no adversaries. We come together as allies to draw upon, or to draw up, I
should say, a battle plan against a common enemy, inflation. Inflation is our
domestic enemy number one.
87
