[271]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, since the Defense Department had already had a sizable reduction by
the Congress, I felt we had to go across the rest of the spectrum of the Federal
Government to find additional reductions.
Now, what we have done was to require certain individuals, for example, who
wanted food stamps to pay slightly more in order to qualify for food stamps. We
called upon the Congress to slow down, in some instances, public works projects.
We tried in the $4.6 billion reduction to spread the reductions across the board,
and I think if you look at what the Congress did in the first place and what we
have proposed in the second, it is a fairly well balanced program.
[22.] Q. To follow up, a question that is reaching but is still in the economic
ballpark: If the ceiling works, will there ever be a saving, an actual saving, in
expenditures for strategic weapons?
THE PRESIDENT. Very, very definitely, and that is the fundamental question
that we have answered. If there had been no ceiling of 2,400 on launchers and
1,320 on MIRV's, we would have had an arms race. The Soviet Union had plans
and programs, we believe, to substantially increase the number of launchers and
to substantially go beyond 1,320 on the MIRV's.
And we have the capability, and I think if there had been an arms race with
the Soviet Union going higher and higher and higher, we as a nation, for our
own security, would have been forced to do precisely the same.
So, Mr. Brezhnev and I agreed that we first had to cap the arms race, both in
launchers and in MIRV's. We have done that, and I wish to compliment Mr.
Brezhnev, because his opening statement, if I can paraphrase it, was that he and
I, his country and ours, had an obligation to not indulge in an arms race, to put
a cap on the proposed expenditures in both categories.
It was a statesmanlike approach at the outset, and because he believed that,
and because I believe it, I think we made substantial progress, and I strongly
defend what we did.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's fifth news conference began Office Building. It was broadcast live on radio and
at 7:31 p.m. in Room 450 at the Old Executive
television.
690
