[188]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
abroad. I am here because I think the elections coming up in a relatively short
period of time—12 days to be exact—that is what America's democracy is all
about.
It is time for you and your fellow Iowans to speak up for those that you want
in Washington to speak up for you, and you have an opportunity in this relatively
short period of time to make a difference. You are here because you can make a
contribution, but you have got 12 short days to spread your influence, your en-
thusiasm, your dedication, your conviction.
I think we all recognize there is no force so powerful as that very quiet deci-
sion that you and other Iowans and millions of other Americans make in the
privacy of the voting booth. I think you here understand the power, and you
in the past, because of your dedication and support, have used it wisely, and
obviously, because you are here, you will use it wisely November 5.
But let me make a few observations, if I can, to maybe reach, invigorate some
of the enthusiasm you have, the conviction that you really have.
Your Governor, Bob Ray, is the living proof of your wise decision in three
previous gubernatorial elections. As I travel around the country, I have an op-
portunity to see Governors-Democrats as well as Republicans—and I can say
without any hestitation, reservation, or qualification, that you in Iowa have in
Bob Ray one of the very, very best, and I congratulate you. He is a problem-
solver, a man of action. He is the kind of Republican leader that I like. And he
is the kind you need as your Governor for the next 4 years.
But, if I might, let's move from Des Moines to Washington. Dave Stanley is
campaigning vigorously. He has crossed the State and recrossed it, and he is
campaigning for one of the highest offices in our land. He is tireless, imagina-
tive, experienced-a man committed to squeezing the last bit, the last bit of
spending out of the taxpayer's dollar, so that you get a good return for the dol-
lars you send to Washington, D.C. And I urge you as strongly as I can to send
Dave Stanley to Washington.
On January 3, 1949, I had the privilege of being sworn in alongside of H. R.
Gross. Let me make this prediction: The House of Representatives will never be
the same without him. H. R. Gross has been the conscience of the House of
Representatives for more than 25 years, and he has been a tremendous saver of
the taxpayer's dollars. Believe me, he set a high standard. We need more people
like H. R. Gross in the Washington scene in the House as well as in the Senate.
Bill Scherle and Wiley Mayne I served with, and I can give a personal testi-
monial about both of them. They worked with me, they were helpful, yet they
456
