October 29
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
But Paul has the brains and the conscience and the understanding to sift out
the good from the bad and to give you a right answer. And therefore, without
hesitation, reservation, or qualification, I can tell you I have already voted for
Paul by absentee voter's ballot.
I am not going to try and vote again. Once is enough to show my support for
a darned good Congressional candidate.
Now, let me add one final word, if I may. There are some people on the dais
here who, to some extent, began politics about the same time I did or had an
interest in it.
We are sort of that generation that came along after World War II-most
of us came back from some military service. Most of us saw the mistakes that
our country made in the twenties and the thirties when we thought, mistakenly,
that the Atlantic Ocean on one side and the Pacific on the other would be an
adequate protection, and that we as a nation could close our eyes, close our
ears, and not pay attention to the problems in the rest of the world and let them
fight it out, whatever they wanted to do.
That was the mistake of the twenties and the thirties, and the consequence
was, between Hitler and Mussolini and others, we got involved in a contest
between freedom on the one hand and the effort on the part of some to subju-
gate people on the other.
Whether it was in Hitler's Germany or Mussolini's Italy or elsewhere, the
issue was clear-cut, and 16 million Americans went to war in the Pacific or in the
Atlantic. And you know, most of us came back convinced that this was a globe
and we had to live together and work together, to find peace together, to build
together, to help one another in one way or another.
As I said down at Calder, the one that convinced me that this approach was
right—the approach of cooperation—was Arthur Vandenberg, a great Senator
from our city and from our State.
And Arthur Vandenberg convinced me that if we were going to solve the
problems of the Mediterranean, we had to support Harry Truman's program of
Greek-Turkey aid; that we had to help a Democratic President even though
both Senator Vandenberg and I were Republicans, by helping the rehabilitation,
the reconstruction of Western Europe, including the Netherlands.
And he convinced me that we on the other side of the political aisle had to help
a Democratic President build a sufficiently strong defense program, not for
aggression, but for the maintenance of peace. So, Arthur Vandenberg was a
great, great leader for our country and a great inspiration to me.
519
