August 28
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
limited number of individuals, who make decisions. I will make the decisions
and take the blame for them or whatever benefit might be the case.
I said in one of my speeches after the swearing in, there would be no illegal
wiretaps, there would be none of the other things that to a degree helped to
precipitate the Watergate crisis.
CODE OF ETHICS
[8.] Q. Do you plan to set up a code of ethics for the executive branch?
THE PRESIDENT. The code of ethics that will be followed will be the example
that I set.
CONTROL OF INFLATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, do you have any plans now for immediate steps to
control and curtail inflation, even before your summit conference on the
economy?
THE PRESIDENT. We have announced that as far as fiscal control is concerned,
we will spend less in the Federal Government in the current fiscal year than $300
billion. That is a reduction of $5,500 million at a minimum.
This, I think, will have two effects: Number one, it will be substantially bene-
ficial, it will make our borrowings from the money market less, freeing more
money for housing, for the utilities to borrow, and, in addition, I think it will
convince people who might have some doubts that we mean business.
But in the meantime, we are collecting other ideas from labor, from manage-
ment, from agriculture, from a wide variety of the segments of our population
to see if they have any better ideas for us to win the battle against inflation.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, as you know, a number of people have questioned
your opposition to a return to wage and price controls. Gardner Ackley, a Uni-
versity of Michigan economist that you have listened to in the past, recently testi-
fied before Congress that if we are really frightened about inflation, we ought to
think about returning to wage and price controls.
Can you foresee any circumstances under which you would be willing to do
that and make them work?
THE PRESIDENT. I foresee no circumstances under which I can see the reim-
position of wage and price controls. The situation is precisely this: This past week
I had a meeting with the Democratic and Republican leadership, plus my own
advisers in the field of our national economy. There was an agreement, number
one, that I would not ask for any wage and price control legislation. There was
59
