October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
office, and I believe may be exercised as well by a past President if the informa-
tion sought pertains to his official functions when he was serving in office.
I bring up these important points before going into the balance of my state-
ment, so there can be no doubt that I remain mindful of the rights of
confidentiality which a President may and ought to exercise in appropriate
situations. However, I do not regard my answers as I have prepared them for
purposes of this inquiry to be prejudicial to those rights in the present circum-
stances or to constitute a precedent for responding to Congressional inquiries
different in nature or scope or under different circumstances.
Accordingly, I shall proceed to explain as fully as I can in my present answers
the facts and circumstances covered by the present resolutions of inquiry. I shall
start with an explanation of these events which were the first to occur in the
period covered by the inquiry, before I became President. Then I will respond
to the separate questions as they are numbered in H. Res. 1367 and as they
specifically relate to the period after I became President.
H. Res. 13675 before this subcommittee asks for information about certain
conversations that may have occurred over a period that includes when I was a
Member of Congress or the Vice President. In that entire period, no references
or discussions on a possible pardon for then President Nixon occurred until
August 1 and 2, 1974.
You will recall that since the beginning of the Watergate investigations, I
had consistently made statements and speeches about President Nixon's
innocence of either planning the break-in or of participating in the coverup. I
sincerely believed he was innocent.
Even in the closing months before the President resigned, I made public
statements that in my opinion the adverse revelations so far did not constitute
an impeachable offense. I was coming under increasing criticism for such public
statements, but I still believed them to be true based on the facts as I knew them.
In the early morning of Thursday, August 1, 1974, I had a meeting in my Vice
Presidential office, with Alexander M. Haig, Jr., chief of staff for President
Nixon. At this meeting, I was told in a general way about fears arising because of
additional tape evidence scheduled for delivery to Judge Sirica on Monday,
August 5, 1974. I was told that there could be evidence which, when disclosed
to the House of Representatives, would likely tip the vote in favor of impeach-
ment. However, I was given no indication that this development would lead to
any change in President Nixon's plans to oppose the impeachment vote.
5 Tab A attached [page 350].
341
