[151]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I can speak from very personal relations with Tom Curtis. We were
friends. Our families were good friends. I watched him day after day after day
on the floor of the House, and he was the kind of a Congressman and he is the
kind of a Senator that I would want to vote for if I lived in the State of Missouri.
I often say that one of the things our big spenders don't understand and don't
realize is that as they try to allegedly help some beneficiaries and promise them
this and promise them that—and I think Tom would agree with me 100
percent in this very simple statement-some of the big spenders don't under-
stand that a government big enough to give us everything we want is a gov-
ernment big enough to take from us everything we have.
And in the economic message that I sent to the Congress a week ago Tuesday,
I asked the Congress to set a spending limit of $300 billion, which is $5.4 billion
less than the proposed expenditures submitted to the Congress last January.
We can meet that target and it would be a lot more attainable if we had some
of those “show me" Congressmen from Missouri like Gene Taylor and Tom
Curtis.
They would ask those tough questions: What is the money for? What are you
going to do with it? Why can't you trim it? Why can't we cut back in a reason-
able, responsible way in this tough struggle that we have to get away from
double-digit inflation, to give our country the leadership throughout the world
in trying to set an example for other nations, to tighten our belts and bolster
the free world as it meets in many ways the challenges of those who have a dif-
ferent philosophical view, a different ideology?
Well, the other question I would like to speak about this morning was brought
home to me very vividly last night and again this morning. One of our major
objectives, in this case it is Democratic and Republican, is the maintenance of
peace throughout the world-peace through negotiation, not through
confrontation.
Last night, as I was having a cup of coffee working with some of my staff,
I was sitting in a room in the Muehlebach Hotel, and I looked up and there were
two pictures of Harry Truman. One of those pictures showed Harry Truman, a
great Democratic President, signing in May of 1947 the Greek-Turkish aid pro-
gram. And history has a strange way of repeating itself. The cooperation be-
tween a great Democratic President from the State of Missouri and the co-
operation of a great United States Senator from my home State, the State of
Michigan, Arthur Vandenberg, brought together the United States in a pro-
gram aimed at saving the Mediterranean-helping Greece and Turkey and
316
