[58]
September 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yes, there was plenty of pessimism in the land in 1774 when the First Con-
tinental Congress gathered in the City Tavern over there someplace. And, the
problems they faced were enough to drive the bravest patriots to a tavern.
Individually and collectively, the 13 colonies were divided by class, by tradi-
tion, by religion, by ethnic origins, and by economic interests. And as for a cen-
tral structure of government, they had to make that up as they went along.
On the opening day of the First Continental Congress when the countdown
to our independence began, Patrick Henry struck, I think, an appropriate and
common chord. In his opening address, he declared, and I quote: The distinc-
tions between Virginians, Pennsylvanians, New Yorkers and New England-
ers are no more. I am [not] a Virginian, but I am an American.
This, I think, is a unique insight into the attitude of the Congress: their deter-
mination of all for one and one for all. The punitive acts that were directed at
Massachusetts and the closing of Boston Harbor would have diverted trade and
commerce to other ports-to New York, to Philadelphia, to Baltimore, and to
Norfolk. Yet unselfishly, even in that day, all the colonies knew that any such
benefits would only be temporary-the cause of Boston in that day was the cause
of all of them.
America has a sense of unity today. The cause of the South is the cause of the
North; the cause of the West is the cause of the East. We are today, as our fore-
fathers were, bound together in the great American experiment—the greatest ex-
periment in the history of man governing himself.
Yet the American Revolution remains a lesson as to what a few, a very few,
dedicated people can do. Today we number 50 States and span a continent. We
reach northward to the Pacific and Alaska, and west to the islands of Hawaii.
Our people number more than 211 million.
Two hundred years ago our population in those 13 sparsely populated colonies
were 2½ million. Historians estimate that of that number only one-third-one-
third out of 2½ million-provided the strength and the fiber and the dedication
of the Revolution. We can call them the patriots. Another third felt very deeply
their allegiance to the Crown. Some served in the King's army; some fled to
England, Canada, or other British colonies. They were the loyalists. The other
one-third sat on the fence. I guess today we would call them mugwumps. But
history fortunately has long forgotten the timid.
Last December, the Congress created a Federal American Revolutionary Bi-
centennial Administration to coordinate and facilitate Bicentennial activities.
The new Administration is now hard at work on a nonpartisan basis, with the
94
