November 22
[252]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
feeling of making the most out of what you have available, which was the his-
tory of Japan in its early days, and then to see these beautiful instruments and
fine playing by the young ladies—the beautiful costumes-I think it is a real
inspiration for those of us who have had an opportunity to be here today in
Kyoto, traditional capital of Japan.
I thank all of you and thank all of you for your thoughtfulness and your
hospitality.
REPORTER. How is the trip going, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it has been a wonderful trip. It couldn't have been
better, both substantively and otherwise.
Q. What have you enjoyed most, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. The opportunity to see not only the Government officials but
an opportunity to see a great deal of the Japanese history and people. It has been
an inspiration as well as a very productive 3 days.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:15 p.m. While in Kyoto, the President also visited the Imperial Palace
and Kinkakuji Temple (the Gold Pavilion).
252
Remarks on Arrival at Seoul, Republic of Korea.
November 22, 1974
Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
I am very pleased to return to the Republic of Korea, our faithful ally, on a
mission of peace.
Twenty-one years have elapsed since I was last here in Korea. I was then a
Congressman, a Member of our House of Representatives. Now I return as the
third American President to visit you while in office. President Eisenhower
came here in 1952 and again in 1960. President Johnson came in 1966. Those
visits as well as mine demonstrate a close involvement of different American
administrations over a quarter of a century. They reflect the same reality—our
long and friendly ties to the Korean people.
When I came to Korea in 1953, I saw a heartrending scene. The Republic of
Korea had been ravaged by war. You had made great sacrifices to repel aggres-
sion. Your economy was in ruins. I was deeply saddened by what I saw, but I was
inspired by the determination of the Korean people to rebuild.
Today I am very happy to return. I want to see the great progress that so many
649
