[184]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let the Congress know that you want some affirmative action on what I
think was a sound, constructive, 31-point program for the controlling of inflation
on the one hand and a stimulant in a constructive way for our economy on the
other.
Yes, we can whip inflation. We can keep the economy moving. We can save
energy. But Congress has to act. And so far, their performance, controlled by
the opposition, has been minimal.
I happen to think what this country needs is a responsive and responsible
House as well as Senate. We need men and women who will, in the words of
one television commentator, praise the Lord and pass the legislation.
Let me conclude with one final plea. I came to Washington in January of
1949—young, enthusiastic, stimulated by what had transpired in the previous
2 years. We had a Democratic President, Harry Truman, and the previous 2
years, we had had a Republican Congress, the so-called 80th Congress.
And that Democratic President and that Republican Congress, seeing the
evils and failures of the twenties and thirties in the handling of foreign
policy in this country, decided that on a bipartisan basis we ought to forget parti-
sanship and move in foreign policy for the country, regardless of your party
affiliation.
We had the Marshall Plan. We had foreign aid. We had decisions made by
President Truman supported by a Republican Congress. And we laid the
foundation, the groundwork for a quarter of a century or more of, I think, con-
structive foreign policy.
This last Congress, despite the leadership of the Democrats as well as the
Republicans, started to tear apart this bipartisanship. We have a Republican Presi-
dent and a Democratic Congress, and I fear that if this destruction of a bipartisan
foreign policy goes on, our leadership in this country—as a country at the head
of the free world, trying to avoid and avert a catastrophic situation—if this
bipartisanship is destroyed by one roadblock, one hindrance, one limitation after
another, no President, me or anyone that follows me, can do a job for peace—a
job for peace.
We need a Congress that will stand up and go shoulder-to-shoulder with the
President who wants to find and keep peace in the Middle East, who wants to
find the key to the problems between the Greeks and the Turks over Cyprus, a
President who wants to see that the Mediterranean is free of Soviet domination.
Teamwork between the Congress and the President can insure this kind of
success whether it is making NATO stronger, making Western Europe a bastion
of strength economically, diplomatically.
446
