September 24
[98]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
is the same as that of the NHLI's first program plan: “to marshall national
resources for promoting and restoring health, and for preventing and treating
disease more effectively. . . .”
That part of the report which deals with the future proposes certain expendi-
tures for fiscal years 1976 through 1980 which are in excess of what has been
requested in the 1975 budget. The report, of course, frankly says that it represents
a parochial, although important, point of view, and does not take into account
the competing claims on the Federal budget at any time.
There is no conflict, however, about the depth of this administration's com-
mitment to find cures and preventions for diseases of the heart, blood vessels,
lungs, and blood. From a commitment of $182 million in 1971 to a proposed
commitment of $309 million in 1975, the Federal Government's concern and
determination on this matter has grown steadily greater. My administration
reaffirms that commitment.
This report shows that the money spent by the NHLI has been well spent. I
hope that the NHLI's accomplishments will be further milestones in our prog-
ress for our Nation and for mankind against those diseases which wreak so much
heartbreak, death, and misery.
The White House,
September 24, 1974.
NOTE: The 150-page report is entitled "National
Heart, Blood Vessel, Lung, and Blood Program-
GERALD R. FORD
First Annual Report of the Director of the National
Heart and Lung Institute."
98
Remarks at a Reception for Republican Congressional
Staff Members. September 24, 1974
NEEDLESS to say, I am very grateful for the warm reception, and today we
are paying tribute, as I look at it, to the unsung heroes and heroines of our Re-
publican staff organization on Capitol Hill and, I might add, their long-suffer-
ing spouses.
Frankly again, nobody has ever been able to really pin down the exact duties,
as I see it, of a good staff assistant. But somebody did come up with a pretty good
definition the other day as I was talking to someone about this prospective meet-
ing, and he said, and I will quote: A good staff assistant is someone who gets
half the pay, a quarter of the office, and all of the blame. [Laughter]
189
