[117]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
thorough consideration to the very complex issues involved. Therefore, I shall
see what can be done so that the survey results will reach my agent by July 1 of
each year.
I am transmitting herewith the reports of my agent and the Advisory Com-
mittee, as well as a copy of the Executive order [11811] I have promulgated to
put this pay increase into effect. Also transmitted herewith is a copy of an Execu-
tive order [11812] I have promulgated to increase basic pay and basic allowances
for quarters and subsistence for members of the uniformed services, in accord-
ance with section 1009 of title 37, United States Code, as added by Public Law
93-419 of September 19, 1974.
The White House,
October 7, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
118
Remarks at a Dinner Honoring Senator George D. Aiken in
Burlington, Vermont.
October 7, 1974
I WAS warned when I came up here that it would be difficult to say anything
about George Aiken, but trying to follow him in Vermont is unbelievable.
George and Lola, Senator Stafford, Helen [Stafford], Dick Mallary, distin-
guished candidates and officeholders, ladies and gentlemen:
It is wonderful to be here; it is a tremendous privilege and pleasure. And let
me express three special words of gratitude and appreciation.
Number one, last night I spent an hour or so with Betty at the hospital, and
I was telling her that I was coming up to Vermont. And we were talking about
the wonderful expressions of sympathy and best wishes she had gotten, some
20,000 from all over the country, and she indicated that there had been some
warm and very friendly letters from Vermont and New England.
Let me say to all of you on behalf of those who have wished her well and who
have included her in their prayers, I, for her as well as for myself, am very,
very thankful.
Number two, I thank the Springfield High School band for doing two
things. Number one, you did play the Michigan victory song, which is nice to
hear, particularly when we do well, but it is something that I remember with
great fondness. And number two, I am a great exponent of Scott Joplin's rag-
218
