[274]
December 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
The world today looks to the United States of America for leadership. We
have provided this since the end of World War II. We did not provide it prior
to World War II. Therefore, I would find it inexcusable, as would many Mem-
bers of Congress and many Americans, if this legislation were to die as a result
of delay and procrastination.
The Congress and the executive branch have cooperated more closely—and
I might say, at a greater length—on this bill than in any other single piece of
legislation in the past 6 years. I can recount in the 4 months that I have been
President a number of meetings with various Senators, various other Members
of the Congress, in trying to find a reasonable, constructive compromise on how
we might move this legislation forward. And I can assure you that I will per-
sonally continue these efforts in the remaining weeks of this session of the
Congress.
And let me add this, if I might. And I see how many members of my Cabi-
net are here—three, four. They are being told tonight, and everybody in their
departments, that this is the job of highest priority to get this legislation through
between now and adjournment.
And I will add a P.S. If they don't get it through, they are at fault, and you
are, too. [Laughter]
Well, let me just conclude with these observations and comments.
I would find it inexcusable if this legislation were to become encumbered
with nonrelated or nongermane amendments. This is somewhat technical,
but those of us who have struggled in the Congress for some time know pre-
cisely what it means. These would be unrelated amendments, not related to the
fundamentals of trade legislation under any circumstances.
They would be amendments that had no prior consideration at all in the
Senate Committee on Finance. They would be extraneous to the subject mat-
ter that has brought all of you to the Nation's Capital.
I think the time has come; it is far too serious for this important legislation
to be encumbered by these nonrelated or nongermane amendments. So, as
you go through the halls and into the offices on Capitol Hill, make the point
strongly, effectively, that this legislation must stand on its own and should not
be overwhelmed with amendments that have no relationship to trade per se.
At this critical moment in our legislative history on this legislation, I don't
think we can afford the gamesmanship of nonrelated, nongermane amend-
ments.
I see some former colleagues of mine in the House of Representatives. In the
main, we were able to keep nongermane amendments out of the House ver-
700
