Appendix D-Interview in Newsweek Magazine:
"How It Looks to Ford"
NOTE: Following is the transcript of an interview with the President reprinted from the December 9, 1974,
issue of Newsweek. The interview was conducted the previous week in the Oval Office by Newsweek
editor Osborn Elliott, managing editor Edward Kosner, and Washington bureau chief Mel Elfin. (Copyright
1974 by Newsweek, Inc. All rights reserved. Reprinted by permission.)
Q. We would like to start with your recent trip
and what kind of man you found Mr. Brezhnev
to be.
A. Let me say at the outset, I spent a great deal
of time in preparation for the trip, particularly in
preparation for the negotiations with Mr. Brezhnev
on SALT. I had three National Security Council
meetings. . . and we had various options pre-
pared, and we discussed them.
I listened and asked questions. In addition, I
spent a great deal of time with Henry [Kissinger]
going over the original proposal we submitted to
the Soviet Union, their counterproposal, and then
I refined it, working with Henry on our counter-
proposal to them.
Of course, Henry went over and discussed in
some depth the conceptual approach that we thought
would break the deadlock, which actually did break
the deadlock. Then I should say, in addition, I did
a lot of reading on the background for SALT I.
The net result was that when I first met Brezhnev,
I had a good appraisal of him as a person, his style,
his negotiating techniques, and, of course, I was
extremely well-informed on their position, our posi-
tion, and any variations that might develop.
It was, I would say, a tough negotiation. The fact
that I had done this background work was extremely
helpful because he is a person who can be alternately
very jovial, very pleasant, he will kid a lot, and then
he can get deadly serious and be extremely firm,
and the net result was we worked from 6 to a little
after midnight the first time. I guess it was almost
12:30 or 1 o'clock.
We had planned to have a dinner after a relatively
short meeting, but it just kept going on and on so
when we got through, we broke up in complete
deadlock the first night. We had narrowed the issues,
but had not-well, we just had a firm difference of
opinion on a very important point.
So, then we agreed to come back the next morn-
ing, and they came up with a proposal which was
a change in their position that had to a substantial
degree caused the deadlock.
Q. Can you specify, Mr. President?
A. I really don't think so.
Q. You mentioned earlier it was a conceptual
mode that you brought to this which caused the
breakthrough.
A. What we really were trying to do was to achieve
what both Henry and the Defense Department
felt was vitally important, not only substantively,
but perceptively: equivalence. So, you had to take
the number of launchers, the number of MIRV's,
and you had to make sure that we did get an equiv-
alence, which meant basically that they had to
come down from not their present status but their
planned or programed status, and it had to fit into
our plans and our programs.
As you know, I am sure, in SALT I there was
some give and take. We accepted a lesser figure in
launchers and took a bigger figure as far as MIRV.
ing because we were ahead and they were behind.
So, the conceptual breakthrough was really on the
basis of equivalence and then, of course, what you
included within the equivalence.
Q. But you suggested, Mr. President, that they
came back the next day with a new perception of
their own, or new suggestion.
A. Well, they offered a figure which we felt was
a reasonable area of-actually, it was more or less
the numbers we finally agreed on.
Q. Mr. President, do you think that this conces-
sion was the result of the American side's firmness
on the first night?
A. I think so, yes.
Q. Do you think you were being tested on that
first night?
A. I think that is a fair conclusion. This was a
new negotiator across the table, and they raised a
number of questions about alleged violations, and
you have read some of these alleged violations, some
of our own people have raised about them. And
they, in turn, of course, made allegations that we had
made some violations.
So it was a pretty good give and take. And I
think they were probing and testing to see how
eager we were, whether we would capitulate,
whether our appetite was so whetted for an agree-
ment that we would agree to almost anything.
But I will say this in their behalf. It is my judg-
ment they likewise genuinely wanted to make an
agreement. That does not mean they wanted to make
an agreement that would be harmful to them, but
803
