August 28
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
room a few moments after the swearing in. And on that occasion I said the fol-
lowing: that I had hoped that our former President, who brought peace to mil-
lions, would find it for himself.
Now, the expression made by Governor Rockefeller, I think, coincides with
the general view and the point of view of the American people. I subscribe to
that point of view, but let me add, in the last 10 days or 2 weeks I have asked
for prayers for guidance on this very important point.
In this situation, I am the final authority. There have been no charges made,
there has been no action by the courts, there has been no action by any jury. And
until any legal process has been undertaken, I think it is unwise and untimely for
me to make any commitment.
POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you have been in office 19 days now, and already some
of your natural, conservative allies are grumbling that you are moving too far
to the left. Does this trouble you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I have deviated from my basic philosophy nor
have I deviated from what I think is the right action. I have selected an outstand-
ing person to be the Vice President. I have made a decision concerning amnesty,
which I think is right and proper—no amnesty, no revenge—and that individ-
uals who have violated either the draft laws or have evaded selective service or
deserted can earn their way or work their way back. I don't think these are views
that fall in the political spectrum right or left.
I intend to make the same kind of judgments in other matters because I think
they are right and I think they are for the good of the country.
PUBLIC SERVICE PROGRAM
[3.] Q. Mr. President, may I follow that with one more example, possibly;
that is, there is a report that the Administration is considering a $4 billion public
works program in case the inflation rate gets higher than it is, say 6 percent. Is
that under consideration?
THE PRESIDENT. I think most of you know that we do have a public service
employment program on the statute books which is funded right today, not
for any major program, but to take care of those areas in our country where there
are limited areas of unemployment caused by the energy crisis or any other
reason.
There is a recommendation from some of my advisers saying that if the
economy gets any more serious, that this ought to be a program-a broader,
57
