October 22
[182]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
that I came- —Enid? Six years ago, I visited Enid, Oklahoma, and had an oppor-
tunity to see that great part of your superb State, and believe me, it was a great
experience for two reasons: One, I met an outstanding candidate for the Con-
gress of the United States who had experience in the State legislature, and every-
thing they told me about Happy at that time has come true-that he was able, he
was knowledgeable, he was experienced, and he had that kind of strong, tough
character that was needed. Happy, I sure hope that you come back to continue
your outstanding work.
I have had an opportunity to look over the slate that the Republican Party has
presented. I only know the incumbents, and I have had the privilege of meeting
Jim, but if you want a two-party system to grow and thrive, I think you have to
give maximum consideration to the rest of the candidates if we are to have this
essential competition which is good for the voters and, I think, good for the
country.
Let me make one or two observations concerning some substantive matters.
When I became President on August 9, that is about 2½ months ago, we were
faced at that time with a very serious economic situation. We were faced with
what is commonly called today double-digit inflation-inflation of 10 percent
per year, inflation that we were not accustomed to in this country.
At the same time, we were faced with-in some areas of our economy, it is al-
most paradoxical—some softness. There was concern in some areas that there
was a loss of vigor in the economy, and we had the alternative, which was also
very difficult, of increasing inflation.
Now, as a result of these almost paradoxical circumstances, we started what
was called a summit meeting, a program of getting the views of people from all
over the country, from all segments of our society, with their specific recom-
mendations as to what ought to be done.
We covered the country literally in, as I recall, about 10 different mini-
summits. We invited people in to give their views, their recommendations, and
we concluded it with a rather historic economic summit in Washington, D.C.
After accumulating all of this evidence, all of these proposals, we sat down and
filtered them out and came up with a 31-point program which is a program
very, I think, wisely devised to meet the challenge of inflation on the one hand,
and the problems of a softening economy in some areas of America on the other.
I hope and trust that the Congress will respond. I trust that the American peo-
ple will respond, because it called upon them to volunteer to do certain things in
the area of energy conservation, to do certain things in the area of wasting less
and saving more.
427
