December 14
[300]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
nations mark the surest way to reach understanding with the producer nations,
which we all desire.
I am also looking forward, Mr. President, to exchanging impressions on East-
West relations and on our recent meetings with General Secretary Brezhnev. I
am sure we will all agree that all of us in the West will benefit from close relation-
ships as the policy of détente continues to develop.
Our interdependence requires that we-together with our friends and our
partners—join in concerted measures or responses to the dangers which confront
us all. Let us continue our historic relationship with renewed spirit and redoubled
effort, as good and responsible friends.
Our common heritage gives me confidence that we will continue our joint
endeavors for peace and stability in the world. Mr. President, it is with this
objective that I look forward to our discussions tomorrow. I have every hope
that our talks will strengthen the friendship between us, both in a bilateral
sense and also as members of the alliance which Americans regard as the corner-
stone of our foreign policy.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the spirit of strengthening our historic ties, I ask
all of you to stand and to raise your glasses in honor of the President of the
French Republic and his lovely wife.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 p.m. at the
Prefect's Residence in Fort-de-France, Martinique,
in response to President Giscard d'Estaing's toast.
The dinner was hosted by the French President.
President Giscard d'Estaing spoke in French. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, a meeting between France and the
United States is always a rendezvous of freedom and
friendship. And what could be a better place for it
than this island of Martinique which cherishes the
proud memory of having served as a naval base for
the French Fleet during the American War of In-
dependence; and in 2 years' time, we will be cele-
brating together the successful outcome of that event.
It was in the name of freedom that our friendship
was born, and we shall celebrate its 200th anniver-
sary at the same time as the Bicentennial of American
independence.
It was also in the name of freedom that twice in
the course of this century the active solidarity of the
United States enabled France to preserve or to regain
her independence.
Different as we may be, what appeals so much to
us, the French, is all that in the United States sym-
bolizes and means freedom: your vast spaces, your
openness to new ideas and bold endeavors, your
mastery of technology, which gives man his power
over nature and lightens his burden.
Freedom and friendship have stamped their mark
on the relations between our two countries. Free-
dom allows for their frankness and independence;
friendship demands mutual understanding and
cooperation.
This spirit of free dialog and trust between part-
ners who recognize the equality of their rights and
duties, even if they are not equal in terms of re-
sources or power, is characteristic of Franco-American
relations, and there is nothing to prevent that the
same spirit be applied to solving the major problems
of the world today.
For our part, we express the wish that this spirit
inspire the relations between the United States and
the Europe that we are striving patiently and, we
are bound to say, slowly to build.
It is only on condition that it can exist by its
own accord that Europe will be for the United States
a firm and reliable partner and for the world a fac-
tor of balance and peace.
We also wish that this spirit of dialog should
govern our thinking on the profound changes in
the world scene.
As you were mentioning, you yourself, Mr. Presi-
dent, on your arrival here, the path of consultation-
which is as far removed from that of confrontation
as it is from that of capitulation-is the only one
which is in keeping with the political, economic,
and human needs of our time.
}
751
