September 10
[66]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
The United States, Mr. Prime Minister, has been proud of its association
with the State of Israel. We shall continue to stand with Israel. We are com-
mitted to Israel's survival and security.
The United States for a quarter of a century has had an excellent relationship
with the State of Israel. We have cooperated in many, many fields—in your se-
curity, in the well-being of the Middle East, and in leading what we all hope is
a lasting peace throughout the world.
Many of our people have a close personal relationship and association with
your citizens, your fellow citizens in Israel, and we hope and trust that this rela-
tionship will grow and expand.
Over the last few months, there has been movement in the Middle East for a
lasting and durable peace. Israel has cooperated; Israel has been helpful. And we
hope and trust that in the months ahead, the foundation which has been laid
will be built upon.
We want, you want, and others throughout the world want a lasting and
durable peace in the Middle East.
The first steps have been taken; others will follow. And I am certain and posi-
tive that, as we meet here during the next several days, we can contribute to the
building of a better and finer peace in the Middle East.
I hope that you and Mrs. Rabin will have a delightful and warm welcome,
which you so richly deserve, in the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:10 p.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where Prime
Minister Rabin was given a formal welcome with
full military honors. Prime Minister Rabin re-
sponded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, I am grateful to you for
your kind invitation to come to Washington and
for your warm words of welcome.
As you know, Mr. President, I am not a complete
stranger in this country nor, indeed, in this city. But
this is the first time that I come here in my capacity
of Prime Minister of Israel.
You, Mr. President, have very recently under-
taken new and awesome responsibilities, and I feel
certain, therefore, that you can appreciate the weighty
load that rests on my shoulders.
I represent a country which is faced-which is
facing manifold problems, great challenges, but also
great and new opportunities for internal progress
and for peace with her neighbors.
In the performance of my new duties, I am en-
couraged, as all my predecessors have been, by their
binding friendship and by the ever-deepening ties
which bind the people of Israel with the people of
this, the greatest democracy, and with its leaders.
Ever since the renewal of Jewish independence
in the land of our forefathers, after long genera-
tions of suffering and martyrdom, Israel has enjoyed
generous aid and support on the part of the United
States. Our gratitude for this sustenance will be
recorded forever in the annals of our people.
During all these times since 1948, Israel has seen
periods of trials and hardships. Yet she never
swerved, even for a moment, from her supreme na-
tional goal, which is the quest for peace with her
Arab neighbors.
So far, to our nation's deep sorrow, this goal has
eluded us. Despite the recent test of arms, Israel is
prepared to continue to seek progress towards peace.
We have in recent months demonstrated that we
have taken risks for peace to see whether new efforts
may possibly bring us nearer to its achievement.
I know, in this quest for peace in our region, we
have in you, Mr. President, and in your colleagues
in the Government of the United States, a strong and
determined partner.
Indeed, you, Mr. President, pronounced the com-
mitment of the United States to the quest of world
peace as the central theme in your inaugural address
only a few weeks ago.
113
