[204]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
1943, when he was discharged because of severe hypochondriasis and anxiety
state. The first confirmed medical diagnosis of an organic neurological disease
identifiable as multiple sclerosis was made in 1949, six years after his discharge.
At that time, the law allowed payment of service-connected disability benefits
for multiple sclerosis manifesting itself within three years after separation from
wartime service.
Mr. Sharp's claim for service-connected benefits based on multiple sclerosis
received several adjudicative reviews and was the subject of appellate considera-
tion on four occasions. On the basis of available evidence, the Veterans Admin-
istration was unable to determine direct connection of multiple sclerosis with
the veteran's military service as required by law. He was, however, granted non-
service-connected disability pension, effective January 16, 1956.
Effective October 1, 1962, the Congress extended the presumption of service
connection for multiple sclerosis from three to seven years. The liberalizing
statute, however, prohibited any retroactive payments based on the new presump-
tion. Since Mr. Sharp qualified for service-connected benefits under the new
statutory presumption, he has been receiving such payments since October 1,
1962.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this case, I am unable to
find sufficient reasons for approving this legislation to pay. Mr. Sharp's benefits
from an earlier date than the law permits. To make such a special award would
seriously discriminate against similarly situated veterans.
Moreover, once the precedent for such special awards is established, it would be
difficult to deny awards to other veterans who have been prohibited from receiv-
ing retroactive benefits under the 1962 law or similar statutes. The inevitable re-
sult would be to undermine the integrity and impartiality essential to the
administration of such veterans' benefits.
For these reasons, I am constrained to withhold my approval from H.R. 7768.
The White House,
October 29, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
502
