October 29
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
195
The President's News Conference of
October 29, 1974
APPOINTMENTS IN THE ENERGY PROGRAM
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] This morning, before the press conference, I would like
to announce several appointments, and then we will have the press conference
subsequently.
At the outset, let me remind you that on October 8, I announced that Rog
Morton would be the head of the Energy [Resources] Council and that subse-
quently I would make several other appointments predicated on legislation
enacted by the Congress and some reorganization in the [Federal] Energy
Administration [FEA].
Rog Morton is here. Rog―I think most of you know him; he is pretty hard to
miss. [Laughter] But the new appointments are as follows:
Dr. Robert Seamans, former Secretary of the Air Force and formerly a very
high-ranking official in NASA, had a great deal to do with the manned space
program, will be the new Administrator of the ERDA, the Energy Research
and Development Agency [Administration].
Bob, we are glad to have you on board.
Then to head FEA, John Sawhill is resigning, and we will give him a good
appointment in the Government, but the new head of FEA will be Andy Gib-
son, who was an Assistant Secretary of Commerce and was in charge of the Mari-
time Administration, will be the new head of FEA.
Andy, glad to have you on board.
Then, for the new nuclear regulatory agency, I am nominating Bill Anders,
who is currently a member of the AEC, but who will be the Chairman, once
confirmed, of the new regulatory agency.
You are all familiar with Bill Anders' record as an astronaut and his service
as a member of the Atomic Energy Commission.
And then, Dixy Lee Ray will be the new Assistant Secretary of State for
Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Matters.
Dixy Lee.
This is the new team that will be in charge of the energy program, which we
will see moving ahead, I think, under Rog Morton's stewardship with the new
faces and the experience of Bob Seamans, Andy Gibson, Bill Anders, and Dixy
Lee Ray.
481
