October 24
[187]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
intact. Let's not lose an integral, important, essential part of our Government
by default.
What concerns me very greatly is the inclination of the American people to
consider politics something they would rather not become involved in, which
is something in the minds of too many. As a matter of fact, the sad fact is that
less than one American out of 30 has anything to do with politics, with the
selection of candidates, the working in a campaign, researching issues, with
raising contributions for the election of a candidate, or even running for office.
It is almost unbelievable that only one American out of 30 has any connection,
direct or indirect, with politics.
It is my considered judgment that what this Nation needs less than 2 years
from the 200th year of our founding, on the 200th birthday of this Nation, is
more, not less participation by the citizenry in politics.
To those who say that politics is a dirty word which should be eliminated
from government, let me respectfully remind each and every one of you that
politics is government. Politics is government-government in action.
There is nothing wrong with the political system of ours that a massive
injection of citizen involvement will not cure. You never win a football game
by sitting on the sidelines. You never do well in your business, your profession,
on your farm, by doing nothing, and it is precisely the same thing in politics
at the local, the State, or the Federal level. If you want to make a contribution, if
you wish to be a participant, get off the sidelines and into the ballgame.
I have spent a quarter of a century on Capitol Hill as a Member of the House
of Representatives, and I happen to believe that it is important to get out and
away from Washington on occasions such as this. I know there are some so-called
experts who suggest that your President ought to sit in the Oval Office and
listen to nothing but bureaucrats telling him what to do, yes or no, or sitting
in the Oval Office reading documents that are prepared by people in Washing-
ton. I reject that advice. It is more important that I come to Des Moines.
This can be a two-way street. I want to discuss with you my policies and my
programs, and in turn, I beg for a reaction and recommendations from all of
you as to whether we are doing things right or wrong. And if we are doing
them wrong, tell us how we can do them better. We solicit your participation.
That is one reason I am here in Des Moines. I believe that it is vital that this
two-way communication exists.
May I conclude with one other observation. I am told by the political fore-
casters that in this election year, 1974, there will be less people, a lesser number
of eligible voters throughout the country voting on November 5 than at any
453
