November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Department of Justice a request for the entire files accumulated by the FBI in
their investigation of the Communist Party. If opening such files had been
proposed in the so-called McCarthy era, you would all have denounced it as
exposing innocent people to vicious rumor and unproven smears—and you would
have been right.
On a practical level, it would have required a brand new bureaucracy and mil-
lions and millions of man-hours of the FBI simply to review those files over a
period of several decades to determine what now may be safely made public
without injuring innocent parties or compromising their sources of informa-
tion. I have proposed a more flexible and realistic set of ground rules that would
preserve what I consider to be the essential confidentiality of investigatory files of
law enforcement agencies. I hope that professional journalists will take another
look at this section of the freedom of information bill and see if you don't agree
that this Pandora's box should remain shut.
THE 25TH AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION
[2.] There is a second matter I will discuss briefly before this distinguished
society, whose members I know have a strong sense of history-in-the-making as
well as an insatiable interest in good government, both of which I applaud. That
is the vacancy in the Office of the Vice President.
I suppose I can properly claim to be the world's champion or world's expert on
the subject of filling the Vice Presidency under the 25th amendment. When I
suddenly found myself nominated for this position on October 12, 1973, I did
some research on the debate in the House and the Senate on this important con-
stitutional amendment which was proposed by the Congress in 1965 and ratified
by the legislatures of 47 States in 1967. Frankly, I was curious as to what I might
have said on the subject, particularly Section 2, which deals with vacancies in
the Office of the Vice President.
The fact is I found I hadn't said anything in the debate except to vote "aye."
And the main subject of the debate was the matter of dealing with Presidential
succession in the event of a President's disability or inability to discharge the
duties of his Office. The replacement of a Vice President was incidental to this,
but it seems fair to infer that the framers, like the Founding Fathers, con-
sidered that Office to be essential to the conduct of the Federal Government and
the orderly succession of Executive power in any emergency.
It is implicit in the adoption of the 25th amendment as part of the Constitu-
tion that a prolonged vacancy in the second office of the land is undesirable as
599
