October 19
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
without being disagreeable. That is an important ingredient in maintaining
progress in America.
I don't think it is the function of the press to propagandize for any party, any
President, or any section of the public. They, as well as the rest of us, should call
them as we see them. And I say to every journalist on the occasion of this dedica-
tion that I am particularly pleased to see a new building housing two fine news-
papers at a time in our Nation's history when too many newspapers have been
folding throughout the Nation.
We need more, not fewer, news media and including newspapers. Every
reporter, as I see it, is now under an even greater responsibility to report without
fear and without favor, and every newspaper has the responsibility to keep alive
the tradition of a free press.
Now I happen to differ with those who categorize the journalists I know, and
others, as a different kind of American. I prefer to consider everyone on his or
her merits and to treat each one of them as I would expect to be treated if our
jobs were reversed. I think this is the way we have to deal with one another,
whether it is a politician and the news media, or a politician and a constituent,
or a competitor in one business or another.
And although I have had a lot of adversaries in my lifetime in the political
arena, to my knowledge I have no enemies, nor will I ever have a list of enemies
in this White House that I now occupy.
Now there are four of us on the platform who have had a few years, if you
total them all up, in political life. And Marshall Parker, of course, was in your
State legislature and is seeking election to the Congress of the United States. And
if I might just say one nice thing in addition about Marshall, he is the kind of
guy I would like to have in the House of Representatives.
But the point I was trying to make is that between the Governor and Strom
and Fritz¹ and Marshall and myself, we have been exposed to the press, and I
suspect all of us in one way or another have been criticized by the press.
not sure any one of us like it particularly.
I am
But what is more important, I would be more concerned if the press of this
country were not free to criticize me or the others that I have mentioned.
But let me say that the ceremony we have undertaken is a dedication to the
perpetuation of a free press and the great role that the press plays in our society.
And any time I can participate in an occasion that pays tribute to one part or all
of our Constitution, I am honored and pleased.
1
¹ Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina.
391
