November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
wonderful organization of professional journalists. I have had several, and I have
enjoyed every one, and I am looking forward to this one.
I understand the hour for this occasion was fixed for our meeting not by my
Press Secretary, not by the networks, but rather in order to ensure the attendance
of all of the late strays from the Lazy R and G Ranch party which Gene Pulliam
put on last night. [Laughter] Gene is not only a great host but a great publisher.
And I am sure I will neither be the first nor the last speaker at this convention to
salute him as one of the founders of Sigma Delta Chi, the Society of Profes-
sional Journalists.
Between Bob Hartmann and Bill Roberts of my own Presidential staff and half
of your Washington professional chapter in the White House press room, I am
hardly out of sight of one of your members at any time. And I must say, I enjoy
their company, and I admire their professionalism—most of the time, anyway.
[Laughter]
VETO OF FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
AMENDMENTS
[1.] In doing my homework for this visit, I was browsing through your
magazine, the Quill, and I read as follows, quote: “National S.P.J., S.D.X. Presi-
dent Ralph Otwell is asking local chapters to contact their congressmen to urge
them to override President Ford's veto of a bill to strengthen the Freedom of
Information Act. Otwell criticized Ford's action, saying”—and I quote—“ ‘For
a President who is publicly committed to a more open and honest Administra-
tion to oppose significant reforms in Freedom of Information legislation is both
startling and disappointing. . . . President Ford's veto suggests his Adminis-
tration is pursuing a discredited policy of cover-up as usual.'
999
First, I want to assure your fine president, Ralph Otwell, that I have not come
here today or tonight to argue, but to enlighten. In fact, I may be the first
President, probably the first President in history, to come all the way to Phoenix
just to hold a press conference. And when I get here, I find out that Dan Rather ¹
is going to get the last word anyhow. [Laughter]
1
Before we go to questions, I would like to make two brief observations, if
I might, both of which bear on the business of the Congress which will be return-
ing to Washington next Monday.
First, about my veto of the Freedom of Information Act amendments. I think,
incidentally, that the veto is a constitutional power given to the President in order
¹ CBS News correspondent.
597
