[65]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
And although the operating assistance provisions of the House bill do not meet
these standards, the Senate will have, and I hope does, correct this deficiency,
and I trust the final version will contain that specific provision.
I am convinced that with enough imagination, with enough determination,
with enough flexibility, and with careful ordering of your local priorities, we
can achieve our national transportation goals. I am determined to do so with-
out further feeding the fires of inflation or busting the Federal budget.
Let me leave you with one final thought. From the early days of this Na-
tion, we have been a mobile people. We have carved canals out of the country-
side to carry our commerce. We journeyed west following the only roadmaps
we knew, the wagon ruts of those who had gone before.
Today, with modern methods of movement, we have achieved miracles of
mobility in America and in many, many parts of the world. But we have to
maintain and expand the avenues of movement for all Americans, young and
old, rich and poor.
The wheels of this Nation cannot stop turning, whether they are on cars or
trucks or buses or trains or planes. If we are to continue to be a great nation,
and I think we will, as Americans we must move forward together in the future.
With your dedicated, inspired efforts here this week, I think you can con-
tribute very significantly to make this journey a memorable one in the years
ahead.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 a.m. at the
Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel. In his opening remarks,
the President referred to Willard F. Rockwell, Jr.,
general conference chairman.
66
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin
of Israel. September 10, 1974
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Rabin:
It is a very real pleasure for me to have the opportunity of welcoming both of
you to the United States.
You are returning as the leader of a great country. You are returning to meet
many of your friends over the years that you knew so well during your service
here as Ambassador to the United States.
I trust that you and Mrs. Rabin will thoroughly enjoy this visit back to the
United States.
112
