September 28
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tool available to States and communities to increase employment opportunities
and offset particular local unemployment problems.
Despite these desirable new features in this bill, it does not provide for the
comprehensive reform in our economic development and adjustment programs
which I believe is necessary. It retains too much direct Federal control over the
allocation of the assistance funds. This reduces the ability of States and com-
munities to realistically plan and manage their programs. It continues undue
emphasis on public works as the solution to problems of unemployment and low
income, and it continues to encourage a narrow categorical approach to the
problems of distressed areas.
Although this act represents substantial progress in the design of an effec-
tive Federal role in assisting economic development and adjustment, much re-
mains to be done. During the next several months, and certainly before the
expiration of this legislation, the Congress and the Administration must begin
to consider changes to further improve the design of economic development
and adjustment assistance. This extension, while valuable in itself, should be
viewed as a transition period in which new approaches to relieving the burdens
of unemployment and low incomes may be developed.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14883, approved September 27, 1974, is Public Law 93-423 (88 Stat. 1158).
109
Remarks Concluding the Summit Conference on Inflation.
September 28, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen, companions in this conference, and my fellow Americans:
Just one personal note, if I might. I just returned from the hospital where I
saw Betty as she came from the operating room. Dr. Lukash has assured me that
she came through the operation all right.ยน
1
It has been a difficult 36 hours. Our faith will sustain us, and Betty would
expect me to be here.
I thank each and every one of you for your contributions to this summit. For
most summits, there is no way to go except down. From this summit, we are
going to start going up. This is not the end, but it is the beginning of a battle
against inflation and waste which will not end until it is won.
I have vowed and asked all of you to resolve here that we will celebrate our
ยน Mrs. Ford underwent surgery for breast cancer at Bethesda Naval Hospital on September 28. Rear. Adm.
William M. Lukash was Physician to the President.
205
