October 16
[153]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Omaha, just a few miles down the pike here. And I am proud of it, and I am
delighted to be back here.
Now, I left when I was about 18 months old, and depending on how you put
it, I was either exported or deported. But I am glad to be back under any
circumstances.
It is wonderful to see Charley Thone here. I understand Charley's campaign
theme is "Thone works." Well, I can attest to that. For quite a few years I was
the minority leader in the House of Representatives while Charley was in the
House, and I can say without any hesitation, qualification, or reservation that
Charley Thone was one of the hardest, most conscientious, most dedicated
workers in the House of Representatives. And if I was in this district, Democrat
or Republican, I would vote for Charley Thone.
And he had two other fine, fine Nebraskans alongside of him in the House of
Representatives—John McCollister, an outstanding Member of the House, the
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, a committee that has tremen-
dous responsibilities that relate directly to the problems you have here in the
State of Nebraska. And I am sure in this great crowd there are some people that
can help John McCollister, and because I think so highly of him; I hope and
trust that they will do everything they possibly can to see that Charley does come
back to continue his fine work in the House of Representatives.
You do have in the State of Nebraska one of our senior statesmen leaving,
leaving of his own free will. We have Dave Martin who served so ably and so
well. Dave is [not] coming back, but I hope and trust that the people of that
Congressional district send to replace Dave Martin, Mrs. Helen Smith, who I
am sure will carry on the fine tradition that Dave Martin established in the
representation of that Congressional district.
And if Helen has friends here, go out and do the same thing for her that you
have done for Dave Martin, and I would thank you for it.
It is Mrs. Haven Martin, Virginia Martin, and I apologize.²
But let me at this point make one or two observations and comments concern-
ing some of the problems we have in America. I know that this great State—
because I have visited many places in it. I've traveled across a good portion of the
State-north, south, east, and west. I know that Nebraska is one of the most
vitally important producers of food in all 50 States.
And I know, from talking with some of the members of the Congressional
delegation, that farmers have had some difficult times for a wide variety of rea-
'Virginia (Mrs. Haven) Smith was the Republican candidate in the Third Congressional District of
Nebraska.
327
