[152]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the right and the best way. I just think you in South Dakota have a great, great
Congressman in Jim Abdnor.
And having looked at a lot of Congressmen over 25 years-some of them kind
of coming and going like Greyhound buses—Jim Abdnor is the kind of a per-
son I would vote to keep in Congress, because he does a good job for his people
at home.
Leo Thorsness-I heard about Leo before he got into the political arena, and
his reputation then was one that I envied, a reputation of total dedication to his
country, a dedication to principles under the most adverse circumstances, a man
with a strong background, a strong background based on real, deep conviction
about the principles that are so essential to make our country an even better land
in the future.
I know that Leo will be a full-time fighter against inflation on a year-in and
year-out basis instead of once every 6 years at election time.
And I happen to think that Larry Pressler can do a great job for you in the
Congress.
Leo and Larry will bring you, when elected November 5, a full strength of
sound people handling your money and your problems in the House as well as
the Senate.
And of course, under the theory that I believe in, that we don't have to make
all the decisions and all the judgments in Washington, that we need sound,
responsible, thoughtful people at the State and local level, we need John Olson
to be the next Governor of the State of South Dakota.
And if I might, in a very personal way, explain to you why I am here in South
Dakota. There has been some criticism that maybe the President ought to stay in
the White House, and work in the Oval Office, and never leave the banks of the
Potomac.
I don't agree with that. I happen to believe that the American people have a
right to see their President and to hear him defend the kind of programs that he
believes are in the best interest of our country, both at home and abroad.
I think I get a better understanding of what people in South Dakota want and
believe by being right here in this great auditorium rather than peering out of
some window in the White House.
You can tell me with criticism, with comments, with endorsements of what we
are doing right or what we are doing wrong, and I can get it better at the grass-
roots than I can from some ivory tower on the banks of the Potomac.
And I thank you for coming here just to give me that advice. I appreciate it.
320
