[259]
November 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
decade. The understanding we reached resulted from an intensive round of give-
and-take, the kind of give-and-take negotiations that recognized the legitimate
security of both sides.
Many details remain to be worked out by our negotiators, but ceilings on the
strategic forces of both nations have been accepted. A good agreement that will
serve the interests of the United States and the Soviet Union is now within our
grasp. Vladivostok was an appropriate ending to a journey designed to strengthen
ties with old friends and expand areas of agreement with old adversaries.
I believe we accomplished what we set out to achieve and perhaps more. And
in that process, I pray that we have done all we could to advance the cause of
peace for all Americans and for all mankind.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:31 p.m. at Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
260
Statement on the Death of U Thant. November 25, 1974
I HAVE learned with great sorrow of the death of former United Nations Secre-
tary General U Thant. Above all, he was a man of peace. His distinguished
leadership in the world community for a decade won him wide respect and the
gratitude of all who cherish world peace. He gave unselfishly of himself in the
highest tradition of service to mankind, and the world is better for the example he
set.
U Thant's loyalty was not to any one power or ethnic bloc but to humanity,
and it is in this same universal spirit that all men will mourn his passing. On
behalf of the people of the United States, I extend condolences to his family.
NOTE: U Thant, 65, died in New York City. He was Burma's permanent representative to the United
Nations 1957-61 and United Nations Secretary General 1962-70.
261
Remarks on Signing the National Mass Transportation
Assistance Act of 1974. November 26, 1974
I APOLOGIZE for being late, but we had a meeting with the joint leadership
where I reported on the trip to Japan, to Korea, and to the Soviet Union.
664
