[135]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
fought the action that was taken in both bodies, but unfortunately, the majority
in the House and Senate at this moment have prevailed. And what they have
done—they have not helped Greece, they have not helped NATO, they have not
helped settle the problem in Cyprus one bit. They've probably hurt all three.
Now the United States, because of the skillful diplomatic leadership of Dr.
Henry Kissinger, is in a position to be helpful in the solution of this problem.
And if we get some flexibility from the Congress—and the chips are down to-
morrow-with 60 days of flexibility, we can make some progress. We can do
something to help Greece and at the same time keep Turkey within the NATO
organization and, simultaneously, help to negotiate a meaningful, constructive
solution to the problems in Cyprus.
What I am trying to say to you is, if you have any influence on any of your
Members of Congress, Democratic or Republican, urge them in the House of
Representatives tomorrow to give us just 60 days to use our influence in trying
to bring about a solution that will help Greece and keep Turkey within the Alli-
ance and find a key to the problems of Cyprus. Just urge your friends in the
House, both Democratic and Republican, to vote for the Mansfield amend-
ment 2 which passed the Senate yesterday.
I say this as strongly as I possibly can. And I say it because just a quarter of a
century ago, when I first went to the House of Representatives, the Congress
was under the control of the Republicans, and there was a Democratic President
by the name of Harry Truman. And at that stage, just after World War II, there
was a massive bipartisan effort to rebuild Western Europe and to lay the founda-
tion of our alliance in Europe today.
A Democratic President from Independence, Missouri, was helped tremen-
dously by a Republican Senator from Grand Rapids, Arthur Vandenberg. And
those two people were the architects of a bipartisan foreign policy that gave us
a foundation for peace and strength in Western Europe.
Now, what I am saying to you and to my friends in the Congress—wouldn't
it be tragic if there was a division between a Democratic Congress and a Republi-
can President a quarter of a century later?
They and I have the obligation to work together, to build on this quarter of
a century of progress, and we can and we will. The leadership on both sides of
the aisle and both ends of the Capitol are working with me, but we need the
'Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana sponsored S.J. Res. 247, which proposed that the amendment to
the continuing appropriations resolution, suspending American military assistance to Turkey, be deferred
for 60 days, should the President determine that it would serve prospects for a negotiated settlement of
the Cyprus conflict.
S.J. Res. 247 (H. Res. 1438) failed to pass the House of Representatives on October 11, 1974.
282
