[183]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
inflation now, we have to strengthen our economy, and we must have peace
abroad.
When I came to the Congress on January 3, 1949, we had a Democratic
President-I think a good one-Harry Truman. We had a Republican Congress
for the 2 previous years. Recall, if you will, that this was right after World
War II, a war that involved some 16 million Americans on a global basis, and
there was the feeling in our country and a bipartisan attitude that if Democrats
and Republicans joined together, we could lay the foundation for peace on a
global basis.
This bipartisanship—a Democratic President and a Republican Congress—
did lay the foundation. We helped to rebuild; we strengthened our relations
on a global basis. And as a result, I think there has been great progress in meet-
ing the challenges from enemies as well as friends.
I am concerned about the breach of this bipartisanship between a Republican
President and a Democratic Congress. But I hasten to add, a very good friend
of mine, a good and fine Oklahoman—the Speaker of the House, Carl Albert
of Bug Tussle, Oklahoma—understands that there has to be a working relation-
ship, a unity, a bipartisanship in foreign policy. But unfortunately, this Congress,
dominated by the opposition, does not seem to understand it.
I am concerned that if we get a Congress that is veto-proof, a Congress that
has the wrong philosophy-both domestically and internationally-the possi-
bility for the next 2 years when our country faces the challenges in the Middle
East, the challenges in the Mediterranean, the challenges in the Caribbean and
Latin America, the challenges in the Pacific-as we try to work to broaden
détente, as we try to continue the normalization of relations with the People's
Republic of China, as we in the White House and those in the Congress who
understand bipartisanship and who believe that partisanship should end at the
water's edge—if we get the wrong kind of Congress, peace could be in jeopardy.
So, I end my remarks here today by pleading with you to give to America—
not to me—a Congress that will be farsighted, visionary, imaginative, coop-
crative, so that we can have peace abroad, so we can work on our problems at
home.
I thank you for the welcome. I urge you to send back Henry Bellmon, Happy
Camp, and a good slate of Republicans.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:05 p.m. in the Main Arena at the Myriad Center.
436
