October 22
[184]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
will keep that strong, affirmative, dedicated team in Washington representing all
of you on November 5.
I am told that the prospects in the political arena, as Kent McGough * has said,
are good for the retention of your circumstances in the State legislature, that you
have a good chance to win the statehouse, and of course, Kent's report concern-
ing the Governorship is very encouraging.
Oh, I know that some of the pollsters and the speculators in the political arena
are saying that Jim Rhodes does not have a chance. Well, I have known Jim
Rhodes a long, long time. I count on him. I count on him as a winner, not as a
loser. And that is important from the point of view of the State of Ohio, and
I trust that every one of you will make a maximum effort between now and
November 5 to make sure that Jim is a winner.
You know, it is pretty hard to get candidates of proven experience in conduct-
ing the high office of Governor. It is very difficult to find individuals who have ex-
perience and capability who will carry on.
Now, you know I am a sports fan—a has-been, but a sports fan. At the same
time, I like politics. As I read the sports page and look at what is possibly the
result here in the State of Ohio, I can't help but think that Jim Rhodes is the
Cornelius Greene of politics. Jim also knows how to carry the ball and score.
So, let's have Jim as your next Governor in January 1975.
It has been my experience over a period of time when I was in Congress, when
I was Vice President, and more recently as President, to get to know Ralph
Perk. As one travels as I do from one city to another, as I sit in meetings with
mayors from all over the country, it is my honest observation that Ralph Perk has
done a superb job as the mayor of this great community. He ranks at the very
top as a mayor of a big city, and it is my judgment that that is the kind of a per-
son you want in the United States Senate to represent you for the next 6 years.
Ralph, I hope you win.
I said a few moments ago that your Congressional delegation was outstand-
ing on our side of the aisle. Let me repeat it. They are the kind of people that
I have worked with as minority leader, as Vice President, and more recently,
as President.
I think your delegation's quality, your delegation's capability is exemplified by
the high standards that Bob Taft himself represents. Bob Taft, first in the House,
more recently in the Senate, has done the kind of a job that is in the great tradi-
Chairman of the Ohio State Republican Committee.
5 Quarterback of the Ohio State University football team.
439
