December 16
[302]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
President Ford and President Giscard d'Estaing welcomed the opportunity to
conduct detailed substantive discussions on the whole range of subjects of mutual
concern. As traditional friends and allies, the two nations share common values
and goals and the two Presidents expressed their determination to cooperate on
this basis in efforts to solve common problems.
They reviewed the international situation in the economic, financial and
monetary fields.
The two Presidents agreed that the Governments of the United States and
of the European Community, in the name of which the French President spoke
on this subject, must adopt consistent economic policies in order to be effective
in avoiding unemployment while fighting inflation. In particular, they agreed
on the importance of avoiding measures of a protectionist nature. And they
decided to take the initiative in calling additional intergovernmental meetings
should they prove necessary for achievement of the desired consistency of basic
economic policies among industrial nations.
In the light of the rapid pace of change in international financial positions in
the world today, the Presidents were in full agreement on the desirability of
maintaining the momentum of consideration of closer financial cooperation
both within the International Monetary Fund and through supplementary
measures. As one specific measure to strengthen the existing financial frame-
work, the Presidents agreed that it would be appropriate for any Government
which wished to do so to adopt current market prices as the basis of valuation
for its gold holdings.
The two Presidents considered in depth the energy problem and its serious
and disturbing effects on the world economy. They recognized the importance
for the USA, the EEC and other industrialized nations of implementing policies
for the conservation of energy, the development of existing and alternative
sources of energy, and the setting up of new mechanisms of financial solidarity.
They stressed the importance of solidarity among oil importing nations on these
issues.
The two Presidents also exchanged views on the desirability of a dialogue
between consumers and producers and in that connection discussed the proposal
of the President of the French Republic of October 24 for a conference of oil
exporting and importing countries. They agreed that it would be desirable to con-
vene such a meeting at the earliest possible date. They regard it as important that
all parties concerned should be better informed of their respective interests and
concerns and that harmonious relations should be established among them in
order to promote a healthy development of the world economy.
755
