[135]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
135
Remarks at a Republican Fundraising Dinner in Detroit.
October 10, 1974
Max Fisher, Governor Bill Milliken, Senator Bob Griffin, distinguished mem-
bers of the executive branch in Lansing, members of the State legislature, public
officials, ladies and gentlemen:
It is just wonderfully warming and refreshing to be here, and I thank you from
the bottom of my heart.
Before I begin, I really should tell you what a great day it has been today. In
a State where automobiles are so much a part of our everyday life, you don't
know how much fun it was driving in from the airport and seeing so many
wonderfully nice people just come out and watch this Ford go by. [Laughter]
I have been asked by a good many friends of mine whether I will be able to
stay for the next day or two and see that tremendously important, that great
traditional football game between Michigan and Michigan State this Saturday.
Unfortunately, I won't be able to do so, but I do have to be honest. When the Wol-
verines are playing, asking me who I am rooting for is about as necessary as
asking Bill Milliken and Bob Griffin how to get to Traverse City.
It is great to be here, as I indicated at the outset, among so many old friends
and so many outstanding leaders who are here to pay tribute to Bill Milliken
and the ticket.
If I might, I would like to relax a minute, and if I might, I would like to tell
the latest shaggy dog story from Washington, and the truth is, it is accurate.
As a matter of fact, I was sitting up here talking to Max Fisher and Helen
Milliken, and I was trying to light my pipe. And I reached into my pocket, and
I picked out of the pocket a big dog bone, which I carry now because for the last
3 or 4 days we have had a new tenant at the White House.
Actually, it is a story of how my daughter, Susan, and Dave Kennerly, the
new White House photographer, surprised me and Betty with an 8-month-old
golden retriever last Saturday. In the process of trying to get this dog, because
we had had a great affection for golden retrievers—we had two, one 13 years old
and one 9; both have died—so they called up a very highly recommended kennel
and said they wanted to buy a golden retriever.
The owner of the kennel said that was fine, who will the dog's owner be?
They said it is a surprise, and they would like to keep it secret. Well, the kennel
276
