[311]
December 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
address. There will be Moon rock samples, the first Bible printed in America,
Paul Revere's saddlebags, as well as exhibits representing the Nation's culture,
technological progress, professions and trades, sports, and the arts.
During the next year and a half, 40 to 50 million Americans are expected to
view these exhibits as we near our 200th birthday as a nation.
I sincerely hope that every American, as he or she contemplates these historical
reminders, will reflect on how far we have come in the short span of 200 years.
And as we take a long look back, let us also take a long look forward. If we do,
we will be able to see the problems facing us today in a much clearer perspective.
Our problems are serious ones—especially our energy problems and those of
our economy. But think of the problems our forefathers had. Think of those
13 tiny colonies taking on the mightiest nation, the mightiest empire in the
world. And think of them winning their liberty as well as ours.
Very few people back in 1776 would have thought that in just 200 years, those
13 colonies would provide the jumping off spot from which, eventually, 50 united
States would span a vast continent and beyond, tame a mighty wilderness, con-
struct a technological society of enormous scientific complexity, and then set
out to explore space itself. But as we look back over this span of time and see
what we have today, that is exactly what took place and transpired.
As we reflect on these historic accomplishments, let us also look ahead to the
future that we are building. Let us reaffirm our faith in the American spirit.
As one of the great nations of the world-spiritually, militarily, diplo-
matically, and economically-we in America have the best of many worlds. We
have nearly all of the resources which we desperately need. We have the techno-
logical resources. We have the human resources. Now, what we need in this
period of—a critical time, we must have the will to resolve those problems, the
will to win and the will we will win with in the months ahead.
By the year 2000, I see a people living in a community of peace with other
nations, with a standard of living still the highest in the world, with disease
greatly conquered, with individual liberties secure for everyone, with wide
opportunities for good education and good housing, and with our national will
and spirit still climbing as we move toward celebration of our tricentennial.
I see the Bicentennial of 1976 as a rebirth as well as a birthday—a rediscovery
of our strength and of our potential. It will strengthen our resolve to fulfill the
promises of our forefathers. It will fortify our determination to continue to build
a freer, more just, and more humane society.
This American Freedom Train will be a fitting symbol for what the Bicen-
766
