August 19
[16]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Nation, to take part in this 75th annual convention of the Veterans of Foreign
Wars.
As a proud member of Old Kent Post VFW 830, let me talk today about
some of the work facing veterans—and all Americans—the issues of world
peace and national unity.
Speaking of national unity, let me quickly point out that I am also a proud
member of the American Legion and the AMVETS.
In a more somber note, this morning we all heard the tragic news of the
killing of our American Ambassador to Cyprus.¹ He, too, gave his life in
foreign wars. Let us offer our prayers and our condolences to his loved ones for
his supreme sacrifice on behalf of all Americans.
As President and as a veteran, I want good relations with all veterans. We
all proudly wore the same Nation's uniform and patriotically saluted the same
flag. During my Administration, the door of my office will be open to veterans
just as it was all my 25 years as a Member of the Congress.
Today, I am happy to announce my intention to send the Senate the nomina-
tion of my personal friend and former Congressional colleague Dick Roude-
bush of Indiana-it seems to me you know what I am going to say-[laughter]—
but I will finish the sentence-to be Administrator of the Veterans Admin-
istration.
As past national commander of the VFW, Roudy has served well as Deputy
Administrator of the VA. He is a man who gets things done and, I am con-
fident, will do a first-class job.
It seems to me that we should recognize the veteran is a human being, not
just a “C” number to be processed by a computer system. We all know that
the Government knew our name when we were called into service. This Ad-
ministration is going to see to it that we still know your name and your prob-
lems. A veteran is a person, not just a digit in a computer system which more
often than not goofs up.
I propose the VA take the best of our technology and the very best of our
human capabilities and combine them. As President, I want no arrogance or
indifference to any individual, veteran or not. Our Government's machinery
exists to serve people, not to frustrate or humiliate them.
1 ¹ Ambassador Rodger P. Davies was killed by a sniper during a demonstration at the American
Embassy in Nicosia on August 19.
On the same day, the White House issued the following statement by Press Secretary J. F. terHorst:
"The President was shocked and deeply saddened by the death of Ambassador Davies in Nicosia today.
This tragic incident emphasizes the urgent need for an end to the violence on Cyprus and an immediate
return to negotiations for a peaceful settlement."
23
