[151]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
our capability to do the job; a Congress that will be cooperative, not a Congress
that will be subservient; not a Congress that will be a dictator, but a Congress
that is a part of a team with some give-and-take.
And so I say to you, the odds are tough, but I think those odds were pretty
tough last Saturday when Missouri played Nebraska.
And those tough ballplayers from Missouri did a job, and if you do your job,
if you enlist in this great struggle for the kind of representation Tom Curtis
can give you, the kind of representation other candidates on the ticket can give
you, you can win just as they did.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:36 a.m. at the Muehlebach Hotel.
152
Remarks in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. October 16, 1974
THANK YOU very, very much, my good friend and former colleague in the
House of Representatives, Jim Abdnor. And may I express from the bottom of my
heart the tremendous welcome, the enthusiasm and the warmth of this recep-
tion. I cannot in any words in my vocabulary express my deep gratitude and ap-
preciation. Thank you very, very much.
And if I might on a very personal note: A good many years ago I matriculated
to the University of Michigan. This was back in 1931, and I didn't have much
money, but a woman here today and her husband made it possible for me to rent
a room on the third floor-the cheapest part of their roominghouse—at the cost
of $4 a week to go to the University. And I want to thank Elizabeth Van Wye,
the widow of John Van Wye, who was connected with your university for a
long, long time. Elizabeth, it is nice to see you.
It is good to be back in South Dakota. I have been here a good many times. And
I especially enjoy it here in the Mount Rushmore area. There are four faces on
that great, great national monument. One is a Federalist, one is a Democrat, and
two are historical pillars of the Republican Party. This is the kind of political
scorecard that I like in South Dakota.
Naturally, I am delighted to be on the same platform with some truly fine,
outstanding people who fit the tradition of Abraham Lincoln, Teddy Roosevelt,
and other greats in our political system—people like Jim Abdnor, Leo Thorsness,
John Olson, Larry Pressler.
318
