[82]
September 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
I realize that I am asking Federal employees to make a sacrifice, but now is
the time when all of us must set an example of fiscal restraint for the rest of
the Nation.
The Senate can do its part by voting to sustain my action on the 3-month
Federal pay deferral. I see this vote as the first test of our common effort to put
our economic house in order.
This is one of the most significant votes the Congress is being called upon
to take in the fight against inflation. I am confident the Senate will act respon-
sibly and in the best interests of all Americans.
83
Statement on the Release of an American Prisoner in Laos.
September 18, 1974
WITH ALL Americans, I welcomed the news that Mr. Emmet Kay has been
released as part of the prisoner exchange in Laos. This release marks a major
positive step in carrying out the Vientiane Accords which ended the war in that
country last year. We are encouraged by this development and hope it will be
followed by other positive steps to achieve peace and reconciliation in Laos.
At the same time, I remain concerned about the many Americans still unac-
counted for in Southeast Asia. As Vice President, and during my time in the
Congress, I had the opportunity to meet with the families of a number of our
missing men. I have the highest regard for the strength and courage these
families have shown in the long period since their loved ones were lost.
It has now been more than 18 months since the Paris Agreement on Vietnam
was signed in January 1973. In addition to the return of prisoners, that Agree-
ment contained specific provisions on accounting for the missing and the return
of the remains of the dead. The record shows that there has been almost no
compliance with these humanitarian provisions. Although the Government of
North Vietnam returned the remains of 23 American servicemen who died in
captivity, there has been no progress on accounting for the missing and no
further arrangements for the return of the remains of the dead.
The Communist side has refused to permit searches in areas under their con-
trol for crash sites, graves, and other information on the MIA's. We are prepared
to carry out such searches by unarmed American teams, and we stand ready to
discuss arrangements for the conduct of such searches by teams from neutral
162
