[281]
December 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
In looking over the list of participants and the events for this conference, I see
that you have pursued well your goal of focusing attention on the social respon-
sibility of professionals and the role of the liberal arts college in preparing people
for these professions.
The range of your agenda is impressive, including figures from business, the
professions, and the communications media as well as the academic community.
I am always an optimist, and I happen to believe that you will succeed.
Your basic product and your basic methods of looking at the problem are
sound. I believe that the liberal arts college can cope with the change without
injuring its roots or its purpose. Your institutions are a much needed part of the
modern education system and, of course, of our society.
The ties you are building with business, with the professions, and with the
media will help to create a better future for your colleges, your students, and I
think, our country.
In the months ahead, because of my interest in the subject and my concern
for a solution, I will be following your work with a personal interest. You do
have my support, and you certainly have my best wishes for a continued success.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:53 p.m. in Room
450 at the Old Executive Office Building. In his
opening remarks, the President referred to Terrell
H. Bell, Commissioner of Education, and Virginia
Y. Trotter, Assistant Secretary for Education, De-
partment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
282
Toasts of the President and Chancellor Schmidt of the
Federal Republic of Germany. December 5, 1974
MR. CHANCELLOR, it is a great privilege and a pleasure for me and our peo-
ple to have you and your Foreign Secretary, Mr. Genscher, and the others from
your party visiting us in Washington on this occasion.
We, of course, feel that this gathering is a reaffirmation of the longstanding
friendship of your people as well as ours, your Government as well as ours, a
friendship that has a very broad base in military security, economic relations,
people-to-people relations.
Of course, the pages of history in the United States are filled with contribu-
tions made over the 200 years of our Nation's history, contributions made by
people from your country.
718
