[84]
September 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
For instance, I saw, as I came in, my very good friend, Sarah McClendon. Some
people say that Sarah is very outspoken. Not by anyone that I know. [Laughter]
But anybody in public life is well aware of how important the judgments of the
press are. I am firmly convinced that if the good Lord had made the world today,
He would have spent 6 days creating the heavens and the Earth and all the living
creatures upon it. But on the seventh day, He would not have rested. He would
have justified it to Helen Thomas. [Laughter]
I also want to say a special hello to all my fellow survivors of Air Force Two
who are here tonight, and I see many in the audience. Be honest, now, all of you
who flew with me in Air Force Two. Don't you really miss it? This is the only
plane that the Air Force has that has to stop for red lights. [Laughter]
When Governor Nelson Rockefeller saw this plane, he was really in a state of
shock. As a matter of fact, I think he thought about reconsidering the nomina-
tion.
He said, "Is this Air Force Two? I have something that goes much faster."
And I said to Nelson, “Is it a jet?"
Nelson said, "No, it is a lawnmower." [Laughter]
Before closing, I would like to congratulate the very popular Ron Sarro on the
occasion of his being elected to the presidency of the Washington Press Club.
I understand that Ron really put his heart and his soul into this campaign. He was
even going to set up a campaign organization called "The Committee to Re-
elect Ron President" until somebody pointed out that is CREEP spelled side-
ways. [Laughter]
But when it comes to a reporter's intuition, and really being ahead of his time,
you just can't beat Ron Sarro. Do you know that in 1970-that is quite a while
ago-Ron wrote a book called “Are You Safe From Burglars?" [Laughter]
I don't know how many people bought it—obviously not enough—but I do
deeply appreciate your asking me to be here tonight on this very historic occasion,
the inauguration of the first male president of the Washington Press Club.
As one President to another, Ron, I salute you, and I also salute the members of
the Washington Press Club for breaking down the barriers of sexual discrimina-
tion.
I think all of you know where I stand on this issue. As I prove every morning at
breakfast time, I certainly don't believe that a woman's place is in the kitchen.
[Laughter]
If our country is to survive and to prosper, we need the best efforts of all Ameri-
cans—men and women—to bring this, I think, proper attitude and atmosphere
and results in America.
164
