October 10
[135]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
know who will be a great partner with Bill as Lieutenant Governor, Lieutenant
Governor Jim Damman.ยน
Jim, good luck to you.
As Bob Griffin was speaking tonight, I reminisced a good bit in my own
mind because in January of 1965, Bob Griffin did more to help me become mi-
nority leader than anybody else in the House of Representatives. And for all the
trouble I have gotten in in the meantime, you can blame Bob Griffin. He was
the campaign manager of the campaign where I challenged an older man, and
we won by the landslide margin of 73 to 67.
But it was Bob's skill, his support, that made it possible, and it has been a great
privilege and pleasure for me to watch Bob's progress as he went from the
House to the Senate, and from the Senate to the second leadership post on our
side of the aisle.
Now, Bob and I have done a lot of things together. But he is a good bit
younger, so we never played football together. But Bob is the kind of an indi-
vidual that I respect in politics. He is a teamplayer, and I just hope and trust, as
Bob moves along in the political ladder and up the priority list, that we in Michi-
gan can see in Bob Griffin a higher and higher and more and more responsible
role in our Federal Government. He deserves it, and he will make it.
Bob, it is nice to be here with you.
You have been introduced to the wives of the Members of the House. They are
the ones that really are helpful in the tough times that a Member of the House has
to make decisions. They look after the families, they are nice to their husbands,
and I just think we owe a special round of applause to the wives of Marv Esch,
Ed Hutchinson, Chuck Chamberlain, Al Cederberg, Phil Ruppe, and Bill
Broomfield. They are wonderful, and let's give them a big hand.
We had anticipated that their husbands would be traveling with me coming
out here. We have a few more accommodations now than we had a couple of
months ago. But unfortunately, all of them are in Washington staying on the
job, and that is what you elected them to do.
So, I think we should applaud them for being there rather than here with us
tonight. And even though we've missed all of the Republican Members of the
delegation who could not be here, and that is sad, I would like to share some good
news with you tonight.
It is often said that being President of the United States is the loneliest job in the
ยน State Representative James J. Damman was the Republican candidate for Lieutenant Governor of
Michigan.
279
