September 23
[94]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
-second, each nation must fully utilize its own energy resources; and
—third, each nation must join with others in cooperative efforts to reduce its
energy vulnerability.
In doing so, we emphasize that our actions are not directed against any other
nations, but are only taken to maintain the conditions of international order and
well-being.
The quest for energy need not promote division and discord; it can expand the
horizons of the world's peoples. I envision a strong movement towards a unify-
ing cooperation to ensure a decent life for all.
I welcome the development in Brussels last Friday of a new international
energy program by the Energy Coordinating Group of the Washington Energy
Conference. We were pleased to participate in that meeting. The 12 nations
reached an ad referendum agreement on a far-reaching cooperative plan to deal
with such emergencies as embargoes by sharing available oil and by cutting con-
sumption and using stocks on an equitable basis. While seeking conservation, we
and the other nations will work for expanded production of both conventional
and nonconventional fuels. The cooperating countries are also creating an inter-
national agency to carry out this program.
The United States welcomes this demonstration of international action rather
than words.
Just as Americans are challenged by Project Independence, the world faces a
related challenge that requires a "Project Interdependence." No single country
can solve the energy problem by itself. As President, I offer America's partner-
ship to every other nation willing to join in a common effort to expand the spirit
flowing from the Washington Energy Conference. A start has been made in
Brussels. The momentum must be continued if true interdependence is to be
achieved.
The economy of the world is facing unprecedented challenges. Old remedies
are inadequate for new problems. New and appropriate solutions must be found
without delay, and I am absolutely convinced that they will be found.
I firmly believe that the unselfishness of all nations is in the self-interest of each
nation. We all depend on each other in so many ways that there is no way in
today's world for any nation to benefit at the expense of others—except for the
very short term and at a very great risk.
Without having planned it, we find ourselves in the strange situation in which
the most selfish individual can figure out that it is profitable to live by what we
call the Golden Rule: We can help ourselves only if we are considerate and only
if we are helpful to others.
181
