October 24
[190]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
mind getting beat, but he didn't like the idea of being licked by a pair of long
legs.
Well, I think all of you know that it was not Les' legs that endeared him to you;
it was his door-to-door, his barnyard-to-barnyard campaigning. He started it in
1934, and for the next 19 elections he did the same thing. In his own inimitable
way, Les Arends got to know people, he got to know their problems, and he
indicated a desire to work to solve those problems. He didn't ask whether a per-
son was a Democrat, an Independent, or a Republican. He did it the way Abe
Lincoln did.
Les Arends wanted to solve problems of people and do what was right for the
district and the State and the country, and for those reasons Les never had much
trouble. He was respected, admired, and loved.
On the issues—and I know intimately because we had some tough ones in re-
cent years-Les never looked at the problem from a political sense. He looked
at those problems from the point of view of what was right, and he voted the
way he thought it was right for people in the country. And that basic ingredient,
which is so necessary in this day and age, made it possible for Les to serve this
district for so long. I don't have to embellish his record; it speaks for itself. He
did a great job in a period of time which was unique in our country's history.
Let me cite a few figures, a fact or two, to indicate the change that went on in
this country from 1934 until today—this span of time, four decades, when Les
Arends did a job for all of you.
When Les entered the Congress in 1935, the Federal budget for everything
was $6 billion. Isn't that right, Charlie? Les? Six billion dollars to run everything
for the Federal Government. Now it is $305 billion. We are trying to cut it about
$5.4 billion.
Back in 1934, Les Arends entered Congress, and at that time the Federal pay-
roll for everybody was $780,582. Today it is over $2 billion, something around
$2.1 billion.
Back in 1935, the budget for the Army, the Navy-there was not an Air Force;
it was the Air Corps in those days-the total budget for the Department of De-
fense-they didn't actually have that in those days-but for whatever we bought
for guns and aircraft was under $1 billion. Today it is $88 billion.
Back in those days, the national debt was $29 billion, and it was forecast as a
catastrophe for America. I hate to admit it now, but today the national debt is
$507 billion.
I don't bring these facts and figures up to indicate in any way whatsoever that
465
