[175]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ask you with any degree of conscientiousness to help if Uncle Sam is going to
just spend money, you know, like it was out of style.
So, I need some help in the Congress, because no money is spent by the Fed-
eral Government unless the Congress appropriates it—which brings up an inter-
esting fact.
We think the Congress-the Government, I should say—has done a bad job
in handling your tax money. Do you realize that 38 of the last 42 years, the
opposition has controlled the Congress? So, if they have spent too much money,
I think you can honestly say it is the opposition's responsibility, and they have
controlled the Congress the last 20 years.
So, I would really think if the national debt is too high-$485 billion-if they
spent much too much money, we can legitimately look at the opposition and
say, "You control the Congress, you control expenditures, you are responsible.”
What we need is not only Marlow and Gene and Tim Lee Carter but we need
these other good candidates who are just as dedicated to fight for fiscal responsi-
bility, not only because it is sound economically but because it is right in this
battle that we face in trying to whip public enemy number one-inflation.
You know, I submitted, as I said a moment ago, 31 plans or programs or
particulars for a winning battle against inflation. And I have heard some
criticism about it. They have nitpicked here and they have nitpicked there, and
so forth. Well, some of the critics remind me a little bit of Secretariat—they are
running very fast, but not producing very much. [Laughter]
So, when we come right down to it, we have got some problems that have to
be solved, and I happen to think the reelection of Marlow or reelection of Gene
and Tim Lee—that is highly essential. But if we are going to win the battle
against inflation, we have to accept and fight for and be dedicated to this kind
of sound economics. It calls for a little sacrifice upon the part of every one of us.
It calls upon us to be compassionate, because we are going through a traumatic
experience that I suspect few of you had anything to do in creating. But the fact is
that the United States can't afford to have double-digit inflation as we try to
meet the challenges from abroad.
I am encouraged with what I hear and what I see, and I happen to think that
the Congress, after it gets through this next election, will respond. If we don't,
if we just abandon our responsibility, this kind of inflation will tear the fabric
of our political society asunder. It will destroy what we have inherited from
those that preceded us. It will completely knock out the capabilities of the
United States to be the leader in the world in trying to solve the problems of
410
