[190]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Les Arends had anything to do with what took place or the things that hap-
pened-just the opposite. Les fought against deficit financing; he did his utmost
to hold down the growth in the Federal deficits and national debt. But I can't
help but indicate that in these four decades, this 40 years, Les Arends was in
the majority only four out of the 40 years, so whatever happened that made these
things go wrong, it was not Les' fault. He didn't control, or he was not in the
majority.
One thing that always impressed me about Les-he was a member of the
Committee on Armed Services-he had a substantial part in helping us catch
up to get prepared to eventually win against the dictators, Hitler, Mussolini. He
helped us gear up to take care of the problems that resulted from an invasion
of an ally, South Korea. It was Les Arends who made sure from the very
beginning that the only way to make sure that we would win the peace and
keep the peace was through strength.
I am proud of that record of Les Arends, and all of you are proud of the
record. You know as well as I do that peace comes from strength, and war comes
from weakness.
There is one other fact that I think is a tribute to Les. Charlie Halleck and I
and others who have served in the Congress know of the vital role that a whip
plays. I didn't know it until I came to the Congress, but I have learned of the
importance of that key responsibility in any legislative body, but particularly
in the House of Representatives where you have 435 Members.
Les Arends served as whip of the House—of the Republicans in the House
of Representatives-from 1943 until now, the longest service of a whip in either
Democratic or Republican Party in the history of the House of Representatives.
That is a tribute to him beyond almost anything.
But let me just conclude with one final observation and comment. Just before
the House recessed, I was up on Capitol Hill, and I saw a good many of the
Republican as well as Democratic leaders. We were chatting about what they
were going to do and what I was going to do after the recess began and before
the election on November 5, and I indicated to the Democratic as well as
Republican leaders that I was coming out to Melvin to pay tribute to one of
the great Members of the Congress in the history of that legislative body.
Les, everybody on both sides of the aisle in the leadership and many, many
others with whom you have served, whether they are Democratic or Republican,
asked me to say to you that they are proud of their personal relationship, they
are indebted to you for their friendship with you, and they asked me to say to
the people who are gathered here today, and I will add as a personal remark:
466
