September 24
[96]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
$50 failed to report the incident to the police. In larcenies below $50, about 80
percent did not report.
I think it is reasonable to ask the question why, and according to a survey, the
results show that most victims are frustrated, fearful, and pessimistic about re-
sults. Even victims, unfortunately, do not want to get involved with all the paper-
work, interrogations, and repeated visits to the courthouse in cases that after
several continuances may be dropped anyway. And sometimes—you know better
than I—the victim fears reprisal.
Now, what can be done? First of all, we go back to good management. Fast
action and better conviction rate of major crimes can help restore public confi-
dence in the system. Better scheduling, better notification of witnesses, and fewer
continuances will serve to cut down the terribly frustrating waste of the witness'
time.
There are many other, many other things law enforcement professionals can
do to encourage citizen cooperation and citizen initiative. Some communities
have already launched very successful programs, and I congratulate each and
every one of you in those instances.
LEAA has the information, the ideas, and some block-grant money to help
you launch a program in your community—a program to overcome the sense of
futility, frustration, and fear, and get the man on the street turned back to coop-
eration with the police.
Of course, the police can't do everything to win the war on crime, although
you have done a magnificent job under most difficult circumstances. The police,
plus the prosecutors, plus the courts, plus the prisons, cannot do the whole job.
The community and, particularly, the family can be of tremendous help.
I think we on the outside recognize how difficult your job is. Under our con-
stitutional system, the Federal Government, as I indicated earlier, can only give
you limited aid and limited support, but I commit to you that this Administra-
tion will continue the kind of support that is needed and necessary for your job
and the protection and the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Progress is slow, but it is my honest judgment that I think we are on the right
track. We are beginning, as we move in the decade of the seventies, to learn how
to fight modern crime more effectively. And as we move together, I think the
results will be increasingly evident.
In the District of Columbia, for example, there has been a fortunate combina-
tion of good management methods, very ample resources, and outstanding
leadership from Chief Jerry Wilson, who, unfortunately, is retiring this year.
187
