[153]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
20-some years ago, signed a bill which was called the Greek-Turkish aid bill.
And that legislation was sponsored and promoted and guided through the
Congress by a great Republican statesman from Michigan, Senator Arthur
Vandenburg.
And as a result of bipartisan leadership in the field of foreign policy between
a Democratic President and a Republican Congress, we laid the foundation for
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization which has kept the peace in Western
Europe for almost 30 years.
And this kind of bipartisanship is essential today as it was during the days of
Harry Truman and Arthur Vandenburg. And I can assure you that as a Repub-
lican President, I will work with a Democratic Congress to continue a bipartisan
foreign policy that is good for America and good for the rest of the world.
Now, one final comment: I was reading the polls the other day, and the polls
seem to indicate that the Republican Party is going to take some kind of a
shellacking on November 5. I don't happen to agree with that, but that is what
some of the experts were speculating or forecasting.
But let me tell you what could happen if they are right. They could end up
with a veto-proof Congress, and what does that mean? It means that the im-
portant balance between the executive branch, the Congress, and the judicial
branches of our Government will be upset. And if we look back over the history
of this country, we know that balance in government has contributed signifi-
cantly to the progress we have made, to the freedom that we have.
A veto-proof Congress will upset that balance. The American people don't
want a dictatorship in the White House or in the Congress or in the Court. They
want a system of checks and balances that protect their freedom and give to
each and every one of us a better life. And so I say, instead of a veto-proof
Congress, I hope and trust that every one of you will work for an inflation-proof
Congress on November 5.
And now, let me just conclude by thanking every one of you for being here.
It is a thrill. It is a wonderful afternoon.
Charley, I thank you for the kind words in the introduction. I wish you well
so you will be back to help us. I hope and trust that John McCollister is back,
that Mrs. Smith is with us so that they can join your two great Senators, Roman
Hruska and Carl Curtis, with a good, strong Congress in 1975.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:18 p.m. at Lincoln Municipal Airport.
330
