[152]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, these are some of the reasons I am here, to listen to what you have to
say, to get your reactions to what I say. I have a button up here that says "WIN.”
WIN now. And I see some signs and I see some buttons in the crowd here.
People of the United States have always been strong. We have met adversity
when we were challenged from abroad. We have met adversity when we were
faced with internal difficulties—the Depression and the conflicts of one kind or
another—that have plagued us over some 200 years.
But we found one answer in the political arena that gives us the opportunity
to present alternative solutions, to permit candidates who have one philosophy
and candidates who have another to meet in the political arena. And we have
developed over a period of some 200 years in this great country a two-party
system that is wholesome and healthy and gives us in all 50 States the opportunity
to participate.
Now, this system of a two-party arrangement protects us because it is an
integral part of a system of checks and balances, a system that is not in the
Constitution but it is one that has been developed as our political challenges
have gone from almost 200 years ago to today.
But if we ever lose the two-party system, if we ever go to a one-party system, we
will have the same problems that they have behind the Iron Curtain. If we ever
go to a multi-party system with five or ten parties, we will lose that strength that
comes from what we have today.
And so, as you proceed with this great election in the State of South Dakota on
November 5, what you are really doing is participating in the continuation of a
system that has given us so much materially and ideologically, that has made
America a blessed nation of some 213 million people; a country that has
representative government; a country that gives you the freedom of choice in
many, many ways as well as politically.
And this election that comes up gives you an opportunity in the solemnity of
the ballot box, a chance to make a choice, where you are the only judge, where
you can decide what is best for your country.
Oh, I know there is no gun so mighty, no force so powerful as the quiet symbol
of what you do and what others do throughout our country on November 5. It is
the opportunity; it is the responsibility; actually, it is part of your contribution
to a greater America. You can balance the ledger sheets of good government.
I have just an unbelievable faith in the people of South Dakota, as I do the
people all over America. We can strengthen the two-party system. You can pick
the best candidates, and we in America will be blessed by the good judgment of
324
