September 8
[60]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Russian and the cosmonauts have learned to speak some English, so you can
either talk to them in Russian or English, either way you want. [Laughter]
Thank you very much, and we look forward to having a bite to eat.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:35 p.m. at the Northern Virginia Police Academy.
60
Remarks on Signing a Proclamation Granting Pardon to
Richard Nixon. September 8, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have come to a decision which I felt I should tell you and all of my fellow
American citizens, as soon as I was certain in my own mind and in my own
conscience that it is the right thing to do.
I have learned already in this office that the difficult decisions always come
to this desk. I must admit that many of them do not look at all the same as
the hypothetical questions that I have answered freely and perhaps too fast
on previous occasions.
My customary policy is to try and get all the facts and to consider the opinions
of my countrymen and to take counsel with my most valued friends. But these
seldom agree, and
and in the end, the decision is mine. To procrastinate, to agonize,
and to wait for a more favorable turn of events that may never come or more
compelling external pressures that may as well be wrong as right, is itself a
decision of sorts and a weak and potentially dangerous course for a President
to follow.
I have promised to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives
me to see the right, and to do the very best that I can for America.
I have asked your help and your prayers, not only when I became President
but many times since. The Constitution is the supreme law of our land and it
governs our actions as citizens. Only the laws of God, which govern our con-
sciences, are superior to it.
As we are a nation under God, so I am sworn to uphold our laws with the
help of God. And I have sought such guidance and searched my own conscience
with special diligence to determine the right thing for me to do with respect
to my predecessor in this place, Richard Nixon, and his loyal wife and family.
Theirs is an American tragedy in which we all have played a part. It could
go on and on and on, or someone must write the end to it. I have concluded
that only I can do that, and if I can, I must.
101
