[72]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Immediate action should be taken on the rescissions that I am proposing in my
first message to the Congress under the newly-enacted Budget and Impound-
ment Control Act. Moreover, the deferrals transmitted to Congress under the
same Act should be supported. Overturning these actions could increase spend-
ing by as much as $600 million in 1975 and by far more in 1976 and future years.
As a matter of highest priority, I need your support of my recommendation to
defer the next Federal pay raise from October to January. It will be my intention
to deal fairly with the just concerns of Federal workers. But I am asking them
to join in the sacrifice I want all Americans to share. This action will reduce 1975
outlays by $700 million. It will also set an example of wage restraint for the pri-
vate sector. Let us practice what we preach.
These efforts are essential if our cooperation is to keep spending under $300
billion. We simply cannot afford to fail.
APPROPRIATIONS
Eight of fourteen regular appropriations bills have been enacted. These meas-
ures in total represent a reduction of $532 million from the Administration's
Budget in spending authority and $144 million in outlays for the current fiscal
year. These are helpful moves in the right direction. I urge that this momentum
be maintained.
There are seven money bills that require action during the balance of the
session.
The Agriculture money bill was vetoed on the basis of excessive funding; the
Defense appropriation is in conference with very sharp reductions. Levels below
the House bill would be extremely unwise. State-Justice-Commerce is also in
conference and undoubtedly will show a reduction in the Budget; Labor-HEW
appropriations, however, appear to be moving in the direction of exceeding the
Budget substantially.
Appropriations for Military Construction and Foreign Assistance have not
yet passed the House of Representatives.
There is ample time to consider the remaining appropriations bills before
adjournment. In addition, I will be sending essential but carefully limited
Supplemental Requests for fiscal year 1975. I trust they will be considered an
urgent priority.
LEGISLATION
It is unnecessary to submit a complete list of Administration legislative initia-
tives to this Congress. Leaders and Members know them as well as I do. I recog-
126
