[18]
August 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think he will make a great teammate. I think he will be good for the
country, I think he will be good for the world, and I am looking forward to
working with him.
So, Nelson.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House. His remarks
and Vice President-designate Rockefeller's news con-
ference were broadcast live on radio and television.
Following the President's remarks, Vice President-
designate Rockefeller made an opening statement
and participated in a question-and-answer session
with reporters. His opening statement follows:
Well, needless to say, ladies and gentlemen, I am
deeply honored, and should I be confirmed by the
Congress, I will look forward to the privilege and
honor of serving the President of the United States
and, as I said in the other room, through him all of
the people of this great country.
I am fully cognizant of the fact that the respon-
sibilities of the Vice President are to preside over
the Senate of the United States and to otherwise
simply carry out any assignment that he or she may
receive from the President.
I will look forward to that opportunity of serving
him in any way that can be useful to him, and I
think and feel very strongly that already his own
dedication and openness has reawakened hope and
faith and that under his leadership, we as a people
and we as a nation have the capacity, the will, and
the ability to face the tough realities-and over-
come them that exist in our country and in the
world today. And I am optimistic about the long-
term future.
19
Statement Following Congressional Action on Legislation
To Establish a Wage and Price Monitoring Agency.
August 20, 1974
THIS MORNING I had a very fine meeting with the bipartisan leadership of
the Congress. I thanked them for their prompt action on legislation currently
before the Congress to provide a wage and price monitoring agency. At the
same time, I advised them as emphatically as I could, I do not expect to ask for
any legislation for either standby or mandatory wage and price controls. Recent
experience makes it clear that, under current conditions, compulsory wage and
price controls would be most undesirable. It was the unanimous opinion of the
leaders present that, as a practical matter, this Congress would not approve
such legislation. Since both business and labor also have indicated their opposi-
tion, it is clear that there will be no Federal mandatory wage and price controls.
I, therefore, ask labor and business leaders in this country to act on that basis.
They can do so with the assurance that I will do my best to see that the new price
and wage monitoring agency works effectively to combat inflation.
30
