November 1
[215]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Last year,
I think 48 hours after I was nominated as Vice President, I came out
for a longstanding speaking commitment that I had made. And your great
Governor, Tom McCall, met me and was so hospitable and helpful.
I come back today and I have been busy thus far with some wonderful crowds
on the street, a warm welcome-[laughter]—there are a couple of dissident
voices; I have heard those chants before, and I don't think they influence many
people. But anyhow, it is—I went over to the meeting at the OMSI [Oregon
Museum of Science and Industry] this afternoon-a great crowd of wonderful
people. I am here right now and have been to a reception before, and I am
going to the Coliseum a little later. And because the day was not long enough,
I thought I might sneak out and see the last quarter of the Trail Blazers and the
Braves.¹ And then, Vernon Jordan of the Urban League sent me a telegram and
said there was some fundraiser for the Urban League going on. And I thought,
gee, we might as well go there after-because I believe that Vernon Jordan, and
the Urban League, does a first-class job, I am sure, here as well as elsewhere.
All I am saying is, you have lots of activity in Oregon, and I enjoy everything
I have been invited to and participated in, and particularly for the fine, fine turn-
out here on this occasion.
Tom McCall-I have observed and I have watched him for 8 years-has done
a superb job. You are lucky. He is a top quality Governor, and you, I am sure,
know better than I that the State of Oregon is infinitely better off because of his
stewardship.
Tom, you have done a great job.
And in the process of traveling around and meeting many people in high
office in various States, you develop a knack of picking out those that really have
quality, of those that are coming up, who have achieved something in the
process of public service in experience and courage and wisdom. And you say,
"There is somebody that really will do a job.”
And so I speak on this occasion on behalf of your candidate for Governor,
Vic Atiyeh. He was in Washington a couple of weeks ago—I have forgotten what
group, because I meet with a good many, as you might suspect-but I do
remember him.
He handed me something, and he said, “I am a man with a plan." And that
is kind of good advice. That is the way I would like a Governor to operate
before he gets in office and after he is in office.
So, Vic, good luck to you.
¹ The Portland Trail Blazers and Buffalo Braves professional basketball teams.
549
