December 17
[303]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Peace Agreements on Vietnam. Regarding Cambodia, they expressed the hope
that the contending parties would enter into negotiations in the near future rather
than continuing the military struggle. They expressed the hope that following
Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam might also find their political way towards civil
peace.
The two Presidents renewed the pledges of both Governments to continue close
relations in the field of defense as members of the Atlantic Alliance. They agreed
that the cooperation between France and NATO is a significant factor in the
security of Europe.
They noted with satisfaction that the positive steps in negotiations on SALT
taken during the Soviet-American meeting at Vladivostok have reduced the
threat of a nuclear arms race. The two Presidents explored how, as exporters
of nuclear materials and technology, their two countries could coordinate their
efforts to assure improved safeguards of nuclear materials.
The President of France indicated that his Government was prepared to reach
a financial settlement in connection with the relocation of American forces and
bases committed to NATO from France to other countries in 1967. The French
offer of $100 million in full settlement was formally accepted by President Ford.
The two Presidents concluded that the personal contact and discussion in
this meeting had demonstrated accord on many questions and expressed their
determination to maintain close contact for the purpose of broad cooperation
in areas of common concern to the two countries.
NOTE: The text of the communique was released at Martinique, French West Indies.
303
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Roy L. Ash as Director of
the Office of Management and Budget. December 17, 1974
Dear Roy:
Although I have known for some time of your plans to return to private life,
nevertheless it is with deepest regret that I have received your letter and accept
your resignation as Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, effective on a date to be determined.
Throughout the past two years, you have served the Presidency and our Na-
tion with high dedication and exceptional ability. You have had the tremend-
ous task of keeping the Federal budget within reasonable proportions while at
the same time enabling our government to meet its responsibilities to the Ameri-
757
