[165]
October 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Administration and General Services Administration to recommend to Secre-
tary Morton, Chairman of the Energy Resources Council, a multi-year program
to increase energy efficiency of all Federal facilities and operations. These two
officials will also provide instructions and guidelines to assist you in evaluating
the economic efficiency of energy conservation improvements.
I look forward to your continued cooperation and assistance in this energy
conservation effort.
GERALD R. FORD
166
Statement on Federal Energy Conservation. October 18, 1974
DURING the past month, I have made clear that the United States must and will
act to increase its energy independence. One effective way-which can have
immediate payoff—is to reduce unnecessary energy demands.
Today, I have ordered that the Federal Government continue during the
current fiscal year its energy savings program. I have directed that agencies hold
energy consumption to levels 15 percent below the amount consumed in fiscal
year 1973. In addition, I have instructed the Administrators of the Federal
Energy Administration and General Services Administration to recommend to
Secretary Morton, Chairman of the Energy Resources Council, a multi-year
program to assure that energy efficiency is considered in all decisions involving
Federal facilities and operations.
Last year, actions by Federal agencies saved the equivalent of 90 million barrels
of oil. Both these accomplishments and these new goals can serve as examples for
all sectors-for business and industry, State and local governments, and for all
our citizens in their daily activities.
The new objective for Federal energy conservation is one step. We are now
working with industry to find ways to reduce energy requirements for its
activities and products. We will continue working with all sectors to find
other steps that can be taken to conserve energy.
I again urge all Americans to join in this effort with serious voluntary actions
to conserve energy. All of us contribute daily to the demand for energy. We can
all act to reduce that demand.
382
