November 1
[214]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I am pleased to report to you that a massive voluntary citizens' mobilization
is gearing up. We in the White House have received roughly 150,000 requests for
these WIN buttons and any other information and helpful hints that we can
give to people all throughout the United States.
New steps, I think you recognize, have been taken to cope with the energy
situation, and all of our actions seek to avoid an unfair burden on those who can
least afford the tragedy of inflation or the tragedy of a softening economy.
It is my judgment that Americans are rallying to whip inflation. They can
help—and have been helping-by demanding action on legislative proposals
pending before the Congress. They can press for State and local initiatives. They
can innovate voluntary programs at the local level.
America, if we look back over the history, does not require dogmatic laws to
control every action that we take, whether it is action at home, in our schools, in
our businesses, in our labor organizations, in our churches.
My policies, as I have presented them, I think are firm and good and sound.
But any President has to be cognizant of the need, if circumstances change, to
take a new look.
I am committed to no rigid economic formula, but the basic American
philosophy that made our economy great, I am totally committed to.
As I look back over the history during my lifetime, America is built primarily
on mutual trust. It is governed by popular consent and consensus. Federal, State,
and local units of government responding to the will of the people will whip
inflation. I am perfectly confident that industries, businesses, and great trade
unions will whip inflation. I also have an abiding faith that consumer and envi-
ronmental groups will whip inflation.
Let us begin the dialog that was referred to by Governor McCall. Let's build
that dialog that can establish this confidence between environmentalists and
energy and industry, between consumers and between business, between labor
and management, and between 213 million Americans and their government,
at the Federal, State, or local level.
Let's give dialog a chance for a change. Let's continue to challenge, but also
continue in the sincere good will on both sides of every issue.
Institutions, as I have looked at it, are nothing more than people. Let us never
lose faith in humanity, the individuals that we meet, regardless of the circum-
stances. Let us never lose faith in that one-to-one confrontation, and of course,
let's not lose faith in ourselves.
Meetings of this sort are excellent forums to generate confidence. Yet, the time
545
