[80]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
or between your staff and his staff-resignation in exchange for a full pardon.
The question is: Is there or was there, to your knowledge, any kind of under-
standing about this?
THE PRESIDENT. There was no understanding, no deal between me and the
former President, nor between my staff and the staff of the former President,
none whatsoever.
ACCESS TO INCOME TAX RETURNS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, sir, there is a bill that the Treasury Department has
put forward, I think it is about 38 pages. Under this bill, which deals with getting
hold of the returns, Internal Revenue returns, of citizens of the country, you
could take action to get those returns whenever you wanted to.
I wonder if you are aware of this and if you feel that you need to get those
returns of citizens?
The President. It is my understanding that a President has, by tradition and
practice and by law, the right to have access to income tax returns. I personally
think that is something that should be kept very closely held. A person's income
tax return is a very precious thing to that individual, and therefore, I am about
to issue an Executive order [11805] that makes it even more restrictive as to
how those returns can be handled. And I do think that a proposed piece of
legislation that is coming to me and subsequently will be submitted, as I recollect,
to the Congress would also greatly tighten up the availability or accessibility
of income tax returns. I think they should be closely held, and I can assure you
that they will be most judiciously handled as far as I am concerned.
OWNERSHIP OF PRESIDENTIAL PAPERS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, looking beyond the Nixon papers and in view of
some criticism in Congress, do you believe we may have now reached the point
where Presidential White House papers should remain in the Government's
hands as the property of the Government?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as I am personally concerned, I can see a legitimate
reason for Presidential papers remaining the property of the Government. In
my own case, I made a decision some years ago to turn over all of my Congres-
sional papers, all of my Vice Presidential papers, to the University of Michigan
archives.
As far as I am concerned, whether they go to the archives for use or whether
they stay the possession of the Government, I don't think it makes too much
difference. I have no desire, personally, to retain whatever papers come out of
my Administration.
152
