[192]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
I do point out that, in terms of its original fundamental objectives, it has been
successful, and we have succeeded in something more. We have managed to
build a better world. The economic aid that went into our mutual security pro-
gram built strong allies and strong, prosperous trading partners.
Encouraging new developments in our relations with both allies and potential
adversaries have raised the hopes that finally, after so many unwanted wars and
so much tragic suffering, mankind may finally be on the path to a lasting peace.
If this is so and I believe it is—no one deserves more credit than our veterans,
and nothing will do more to insure peace than a continued policy of national
strength.
The markers over the graves of the known and the unknown whom we salute
here today stand as silent sentinels to nearly 200 years of sacrifice and freedom.
The men and women with us here today, whom we honor for the uniforms they
once wore, stand as attentive guardians of this Nation which Lincoln once aptly
described as "The last, best hope of earth.”
Let us make sure, on this beautiful day, the debt we owe to so many is prop-
erly honored. Let this Veterans Day strengthen our resolve to always walk the
extra mile for peace, but always walk it strong and unafraid-for without a
mighty America no peace can long survive.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:18 a.m. in the
Amphitheater at Arlington National Cemetery, Ar-
lington, Va., after laying a wreath at the Tomb of
the Unknowns.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
R. D. Smith, junior vice commander, and Cooper T.
Holt, Washington office executive director, Veterans
of Foreign Wars; and Sfc. Gary L. Littrell, USA,
who had received the Medal of Honor on October 15,
1973.
On October 7, 1974, the President signed Procla-
mation 4323, Veterans Day, 1974.
193
Statement on Signing the Foreign Investment Study Act
of 1974. October 28, 1974
IT GIVES me great pleasure to have signed S. 2840, the Foreign Investment
Study Act of 1974.
A recent study by the executive branch concluded that the available informa-
tion on the activities of foreign investors in the United States is inadequate. The
bill I sign into law today will go a long way toward remedying that deficiency.
This bill provides for the Departments of Commerce and the Treasury to
undertake comprehensive studies of foreign direct and portfolio investment in
478
