September 28
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
affairs are doomed to economic disorder and widespread inflation. Such discipline
is imperative, it is urgent if we are to achieve a stable and expanding economy.
The American people have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to submerge
personal and group interests to the general welfare. When they know the chips
are down, they are really down-and they have done it in the past, and they wiii
do it again-they will respond as they always have.
As part of the demanded discipline, I will send to the Congress a plan of action
to keep Federal outlays for fiscal year 1975 at or under $300 billion. Every dollar
the Federal Treasury must borrow is a dollar not available to the home buyer
or the businessman trying to expand or other citizens who may be borrowers for
good and sufficient reasons.
A coherent national policy on energy is essential for economic stability. It
must encourage prudent use of available energy. There must be an assured future
energy supply to enable consumers and businessmen to plan in a confident and
orderly way. I will soon propose a national energy program aimed at assuring
adequate internal supplies while reducing dependence on external sources. At
this very minute, Secretaries Kissinger and Simon are exploring with their
counterparts from four major industrial nations a coordinated plan to cope with a
world energy crisis and world economic dislocations.
Today, I can announce three actions I have just taken:
First, I have directed the consolidation by Executive order [11808] of all the
Federal Government economic efforts, domestic and international, under a new
[President's] Economic Policy Board. The Secretary of the Treasury, Bill Simon,
will serve as Chairman of this Board and as my principal spokesman on matters
of economic policy.
I have appointed Bill Seidman, who has done so well with this conference, to
serve as my Assistant for the coordination and the implementation of economic
affairs and also as Executive Director of the new Economic Policy Board.
In addition to Secretary Simon and Bill Seidman, I have appointed eight
Cabinet officers as members of this Board. They include Henry Kissinger, Rog
Morton, Earl Butz, Fred Dent, Pete Brennan, Caspar Weinberger, Jim Lynn,
and Claude Brinegar.
In addition, membership includes the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, Roy Ash; the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alan
Greenspan; and the Executive Director of the Council on International Eco-
nomic Policy, William Eberle. Dr. Arthur Burns, Chairman of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, will attend meetings of this Board,
which will start work immediately.
207
