October 7
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
to protect those who are least fortunate, and there will be a program aimed to be
compassionate and helpful.
But it will be a fair program, as I said the other day to some news commentator.
I do receive a lot of advice in this area, and I must reveal one thing. I am not
going to ask for—and I got this advice from George and Bob and Dick. They
said, "Don't ask for any increase in the Federal gasoline tax.”
So, let me give you a preview. Let me give you one sneak preview. I am not
going to ask for any increase in the gasoline tax, and any speculation to the
contrary is untrue.
Now, if I might close with just one final comment. I, as all of you, particularly
your Governmental officials, have great faith in our system. I know there are
skeptics and pessimists who from time to time wonder whether our system can
survive in the competitive world that we face. But every time I listen to a pessi-
mist, I cannot help but recall what Winston Churchill once said when he was
asked to comment about a free society. And as I recall—and I am paraphrasing a
bit-Winston Churchill said democracy is the worst form of government except
it is better than any other that has ever been tried. I believe in that and so do you.
And then they tell the story—and I was in Philadelphia a few weeks ago—
that Continental Congress that met for the purpose of writing our Constitution,
or I should say our Constitutional Convention—they had representatives from
12 of the 13 States, some 55 of them. They worked long and hard from May until
September. When they finished their labors—and there were compromises be-
tween the big States and the small States, between the big cities and the rural
communities—they finally fashioned probably the greatest document in the
history of mankind for the governing of people.
And after they had all signed and left that hall, the last one to leave was
Benjamin Franklin. He strolled down those steps and as he got to the cobble-
stone street, he was asked this question by a bystander: "Mr. Franklin, what
have you given us—a monarchy or a republic?” And according to the story, Ben
Franklin said, "We have given you a republic-if you can keep it."
I do not have to talk to Vermonters about keeping the Republic. You have
done it for 200 years.
But what I am saying is we have done it for 200 years, but we must do it today
by sacrifice and vision and wisdom for the next 200 years. And George Aiken
represents the kind of leadership that has built and constructed the future for
those of us who will carry on.
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:31 p.m. in Patrick Gymnasium at the University of Vermont.
225
