[258]
November 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
FOR THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
L. I. BREZHNEV
General Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU
November 24, 1974
NOTE: The joint communique was signed in a ceremony in the conference hall at Okeansky Sanitarium.
259
Remarks Upon Returning From Japan, the Republic of Korea,
and the Soviet Union. November 24, 1974
Mr. Speaker, my very dear friends in the Congress, members of the Cabinet,
distinguished guests, my fellow Americans:
I thank you all very, very much for coming out this evening and welcoming us
so very warmly.
Since I left Washington 8 days ago, I have traveled some 17,000 miles for the
purpose of peace and not a single step toward war. And every one of those miles,
in my opinion, was most worthwhile. But as always when we return to our
homeland, my companions and myself are very, very happy to be here.
Secretary Kissinger has a few more miles to go on this trip,' but I will assure
him that this warm welcome includes him as well.
Thursday is Thanksgiving. I cannot help but reflect on the many, many
blessings that we Americans have. We do have some very serious problems, but
we have much, much more to be thankful for. America is a strong country;
Americans are very strong people. We are free, and we are blessed with good
friends and allies.
On my trip I talked with the leaders of two of our allies, Japan and Korea. In
both nations, I saw how much they value their relationship with us. We will
continue to work together to strengthen our ties.
The visit to Japan marked my first trip outside North America since becoming
Secretary Kissinger visited the People's Republic of China from November 25 through November 29.
A United States-People's Republic of China joint communique, issued November 29, 1974, read as follows:
"Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, U.S. Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, visited the People's Republic of China from November 25 through November 29, 1974. The U.S.
and Chinese sides held frank, wide-ranging and mutually beneficial talks. They reaffirmed their unchanged
commitment to the principles of the Shanghai Communique. The two Governments agreed that President
Gerald R. Ford would visit the People's Republic of China in 1975."
662
