[42]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
to bring education and employers together in a new climate of credibility—an
atmosphere in which universities turn out scholars and employers turn them on.
Ever since President Abraham Lincoln initiated the concept of land grant col-
leges, set up to bring educators closer to the people and students closer to the
land, the Federal Government has been interested in the practical application of
education.
Take the example of Project Independence. Frankly, I am not satisfied with the
progress we are making toward energy independence by 1980. However, this is
a problem that I can appropriately discuss at a Labor Day weekend commence-
ment. It concerns both the academic community and our great labor organiza-
tions.
I am not speaking of gasoline for a Labor Day trip to the lake or the seashore.
I am speaking of fuel and raw materials for our factories which are threatened
by shortages and high costs. Skills and intellect must harmonize so that the
wheels of industry not only hum but sing.
I propose a great new partnership of labor and educators. Why can't the uni-
versities of America open their doors wide to working men and women, not
only as students but as teachers? Practical problemsolvers can contribute much
to education, whether or not they hold degrees. The fact of the matter is that
education is being strangled-by degrees.
I want to see labor open its ranks to researchers and problemsolvers of the
campuses whose research can give better tools and methods to the workman.
I want to see a two-way street speeding the traffic of scientific development,
speeding the creation of new jobs, speeding the day of independence in energy,
and speeding an era of increased production for America and the world.
What good is training if it is not applied to jobs? What good are factories if
they are shut down? What good is business and industry without those who
solve their problems, perform their jobs, and spend their paychecks?
Next year, I will ask Congress to extend two laws which are expiring. One pro-
vides for higher education, the other for vocational education. Both are essen-
tial because we need new jobs and we need new skills, academically as well as
vocationally.
Your Government will help you create a vocational environment responsive to
our needs, but the Government cannot achieve personal fulfillment for each of
you. You, in this case, are the essential ingredient. Your determination, your
dedication, your will, will make the signicant difference.
For you, the time has come to test the theories of the academic world in the
70
