August 30
[42]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
You are America's greatest untapped source of energy. But energy unused is
energy wasted.
It is my judgment that we must make extraordinary efforts to apply our
know-how, our capital, our technology, and our human resources to increase
productivity at a faster rate. Unfortunately, inflation is creating a national state
of public anxiety. Productivity, yours as well as mine, must improve if we are
to have less of an inflationary economy. In the long run, it is the only way that
we can raise wages without inflationary price increases. It is essential in creating
new jobs and increasing real wages. In a growing economy, everyone—labor,
management, and the consumer-wins when productivity expands.
At this very moment of America's history, we have the knowledge and the
material resources to do almost anything that any one of us, or all of us collec-
tively, can imagine. We can explore the depths of the oceans. We can put a man
on the Moon. We can reach for the stars.
But great problems confront us here on Earth. To face these problems, we need
even more than technology, we need more than programs. We need a belief
in ourselves. We need the will, the dedication, the discipline to take action.
Let us take a new look at ourselves as Americans. Let us draw from every
resource available. Let us seek a real partnership between the academic commu-
nity and the rest of our society. Let us aspire to excellence in every aspect of our
national life.
Now, may I close with a word between friends? Sometimes deep feelings can
get lost in words. I don't want that to happen here today. And so, I would like
to share with you something that I feel very deeply: The world is not a lonely
place. There is light and life and love enough for all of us. And I ask you, and
all Americans, to reach out to join hands with me—and together we will seek it
out.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, Dr. Harold Enarson, president of Ohio State University, conferred an honorary Doctor of
Laws degree upon the President. Dr. Enarson then presented the President with two tickets for the
Michigan-Ohio State football game on November 23, 1974. The President then resumed speaking.]
President Enarson, obviously I am deeply grateful and most indebted to you.
I won't tell this audience who I will be rooting for. I don't want to go from the
White House to the doghouse so quickly. [Laughter]
Somehow I learned indirectly, and I don't know the source, that I might be
the beneficiary of Ohio State's generosity this morning, and this information
came to me late, late yesterday afternoon, just as Henry Kissinger and I were
breaking up a meeting talking about some foreign policy matter, and I told
73
