[203]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Kennedy, a minor." I am advised by the Attorney General and I have deter-
mined that the absence of my signature from this bill prevents it from becoming
law. Without in any way qualifying this determination, I am also returning it
without my approval to those designated by Congress to receive messages at
this time.
This bill would provide for payment, “as a gratuity," of $45,482 to Mr. Burt
and for similar payments of $36,750 each to the widow and son of Douglas E.
Kennedy for injuries and other damages Mr. Burt and Mr. Kennedy sustained
as a result of gunshot wounds inflicted by U.S. military personnel in the Domini-
can Republic in 1965. The amounts in the bill were recommended in a congres-
sional reference case opinion by a review panel of the Court of Claims.
The claims presented in this bill arise from an admittedly tragic and unfortu-
nate incident. On May 6, 1965, Mr. Burt and Mr. Kennedy, two newspapermen
who were covering the civil upheaval in the Dominican Republic and the peace-
keeping operation in that country of U.S. military forces, attempted to drive
through a U.S. checkpoint in Santo Domingo en route from rebel-held territory
in the city. The Marines manning the checkpoint opened fire on their car when
the men failed to get out as ordered and when it accelerated violently in reverse
at the same time that the Marines were fired upon by snipers from an area
behind the car. Both Mr. Burt and Mr. Kennedy were seriously injured as a
result of the Marines' actions.
After the incident, both men received, without charge, extensive medical care
and treatment from U.S. personnel in the field and later in U.S. military facili-
ties. Their employer, the Miami Herald, paid their salaries while they were hos-
pitalized, and guaranteed them continued employment. They also received
workmen's compensation benefits during hospitalization, including prescribed
lump-sum payments.
A majority of the members on a Court of Claims' review panel, which con-
sidered the present claims, held that the claimants had not established a “legal”
or "equitable" claim within the meaning of the congressional reference statute.
In fact, their opinion strongly suggests that the claimants' own negligence con-
tributed to the injuries they received and further suggests that in pursuing their
professions in the face of known hazards, the claimants assumed the risk of
personal injury.
Notwithstanding these findings, however, the majority concluded that pay-
ment of reasonable compensation in this case was justified on "broad moral
considerations" as a matter of "good conscience." Accordingly, they recom-
mended awards in the amounts contained in the current bill.
500
