November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
My question is in regard to foreign policy. Senator-elect John Glenn of Ohio
and others have suggested that despite Dr. Kissinger's very fine track record, that
perhaps foreign policy is such a complex and delicate matter that the machinery
of foreign policy ought to be spread out over a broader base. Do you have any
plans to do this under your Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no such plans. I can't imagine someone who really
is not an expert in the field of foreign policy giving advice to a man who has
conducted foreign policy with great skill and great success. If you have got some-
one who is doing a good job, I don't understand why anyone in seriousness
would advocate that he be taken off part of the job and turn it over to someone
who might not do as good a job.
I respect the right of the Senator-elect to make the suggestion, but I don't
think it makes very much sense.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
[11.] Q.Tom Jarriel with ABC, Mr. President.
I would like to follow up the answer you gave on the economy a moment
ago. You said that wage-price controls would be the wrong approach to combat
inflation. Some of your aides are saying inflation is the cause of recession. Should
the recession continue and should you see a need to combat inflation in order to
halt the recession, would you then reconsider the possibility of wage-price
controls, or is this categorically ruled out?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no intention of requesting the Congress to enact man-
datory or standby wage and price controls, and I have been told by the Demo-
cratic leaders that there is no prospect of the Democratic Congress enacting
wage and price controls. There are no circumstances that I foresee today that
would justify the heavy hand of wage and price controls in the present economic
circumstances.
INCOME SURTAX
[12.] Q. Have you any tax-raising proposals to replace the 5 percent surtax,
should that not be acted on by Congress? Your Press Secretary has said that,
I believe, you would have an open mind on it. Have you any other proposals in
mind?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I would hope that the Congress would take a serious
look at this constructive proposal which would affect only 28 percent of the per-
sonal income taxpayers, with 72 percent of the income tax payers not being af-
fected at all. And even a person with a $20,000-a-year taxable income would only
605
