October 9
[127]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
WAGES AND PRICES
[9.] Q. If inflation is as serious a problem as you have said, can you point
to any of your proposals that would persuade businesses to lower prices now or
that would encourage labor unions to moderate their wage demands in forth-
coming contracts?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said in my remarks before the Congress yesterday, there
is no quick fix or no immediate panacea in the fight against inflation. It has
taken us roughly 10 years to get this unfortunate momentum for price increases
at its present rate.
We do have in the 31-proposal package that I submitted some recommenda-
tions which will increase supply of very important ingredients. And we have
in those recommendations some proposals to remove some of the restrictive prac-
tices of the Government, of private industry, of labor. And if those restrictive
practices are eliminated, I think we can look forward to a reduction in prices
both in the private sector and as far as the Government is concerned.
PARDON FOR FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[10.] Q. Mr. President, at your last news conference you assured us that
there had been no deal made on the Nixon pardon either with the former Presi-
dent or with any of his staff members. Since there have been published reports
that the pardon was indeed discussed with former chief of staff Haig, I wonder
if you could tell us the nature of that conversation, if those reports are indeed
accurate?
THE PRESIDENT. Since this last press conference, I have agreed to appear be-
fore the Hungate subcommittee of the House Committee on the Judiciary. I will
appear before that subcommittee, and until I do appear, I think it is most appro-
priate that I defer any comment on that subject.
INFLATION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, two of your main anti-inflation proposals, the tax
surcharge and cutting Government spending, are intended to curb inflation by
reducing demand. But many economists do not believe that this is a demand in-
flation. They believe it is a wage-price spiral and a shortage inflation.
In view of that, how can the tax surcharge and the cut in Government spend-
ing reduce inflation if they are directed at a kind of inflation that we don't
have?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer that question in two parts if I might.
249
