[121]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our present inflation to a considerable degree comes from many years of en-
acting expensive programs without raising enough revenues to pay for them.
The truth is that 19 out of the 25 years I had the honor and the privilege to
serve in this Chamber, the Federal Government ended up with Federal deficits.
That is not a very good batting average.
By now, almost everybody-almost everybody else, I should say—has stated
my position on Federal gasoline taxes. This time I will do it myself. I am not—
emphasizing not-asking you for any increase in gas taxes.
I am—I am asking you to approve a 1-year temporary tax surcharge of 5 per-
cent on corporate and upper-level individual incomes. This would generally ex-
clude from the surcharge those families with gross incomes below $15,000 a year.
The estimated $5 billion in extra revenue to be raised by this inflation-fighting tax
should pay for the new programs I have recommended in this message.
I think, and I suspect each of you know, this is the acid test of our joint deter-
mination to whip inflation in America. I would not ask this if major loopholes
were not now being closed by the Committee on Ways and Means' tax reform
bill.
I urge you to join me before your recess, in addition to what I have said be-
fore, to join me by voting to set a target spending limit-let me emphasize it—
a target spending limit of $300 billion for the Federal fiscal budget of 1975.
When Congress agrees to this spending target, I will submit a package of
budget deferrals and rescissions to meet this goal. I will do the tough job of
designating for Congressional action, on your return, those areas which I believe
can and must be reduced. These will be hard choices and every one of you in
this Chamber know it as well as I. They will be hard choices, but no Federal
agency, including the Defense Department, will be untouchable.
It is my judgment that fiscal discipline is a necessary weapon in any fight
against inflation. While this spending target is a small step, it is a step in the right
direction, and we need to get on that course without any further delay. I do not
think that any of us in this Chamber today can ask the American people to
tighten their belts if Uncle Sam is unwilling to tighten his belt first.
And now, if I might, I would like to say a few words directly to your con-
stituents and, incidentally, mine.
My fellow Americans, 10 days ago I asked you to get things started by mak-
ing a list of 10 ways to fight inflation and save energy, to exchange your list
with your neighbors, and to send me a copy.
I have personally read scores of the thousands of letters received at the White
236
