[293]
December 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
collapse and lose consciousness. His bravery under
fire and intense devotion to duty were directly re-
sponsible for saving three of his fellow soldiers from
certain death. His unparalleled bravery in the face
of enemy fire, his complete disregard for his own.
pain and injuries, and his performance were far
above and beyond the call of duty and were in keep-
ing with the highest traditions of self-sacrifice and
courage of the military service.
The President of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3, 1863, has
awarded in the name of The Congress the Medal of
Honor to
STAFF SERGEANT JON R. CAVAIANI
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action
at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of
duty:
Staff Sergeant Jon R. Cavaiani, United States Army
Vietnam Training Advisory Group, distinguished
himself by conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at
the risk of life above and beyond the call of duty
in action in the Republic of Vietnam on 4 and 5 June
1971 while serving as a platoon leader to a security
platoon providing security for an isolated radio relay
site located within enemy-held territory. On the
morning of 4 June 1971, the entire camp came under
an intense barrage of enemy small arms, automatic
weapons, rocket-propelled grenade and mortar fire
from a superior size enemy force. Sergeant Cavaiani
acted with complete disregard for his personal safety
as he repeatedly exposed himself to heavy enemy fire
in order to move about the camp's perimeter direct-
ing the platoon's fire and rallying the platoon in a
desperate fight for survival. Sergeant Cavaiani also
returned heavy suppressive fire upon the assaulting
enemy force during this period with a variety of
weapons. When the entire platoon was to be evacu-
ated, Sergeant Cavaiani unhesitatingly volunteered
to remain on the ground and direct the helicopters
into the landing zone. Sergeant Cavaiani was able
to direct the first three helicopters in evacuating a
major portion of the platoon. Due to intense increase
in enemy fire, Sergeant Cavaiani was forced to re-
main at the camp overnight where he calmly di-
rected the remaining platoon members in strengthen-
ing their defenses. On the morning of 5 June, a heavy
ground fog restricted visibility. The superior size
enemy force launched a major ground attack in an
attempt to completely annihilate the remaining small
force. The enemy force advanced in two ranks, first
firing a heavy volume of small arms automatic weap-
ons and rocket-propelled grenade fire while the sec-
ond rank continuously threw a steady barrage of
hand grenades at the beleaguered force. Sergeant
Cavaiani returned a heavy barrage of small arms and
hand grenade fire on the assaulting enemy force but
was unable to slow them down. He ordered the re-
maining platoon members to attempt to escape while
he provided them with cover fire. With one last
courageous exertion, Sergeant Cavaiani recovered a
machine gun, stood up, completely exposing himself
to the heavy enemy fire directed at him, and began
firing the machine gun in a sweeping motion along
the two ranks of advancing enemy soldiers. Through
Sergeant Cavaiani's valiant efforts with complete dis-
regard for his safety, the majority of the remaining
platoon members were able to escape. While in-
flicting severe losses on the advancing enemy force,
Sergeant Cavaiani was wounded numerous times.
Staff Sergeant Cavaiani's conspicuous gallantry, ex-
traordinary heroism and intrepidity at the risk of his
life; above and beyond the call of duty, were in keep-
ing with the highest traditions of the military service
and reflect great credit upon himself and the United
States Army.
294
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Kenneth R. Cole, Jr.,
as Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs.
December 13, 1974
Dear Ken:
It is with deepest regret that I accept your resignation as Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Domestic Affairs and Executive Director of the Domestic Council ef-
fective in March, 1975, as you requested.
Needless to say, you will be greatly missed here at the White House, where
744
