[314]
December 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
314
Statement on the Confirmation of Nelson A. Rockefeller To Be
Vice President of the United States. December 19, 1974
I AM delighted that Nelson Rockefeller has been duly confirmed today to
be the 41st Vice President of the United States. I congratulate him and look for-
ward to his participation and assistance in the Administration.
I commend the House of Representatives for its confirmation vote today and
the Senate for its vote earlier. Members of the 93d Congress have rendered a
service to the Nation by filling the constitutional office of the Vice President
before adjournment. All Americans will benefit from the distinguished and
devoted public service of the new Vice President.
NOTE: Following the confirmation vote in the House
of Representatives on the evening of December 19,
1974, the President and Mrs. Ford accompanied
Governor and Mrs. Rockefeller to the Senate Cham-
ber at the Capitol where Governor Rockefeller took
the oath of office as Vice President.
315
Remarks at a Birthday Party for Senator John J. Sparkman.
December 20, 1974
THANK YOU very, very much for the opportunity of coming to your birthday
party, John. It was not on the program as such, but I knew that you were having
a party, and I knew I wanted to come.
So, we are here because of the great respect and admiration I have, not only
for you personally but for the fine and outstanding job I know firsthand you
have done in the Congress.
A 75th birthday is quite a landmark and a milestone. Let me put it in football
terms: John, you may be too old for the University of Alabama, but I think you
could be too young for the Washington Redskins. [Laughter]
Thirty-eight years in the Congress is something that I never achieved. I, under
no circumstances, could have made it.
I do respect those who have served six terms in the House of Representatives
and the remainder of that long and constructive record in the United States
Senate.
I think the people of Alabama have benefited tremendously from the work
that you have done for that State. But those of us who know the record, that
come from different States, can honestly say that your contributions have been
770
