October 10
[135]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Let me ask you this: Wasn't it worthwhile to get this additional tax revenue, if
the Congress responds, so that we can help to pay for some of the programs that
are needed on a short-term basis, to help the people who are far worse off
than we?
The program has to be fair; it has to be compassionate on one hand and calling
for equity and sacrifice on the other. And that is what we have tried to do—to
balance. We have also had to make sure that we tighten the screws enough to
do something about inflation, but not to do too much so that we would
continue down the road of some economic difficulty.
It was a finely tuned, combined package of 31 proposals-enough pressure
but enough flexibility; enough sacrifice but enough equity. And as we looked
at it honestly and conscientiously, we tried to do something that would make it
a program for success without severe penalty. And I urge you from the very
bottom of my heart to come out and be a zealot, a salesman for a program that
is good for America and fair to everybody. And I hope you will.
Now, speaking of responsibility—and this is a responsibility that we all have
to take care of, public enemy number one-let me speak about another responsi-
bility if I might. And here it is: a question, basically, of how the United States
can continue its leadership role in building peace, a peace that was established
following World War II, so that we, in the last 25 or 30 years, could enjoy the
benefits in Western Europe of no conflict between the East and the West.
That building block of peace between the Soviet Union and its bloc allies and
ourselves and our allies has been a cornerstone of nonaggression and under-
standing.
But we are at a very critical moment right now. I think many of you are aware
of the Congressional action to cut off all military assistance to one of our NATO
allies, Turkey. This Congress, I think, has made a serious mistake in this regard.
The Congress has arbitrarily made a decision, despite the opposition of the
Democratic as well as Republican leadership in the House and the Senate, and
it is my unalterable conviction that such a drastic action under these circum-
stances will severely damage the interests of the United States and the free world.
And let me tell you why, if I could express my deep, personal conviction. If
this action of arbitrarily cutting off an ally is not reversed, history could well
record that this Congress has embarked on a dangerous and misguided course
of action which regrettably, tragically, catastrophically, could damage Greece—
another ally—and undermine the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
It is unbelievable to me that the Congress would act in such a way. As I have
told you, the Democratic and Republican leadership of the House and Senate
281
