[275]
December 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
that fray, obviously, when I thought the issues and facts were right. I suspect,
on occasion, they weren't, but nevertheless, if I did, I apologize.
But the fact remains that career public servants who do keep the vital and
highly essential day-to-day business of Government moving year after year—
a vast and a very loyal group of good people doing good work for their coun-
try.
Now, sometimes the pace is a little too slow for my taste. But when you con-
sider the complexity and the sensitivity of modern government, the question
may not be why does government move so slowly, but rather, how does govern-
ment happen to move at all?
Commenting on public apathy and its effect on government, Adlai Steven-
son once joked that our public servants serve us right. Today, we are proud to
honor five public servants who have done more than just serve us right. They
have served us with great, great distinction.
Each one in his own way has made an important and lasting contribution to
our free way of life. The fields these men represent-aeronautics, social wel-
fare, and a range of other areas in the Government related to our economy-
but the ability and the dedication which each has brought to his work is the
very same.
Fortunately, I have known some, not all. They represent in the best tradition,
the best, long tradition of outstanding public servants, and they are among the
unsung heroes of millions of men and women who, over a long period of time,
have served our Government well and have made it work, despite problems
and complexities that few people understand.
So, on behalf of the American people, I wish to thank you, each and every one
of you who are being rewarded here today, for a job well done. Your example
is an inspiration. It does give a guiding hand to others, those who are your fellow
workers. And I hope this ceremony today, like those in the past, will give an
inspiration to others, your associates in all departments. And I hope that it will
in some way give the American people the proper respect and admiration for
those who have excelled, those who have excelled in service to their fellow men
in our country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:49 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Mayflower Hotel. The Rocke-
feller Public Service Awards program was instituted
in 1951 by John D. Rockefeller III to honor career
public servants and was administered by Princeton
University, Mr. Rockefeller's alma mater. The recip-
ients of the awards were:
JAMES B. CARDWELL, Commissionor of Social Secu-
rity, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare-award for human resource develop-
ment and protection;
GEORGE JASZI, Director, Bureau of Economic Analy-
sis, Department of Commerce-award for pro-
fessional accomplishment and leadership;
702
