December 6
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
283
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Leonard Garment as
Assistant to the President.
Dear Len:
December 6, 1974
I have your letter of December 2 and it is with deep regret that I accept your
resignation as Assistant to the President, effective December 31, 1974.
In so doing, I welcome this opportunity to express my personal appreciation
for your dedicated service to the Presidency and to our Nation. In particular,
I want you to know of my gratitude for your highly capable assistance and un-
hesitating support during the early, critically important period of transition.
Yours is an exceptional record of public service and one in which you can
always take great pride and personal satisfaction.
You have my admiration and warmest best wishes for every happiness and
success in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable Leonard Garment, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: The President's letter was dated December 5,
1974, and released December 6. Mr. Garment's letter
of resignation, dated December 2 and released with
the President's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I herewith submit my resignation as Assistant to
the President effective December 31, 1974. I do so
with particular appreciation for your personal
thoughtfulness to myself and other members of Presi-
dent Nixon's staff during the transition period.
JERRY FORD
It has been a pleasure knowing you through these
years in Washington and a privilege working for
you during the past few months.
You and Mrs. Ford have my warmest regards and
best wishes.
Sincerely,
LEONARD GARMENT
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
284
Joint Statement Following Discussions With
Chancellor Schmidt of the Federal Republic
of Germany. December 6, 1974
THE PRESIDENT of the United States of America Gerald R. Ford and the
Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Helmut Schmidt met in
Washington on December 5 and 6, 1974. They reaffirmed the relationship of
friendship and trust and confidence between the United States and the Federal
Republic of Germany, and they held wide-ranging talks embracing international
721
