November 2
[219]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Well, anyhow, I was elected the most valuable player by my teammates after
losing seven out of the eight games, and I did not know whether to sue or smile.
[Laughter]
Well, as some of you already know, the Ford family has a very special place
in our heart for Colorado. It is our second home. We are not voting taxpayers,
but we don't mind because we think we get our money's worth under your
good Governor and under Pete Dominick and the others, so we just love being
here in Colorado. We wish we could be here more often, and we might surprise
you.
I just hope you get a little more snow earlier than you did last year. Have you
got some?
That is Vail over there, I guess, isn't it? All right. We love it. We will be here
if we get a cooperative Congress. I wish you could promise me that; it would be
good for the country.
Well, anyhow, Betty and the Ford children and I have had great times here.
We have been to Aspen. We have been to Vail. We have been many other places
in Colorado and we love the people. We love the country. We love the total
atmosphere, and it is so nice to be here on a Saturday afternoon. We are looking
forward to coming back, and thank you very, very much.
Let me just say that when I come to a place like this with a ballpark and so
many people and so many fine public servants and your Governor and Pete and
Jim Johnson and my former colleague, Wayne Aspinall, it just convinces me
that this country is predicated on the strength and the diversity of people—
Democrats, Republicans, Independents—you know, people who were born here,
people who came here, people who migrate to Colorado. Aren't we lucky to have
a country where all of these assets and attributes just come out in a place like
Grand Junction? I think it is wonderful.
You know, you are a long way from Florida, you are a long way from Alaska,
you are far, far away from New York and California, but you have something
special. The Continental Divide does not divide our country. As long as we
remain one people in spirit, as long as we continue to share the ideals of freedom,
dignity, opportunity that brought us together in the first place, we will remain
united.
And it is because of this "grand junction" of interest in ideals that I am
optimistic when it comes to America. There are plenty of big problems that are
waiting to be solved-inflation, energy, pollution, crime—to name only a few.
But there is not one of them that we as Americans can't lick if we pull together
and act responsibly. There is, however, one thing our elected officials must
563
