[291]
December 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
contractors, subcontractors, bankers, etc., and that management, technical and
financial assistance be provided whenever feasible.
I am confident of your support of this important effort.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the memorandum, dated December 11, 1974, was released December 12.
292
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality. December 12, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress the Fifth Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality.
When future historians look back on the pursuit of environmental quality
in our era, they will recognize it as a positive turning point.
As I stated in an Earth Day speech in 1970, "the day is gone when concern
for the land, the air and the water was sole province of the conservationist, the
wilderness enthusiast, the bird watcher, and the environmental scientist.”
Instead, today, millions of our citizens share a new vision of the future in which
natural systems can be protected, pollution can be controlled, and our natural
heritage will be preserved. The crusade to improve the quality of our human
environment has begun—a crusade which has already led to great accomplish-
ment over the past five years.
Another valuable lesson was learned during the energy crisis last winter when,
in trying circumstances, it became clear that we cannot achieve all our environ-
mental and all our energy and economic goals at the same time. Had our com-
mitment to the environment not been ingrained, we might have reacted to this
situation by discarding our environmental goals. Had our commitment to the
environment not been mature, we might not have recognized the need for
balance to accommodate other social and economic goals as well. By rejecting
the extremes—by accepting the need for balance—we held fast to the accom-
plishments of the past and looked with new perspective toward the imperatives
of the future. This, in my judgment, is the course we must continue to follow.
The need to move toward greater self-sufficiency in energy is one of the major
challenges of the decade ahead. We can and must meet our needs for energy,
and in ways that minimize damage to the environment.
The conservation of energy provides an essential common ground between
740
