[290]
December 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
A crisis-in the sense of a national crisis-is something that demands imme-
diate and drastic action. A national problem is something that demands wide-
spread understanding and carefully deliberated solutions-cures that are not
worse than the disease.
In my 25-plus years in this Capital, our economy has gone through at least
five recessions-five in 25 years. And the facts are that we have recovered from
every one of them. And I predict without any hesitation that we will recover
from this one also. The question is not when, but how. And your question to me
as President is what am I doing about it? What am I doing about it as President?
I cannot and will not promise you a sudden change for the better. There is no
prospect that I can discern for instantaneous improvement in the economy.
Without enumerating them, you and I know that today's difficulties stem from
policies and developments of past years. The effect of policies adopted today
would not be felt for months to come.
Nor do I believe that confidence in the American economy can be restored
with rhetoric-mine or that of other political players or sideline sitters. I do not
believe it can be restored by Federal Government activity alone. I do believe it
can be restored by the effective teamwork and enlightened self-interest of all
elements of our American free enterprise economy and our representative, free
political system.
Long-term success is not assured by short-term panaceas. There appears to
be a tendency these days to focus only on the immediate needs or effects of any
proposed economic remedy and not to examine its long-term effects. Speaking
only for myself, I do not buy that.
Not just the President, not just the Congress, not just business or labor or
consumer, but all of us must act to renew and invigorate our economy and every-
body's faith in that economy.
Hopefully we will do most things right and only a few wrong things—maybe
some of you have done that in business or had the same experience. But I can
assure you this Government, as far as I am concerned, will do nothing delib-
erately wrong. But just because doing something—yes, it might perk up polit-
ical opinion polls, but I think the facts are in some instances that course would
be the worst course of all.
Men survive by instinct but make progress by intelligence. Perhaps we could
survive by merely following our instincts now—an immediate return to wage
and price controls, as some demand; immediate and mandatory gasoline
rationing, as others advocate; the enactment of other compulsory programs that
treat the symptoms but retard the cure.
734
