[149]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
contributions and candidate expenditures, I am sure that such issues can be
resolved in the courts.
I am pleased with the bipartisan spirit that has led to this legislation. Both
the Republican National Committee and the Democratic National Committee
have expressed their pleasure with this bill, noting that it allows them to com-
pete fairly.
The times demand this legislation.
There are certain periods in our Nation's history when it becomes necessary to
face up to certain unpleasant truths.
We have passed through one of those periods. The unpleasant truth is that
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have an opportunity of partic-
ess. This bill will help to right that wrong.
I commend the extensive work done by my colleagues in both houses of
Congress on this bill, and I am pleased to sign it today.
150
Remarks to the Annual Convention of the Future Farmers of
America, Kansas City, Missouri. October 15, 1974
Thank you very, very much, President Mark Mayfield, the 13,000 Future Farm-
ers of America registered for this wonderful 47th Convention, the 500,000 Future
Farmers of America in every State of the Union, and your guests:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have an opportunity of partic-
ipating in this wonderful convention, and I thank you. And I thank you on
behalf of Betty, because she wanted me to come, too.
One week ago I asked the Congress and the American people to help me re-
vitalize the economy, slow inflation, and save energy. At that time I proposed
specific and urgent actions.
The American people, I can report tonight, have responded magnificently. A
great citizens' mobilization has begun and is beginning to roll. It is already
evident here in this eager, up-beat convention of Future Farmers of America,
and I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
In this last week, I have received inflation-fighter enlistments from Americans
of every conceivable occupation, economic circumstances, and political persua-
sion. Support has been freely offered by organizations and groups representing
all ages, races, religions, and reaching into every corner of our great land.
America is arousing itself, as it always does in time of great challenge, to
304
