November 2
[220]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Now, I have talked about a personal relationship. Let me talk to you about a
very pragmatic reason why you in Kansas should support Bob. Next year, with
a new Congress, Bob will be the senior Republican member of the Senate Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
You in Kansas have a great State. I won't get into the argument of whether
seniority is right or wrong. The fact of life is that in the Senate of the United
States, they will keep that system, and Bob will be in that very influential posi-
tion which has a great impact as far as your State is concerned.
But the combination of that responsibility on the one hand and a member of
the Senate Finance Committee on the other, plus the added duty under a new
setup of being on the Senate Budget Committee-I don't know how Bob is going
to handle all these great responsibilities, except I know him, and I know he will
do all three in a first-class way for Kansas and the country. So, as a pragmatic
reason, you darned well ought to vote for Bob for the United States Senate.
I am told Bob is in for the political fight of his life. I suspect that is true. But
Bob has been through those fights before. He did it in the service of his country.
He has done it in one political campaign after another. And I say the test of the
man is the achievement that he has accomplished.
And when I look at his record, believe me, you just could not do better.
So, I am here to help in any way I can to say to Kansans, whether they are
Democrats, Republicans, or Independents: You ought to keep something that is
as good as Bob is. And he is great.
I have also gotten to know all of your House Members extremely well. After
all, it was part of my duty as the Republican minority leader for almost 10 years
to try and corral votes to organize the minority, to do the best job we could de-
spite the fact that we were outnumbered 240-something to 180-something.
The Kansas delegation always seems to have quality, and in Garner Shriver
you have got one who has nothing but quality, and he comes from this great
community, Wichita, in this great Congressional district. Garner deserves your
support.
And let me say—again, going from what I would say would be maybe ideo-
logical reasons to pragmatic reasons—a little over a year ago, we had a fuel oil
shortage. I can recall vividly in the process of allocating a shortage, the initial
decision was to cut back the portion or the allocation for general aviation.
I was Vice President then. Larry Winn, Garner Shriver, Bob Dole, Joe Skubitz,
Keith Sebelius-all of them came and knocked on my door. But the ones who
came first, for good and sufficient reason, were Bob Dole and Garner Shriver.
571
