[143]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
tariat of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party; Witold
Trampczynski, Polish Ambassador to the United States of America.
The First Secretary was also accompanied by a group of advisers and experts
The official party also visited New York, Pittsburgh, and Houston.
During his stay in Washington, First Secretary Gierek held talks with
President Ford on the development of relations between Poland and the United
States as well as on international issues.
He also met with Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs Henry A. Kissinger, Secretary of Agriculture Earl
Butz, Secretary of Commerce Frederick Dent, Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare Caspar Weinberger, and Chairman of the Export-Import Bank
William Casey.
The First Secretary paid a visit to Congress and met with members of the
Senate and the House of Representatives. He also had talks with leading
American businessmen and bankers.
Talks were also held between Foreign Minister Olszowski and Secretary of
State Kissinger.
The talks and meetings were held in a friendly and businesslike atmosphere
and were characterized by a mutual desire to expand and strengthen the
relations between Poland and the United States.
In the course of the talks, the President and the First Secretary noted with
satisfaction the significant progress which has recently been made in Polish-
American relations. Both leaders expressed their desire to further develop these
relations, which are based on the long-standing traditions of friendship and
sympathy existing between the Polish and American peoples.
They agreed that the "Joint Statement on Principles of U.S.-Polish Relations"
signed during the visit provides a firm basis for broad cooperation between the
two countries and contributes to the process of strengthening world peace.
security, and international cooperation.
The President and the First Secretary also attached importance to the "Joint
Statement on the Development of Economic, Industrial and Technological
Cooperation between the United States of America and the Polish People's
Republic," which they signed. They agreed that the main directions and scope
of cooperation stipulated in the field of trade, industrial and technological
cooperation should contribute to the further advancement of bilateral economic
relations.
The President and the First Secretary noted with satisfaction the rapid growth
of trade between the United States and Poland in the past two years, accompanied
296
