November 4
[223]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
benefit of the people, as quickly as possible, the knowledge emerging from the
clinical bedside and research laboratory.
Our national research program to conquer cancer will take years before achiev-
ing ultimate success. The recent enactment of the National Cancer Act Amend-
ments of 1974, which continue the National Cancer Program, demonstrates the
abiding commitment of the Congress and the executive branch to solve this
major health problem.
Success in this endeavor will ultimately come, however, only with the sus-
tained dedication and hard work of the physicians, scientists, health profes-
sionals, voluntary agencies, and the volunteers who support this program.
The White House,
November 4, 1974.
223
GERALD R. FORD
Statement on Receiving a Crystal Grown Aboard the Skylab
Space Station.
November 4, 1974
MOST OF US become so involved in trying to find solutions to the serious prob-
lems that we face today that we sometimes lose sight of the developments that
hold promise for a better tomorrow.
The small segment of a crystal grown in space aboard the Skylab Space Station
last January, which was presented to me today, is a reminder that we should raise
our sights to the broadening horizon available to us through our national in-
vestment in science and technology.
The experiment aboard Skylab demonstrates that it is possible to grow crystals
in space in the absence of gravity-crystals that are more perfect than the Earth-
grown variety. It was one of several experiments to determine whether superior
materials can be produced in space.
But beyond its scientific value and the potential applications for this new
knowledge, this successful demonstration serves as a useful reminder of the
contributions that science and technology make toward improving and enriching
our daily lives and building a broader foundation for an even better tomorrow.
NOTE: The President received the crystal from James
C. Fletcher, Administrator of the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration, and Howard
Johnson, chairman of the board of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, in a ceremony in the Cab-
inet Room at the White House.
577
