October 19
[173]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
gram that I submitted to the Congress and to the American people about 10 days
ago, the textile and the apparel industry in this State will thrive even better than
it ever has in the past and will make an equally great, if not greater, contribu-
tion to the industrial well-being of our great country.
I am confident that that program is good. I believe the Congress will recog-
nize it, and I trust when they get back from this next election, they will adopt it.
It will be good for all of us.
I have already said to you what a friend and what a great Congressman I think
Strom Thurmond is. He sort of bridges that generation gap, and he gets the
support, as he deserves it, from young and old, from all segments of our society,
or your society, in South Carolina. And I congratulate you for having the wisdom
of having Strom represent you for so long and so well.
But to go along with Strom, I think that you need a strong State government,
because Strom and Floyd Spence and Ed Young and your new Republican
Congressman you are going to elect are going to continue to transfer the power
from Washington back to the States and back to local units of government,
which is where we can have the best government, because it is closer to the
people.
If you are going to implement that program of seeking to get government at
the local and State level, you need a person like Jim Edwards as the next Gover-
nor of the great State of South Carolina.
Jim has had the experience in the State legislature. He is a mover. He is a re-
form-oriented individual in politics. And this is what you need and what South
Carolina needs if we are going to achieve a concept to implement the program of
New Federalism.
There is always better government at the local and State level, particularly if
you have people like Jim Edwards and his running mate, Carroll Campbell, as
Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of South Carolina.
It has been my observation in some 26 years in politics that a political monop-
oly, one party in absolute power too long, is never a good thing, statewide or
nationally. Jim Edwards can clear away the cobwebs and bring some new life,
new dedication to State government here in South Carolina.
Obviously, he has Strom's and my full support, and I hope and trust that you
will give it from yourself to him. And I can't help but be impressed by the fact
that in Gwen Bush you have a mighty fine candidate for the United States
Senate.
And as I have traveled around the State today and as I have been here before,
I am proud to have on our ticket the quality candidates that I have seen and
397
