[21]
August 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I am here primarily, in fact exclusively, to pay tribute to a person that I
have known all of my almost 26 years in Washington, 25 of them being in the
Congress-Mike Mansfield.
When I came in January of 1949, Mike had been here 4 or 6 years, and I
quickly developed a great respect and admiration for him as a Member of the
House. And when he went to the Senate, that admiration and respect increased.
Anybody that can be a leader, particularly in the majority, for 13 years, I
think deserves the greatest congratulations and compliments. I think it proves
a couple of things: that bullies don't always prevail. You have to have some of
that very fine quality of working with people without twisting their arm. I think
it proves that people who can negotiate survive better than those who take a
flat, adamant attitude.
But I think you can sum it up better than any way by going along in opposi-
tion to a statement that Leo Durocher is alleged to have said, that good guys
always finish last. Mike Mansfield is a good guy and he has finished first for a
long, long time.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. in the Sen-
ators' conference room at the Capitol.
Senator Mansfield was being honored for having
served longer than any other Senator as majority
leader. He was elected to the position on January 3,
1961.
22
Remarks at a Ceremony Honoring the Slain United States
Ambassador to Cyprus. August 21, 1974
Secretary Kissinger, Dana and John, and members of the family, distinguished
guests:
This is a very sad occasion for all Americans, as we gather here to pay tribute
to a great patriot, one of our most admired and one of our most respected
diplomats. Rodger Davies leaves behind many friends and many, many accom-
plishments in the career that he selected.
He possessed the full measure of many of those attributes which are so
invaluable as a person and in the career that he sought. He had judgment, he
had dignity, he had wisdom, and he had humor, and all of these are necessary
ingredients for the job that he chose for his full life.
As the Secretary has mentioned, Rodger Davies was a professional in the
fullest sense. His services to our country embodied the best of time, of effort,
and competence. He loved and worked for peace, and he lost his life in the
search for peace for all America and all the world.
32
