September 12
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
stage. Others have passed only one body. A few have passed neither. But vir-
tually all have been the subject of hearings and are in the mark-up phase.
NOMINATIONS
Of utmost importance for Congress in its fall term is the consideration of
Nelson Rockefeller as my nominee for Vice President of the United States. The
Administration will assist the Congress in all appropriate ways to expedite this
nomination. The precedent for this procedure under the 25th Amendment to
the Constitution has been established. I am sure there will be no inordinate delay
in moving forward Governor Rockefeller's nomination.
There are other nominations before the Senate, some pending since last
January. There are other candidates for Federal office in varying stages of
clearance. I expect to be able to submit them to the Senate within a few days.
I would hope Congress could expedite action on all these nominees so that
none will have to be held over to 1975.
REDUCING 1975 SPENDING
Responding to the initiative of the distinguished majority leader of the Senate
and other members of the Congress, I have convened bi-partisan summit meet-
ings on the issue of inflation. Many of you are participating. The legislative and
executive branches are working together.
We are seeking short-term answers to short-term problems and long-term
answers to long-term problems.
A concerted effort must be undertaken to bring spending down to manage-
able proportions. An important first step in this effort is to bring Federal outlays
under control in 1975, making possible a balanced budget in 1976.
I need the help of the Congress in reducing 1975 spending below $300 billion.
Several important cooperative steps by the Congress will be required to achieve
this difficult target.
First, the Congress must resist temptations to add to spending totals on legis-
lation now being considered. Responsible action calls for agreements on cuts, not
increases. I solicit suggestions on any programs that might be curtailed or
stopped. Let me know about any spending that seems unnecessary or inflationary.
In the same vein, I would hope the Congress could pass specific legislation
proposed in the February Budget submission that would reduce 1975 spending
by almost $700 million.
125
