[31]
August 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
function. In evaluating the costs, I must take care to avoid seriously impairing
the Government we all seek to make more open. I am concerned with some
of the provisions which are before you as well as some which I understand
you may not have considered. I want to share my concerns with you so that
we may accommodate our reservations in achieving a common objective.
A provision which appears in the Senate version of the bill but not in the
House version requires a court, whenever its decision grants withheld docu-
ments to a complainant, to identify the employee responsible for the withhold-
ing and to determine whether the withholding was "without (a) reasonable
basis in law" if the complainant so requests. If such a finding is made, the court
is required to direct the agency to suspend that employee without pay or to take
disciplinary or corrective action against him. Although I have doubts about the
appropriateness of diverting the direction of litigation from the disclosure of
information to career-affecting disciplinary hearings about employee conduct,
I am most concerned with the inhibiting effect upon the vigorous and effective
conduct of official duties that this potential personal liability will have upon em-
ployees responsible for the exercise of these judgments. Neither the best inter-
ests of Government nor the public would be served by subjecting an employee
to this kind of personal liability for the performance of his official duties. Any
potential harm to successful complainants is more appropriately rectified by
the award of attorney fees to him. Furthermore, placing in the judiciary the
requirement to initially determine the appropriateness of an employee's con-
duct and to initiate discipline is both unprecedented and unwise. Judgments
concerning employee discipline must, in the interests of both fairness and ef-
fective personnel management, be made initially by his supervisors and judicial
involvement should then follow in the traditional form of review.
There are provisions in both bills which would place the burden of proof
upon an agency to satisfy a court that a document classified because it concerns
military or intelligence (including intelligence sources and methods) secrets
and diplomatic relations is, in fact, properly classified, following an in camera
inspection of the document by the court. If the court is not convinced that the
agency has adequately carried the burden, the document will be disclosed. I
simply cannot accept a provision that would risk exposure of our military or
intelligence secrets and diplomatic relations because of a judicially perceived
failure to satisfy a burden of proof. My great respect for the courts does not
prevent me from observing that they do not ordinarily have the background
and expertise to gauge the ramifications that a release of a document may have
46
