November 20
[247]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
show His Imperial Majesty our national shrines and treasures, including the
graceful Japanese cherry trees whose blossoms provide a setting for the m
ments to the great heroes of our own past.
I hope that my visit shall be the first of many by American Presidents. I hope
that the leaders of our two countries will follow the example that our peoples
have already set, to visit each other frequently and freely as our nations move
together to deal with the many common problems and concerns that will affect
the lives of all our citizens and all humanity.
I said in my first Presidential address to the Congress that my Administra-
tion was based on communication, conciliation, compromise, and cooperation.
This concept also guides my view of American policy toward Japan. We both
have much work to do. Let us do it together. Let us also continue the quest for
peace. I would rather walk a thousand miles for peace than take a single step
toward war.
I thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. at the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo. His remarks were broadcast live on
Japanese television.
247
Toast at a Reception for Members of the Diet.
November 20, 1974
Mr. Speakers:
I am deeply grateful for the very kind remarks and the toast given to me
and to my country. It is very significant that I have an opportunity of joining
with the members of your Diet.
I am sure all of you have recognized that I spent a quarter of a century of my
political life as a member of our legislative body, the House of Representatives—
or your parliament.
This was a great experience for me. I think it is quite significant, in addition,
that the first American President who visited your great country was an individ-
ual who had spent some time in the parliament or the legislature, the House of
Representatives and the United States Senate, as Vice President.
This, in my judgment, gives a President a broad perspective of the problems,
of the solutions. It has always been my feeling that a person who has served in a
parliament or in a legislative body is extremely well-qualified to understand the
views of the people of a country, a person who is well-qualified to seek a consen-
sus or a solution to the problems, whether they be at home or abroad.
641
