October 8
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
justify either price or wage increases. I emphasize, in fact reemphasize, that this
is not a compulsory wage and price control agency.
Now, I know many Americans see Federal controls as the answer. But I be-
lieve from past experience controls show us that they never really stop infla-
tion—not the last time, not even during and immediately after World War II
when, as I recall, prices rose despite severe and enforceable wartime rationing.
Now, peacetime controls actually, we know from recent experience, create
shortages, hamper production, stifle growth, and limit jobs. I do not ask for
such powers, however politically tempting, as such a program could cause the
fixer and the black marketeer to flourish while decent citizens face empty
shelves and stand in long waiting lines.
Number four: We need more capital. We cannot "eat up our seed corn.”
Our free enterprise system depends on orderly capital markets through which
the savings of our people become productively used. Today, our capital markets
are in total disarray. We must restore their vitality. Prudent monetary restraint
is essential.
You and the American people should know, however, that I have personally
been assured by the Chairman of the independent Federal Reserve Board that
the supply of money and credit will expand sufficiently to meet the needs of
our economy and that in no event will a credit crunch occur.
The prime lending rate is going down. To help industry to buy more ma-
chines and create more jobs, I am recommending a liberalized 10 percent invest-
ment tax credit. This credit should be especially helpful to capital-intensive in-
dustries such as primary metals, public utilities, where capacity shortages have
developed.
I am asking Congress to enact tax legislation to provide that all dividends
on preferred stocks issued for cash be fully deductible by the issuing company.
This should bring in more capital, especially for energy-producing utilities. It
will also help other industries shift from debt to equity, providing a sounder
capital structure.
Capital gains tax legislation must be liberalized as proposed by the tax re-
form bill currently before the Committee on Ways and Means. I endorse
this approach and hope that it will pass promptly.
Number five: Helping the casualties. And this is a very important part of the
overall speech. The Conference on Inflation made everybody even more aware
of who is suffering most from inflation. Foremost are those who are jobless
through no fault of their own.
233
