August 31
[43]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
beginning on or after January 1, 1975. The level of the comparability adjustment
will be determined during the next few weeks.
I regret asking for this postponement of a Federal pay increase, but I am con-
vinced of its necessity. Federal employees who I am asking to make a sacrifice
are the foundation of sound, effective and efficient Government. I am more
conscious than ever of their contributions to our country.
Nevertheless, at this critical time in the economic health of our Nation, I must
call on all Americans without exception to make sacrifices in order to hold down
wages and prices. Federal employees, as one of the largest groups of workers in
the country, have a special role to play in the fight against inflation because we in
Government set the example. As we seek a noninflationary budget, it is especially
important this year that Federal spending be held to a minimum.
I urge the Congress to support this action, because it is in the best interest of all
Americans.
The plan to defer Federal pay raises by ninety days is attached. As required by
law, the plan represents an alternative to the October effective date which would
otherwise occur.
In addition, the Office of Management and Budget has now determined the
specific reductions in civilian positions from those budgeted for the current
fiscal year. The agencies will shortly be informed of these reductions by letters
from OMB. Wherever possible, these reductions will be accomplished through
normal attrition.
It is extremely important that the Federal establishment hold employment to
the absolute minimum needed to get the job done. Effective use of human talents
is a wise use of the tax dollar.
The pay raise deferral and the reduction in civilian positions together will
reduce the 1975 budget by about $1 billion. Thus, the Federal Government is
taking an essential first step in holding down the Federal budget and showing
the way for restraint by all Americans.
The White House,
August 31, 1974.
NOTE: The President's Federal pay comparability
alternative plan was included with the message and
GERALD R. FORD
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presiden-
tial Documents (vol. 10, p. 1083).
75
