[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yet, I can also understand why people are moved to question my action. Some
may still question my authority, but I find much of the disagreement turns on
whether I should have acted when I did. Even then many people have con-
cluded as I did that the pardon was in the best interests of the country because
it came at a time when it would best serve the purpose I have stated.
I come to this hearing in a spirit of cooperation to respond to your inquiries.
I do so with the understanding that the subjects to be covered are defined and
limited by the questions as they appear in the resolutions before you. But even
then we may not mutually agree on what information falls within the proper
scope of inquiry by the Congress.
I feel a responsibility as you do that each separate branch of our government
must preserve a degree of confidentiality for its internal communications. Con-
gress, for its part, has seen the wisdom of assuring that members be permitted to
work under conditions of confidentiality. Indeed, earlier this year the United
States Senate passed a resolution which reads in part as follows:
"... no evidence under the control and in the possession of the Senate of the
United States can, by the mandate of process of the ordinary courts of justice,
be taken from such control or possession, but by its permission." (S. Res. 338,
passed June 12, 1974)
In United States v. Nixon, 42 U.S.L.W. 5237, 5244 (U.S. July 24, 1974), the
Supreme Court unanimously recognized a rightful sphere of confidentiality
within the executive branch, which the Court determined could only be invaded
for overriding reasons of the fifth and sixth amendments to the Constitution.
As I have stated before, my own view is that the right of executive privilege is
to be exercised with caution and restraint. When I was a Member of Congress,
I did not hesitate to question the right of the executive branch to claim a
privilege against supplying information to the Congress if I thought the claim
of privilege was being abused. Yet, I did then, and I do now, respect the right
of executive privilege when it protects advice given to a President in the expecta-
tion that it will not be disclosed. Otherwise, no President could any longer count
on receiving free and frank views from people designated to help him reach
his official decisions.
Also, it is certainly not my intention or even within my authority to detract on
this occasion or in any other instance from the generally recognized rights of
the President to preserve the confidentiality of internal discussions or com-
munications whenever it is properly within his constitutional responsibility to
do so. These rights are within the authority of any President while he is in
340
