October 22
[182]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
tem-a State that has a viable two-party contest and competition. As a conse-
quence, you have put Oklahoma on the map as a State that offers the kind of
competition in the political arena that is good, healthy, and beneficial to your
State.
I think most of you would agree that competition in business results in a better
product and a better price as far as the consumer is concerned. I happen to think
competition in professions—the law and medicine-competition in politics is
likewise good, and Oklahoma has been the beneficiary of people like Henry and
Dewey and Happy Camp. These are the kind of candidates that, in my opinion,
make Oklahoma better represented in the Congress of the United States.
Now, let me say just a word or two about the slate that I think you have pre-
sented to the State of Oklahoma in 1974. In the travels that I have made around
the country, both as a minority leader, as Vice President, and for the last 2½
months as President of the United States, I have an opportunity to see first-
hand the candidates that the Republican Party submits to the voters in various
States of the Union.
In the course of serving in the Congress for 25-plus years, you see Members of
Congress---both in the Senate as well as in the House of Representatives. When I
look at what Oklahoma has contributed in Henry and Dewey in the United
States Senate, and Happy Camp in the House of Representatives, I think that
every one of you could be very, very proud. They do a first-class job not only
in what they do, but in how they perform in every way, and I hope and trust
that you will return Henry to stand alongside with Dewey and that you will re-
elect Happy and give him some help in the Oklahoma delegation.
I have known Henry more particularly in the last several years, because I pre-
sided over the United States Senate for about 9 months. And sitting there look-
ing, watching, observing, I came to the conclusion that Henry was a thoughtful,
hard-working, activist type who took the practical experience that he had learned
in his long years as a citizen of Oklahoma and put those practical experiences,
that exposure to the problems to use in the legislative actions that he took.
Now, some point, I am told, has been made of how Henry has differed with
White House views. The truth is, I respect Henry for his forthrightness, for his
independence, for his willingness to put the cards on the table.
I was reading the paper last night, one of the Oklahoma papers, and I noticed
a comment to the effect-by one of your fellow Oklahomans-that I was coming
to Oklahoma for the purpose of pardoning Henry Bellmon. Let me tell you,
I am here to praise him, not to pardon him. [Laughter]
425
