[219]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
remember. No government can expect the people to act responsibly when it
fails to do so itself.
If your government does not act to give you an example, if it does not tighten
its belt, if it does not give you vision, imagination, strength, courage, dedication,
how can government ask you to respond accordingly?
You cannot, from a governmental point of view, ask people to do something
about whipping inflation if the Congress is dominated by the people that want
to spend and spend and spend, keep on stoking the fires of inflation with exces-
sive spending. If they are going to spend more than they take in, year after year
after year, how can we ask honest, decent, responsible citizens to act a little
differently if you cannot do it? There is not a double standard.
Well, we cannot expect people to set aside their differences and pull together
as long as a spirit of irresponsibility-irresponsible partisanship, if I can define
it a bit—and rankling prevails in government.
And this is one of the reasons, quite frankly, that I am here today. I want to
ask for your help, your help in giving the American people the kind of problem-
solving government all of us want and every one of us deserves. And believe me,
as Coloradans there is plenty of that that all of you and I, as a taxpaying but
nonvoting Coloradan, can do, too.
Again and again, as I have traveled around this country in recent weeks—and
I have traveled around 18,000 miles-I have tried to stimulate people in our
country. Yes, I have a little partisan interest, but I have a greater interest—and
I think Wayne Aspinall would agree with me—I have got an interest that in-
volves you, whether you are Democrats, Republicans, Independents, or other-
wise.
Gosh, what a stake we have in a country like this. If you have ever traveled
abroad you have understood the comparison between what we have and what
others might have.
It is almost unbelievable, but I am told that the speculators and forecasters
are saying that 42 percent of the people eligible to vote on next Tuesday will
cast their ballots. Forty-two percent; which means that if 21 percent of the
people eligible to vote, or slightly over 50 percent of those 42 percent, decide
something, you are going to be in the minority; you will have decisions made
by people that are in the minority. I will abide by what the majority of our
people say, whether they are Democrat, Independent, or Republican. But I
cannot accept the fact that Americans-bearing in mind what so many have
given in the way of their life, their sacrifices overseas and otherwise—that only
42 percent are going to let 21 percent of the people make their decisions. Is that
564
