November 20
[246]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
an insight for 1974. Sakuma said, and I quote: When I was 20 I knew that men
were linked together in one province; when I was 30 I knew that they were
linked together in one nation; when I was 40 I knew that they were linked to-
gether in one world of five continents.
Now, 120 years later, the links between nations are closer than ever. Modern
technology has made the world one. What each man or each nation does or fails
to do affects every other.
Some Americans wondered why I decided to accept your invitation to come
to Japan at a time when we have unsolved problems at home. I replied to those
Americans that many of the problems we have at home are not just American
problems but the problems of the world as a whole. Like others, we suffer
from inflation. Like others, we face recession. Like others, we have to deal
with rising prices and potential shortages of fuels and raw materials.
America cannot solve those problems alone. Nations can only solve those prob-
lems by working together. Just as we worked together to maintain peace, we
can work together to solve tomorrow's problems.
Our two nations provide the world with a model of what can be achieved by
international cooperation. We can also provide a model for dealing with the new
difficulties. We both have great technological skills and human resources, great
energy and great imagination. We both acknowledge the responsibility to de-
veloping states. We envisage the orderly and peaceful sharing of essential natural
resources. We can work together to meet the global economic issues.
We believe that we are not just temporary allies; we are permanent friends.
We share the same goals-peace, development, stability, and prosperity. These
are not only praiseworthy and essential goals but common goals.
The problems of peace and economic well-being are inextricably linked. We
believe peace cannot exist without prosperity, prosperity cannot exist without
peace, and neither can exist if the great states of the world do not work together
to achieve them. We owe this to ourselves, to each other, and to all of the Japanese
and the American peoples.
America and Japan share the same national pastime-baseball. In the game of
baseball, two teams compete. But neither can play without the other, nor without
common respect for each other and for the rules of the game.
I have taken the liberty of giving you my views on the world we live in. Now,
let me tell you, the Japanese people, a little bit about the American people. The
American people have faced some difficult times in our history. They know they
will face others in the future. Their burdens are enormous, both at home and
abroad. Some observers, including American observers, say that Americans
639
