[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
but he is a fine officer, and he has done a good job. And I don't think he should be
fired for that one mistake.
WORLD SUPPLIES OF FOOD AND ENERGY
[8.] Q. Peggy Roberson, the Birmingham News, Birmingham, Alabama.
Mr. President, recently we have seen horrifying pictures of starving people
in the world, and we have learned that energy and food are unbreakably linked.
Are we prepared to use food as a weapon to force down energy prices so farm-
ers can produce low-cost food to feed these people?
THE PRESIDENT. We are not going to use food as a weapon. We must recognize,
however, that food is just as important to the world as oil and that in order to get
a better distribution of oil that is held in vast reserves by other nations and food
that is produced by us to a greater extent than any other nation in the world, we
must get together and cooperate to make sure that that which is available in
both cases is spread throughout the world for the benefit of all people.
Dr. Kissinger, the Secretary of State, has put together the group of oil-con-
suming nations. We expect to work with the oil-producing nations. I believe
that there can be an understanding achieved that will be to the mutual benefit
of the producers in food and oil and the consumers in both.
POSSIBILITY OF A GASOLINE TAX
[9.] Q. Jules Witcover, Washington Post.
Mr. President, Secretary of Interior Morton told reporters yesterday he is
still interested in the possibility of a new gasoline tax as a weapon to fight the
energy crisis and inflation. Your Press Secretary on your behalf has repeatedly
said that you are not considering it. Can you clear up exactly what the Adminis-
tration's position is on a new gas tax?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly will, Jules. I don't know how many times I have
to say that we are not considering an additional gasoline tax. I said it the first
time, I think out in Sioux City [Falls], South Dakota, and I repeated it many
times thereafter.
I thought that others in the executive branch got the word, and I hope this
word is conveyed to my good friend, the Secretary of the Interior. [Laughter]
We are not considering an increase in the gasoline tax.
FOREIGN POLICY FORMULATION
[10.] Q. Norman Dohn, Ohio University. That is where Bill Hess is a foot-
ball coach, not Woody Hayes.
604
