November 20
[249]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
2. Dedicated to the maintenance of peace and the evolution of a stable inter-
national order reflecting the high purposes and principles of the Charter of the
United Nations, the United States and Japan will continue to encourage the
development of conditions in the Asia-Pacific area which will facilitate peaceful
settlement of outstanding issues by the parties most concerned, reduce inter-
national tensions, promote the sustained and orderly growth of developing
countries, and encourage constructive relationships among countries in the area.
Each country will contribute to this task in the light of its own responsibilities
and capabilities. Both countries recognize that cooperative relations between the
United States and Japan under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security
constitute an important and durable element in the evolution of the interna-
tional situation in Asia and will continue to plan an effective and meaningful
role in promoting peace and stability in that area.
3. The United States and Japan recognize the need for dedicated efforts by all
countries to pursue additional arms limitation and arms reduction measures, in
particular controls over nuclear armaments, and to prevent the further spread
of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices while facilitating the
expanded use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Both countries underline
the high responsibility of all nuclear-weapon states in such efforts, and note the
importance of protecting non-nuclear-weapon states against nuclear threats.
4. The United States and Japan recognize the remarkable range of their inter-
dependence and the need for coordinated responses to new problems confronting
the international community. They will intensify efforts to promote close
cooperation among industrialized democracies while striving steadily to en-
courage a further relaxation of tensions in the world through dialogue and ex-
changes with countries of different social systems.
5. In view of the growing interdependence of all countries and present global
economic difficulties, it is becoming increasingly important to strengthen in-
ternational economic cooperation. The United States and Japan recognize the
necessity of the constructive use of their human and material resources to bring
about solutions to major economic problems. The establishment of an open and
harmonious world economic system is indispensable for international peace and
prosperity and a primary goal of both nations. The United States and Japan
will, to this end, continue to promote close economic and trade relations between
the two countries and participate constructively in international efforts to ensure
a continuing expansion of world trade through negotiations to reduce tariff
and other trade distortions and to create a stable and balanced international
645
