August 23
[31]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Finally, S. 3066 authorizes a more flexible approach to assisting low- and
moderate-income families obtain adequate housing. This new lower income
housing assistance program should also help increase the supply of housing in
areas where vacancies are unreasonably low.
No one expects this bill to bring substantial immediate relief to the housing
market, but over the long haul it should provide the foundations for better
housing for all Americans.
This act is important not only for what it does but for how it came about.
Like any omnibus bill, S. 3066 has minuses as well as pluses. But it is the
product of significant cooperation and compromise by the legislative and
executive branches of this Government, and, as such, it is an important example
of how the Congress and I intend to approach the Nation's problems in the
future.
31
Letter to the Chairmen of the Conference Committee
Considering Freedom of Information Act
Amendments. August 23, 1974
I APPRECIATE the time you have given me to study the amendments to
the Freedom of Information Act (H.R. 12471) presently before you, so that
I could provide you my personal views on this bill.
I share your concerns for improving the Freedom of Information Act and
agree that now, after eight years in existence, the time is ripe to reassess this
profound and worthwhile legislation. Certainly, no other recent legislation
more closely encompasses my objectives for open Government than the
philosophy underlying the Freedom of Information Act.
Although many of the provisions that are now before you in Conference will
be expensive in their implementation, I believe that most would more ef-
fectively assure to the public an open Executive branch. I have always felt that
administrative burdens are not by themselves sufficient obstacles to prevent
progress in Government, and I will therefore not comment on those aspects of
the bill.
There are, however, more significant costs to Government that would be
exacted by this bill—not in dollar terms, but relating more fundamentally to
the way Government, and the Executive branch in particular, has and must
45
