August 28
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. The policy that we have toward Cuba today is determined by
the sanctions voted by the Organization of American States, and we abide by
those actions that were taken by the members of that organization.
Now if Cuba changes its policy toward us and toward its Latin neighbors, we,
of course, would exercise the option, depending on what the changes were, to
change our policy. But before we made any change, we would certainly act in
concert with the other members of the Organization of American States.
POSSIBILITY OF PARDON FOR THE FORMER PRESIDENT
[24.] Q. Mr. President, you have emphasized here your option of granting
a pardon to the former President.
THE PRESIDENT. I intend to.
Q. You intend to have that option. If an indictment is brought, would you
grant a pardon before any trial took place?
THE PRESIDENT. I said at the outset that until the matter reaches me, I am not
going to make any comment during the process of whatever charges are made.
ECONOMIC POLICIES
[25.] Q. Mr. President, two questions, related: How long will the tran-
sition last, in your opinion, and, secondly, how soon would it be proper and
fair for Democrats on the campaign trail this fall to hold you accountable for
the economic policy and the economic problems the country faces?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't judge what the Democrats are going to say about
my policies. They have been very friendly so far and very cooperative. I think
it is a fair statement that our problems domestically, our economic problems, are
the joint responsibility of Government. As a matter of fact, I think the last poll
indicated that most Americans felt that our difficulties were caused by Govern-
ment action and that, of course, includes the President and the Democratic
Congress. So, we are all in this boat together, along with labor and management
and everybody else. I don't think making partisan politics out of a serious
domestic problem is good politics.
FEDERAL PAY RAISE
[26.] Q. Mr. President, in your fight against inflation, what, if anything, do
you intend to do about the next Federal pay raise?
THE PRESIDENT. I have made no judgment on that yet, the recommendation
has not come to my desk.
65
