[172]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
those things that are needed and necessary to provide us an expanding economy,
a strong economy, a good economy.
But if we don't win this battle by conserving energy, by doing the other things
that are an integral and important part of it, the great blessings of this country
will not be for our younger generation.
I admire the sacrifices that have been made by the senior citizens who are here.
I admire and respect you, and we thank you. You have done much to give us all
what we have today.
But we have an obligation to these young people in the bands, in the Boy
Scouts, the Camp Fire Girls, the Girl Scouts. We have an obligation to them, as
this group had to us.
And so what we have to do is join the ranks, arm-in-arm, shoulder-to-shoulder,
to spend less, and that means spend less of your taxpayer dollars so that we will
have more for you to spend for yourself, for your city, for your State, for your
country.
One of the important things to me and something that I like and enjoy about
people from South Carolina is the political philosophy that you have—a philos-
ophy that says yes. The government at the local, State, and Federal level, they
are important, but the philosophy that you have—that you can stand and will
stand on your own two feet-is what I believe in, and I respect you, I admire
you for it.
Now we recognize that there are circumstances and problems that are beyond
the scope and beyond the capability of individuals. But there are, unfortunately,
people in the Congress and elsewhere in our society who think every problem
has to be solved by some Government program or excessive Federal spending.
I don't agree with that. But what worries me, what worries me is that the peo-
ple who have this philosophy are too strong, are getting too much of a strangle-
hold on some of our areas in our Federal Government and elsewhere. What they
don't tell us when they propose all these benefits that they are going to give you
from our Government, they don't tell you the end result, the final conclusion.
They don't inform you that a government big enough to give us everything we
want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
Now, South Carolina is one of the great States of this Union. South Carolina
has had a long history and tradition of being strong in a crisis, whether it was
from outside our continental limits, or whether it was from within. You have
measured up to the challenges abroad and at home.
And you in South Carolina know that the strength of our form of govern-
ment is one of balance. You had people that represented your great State when
394
