October 8
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I
Development Act of 1974. I have since concluded that still more help is needed,
help that can be delivered very quickly and with minimum inflationary impact.
urge the Congress to enact before recess additional legislation to make most
home mortgages eligible for purchase by an agency of the Federal Govern-
ment. As the law stands now, only FHA or VA home mortgages, one-fifth of
the total, are covered.
I am very glad that the Senate, thanks to the leadership of Senator Brooke and
Senator Cranston, has already made substantial progress on this legislation. As
soon as it comes to me, I will make at least $3 billion immediately available for
mortgage purchases, enough to finance about 100,000 more American homes.
Number seven: thrift institutions. Savings and loan and similar institutions
are hard hit by inflation and high interest rates. They no longer attract, un-
fortunately, adequate deposits. The executive branch, in my judgment, must
join with the Congress in giving critically needed attention to the structure
and the operation of our thrift institutions which now find themselves for the
third time in 8 years in another period of serious mortgage credit scarcity.
Passage of the pending financial institution bill will help, but no single meas-
ure has yet appeared, as I see it, to solve feast or famine in mortgage credit.
However, I promise to work with you individually and collectively to develop
additional specific programs in this area in the future.
Number eight: international interdependency. The United States has a
responsibility not only to maintain a healthy economy at home, but also to seek
policies which complement rather than disrupt the constructive efforts of others.
Essential to U.S. initiatives is the early passage of an acceptable trade reform
bill. My Special Representative for Trade Negotiations [William D. Eberle]
departed earlier this afternoon to Canada, Europe, Japan, to brief foreign friends
on my proposals.
We live in an interdependent world and, therefore, must work together to re-
solve common economic problems.
Number nine: Federal taxes and spending. To support programs, to increase
production and share inflation-produced hardships, we need additional tax
revenues.
I am aware that any proposal for new taxes just 4 weeks before a national
election is, to put it mildly, considered politically unwise. And I am frank to
say that I have been earnestly advised to wait and talk about taxes anytime
after November 5. But I do say in sincerity that I will not play politics with
America's future.
235
