December 2
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE ECONOMY
OPENING STATEMENT
[13.] I would be glad to talk about both of them a lot longer, but let me
make a statement about the economy and then we will have questions on that.
Before turning to domestic questions, which I am sure will concentrate on our
economic problems, I would like to say this: We are currently facing three serious
challenges-inflation, recession, and energy.
Inflation, which is a deadly, long-range enemy that cannot be ignored.
Recession, which is a serious threat that already has hurt many, many citizens
and alarms many, many more. Hopefully, it is a shorter-range evil, but neither
can be ignored, nor will it be.
Assuring adequate energy will require our best efforts. The energy crisis also
contributes both to inflation and to recessionary pressures.
Much of the program that I recommended to the Congress and the American
people on October 8 is still pending before the Congress. It was designed to meet
all three of these challenges. It was balanced to deal with an already rampaging
inflation and already anticipated recessionary forces.
And make no mistake—it is imperative that we fight both inflation and
recession at the same time. The question is one of balance and changing circum-
stances. At least four measures deserve special and, I think, immediate attention
by this Congress. They cannot wait until next March or April.
I have recommended a series of budget-reducing actions totaling $4.6 billion
so that the Federal Government can set an example of fiscal restraint.
Furthermore, I urge the Congress not to add any more spending. As you can
see from this chart [indicating] the Congress has already added, or is about to
add, over $1 billion to this year's spending and, I add with emphasis, against
my recommendations.
Anticipating rising unemployment 2 months ago, I asked for a national
employment assistance act to provide useful work for those who had exhausted
their unemployment benefits and others not previously covered. Action on this
is essential before the present Congress adjourns.
Action is needed on the Trade Reform Act. This can help immeasurably in
fighting both recession and inflation, by creating more jobs and providing more
goods as well.
The tax reform bill reported by the Committee on Ways and Means of the
House provides needed tax relief for low-income citizens while taxing windfall
profits of certain oil companies. I don't support every provision in this committee
685
