[290]
December 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
What is needed is to unite our entire American leadership in this effort, not
to divide ourselves with self-defeating pessimism.
As a most perceptive Washington veteran news columnist recently wrote un-
der the heading "The Calamity Howlers," he said the following, and I quote:
"Now the situation is awkward, and in the automobile towns it is alarming,
but the calamity howlers are adding to the depression psychology and making
things even worse than they need be.
“For example, many companies now seem to be holding back on essential
purchases for fear of what might happen in 1975, and there is upward pressure
on both prices and wages in the belief that President Ford will finally be forced
to adopt wage and price controls. In short, many people are beginning to act on
their fears, which are worse than the facts.
"Washington," he went on to say, "is a little jittery, too. Because everybody has
a pain sooner or later and comes here to complain about it, the capital has a
tendency to think everybody has a pain. . . .
"So things are a little mixed up," he went on to say, “and everybody is looking
for painless solutions and hoping to get back to where we were before, with cheap
gas
and 96 fancy new models to choose from. But it's not on, folks. That world is
gone," he said. "We're going to have to make do and mend for a while, but this
is a very strong country and it will get along if we don't talk ourselves into a
mess."
As Mr. Reston rightly concluded, this is a very strong country. It started weak
and disunited, but two centuries later our free economic system and our free
political system are both the strongest and the most enduring in the world. And
as long as I am President, I propose to keep them that way.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 p.m. in the
State Room at the Mayflower Hotel. In his opening
remarks, the President referred to David Packard,
president of the Business Council, and Anne L.
Armstrong, Counsellor to the President.
James B. Reston was a syndicated columnist for
the New York Times.
738
