September 11
[71]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
turies-old history and is just as popular in scores of other countries throughout
the world. And I think that is why history's most spectacular chip shot struck
such a responsive chord among people in so many nations. No one will ever
forget that moment when Alan Shepard, swinging his homemade six-iron,
lofted a ball off the surface of the Moon.
That was a great chip shot for all mankind. [Laughter]
And in conclusion, let me say, we made it to the Moon because of a technology
built upon the knowledge and the discoveries by all the nations of the Earth.
We made it to the Moon because of the shared experiences of the human race.
And that chip shot symbolized all that in one of the most natural languages
shared by all—the language of golf.
Congratulations to the inductees and thank you all for being here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:28 p.m.
71
Remarks at a Dinner Honoring Inductees Into the World
Golf Hall of Fame. September 11, 1974
Thank you very, very much Governor Jim Holshouser, my good golfing partner,
the Governor of South [North] Carolina, Senator Jesse Helms, my old friend
Earl Ruth:
But I do wish to acknowledge and pay special tribute to the inductees who I
tremendously admire and greatly respect. And I have really enjoyed listening
to the stories that each of them have given. And it is an awfully hard act to
follow after the tales they have told and the incidents that they have related.
It has always been one of the great things that I have admired—excellence.
And I have spent a great deal of time in the last few years on Saturday afternoons
and Sunday afternoons watching various tournaments.
I usually take with me—and sit in front of the television and take a pile of
work, and in between this shot and that shot, I try to concentrate. But I really
am more interested in the excellence that they demonstrate to the American
people. I admire excellence. I respect it.
And it seems to me that this is what we want in this country and what we
want in the world. And to be here this afternoon and this evening, and to get
better acquainted with those I have known, and to meet others that I have not
known in the sport of golf has been a great and an exhilarating day for me.
121
