[272]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think, a good reminder to me. It is a reminder of some of the basic, good things
about our country and a reminder of some of the simple but vital values that can
make life productive and very rewarding.
A very great American, Dwight D. Eisenhower, once said that his faith in our
young people was as unbounded as his faith in America. I share that faith.
I believe that the youth and America go hand-in-hand. For it is America's youth-
ful spirit, strength, its idealism that are the keys to our country's greatness—
even today as we approach our 200th anniversary as a nation, we are still a very
young country, a young people compared to most other nations on this Earth.
The early explorers understood better than they realized the significance of
calling the American continent the "New World." For it was here on these
shores that millions of people from every branch of the human family were to
come and to make a new beginning, were to launch one of the greatest, noblest
adventures in the history of mankind.
From the start, even the humblest of those early settlers seemed to understand.
As they landed in this new world, they knew that they, too, were beginning a
new life, leaving behind the oppressions and the injustices that had darkened
old countries and old civilizations.
Of course, this new promised land was not delivered to them upon a silver
platter. Each new wave of pioneers and immigrants had to build a place for
themselves and add their individual contributions to this new life. It was hard
work; it was long work; it took long hours; and it never ended. It still goes on
today as we tackle new problems and new challenges.
And that is where Scouting comes in. The teamwork, the self-discipline, and
just as important, the sense of adventure that grow out of the Scouting experience
are the very things we need today to build a better America.
So often, the deepest, the most profound emotions and ideas are expressed in
very simple words. Today, when some people are casting about for new values,
new answers, and new outlooks on life, the key to many of our problems lies in
the basic values of the Scout laws-in trust, in loyalty, courtesy, thrift, bravery,
reverence.
One of the wisest judges of our country, probably one of the wisest we ever
produced, was Supreme Court Justice Louis D. Brandeis. Like all great jurists,
he understood more than just the law. He knew the human mind, the human
heart, and he saw a great deal of each of them in his many years on the bench—
both their good sides and their bad. It was an experience that might have made a
cynic of him, but it did not. The more Justice Brandeis saw of the American
people, the more he became convinced of their basic goodness.
692
