[39]
August 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
We won't have high unemployment. We will have ample job opportunities.
We will, I believe, give greater opportunities to minorities to have jobs. If we
can lick inflation, and we are going to try, and I think we are going to have a
good program, most of our other domestic programs will be solved.
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
[21.] Q. Do you have any plans to revive the Office of Economic Opportu-
nity, and if so, in what areas?
THE PRESIDENT. As I am sure you know, the old poverty program has been
significantly changed over the last several years. The Headstart program has
been taken out of OEC [OEO] and turned over to the Department of HEW.
The health aspects of the old poverty program are also over in HEW.
The Congress just approved, and Mr. Nixon approved, a Legal Services Cor-
poration, which was another part of the old poverty program. So, we end up
really with just the CAP program, community action program.
Now I think most people who have objectively looked at the community action
program and the Model Cities program and maybe some of the other similar
programs—there is duplication, there is overlapping.
And under the new housing and urban development bill, local communities
are given substantial sums to take a look at the Model Cities programs and related
programs, and they may be able to take up the slack of the ending of the com-
munity action programs.
ISRAELI CAPITAL
[22.] Q. Mr. President, my question applies to a 1972 statement in which you
said that an impediment to a regional peace settlement is an impediment to
preserve the fiction that Jerusalem is not the capital of Israel. My question, sir, is
would you, now that you set foreign policy, request that the embassy be shifted
from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem along with 17 other national embassies?
The President. Under the current circumstances and the importance of getting
a just and lasting peace in the Middle East, I think that particular proposal ought
to stand aside. We must come up with some answers between Israel and the
Arab nations in order to achieve a peace that is both fair and durable.
POLICY TOWARD CUBA
[23.] Q. Mr. President, do you contemplate any changes in our policy with
Cuba?
64
