[196]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the third was to set in motion an orderly proc-
ess for decontrolling the oil industry. The FEA is
now established and fully staffed; the Project In-
dependence Blueprint is nearing completion; and-
with the implementation of an entitlements pro-
gram-the groundwork has been laid for beginning
to remove controls from the oil industry. Thus, the
tasks that I set out to accomplish are complete, and
I feel that the time has come for me to move on to
new responsibilities.
We must now begin a new phase in the govern-
ment's energy program by moving quickly to im-
plement a set of energy resource development and
energy conservation actions which can bring this
Nation's energy budget into better balance. How-
ever, because of the time delays involved in ex-
panding energy supplies, I feel it is particularly
important to focus on energy conservation. By doing
so, we will improve our balance of payments posi-
tion, reduce inflationary pressures and aid in clean-
ing up the environment. In addition to these actions,
we must resolve a number of critical international
issues affecting energy including recycling surplus
oil funds, compensating for the impact of high oil
prices on a number of industrialized and develop-
ing countries, and defining the role of our govern-
ment vis-a-vis the international oil companies.
FEA has important responsibilities in each of these
areas. I will be glad to remain with the organization
during the transition period to assist in preparing
for the tasks ahead and to support the activities of
Secretary Morton and the Energy Resources Coun-
cil. I have enjoyed working as a member of your
team and would be delighted to serve you again
should the opportunity present itself.
Sincerely,
JOHN C. SAWHILL
[The President, The White House]
197
Statement on Signing the Federal Fire Prevention and Control
Act of 1974. October 29, 1974
I AM today signing into law S. 1769, the Federal Fire Prevention and Control
Act of 1974.
While fire prevention and control is and will remain a State and local respon-
sibility, I believe the Federal Government can make useful contributions. I
endorse the intention of this act to supplement rather than supplant existing
State and local government activities.
The program established by this act, which will be implemented by an agency
within the Department of Commerce, will contribute to our knowledge of fire
and our ability to prevent it.
Federal assistance for research and development on fire problems will be
consolidated and expanded to provide the scientific and technological base for
the development of materials, equipment, and systems to reduce the number
and severity of fires.
The Fire Academy system will supplement existing education and training for
fire prevention personnel across the Nation.
The research and development program will be closely tied to the education
and training program, thereby insuring that research and development results
are disseminated quickly to communities.
494
