[2]
August 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Grand Rapids connived to help me get a little extra space in the Grand
Rapids Press, and I am just delighted to have Jerry with us here on this
occasion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:04 p.m. in the Briefing Room at the White House. His remarks were broad-
cast live on radio and television.
3
Memorandums on the Transition of the Presidency.
August 10, 1974
MEMORANDUM FOR MEMBERS OF THE VICE PRESIDENTIAL STAFF
On a number of occasions in the past, I have told you that I was only the
“front man" in our efforts. Behind the scenes, each of you worked, sometimes
day and night, and often all weekend, to facilitate our joint efforts. Some have
been with me longer than others, but all of you have combined in a short time
to perform at a singular level of excellence.
As I assume the new responsibilities of the Presidency, I want you to know
how mindful I am of your past labors—and how grateful and indebted I am
to you. You have contributed indispensably to the successful operation of the
Office of the Vice President and to my ability to assume my new responsibilities.
Our staff has been close to one another, much as a family, and I hope all of
you understand the depth of my appreciation and affection. Although I am
moving to another office, my loyalty and esteem for you remain unchanged.
I have asked some old friends to come in and help us during this difficult
period, which we all hoped would not come. I hope you will render all possible
cooperation to those who will be here to facilitate the transition, as well as to
those of Mr. Nixon's staff for whom this time is even more difficult than it is
for us.
With heartfelt thanks,
GERALD R. FORD
MEMORANDUM For the Heads of Departments and AGENCIES
Just as President Nixon kept up the business of government so long as he was
President, I know each of you has worked diligently to carry out the responsibili-
ties you hold. I am sure you have a feeling of sorrow, as I do, but you can also
4
