October 9
[131]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
|
and good thoughts and prayers from so many all over the country, as Hugh said,
some 40,000 cards, telegrams, telephone calls, et cetera on behalf of Betty. She
is doing great, and what you all have done has been material in making her get
well much quicker. Thank you very, very much.
As some of you might have seen in the last few days, either through the news-
papers or television, the White House has a new addition. My daughter, Susan,
and Dave Kennerly, our new White House photographer, got together a few
days ago and surprised Betty and me with an 8-month-old golden retriever.
This puppy has really taken over the White House. In fact, you may have seen
some of us laughing up here during dinner. As I reached in my pocket to get a
match to light my pipe, look what I pulled out of the pocket-some dog biscuits!
[Laughter]
Let me tell you the story about Susan and Dave and how they bought this dog.
I first should preface that the Fords had had two previous golden retrievers. One
lived 13 years and unfortunately died, and then another one died a year ago in
August after 9 years. So we are fairly partial, I would say, to golden retrievers.
Well, Dave and Susan called up a very highly recommended individual who
had contacts with the people who raise golden retrievers all over the country.
And Dave, as I understand it—who is communicating with the individual up in
Minneapolis who happened to have a golden retriever about this age-Dave
asked the individual if they had a dog and was it available, and the owner said
that they had this 8-month-old golden retriever, but the proprietor or the owner
was a little cautious-they're very possessive about these dogs- and he asked in
a very nice way who the dog's owner would be.
And they said, Dave and Susan, that they had to keep it a secret. Well, the
kennel owner said that they don't sell dogs that way. He would have to know
who the dog's owner would be, and he wanted to know would the dog have a
good home.
So, Dave and Susan very specifically assured the dog owner that it would have
a good home. They explained that the parents were friendly and middle-aged
and they had four children. The kennel owner said, "That sounds fine. What
kind of a house do they live in?"
Susan and Dave said, "Well, it is a big white house with a fence around it.”
The kennel owner said, "This is a big dog. Will it have enough to eat? Does
the father have a steady job?" Well, on that question, they were stuck a bit.
[Laughter]
Needless to say they got the dog and, in the appropriate spirit of the city of
Philadelphia, we have named her “Liberty.” One of those inquisitive reporters
265
