[127]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
If the Federal Government reduces its expenditures, and we are going to do
it by roughly $5 billion, it makes money more easily available in the money
markets of the United States so that home purchasers will have more money
at a better rate of interest to borrow so they can build homes. This will stimulate
the homebuilding industry and, I think, provide jobs.
Now, the 5 percent surtax is only on 28 percent of the total personal income
tax payers in this United States, the people who are better able to pay these
minimal amounts extra. I don't think taking away from a family who is earn-
ing $20,000 the sum of $42 a year is going to have any serious adverse impact on
the purchasing power of that family.
Q. I am not sure that we are talking about the same thing, Mr. President.
I am talking about the fact that these are proposals directed at reducing demand
and many economists don't think we have that kind of inflation. You are talk-
ing about stimulating homebuilding, and I am forced to repeat my question:
Why are we attacking the wrong kind of inflation?
The President. I respectfully disagree with you. I think, if we stimulate home-
building because we are reducing Federal expenditures and providing more
money in the marketplace, I think we are stimulating production. And I think
the people who are being taxed, or I hope will be taxed, aren't going to lose
sufficiently of their earned income that they are going to cut down significantly
in what they buy in the marketplace.
OIL DEPLETION ALLOWANCES
[12.] Q. This morning, Secretary Simon indicated that the Administration
was still supporting oil depletion allowances. You yesterday endorsed the Ways
and Means package which calls for the phase-out of oil depletion allowances.
How do you reconcile your speech and Secretary Simon's testimony this
morning?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that bill before the Committee on Ways and Means
has a number of very good features, and it has some that I don't necessarily em-
brace in toto, and I am sure that Secretary Simon doesn't. But I do believe that
on balance, it is important for me to endorse that bill.
And when you endorse a bill of that magnitude, I think you have to take it as
a package because it does close some of the loopholes. It provides a sufficient
amount of income so we can grant additional relief to the people in the lowest
brackets of income taxpayers.
It is my recollection that that bill does phase out not only foreign oil deple-
250
