[96]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
pliment you and congratulate you. But as we move forward in this area with the
success that you have, let's keep the effort moving stronger and stronger.
Another priority as I see it is the habitual offender-the so-called career
criminal. Most crime, according to the statistics, is the work of a limited number
of hardened criminals. We must take the criminal out of circulation. We must
make crime hazardous and very costly. We must ensure that swift and prolonged
imprisonment will inevitably follow each and every offense. Only then will we
deter others from pursuing careers of crime.
Accordingly, I have directed the Department of Justice to undertake, in co-
operation with State and local governments, a Career Criminal Impact pro-
gram. It will target and keep track of professional criminals. This program will
also assign priority to cases of habitual criminals and expedite the process by
which they are brought to justice.
Here in the District of Columbia we have already seen dramatic results in a
very short time. Perhaps this can be adopted as a similar program in other urban
areas.
In the U.S. Attorney's office, a special group known as the Major Violators
Unit has been established. This unit tracks the cases of major repeat offenders.
It ensures that these cases receive the most urgent attention of prosecutors. This
unit has dramatically reduced the ability of case-hardened offenders to escape
through the loopholes of the criminal justice system.
As I indicated, the results are already very impressive. For example, in the
first month of operation, the Major Violators Unit substantially increased the
conviction rate for serious cases. The average time from arrest to trial has been
reduced by at least 3 weeks. The career criminal now realizes that serious cases
will no longer simply slip through the cracks in the system.
In this area, you know better than I that all this cannot be done by the police
in isolation. Effective anticrime management requires the close cooperation of
police, prosecutors, courts, and corrections. Where they work together, you not
only will obtain a better conviction rate but you will save unbelievable hours—
police hours that are now, unfortunately, wasted.
But to reduce the crime rate, we need the cooperation of one other party-
namely, the public. Crime statistics, shocking as they are, often show us only
the top of the iceberg. Too much crime goes unreported. A lot of witnesses never
show up, especially after the fourth or fifth continuance.
A study in the District of Columbia shows that noncooperation of witnesses
was by far the most common reason for losing major cases. Throughout this
Nation, nearly half the victims of assault, robbery, burglary, and larceny above
186
