[171]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
The fourth reason I am here is to speak about the importance of the news media
and to congratulate the owners, publishers of these two fine newspapers.
Now I have been warned on occasion that it is sometimes risky to expose myself
to the press. I don't happen to necessarily agree with that philosophy, although I
did have a press conference in the Rose Garden the other day at the White House,
and I must confess that not everything turned out or turned up roses.
But those are the problems you face in meeting the good friends of the news
media. But, as it should be and in keeping with my own personal philosophy of
being as accessible as possible to the press, I intend to continue frequent, open,
friendly meetings with the news media. I think that is good for the country, for
the press, and I hope for myself.
And although I wouldn't call this gathering here today a press conference, I
am delighted to participate in the dedication of the new Anderson Independent
and the Anderson Daily Mail building. I congratulate the owners, the publishers,
the employees, and also the subscribers, because you are all an integral part of
the dissemination of the news thoroughly, accurately, and without fear of
reprisal. And I know that what comes from these two newspapers will be in the
highest traditions of the news media.
I hope to continue the traditions that I established as a Member of Congress
and as Vice President of meeting with the press, and I hope and trust that the
relationship that I have had with the press will continue.
I don't think I do things any differently today than I did when I was a Member
of the Congress or even as Vice President. The only difference seems to be that
they pay more attention to what I say. [Laughter]
There have been a lot of changes in America in all of our lifetimes, but there
is one thing that must be preserved above all others. And I refer here very
specifically to the first amendment and all of the rest of the Constitution that
Senator Thurmond, Senator Hollings, myself, at the Federal level, and Governor
West have sworn to uphold, and that is the Constitution of the United States-
the greatest document ever written in the history of mankind—that gives more
freedom and more opportunity to more people than any other document drafted
by man.
Now we must have a climate of trust and understanding between the Govern-
ment and the people. This is essential if our system is to work. The Anderson
newspapers and the rest of America's press have much to do with that climate,
and of course, so do those of us who hold high office.
Now I don't put as much emphasis on public relations as I do on human
relations. As John Ginn said—I will say it a little differently—we can all disagree
390
