[174]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Why do I say that? You have a great crowd here, and most of you, I am sure,
would rather be out watching a good football game or doing something else.
But here is what you have done in the short span of time that I was in the
Congress about 25 years. You have now a Republican Governor in Jim
Holshouser, and he is a first-class chief executive.
And you have in Jesse Helms an outstanding Member of the United States
Senate. You should be proud of him.
And I can speak with some considerable authority about the great people you
have in the House of Representatives-Jim Broyhill, Earl Ruth, "Vinegar Bend"
Mizell, Jim Martin, and pretty soon, about November 5, you are going to have
Steve Ritchie and Ward Purrington.' And if you don't, gee, I will be
disappointed.
With all this power you have got here, you ought to make certain and positive
that somebody as able as Steve and somebody as able as Ward takes the oath
of office on January 3 in the House of Representatives. They will save you money,
they will win the battle against inflation, they will give you good representation,
and you will be darned proud of both of them. Do your
best.
Now let's talk about the United States Senate. In Bill Stevens you have got an
opportunity to put a fellow in that high office to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with
Jesse Helms. Isn't that what you want? Somebody who is going to be strong,
determined, dedicated? And I will be so pleased if the great State of North
Carolina sends that kind of Member to the United States Senate.
Now let me make two or three points. I know it is a little chilly, but never-
theless I want to talk heart-to-heart, straight-to-straight to you. I have gotten a
lot of advice in recent weeks that I ought to sit in Washington, D.C., as President
of the United States, read the polls and get discouraged and wring my hands
and, you know, look out the window of the Oval Office and say, “Gee, things
are terrible."
I think that is a lousy approach to the responsibilities of the President of the
United States. I know all these experts are saying these things, that you can't
change the results, and if I tried and I lost, then my Presidency for the next 2
years will go down the drain. I don't believe that. It is a lot better for me to be
out talking to you in Greensboro than sitting around the Oval Office and wring-
ing my hands.
I don't understand people who want to admit defeat. I have got a WIN button
on, not a loser's button.
1 Richard Steven (Steve) Ritchie was the Republican candidate in the Sixth Congressional District of
North Carolina, and J. Ward Purrington was the Republican candidate in the Fourth Congressional District.
402
