October 11
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Thanks for coming down. I apologize for being late, but we had the Presi-
dent of Somalia on his first visit in the Oval Office, and we had a very interesting
conversation. I just could not break away.
So, thank you for waiting, and good luck to you, and I hope you all have a good
vacation between now and November 11.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. in the Cab-
inet Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 11510) is Public Law
93-438 (88 Stat. 1233).
138
Statement on the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974.
October 11, 1974
IT IS my privilege today to sign into law a bill which takes a big step forward in
this Nation's program to face up to and solve its crucial energy needs for the
future.
H.R. 11510 abolishes the present Atomic Energy Commission and establishes
three new Federal entities:
1. The Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA) which,
for the first time, will bring together into one agency major Federal programs of
research and development for all forms of energy and will organize these pro-
grams for cooperation with industry, academic institutions, and other organi-
zations in the Nation's rapidly expanding energy research and development
effort.
2. The Energy Resources Council composed of the Secretaries of State and In-
terior, the Administrators of ERDA and the Federal Energy Administration, the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and other members as I may
designate. I am pleased that the Congress acted consistent with my suggestion
for an interagency council, which I had announced in my economic message
October 8. It is, therefore, my pleasure to name the Secretary of the Interior to
chair this Council and I am today issuing an Executive order [11814] to assure
prompt action.
3. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) which will take over the
licensing and regulation responsibilities previously performed by the Atomic
Energy Commission.
My Administration is already committed to a greatly accelerated 5-year pro-
gram of over $10 billion for energy research and development. ERDA gives us
the unified, high quality scientific, technical, and management organization
287
