[190]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
The weather, the location, the people just make this an ideal setting for this
testimonial to Les. I am told Melvin has a population of roughly 500, and Les'
comment as he was speaking indicated that, well, maybe you might lose an inch
or two with all the people.
Let me add this postscript, if I can. All of you—the 500 of you from Melvin—
are so darned proud of Les, you will just stand up and take charge, and you are
not going to sink one inch or one one-eighth of an inch because you have some-
thing that will never be forgotten in the history of Melvin, and that is Les
Arends.
I have been told that three Presidents have visited Melvin and they all ap-
peared for the same, the precise, the identical reason—to tell all of you in Melvin
and all of you who have come from many other places, the high regard that all
of us have for Les Arends.
I looked at the history. I thought I knew it about Les-20 terms, 40 years. It
will be a sad day in Washington, D.C., when Les Arends takes the final step out
of Room 2306 in the Rayburn Building. Sometime in January, that will be the
last time Les Arends will leave an office building where he had the honor to
serve all of you in the House of Representatives.
The history books record that out of the 9,442 elected Members of the House of
Representatives, from the very beginning until the last election, only 10 of
them—10 out of 9,442—have spent a longer time in the House of Representatives
than Les Arends. So, his name and his service will go down in the history books
of our country.
Now I know, as I look across this tremendous crowd that is paying tribute to
Les Arends, that your grandparents and your great-grandparents, in some in-
stances, and your parents and literally hundreds of you have participated in
sending Les Arends to Congress for these 20 elections.
It is a lot easier, Les, as you know, to get to Washington today than it was that
first trip. When you first left in 1934, it was either a long, bumpy drive—prob-
ably took 3 to 4 days—or maybe it was a pretty rough railroad trip. But you
made it every year. You served conscientiously, constructively, with compassion,
with firmness. All the accolades that have come Les Arends' way, he richly
deserved.
I am told that back in the 1934 election, Les was campaigning to unseat an in-
cumbent Democrat. And that was not a very good year for Republicans, as many
of you may remember, but Les won. And his opponent, who he defeated, the
incumbent, was pretty upset. After the election he was quoted as saying he didn't
464
