[188]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
We came to some other conclusions in these various meetings that we had
where business, labor, education, housing, economists contributed very signifi-
cantly to the thoughts and the recommendations that we finally put together
in a 31-point program package. But we came to some other conclusions.
There is no quick fix. There is no easy cure for the inflationary illness that
we face. It is going to take some time, some patience, and just as importantly,
some work.
You know, some of my political opposition have said that the plan I sub-
mitted was a marshmallow; it didn't ask for anybody to bite the bullet very
hard. Well then, just a couple of days ago, I saw and then I read the anti-
inflation program put forth by the opposition.
Well, if mine was a marshmallow, theirs was a lemon.
The second observation that we came to is that victory over inflation is going
to require some short-term sacrifices to serve our long-term well-being in
America. As I said, in the 31-point program to Congress and my daily dozen
suggestions to the American people, the burden will have to be evenly distributed.
It will not be borne if we implement the recommendations that I have pro-
posed—the burden will not be borne by those least able to afford it.
The third point there must be—and this is where my former colleagues in the
Congress and the prospective ones come into play-there must be a substantial
cut in the amount of Federal spending this year as well as next year.
For the remainder of this year, I have urged the Congress to make a cut of
about $5.5 billion, and next year we are going to hold the lid on unless the next
Congress blows it off.
Now finally, we are in a very serious battle where national unity is every bit
as important as it has been for the past national crises, whether they were from
outside or from within.
If we do not march shoulder-to-shoulder together, we will fall by the wayside
one-by-one.
I am determined to win this fight. I know that there have been some unhappy
people with some of the suggestions I have made. Yes, I have made some power
interests somewhat unhappy, but these are tough decisions I have to make and
the Congress has to make and all of you have to make.
If we don't, nobody will. Unfortunately, the problem has waited too long
to be tackled. Unfortunately, it will not go away.
Now, the first shot being fired in the war against inflation will come out of the
ballot box November 5. And I implore you to have that a shot heard round the
458
