November 18
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
could be a prolonged legal uncertainty over this legislation. However, I would
welcome new legislation to replace the measures which were vetoed.
Specifically, while the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act Amendments
contained worthwhile provisions to protect migrant farm workers, an unrelated
rider arbitrarily would have reclassified and elevated certain Federal employees
to important Administrative Law Judge positions, regardless of their qualifica-
tions. I, therefore, urge the Congress to pass the essential sections of the vetoed
bill without the personnel provision which would create serious pay inequities
by legislatively overcompensating a particular class of employees in one executive
department.
Similarly, the intent of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments section of H.R.
14225 is worthwhile. But the features which would force the creation of new and
unnecessary bureaucracies in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare
prompted my veto.
I have requested the Secretary of HEW to work with Congressional leaders in
an effort to correct the serious difficulties in administration and accountability
contained in the vetoed bill.
Although it was necessary to return to the Congress without my approval the
Freedom of Information Act Amendments on October 17th, the day the Con-
gress adjourned, I continue to endorse the intent of that legislation. I have
already submitted to the Congress amendments which would eliminate the
national security information problems and the damage to effective law enforce-
ment inherent in the bill which I vetoed. I pledge the full efforts of the Adminis-
tration in working out a fair, responsible way to increase public access to
Federal papers and records without impairing individual rights and essential
Government activities.
Just before adjournment, I also vetoed the Atomic Energy Act Amendments.
I objected to a provision I consider to be unconstitutional. Because of this provi-
sion, the bill would not have become effective, even had I approved it, unless a
Joint Committee of the Congress subsequently took affirmative action. I urge
passage of a new measure removing the constitutional objection to section 12 of
the vetoed bill, thereby eliminating the legal uncertainties which would becloud
the entire nuclear energy program.
During the adjournment, I signed into law a bill overhauling the Commodity
Exchange Act. This is an important step to assure full confidence in Federal
regulation of commodity futures trading. Nevertheless, there are several provi-
sions which need revision. First is the requirement for concurrent submission to
the Congress and to the President of both the new Commission's budget and
625
