October 22
[184]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
a period of time, to have nothing but respect and admiration for those who make
the laws in a great State like Ohio or Michigan.
Of course, here in this area, you have some fine members of the State legis-
lature, or candidates for those positions of responsibility-Tom Corts, Paul Matia,
Charlie Bolton. And every time I hear that name or read it, my mind goes back
to the great experiences I had in the House of serving with Frances Bolton, Ollie
Bolton." It would be great to have another Bolton starting up the political ladder.
And I certainly hope that Charlie is successful on November 5.
Of course, it is an observation that I can make as an outsider coming in, even
though I have been here many times for a good many reasons over a long period
of time, that the people in Ohio are responsive to the needs—the needs of the
hour, the day, the time, the year. The people that you have sent to Congress that
I have known are problemsolvers, and you ought to be proud of the job they
have done and what they can do for you in the future.
I have been told by some of my friends in the press that lately my speeches
have gotten a little partisan—well, that I am using the word "Republican" too
frequently. The truth is they are right. I intend to do more of it, because I hap-
pen to think our party has the best candidates, and I am proud of the party and
its candidates.
As a matter of fact, I think I am a little restrained, at least relatively so. They
may not have seen anything yet as we go in the next 2 weeks, because the issues
are very, very important and the quality of the candidates are vital.
Speaking of being restrained, there is a great quotation from an English par-
liamentarian by the name of Edmund Burke. And let me use it if I might.
“There is, however, a limit at which forebearance ceases to be a virtue.” We are
close to that point. [Laughter]
I think it is important that the public know precisely what I am saying so
there is no danger whatsoever of any misunderstanding. The message is simply
this—it is very concise, I think it is very proper, and that message is this: In-
flation is the chief problem we face in this country and throughout the free
world. Rising prices in America cannot and will not be stopped by a free-spend-
ing Congress.
It is just that simple. This Congress that we have had for the last 2 years has
been controlled by the Democratic Party just as it has been for 38 out of the last
42 years and for the last 20 years consecutively.
Frances P. Bolton was United States Representative from Ohio 1940-69, and her son, Oliver P. Bolton, was
United States Representative from Ohio 1953-57 and 1963-65.
441
