September 26
[105]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
possible solutions. They were in full agreement that such consultations should
in no way prejudice other existing obligations. As a result of their exchanges of
views, the two Presidents noted the broad agreement between them with respect
to their policies in numerous areas:
1. They noted that their policies will continue to be guided by their desire for
the maintenance of peace, adherence to the principles of the United Nations
Charter, and promotion of a stable structure of peace which reflects the diverse
nature and needs of the nations of the world. In this connection, both sides
emphasized their commitment to overcoming the sources of tension and conflict
which are divisive factors in the international community.
2.There was full agreement on the importance of the North Atlantic Alliance
as an instrument which has guaranteed the security of its members, strengthened
international stability, enhanced confidence among peoples, and thus has per-
mitted them growing and fertile contacts with all the peoples of the world and
provided the indispensable basis for the process of détente.
3. They reemphasized in this connection the importance they attach to the
Atlantic Declaration and their determination to seek the fulfillment of the
principles set forth in the Declaration in concert with their other NATO allies.
President Ford underlined the importance the United States attaches to Italy's
continuing valuable contributions to the Alliance.
4. They recognized the importance attached by the Nine members of the
European Community to their efforts toward European union, and welcomed
the reciprocal undertaking by the members of the Community and the United
States to strengthen their relations on the basis of enhanced consultations within
the broad framework of Atlantic cooperation. President Ford welcomed par-
ticularly the constructive role played by Italy in strengthening this cooperation.
5. They noted their determination that current negotiations in furtherance of
détente on matters related to security and cooperation in Europe must result in
enhanced stability in the relationships among all nations concerned. They also
emphasized their continuing commitment to achieving balanced and effective
international arms control agreements resulting in undiminished security for all
nations.
6. They noted their concern with developments in the Mediterranean Basin
and pledged their efforts to achieve equitable solutions. The United States noted
in this connection that it looks to Italy, as a Mediterranean nation which has
made a signal contribution to world civilization, to play a leading role in the
common pursuit of lasting peace in that area.
199
