October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
the pardon of our former President, then we can help to achieve the purpose
I had for granting the pardon when I did.
That purpose was to change our national focus. I wanted to do all I could to
shift our attentions from the pursuit of a fallen President to the pursuit of the
urgent needs of a rising nation. Our Nation is under the severest of challenges
now to employ its full energies and efforts in the pursuit of a sound and grow-
ing economy at home and a stable and peaceful world around us.
We would needlessly be diverted from meeting those challenges if we as a
people were to remain sharply divided over whether to indict, bring to trial, and
punish a former President, who already is condemned to suffer long and deeply
in the shame and disgrace brought upon the office he held. Surely, we are not
a revengeful people. We have often demonstrated a readiness to feel compas-
sion and to act out of mercy. As a people, we have a long record of forgiving
even those who have been our country's most destructive foes.
Yet, to forgive is not to forget the lessons of evil in whatever ways evil has
operated against us. And certainly the pardon granted the former President will
not cause us to forget the evils of Watergate-type offenses or to forget the lessons
we have learned that a government which deceives its supporters and treats its
opponents as enemies must never, never be tolerated.
The pardon power entrusted to the President under the Constitution of the
United States has a long history and rests on precedents going back centuries
before our Constitution was drafted and adopted. The power has been used
sometimes as Alexander Hamilton saw its purpose: "In seasons of insurrec-
tion . . . when a well-timed offer of pardon to the insurgents or rebels may re-
store the tranquillity of the commonwealth; and which, if suffered to pass un-
improved, it may never be possible afterwards to recall."ยน Other times it has
been applied to one person as "an act of grace... which exempts the individual,
on whom it is bestowed, from the punishment the law inflicts for a crime he has
committed." " When a pardon is granted, it also represents "the determination of
the ultimate authority that the public welfare will be better served by inflicting
less than what the judgment fixed."3 However, the Constitution does not limit
the pardon power to cases of convicted offenders or even indicted offenders.*
Thus, I am firm in my conviction that as President I did have the authority to
proclaim a pardon for the former President when I did.
1 The F deralist No. 74, at 79 (Central Law Journal ed. 1914) (A. Hamilton).
Marshall, C. J., in United States v. Wilson, 32 U.S. (7 Pet.) 150, 160 (1833).
3 Biddle v. Perovich, 247 U.S. 480, 486 (1927).
'Ex Parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333, 380 (1867); Burdick v. United States, 236 U.S. 79 (1915).
339
