September 19
[86]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
these interlocking demands has pushed against limited supplies and caused
spiraling prices. This is a worldwide problem requiring worldwide action for
its solution. Secretary Kissinger proposed to the United Nations General
Assembly in September 1973 that the organization sponsor a World Food
Conference. The General Assembly acted favorably on this proposal and the
Conference will be held in Rome in November 1974. The United States also
took an active participation in the preparation for the first United Nations Con-
ference on World Population, convened in Bucharest in August 1974.
The Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which con-
vened an organizational session in December 1973, is another example of how
the United Nations can be utilized to attack contemporary world problems.
The goal of the Law of the Sea Conference is a comprehensive international
convention to govern man's use of the oceans. We need new understandings to
govern international navigation, rational management of the ocean's living
and non-living resources, and the protection of the life-sustaining processes of
the marine environment. Success in the efforts to resolve conflicting claims over
ocean jurisdiction would remove a major and growing source of conflict from
the international arena.
The regular economic and social activities of the United Nations' family of
organizations continued to absorb over 90 percent of its funds and personnel
during 1973. In addition to the traditional operational programs, many special
conferences during the year provided opportunities for nations to enlarge their
understanding of and work toward consensus on such major international eco-
nomic and social issues as development assistance, the role of multinational
corporations, commodity agreements, and the economic rights and duties of
states. Perhaps the most important series of negotiations were those held to
carry out the first biennial review and appraisal of the progress toward the goals
of the Second United Nations Development Decade. In these negotiations dele-
gations from all parts of the world worked for months to formulate a report that
refined the broad measures necessary to improve the world's economic and
social situation. The United States played a leading role in these negotiations.
Unfortunately, not all international problems dealt with by the United Na-
tions were successfully approached in 1973. For example, it is generally believed
in the United States that terrorism against innocent third parties, including the
hijacking of aircraft, is a matter of international concern that calls for inter-
national solutions. The divergence of political views among member states,
however, has made it impossible to agree on either a general definition of terror-
ism or a remedy for it. Despite the limit thus placed on the effectiveness of the
167
