[163]
October 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
the programs and policies of this Administration will continue to be predicated
on the same basic principles.
Now, Mr. Secretary and distinguished guests, the building we dedicate today
demonstrates that Labor Day is not confined to a single day in September. Every
day is Labor Day in the view of this Administration toward America's working
men and women.
I thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:28 a.m. In his open-
ing remarks, the President referred to Arthur F.
Sampson, Administrator of General Services; Ar-
thur J. Goldberg, Secretary of Labor 1961-62; and
W. Willard Wirtz, Secretary of Labor 1962-69.
164
Statement on Signing the Continuing Appropriations
Resolution. October 18, 1974
I HAVE signed, with serious reservations, the continuing resolution (H. J. Res.
1167) providing necessary funds after a 3-week delay for the operation of sev-
eral departments and agencies and for the temporary continuation of our foreign
aid programs.
Despite two vetoes of similar versions of this bill and my public statements
concerning the damage to our diplomacy that would result from its restrictions
on military aid to Turkey, Congress has nevertheless persisted by clear majori-
ties in a course which I consider ill-advised and dangerous.
The restrictions imposed in this bill on our military assistance to Turkey cre-
ate serious problems. Without substantial benefit to any other country, these
restrictions threaten our relations with a country which is a close ally, which is
the eastern anchor of an alliance vital to the security of the United States, and
which plays a fundamental role in the strategic interests of the United States
in the Eastern Mediterranean area. It is for these reasons—the national security
interests of the United States—that we have been providing military assistance
to Turkey.
The problem created by these legislative restrictions with respect to our re-
lations with Turkey are not compensated for in any way by benefits to Greece
or the Greek Cypriots. Contrary to the intentions of the supporters of these
restrictions, this bill can only hinder progress toward a settlement of the Cypriot
dispute which is so much in the interest of both Greece and the people of Cyprus.
As a result of my vetoes of two earlier versions of this continuing resolution,
the Congress has eased the most troublesome of the earlier restrictions. Never-
380
