October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
to what he should do in the light of the new evidence. And I made no recom-
mendations to him either at the meeting or at any time after that.
In summary, I assure you that there never was at any time any agreement
whatsoever concerning a pardon to Mr. Nixon if he were to resign and I were
to become President.
The first question of H. Res. 1367 asks whether I or my representative had
"specific knowledge of any formal criminal charges pending against Richard M.
Nixon." The answer is "no."
I had known, of course, that the grand jury investigating the Watergate
break-in and coverup had wanted to name President Nixon as an unindicted
co-conspirator in the coverup. Also, I knew that an extensive report had been
prepared by the Watergate Special Prosecution Force for the grand jury and had
been sent to the House Committee on the Judiciary, where, I believe, it served
the staff and members of the committee in the development of its report on the
proposed articles of impeachment. Beyond what was disclosed in the publications
of the Judiciary Committee on the subject and additional evidence released by
President Nixon on August 5, 1974, I saw on or shortly after September 4 a copy
of a memorandum prepared for Special Prosecutor Jaworski by the Deputy
Special Prosecutor, Henry Ruth. Copy of this memorandum had been furnished
by Mr. Jaworski to my Counsel and was later made public during a press
briefing at the White House on September 10, 1974.
I have supplied the subcommittee with a copy of this memorandum. The
memorandum lists matters still under investigation which "may prove to have
some direct connection to activities in which Mr. Nixon is personally involved.”
The Watergate coverup is not included in this list, and the alleged coverup is
mentioned only as being the subject of a separate memorandum not furnished
to me. Of those matters which are listed in the memorandum, it is stated that
none of them “at the moment rises to the level of our ability to prove even a
probable criminal violation by Mr. Nixon."
This is all the information I had which related even to the possibility of "formal
criminal charges" involving the former President while he had been in office.
The second question in the resolution asks whether Alexander Haig referred
to or discussed a pardon with Richard M. Nixon or his representatives at any
time during the week of August 4, 1974, or any subsequent time. My answer to
that question is: “not to my knowledge." If any such discussions did occur, they
could not have been a factor in my decision to grant the pardon when I did
because I was not aware of them.
Tab B attached [page 351].
345
