[189]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is important that futures trading take place under conditions in which
traders and the public have full confidence in the system. This new law is an
important step in this direction.
Unfortunately, in passing an otherwise desirable bill, the Congress has in-
corporated three objectionable provisions which would enable the new Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission to compromise traditional executive
branch functions. I find these provisions unacceptable as well as being unneces-
sary for the effective operation of the Commission.
The first one would require the concurrent submission of Commission budget
requests to Congress and to the President or to the Office of Management and
Budget. This would in effect undercut the provisions of the Budget and Account-
ing Act of 1921, which requires the President to submit to Congress a single,
coordinated budget. It also represents a retreat from my goal of reduced Federal
spending, since it will make it more difficult for me to review all requests for
Federal spending in advance of submission to Congress.
Second, as with the budget requests, it would require concurrent submission
of the Commission's legislative proposals. If extended to other agencies, such a
requirement would make it difficult for me to develop and present to the Con-
gress a coherent, coordinated legislative program.
Third, the Commission is empowered to appoint an Executive Director, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate. This raises serious constitutional
questions, by providing for an executive branch appointment in a manner not
contemplated by the Constitution. This encroachment on the separation of pow-
ers can easily be corrected by deletion of the request for Senate confirmation of
the Executive Director.
Nevertheless, because of the need for better regulation of commodity futures
trading, I have signed H.R. 13113, notwithstanding my strong objections to
these three provisions which erode necessary executive control. I will submit to
the Congress legislation which would correct these three provisions, and I will
strongly urge its passage during this session of the 93d Congress.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13113, approved October 23, 1974, is Public Law 93-463 (88 Stat. 1389). The
statement was released at Des Moines, Iowa.
462
