[79]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
But let me say, speaking of a team, I believe that Nelson Rockefeller and my-
self will make a good team, reflecting your views and the views of the Repub-
licans and Independents and, I trust, a good many Democrats, in trying to head
the executive branch of the Government.
At the time that I made the announcement of Nelson's selection, I said I picked
a strong man for a tough job. And I am even more convinced today that his
selection is in the best interests of this country, and he will be a great person.
The Governor is going to be given plenty of work to do politically, within the
executive branch of the Government, in the field of domestic as well as foreign
policy, and it is a pleasure for me to see the way it has all worked so far, and I am
sure that this team will do the best job we possibly can in the months ahead,
primarily for the country but also reflecting our political philosophy.
May I say also that the White House at the present time has in my judgment
one of the finest members of the White House team to concentrate exclusively on
the problems relating to politics. Dean Burch, a Counsellor with Cabinet status,
is in charge of the White House political activities and relationships.
A former chairman of the national committee, an outstanding and long-
dedicated Republican, a person who performed superbly on the Federal Com-
munications Commission-I think we are lucky to have Dean, and if you have
any political problems, talk to Dean. He has an open door to my office and
always will.
Dean has an assistant, one of you from the Republican National Committee,
and here I speak of Gwen Anderson, who was my political adviser while I was
Vice President.
So again, in Dean, from the great State of Arizona, and Gwen, from the
great State of Washington-they make a broad and effective Republican or-
ganization, operating in the White House.
Now, we all hate to say goodby to George Bush, our new U.S. representative
to the People's Republic of China. George, as all of you know, was a hard cam-
paigner when he was first campaigning for the House of Representatives. He
served extremely well in the House. He was a strong representative of our Gov-
ernment at the United Nations. He has been, I think, an excellent national
chairman in a most difficult time.
And so, with all that background, with all the wonderful personality and
talent that he has, along with Barbara, our country will be extremely well repre-
sented in the People's Republic of China, and I just know they will enjoy it and
do an extremely good job for all of us in that great responsibility.
142
