[284]
December 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
requisites for continued efforts to advance the process of East-West détente.
Against the background of current challenges to their strength and solidarity,
they reaffirmed their support for the principles of the Declaration on Atlantic
Relations signed by Allied Heads of Government in June 1974.
The President and the Chancellor reiterated their resolve to contribute to the
process of détente and the growth of cooperation between East and West.
President Ford reviewed the SALT negotiations in the light of his talks with
General Secretary Brezhnev in Vladivostok. They noted with satisfaction that
it has been agreed to aim for limitations on strategic nuclear weapons on the basis
of equality. The Chancellor expressed his appreciation for the progress achieved
in Vladivostok which he considered most important for the pursuit of the policy
of détente and safeguarding peace. President Ford and Chancellor Schmidt
agreed that the understandings of Vladivostok would have a salutary effect on the
overall development of East-West relations.
The two delegations also discussed the state of negotiations in Vienna on
mutual and balanced force reductions in Central Europe. They confirmed their
shared view that the aim of MBFR should be to arrive at a common ceiling for
forces of both alliance systems.
Both sides expressed the hope that the Conference on Security and Coopera-
tion in Europe would soon complete its initial consideration of texts dealing with
all items on the agenda. It would then be possible to enter into the final stage of
the negotiations. They agreed that certain progress had recently been made in
reaching agreement on such areas as family reunification and improved access
to printed information. They noted, however, that important texts still remain
to be agreed, especially with. regard to the Declaration of Principles governing
Relations between States.
The President and Secretary of State Kissinger reviewed the United States'
efforts to contribute to progress toward the achievement of a just and lasting
peace in the Middle East. Both sides emphasized the importance of the dis-
engagement agreements and of further results in the negotiating process.
As to developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, both sides stressed the
responsibility of the parties immediately concerned. They stated their readiness
to encourage Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus in the search for a mutually acceptable
settlement of the dispute on the basis of the independence and territorial integrity
of the Republic of Cyprus.
The German side reviewed the state of the relations of the Federal Republic of
Germany with the GDR [German Democratic Republic] and of the issue of
foreign representation of West Berlin by the Federal Republic of Germany.
724
