[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. And in answer to my friend, Mr. Edwards, you have
stated the fact that you felt that for an ex-President of the United States to resign
under these circumstances was sufficient, strong punishment, and that that
should answer the problems of those who have raised the question of equal
justice under law?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct, sir.
Congressman Dennis. And that you would consider other possible pardons
on the facts of those particular cases when and if they were presented to you?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. And that there was no condition attached to this par-
don and no sort of agreement made in respect thereto before it was granted?
THE PRESIDENT. None whatsoever, sir.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. Thank you, Mr. President. I have no further questions,
Mr. Chairman.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The gentleman from South Carolina, Mr. Mann.
CONGRESSMAN JAMES R. MANN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. President, Mr. Kastenmeier asked you about the termination of the inves-
tigation by the Special Prosecutor's office. Was it your intention, by the pardon,
to terminate the investigation by the Special Prosecutor's office in the 10 areas
that you received the report from that office upon?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the net result of the pardon was, in effect, just that;
yes, sir.
CONGRESSMAN MANN. And is that part of the reason that you didn't consult
with Mr. Jaworski with reference to the tape agreements as to how that might
affect his further investigations?
The President. Well, as I pointed out, the tape agreement was initiated
between my legal counsel and Mr. Nixon sometime before the question of a
pardon ever arose.
The reason for that, Mr. Mann, is that I came into office, and almost immedi-
ately there were demands and requests, not only from the Special Prosecutor, as
I recall, but from other sources as to those tapes and other documents. And one
of the first things I did when these problems came to my desk was to ask the
Attorney General for his opinion as to the ownership of those tapes or any other
documents.
And once we got that information, then we felt that there ought to be some
discussion as to where the tapes and other documents would be held and under
what circumstances.
358
