[121]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Today, I have identified 10 areas for our joint action, the executive and the
legislative branches of our Government.
Number one: food. America is the world's champion producer of food. Food
prices and petroleum prices in the United States are primary inflationary fac-
tors. America today partially depends on foreign sources for petroleum, but we
can grow more than enough food for ourselves.
To halt higher food prices, we must produce more food, and I call upon every
farmer to produce to full capacity. And I say to you and to the farmers, they have
done a magnificent job in the past, and we should be eternally grateful.
This Government, however, will do all in its power to assure him—that
farmer—he can sell his entire yield at reasonable prices. Accordingly, I ask the
Congress to remove all remaining acreage limitations on rice, peanuts, and
cotton.
I also assure America's farmers here and now that I will allocate all the fuel
and ask authority to allocate all the fertilizer they need to do this essential job.
Agricultural marketing orders and other Federal regulations are being re-
viewed to eliminate or modify those responsible for inflated prices.
I have directed our new Council on Wage and Price Stability to find and to
expose all restrictive practices, public or private, which raise food prices. The
Administration will also monitor food production, margins, pricing, and exports.
We can and we shall have an adequate supply at home, and through coopera-
tion, meet the needs of our trading partners abroad.
Over this past weekend, we initiated a voluntary program to monitor grain
exports. The Economic Policy Board will be responsible for determining the
policy under this program.
In addition, in order to better allocate our supplies for export, I ask that a pro-
vision be added to Public Law 480 under which we ship food to the needy and
friendly countries. The President needs authority to waive certain of the re-
strictions on shipments based on national interest or humanitarian grounds.
Number two: energy. America's future depends heavily on oil, gas, coal, elec-
tricity, and other resources called energy. Make no mistake, we do have a real
energy problem.
One-third of our oil-17 percent of America's total energy-now comes from
foreign sources that we cannot control, at high cartel prices costing you and me
$16 billion $16 billion more than just a year ago.
The primary solution has to be at home. If you have forgotten the shortages
of last winter, most Americans have not.
I have ordered today the reorganization of our national energy effort and
230
