[89]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
and would have to be offset by cuts in higher priority programs. Some of
the funds are being withheld pending resolution of court cases concerning
the environmental effects of proposed highway construction.
-Various programs of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
($39.6 million). Pending enactment of the 1975 appropriations, HEW
funds are being provided under a continuing resolution. Amounts available
under the continuing resolution above the budget request are deferred to
preserve the flexibility of the Congress and the Administration in arriving
at a final decision on the funding levels for these programs.
The larger of the two rescissions which I am proposing would write off the
$456 million of budget authority provided for rural electric and telephone loans
at a 2 percent interest rate. The release of these funds would be inconsistent with
the legislation enacted in 1973, which limits the availability of 2 percent loans
to cases of special need. Loans to borrowers who meet the specified criteria can
be financed out of funds provided by the pending Agriculture Appropriations
Act.
The deferrals and rescissions covered in this first report are those believed to
be of particular interest to the Congress and which would have significant im-
pact on budget spending if released. They are summarized in the attached table.
A second report of a series on additional deferrals and rescissions will be sub-
mitted to the Congress soon.
Budgetary restraint remains a crucial factor in our efforts to bring inflation
under control. In today's environment, we cannot allow excess Federal spending
to stimulate demand in a way that exerts further pressures on prices. And we
cannot expect others to exercise necessary restraint unless the Government itself
does so.
The responsible apportionment of congressional appropriations and other
Federal budget authority is an essential-though often controversial-element
of budget execution. Sound management principles and common sense dictate
that Federal agencies spend money in an orderly fashion and only to the extent
necessary to carry out the objectives for which the spending authority was pro-
vided. Current economic conditions require extra care to assure that Federal
spending is held to the minimum levels necessary.
The deferrals and rescissions described in the attached report represent an
essential step toward the goal of reducing spending and achieving the balanced
budget we seek by fiscal year 1976. These actions, by themselves, will not be
172
