[80]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the facts, that it was in the best interest of the United States for me to take the
action that I did.
I think if you will reread what I said in answer to that hypothetical question,
I did not say I wouldn't. I simply said that under the way the question was
phrased, the American people would object.
But I am absolutely convinced, when dealing with reality in this very, very
difficult situation, that I made the right decision in an effort-an honest,
conscientious effort to end the divisions and the turmoil in the United States.
Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News].
SAFEGUARDING OF TAPES AND DOCUMENTS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, is there any safeguard in the tapes agreement that
was made with Mr. Nixon, first, with their destruction in the event anything
happens to him, because under the agreement they will be destroyed, and sec-
ondly, should not the tapes be kept in the White House until the Special
Prosecutor has finished dealing with them?
THE PRESIDENT. The tapes and the documents are still in our possession, and
we are, as I said a moment ago, working with the Special Prosecutor's office to
alleviate any concerns they have as to their disposition and their availability.
The agreement as to destruction is quite clear-cut. As long as Mr. Nixon is
alive and during the period of time that is set forth, they are available for sub-
poena by a court involving any criminal proceedings. I think this is a necessary
requirement for the protection of evidence for any such action.
THE CIA AND CHILE
[5.] Q. Mr. President, recent Congressional testimony has indicated that the
CIA, under the direction of a committee headed by Dr. Kissinger, attempted to
destabilize the Government of Chile under former President Allende.
Is it the policy of your Administration to attempt to destabilize the govern-
ments of other democracies?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer in general. I think this is a very important ques-
tion.
Our Government, like other governments, does take certain actions in the in-
telligence field to help implement foreign policy and protect national security.
I am informed reliably that Communist nations spend vastly more money than
we do for the same kind of purposes.
Now, in this particular case, as I understand it—and there is no doubt in my
mind-our Government had no involvement whatsoever in the Allende coup.
150
