[96]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Reported crime in the District of Columbia shows a 40 percent drop during his
tenure in office, spanning the last 5 years.
It was here in Washington that a sad but heroic chapter of police history was
made last week. Officer Gail Cobb became the first policewoman in the United
States killed in the line of duty. I commend this brave officer who gave her life
to protect her community. To honor her memory, I ask this convention to stand
in silent tribute to Officer Cobb, whose funeral is taking place at this very
moment.
[At this point, a moment of silence was observed in memory of District of Columbia Police Officer Gail A.
Cobb who was killed on September 20, 1974. The President then resumed speaking.]
Thank you very much.
This latest tragedy has a vital lesson for every American. Whatever the insuffi-
ciencies and inadequacies of our criminal justice system, the officer on the beat is
laying his or her life on the line every single day to make our respective commu-
nities a better place in which to live.
The police officer, from the top to the bottom, deserves the respect and coop-
eration of every American, and as I close, I pledge you my full cooperation here
today.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:28 a.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Francis B. Looney, deputy commissioner
of the New York City Police Department, who was
president of the association.
97
Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual Report
of the Director of the National Heart and Lung
Institute. September 24, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
The "National Heart, Blood Vessel, Lung, and Blood Act of 1972" created a
National Heart and Lung Institute and required the Director in consultation
with the National Heart and Lung Advisory Council to prepare and submit to
the President for transmittal to the Congress an annual report and a plan for
the next five years.
This report is enclosed. It is a detailed and thorough description of what is
being done in research and treatment of heart and lung diseases, with a thought-
ful plan for what might be done in the next five years. The keynote of the report
188
