[129]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment of commercial, economic, cultural, scientific and technical cooperation of
the two countries under conditions of reciprocity of advantages and obligations,
in particular in agriculture, industry, transportation, health and environment.
They also resolved to continue to support the development of cooperation
through the Joint American-Polish Trade Commission, between organizations,
institutions and firms, as set forth in the "Joint Statement on the Expansion of
Economic, Industrial and Technological Cooperation between the United States
of America and the Polish People's Republic,, signed on October 9, 1974. They
affirmed that mutually beneficial economic relations are conducive to good poli-
tical relations.
They will facilitate and support, through all appropriate means, agreements
concerning exchange of experts, students, and other persons as well as exchanges
in the fields of science, culture, the arts, education, and other fields, between
their two governments or directly between research organizations, institutions
and firms as well as people.
Being aware of the importance of cultural and scientific cooperation as a
means of promoting mutual understanding and trust, they resolve to promote
the development of cultural relations providing opportunities for the citizens of
both nations to learn the language of each other and to acquire a better knowl-
edge of their respective achievements and values.
They will support the expansion of contacts between citizens of the two coun-
tries, including tourism, as well as contacts between representatives of federal
and local authorities and youth and vocational organizations.
They reaffirmed their commitment to develop further relations between the
two countries through frequent consultations at various levels, on matters per-
taining to their mutual relations, including implementation of the principles
contained herein, as well as important international issues of mutual interest.
III
The President and the First Secretary welcomed the progress in recent years
toward the general relaxation of tension and the development of peaceful rela-
tions between countries of different socio-economic systems. In this connec-
tion they stressed the importance of making that progress irreversible. They are
determined to continue efforts aimed at strengthening these positive changes
to which all countries, irrespective of their size and potential, can and should
contribute in the interest of peace and security of all nations.
They will continue to work toward strengthening European security, in
260
