November 4
[221]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
their reactions, their views, their expressions. This is what I think America was
built on.
The town hall concept may be a little out of date, but the town hall concept was
good enough to take America through the Revolution and all the other trials and
tribulations that followed. And if it was good enough in those days, I think it is
good enough for a President to participate in 1974.
And so, as we move to that fateful day next Tuesday, not in a partisan sense
but in an objective sense, I think we should all say a little prayer before we go into
the sanctity of that voting booth where you and your neighbors will make some
decisions that will have a great impact on you individually and your community,
on your State, on your Nation, and some 4 billion people all over this great
globe.
So, do the best yourself and find literally hundreds of others to get them to do
their best under these circumstances.
I ask you to pray, for the benefit of our country and all mankind, and to do
your duty.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:37 p.m. at the Century II Convention Center.
221
Remarks on Election Eve. November 4, 1974
AS YOU KNOW, tomorrow is election day all over America. Every eligible
voter will be sending a message to Washington and to the world. Those who
vote, whether they vote for the Republican or Democratic candidates or for
others, will be voting yes for our system of government, our tradition of Ameri-
can government of the people and by the people.
Everyone who can get to the polls and who doesn't go to the polls and who
refuses to exercise the precious right of a free citizen to vote his or her honest con-
viction is actually voting no under our system of government.
Now, some surveys indicate a turnout tomorrow of only 40 percent of the
voting population. If this is true, the Congress with which I must work in
Washington, the Congress that will be working with me on controlling inflation,
strengthening our economy, and preserving world peace could be elected by only
21 percent of the voters. I don't think anyone wants that kind of minority
decision.
575
