December 3
[274]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
But let's be even more precise, if I might. In energy, Secretaries Kissinger and
Bill Simon are working diligently on international cooperation. But this coopera-
tion cannot be one in a world involved with increasing strife in trade.
The international monetary system needs significant improvement. If we slide
back into trade wars, we undermine our honest efforts to keep the international
monetary system functioning effectively. Friendly trade is a must if we are to
improve our market imbalances.
Trade is necessary so that developing countries can pay back various forms of
outside assistance. Some of the developing nations are directly involved in our
own growth. They own raw materials and other commodities in short supply,
essential to our development.
The trade reform act offers me sufficient negotiating authority to achieve a
substantial reduction in tariff levels on a worldwide basis. It would allow me to
work toward greater market access for U.S. products abroad, adding
innumerable thousands of jobs in our own 50 States.
This means jobs for Americans. That means a healthier economy. That means
Congress has a duty and an obligation to pass this legislation now.
Let me use one other fact, if I might. I can assure you from my recent experi-
ences that the Soviets are not sitting back. They are not looking for a seat as a
spectator. They want and they will get part of the action.
The Soviets are ready to trade-politically, economically-but it will take
time. It will take negotiation on the one hand, some very hard bargaining on the
other. We have made a good beginning politically, a breakthrough on controlling
the latest generation of nuclear weapons, a breakthrough for peace. Let us make
the same breakthrough for trade essential for détente and progress around the
world.
In 1973, the United States achieved a trade surplus of more than $1 billion
from the Soviet Union. Another $900 million surplus came from other Com-
munist countries around the world. Trade with these nations was, therefore, a
very crucial factor in our overall trade surplus of $1.7 [$1.3] billion in 1973.
The Soviets will not deal unless we work to achieve mutually beneficial eco-
nomic policies, including the elimination of discrimination against their trade,
and unless we are willing to provide appropriate levels of credit within the frame-
work established by the Congress.
Let's be very clear about this. Our competitive trading partners of Western
Europe and Japan are issuing credits to Communist countries with which they
are now trading. Their record shows that the Soviet credit is good. The credits
we issue are small compared to our Western trading partners.
53-528 O- 76-47
699
