[266]
November 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
I hope it marks the beginning of personal forgiveness in the hearts of all
Americans troubled by Vietnam and its aftermath.
I do want to thank you, all of the Board members, not only for the first-class
job they have done but the way in which they have approached this very difficult
responsibility. I am grateful. I am sure the individuals in the cases that are in-
volved here are grateful. And I think the American people will be grateful for
them assuming a difficult responsibility and performing it with very great distinc-
tion.
I thank you, Charlie, and each of the Board members on this occasion on be-
half of all, including 213 million Americans.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:21 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his remarks,
the President referred to Charles E. Goodell, Chair-
man of the Presidential Clemency Board.
267
Letter Accepting the Resignation of William S. Whitehead as
Chairman of the Renegotiation Board. November 29, 1974
Dear Bill:
I have your letter of November 29, and I will, of course, accept your resignation
as Chairman of the Renegotiation Board, effective December 1, 1974.
The last five years have been difficult and challenging ones for you, and I want
you to know that I fully understand the considerations which prompted your
decision to resign the Chairmanship prior to your resignation as a member. The
Renegotiation Board has a most important and vital role in government, and it is
my intention to reinvigorate the Board so as to expand its role in the fight against
inflation.
You have my sincere thanks and deep appreciation for your years of service to
our Nation. Please know that you take with you my very best wishes for every
happiness and success in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
JERRY FORD
[The Honorable William Scholl Whitehead, Chairman, Renegotiation Board, Washington, D.C. 20446]
NOTE: Mr. Whitehead's letter of resignation, released
with the President's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It is respectfully requested that I be relieved from
the duties as Chairman and activities as a Member
of this Agency, effective December 1, 1974. Under
such an arrangement I would, however, expect to
utilize my present facilities at the Board for pur-
674
