[249]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
monetary order. Both countries will remain committed to their international
pledges to avoid actions which adversely affect the economies of other nations.
6. The United States and Japan recognize the need for a more efficient and
rational utilization and distribution of world resources. Realizing the impor-
tance of stable supplies of energy at reasonable prices they will seek, in a manner
suitable to their economies, to expand and diversify energy supplies, develop
new energy sources, and conserve on the use of scarce fuels. They both attach
great importance to enhancing cooperation among consuming countries and
they intend, in concert with other nations, to pursue harmonious relations with
producing nations. Both countries agree that further international cooperative
efforts are necessary to forestall an economic and financial crisis and to lead to
a new era of creativity and common progress. Recognizing the urgency of the
world food problem and the need for an international framework to ensure stable
food supplies, the United States and Japan will participate constructively in mul-
tilateral efforts to seek ways to strengthen assistance to developing countries in
the field of agriculture, to improve the supply situation of agricultural products,
and to assure an adequate level of food reserves. They recognize the need for
cooperation among food producers and consumers to deal with shortage
situations.
7. For the well-being of the peoples of the world, a steady improvement in
the technological and economic capabilities of developing countries must be a
matter of common concern to all nations. In recognition of the importance of
assisting developing countries, particularly those without significant natural
resources, the United States and Japan will, individually and with the partici-
pation and support of other traditional aid-donors and those newly able to assist,
maintain and expand programs of cooperation through assistance and trade as
those nations seek to achieve sound and orderly growth.
8. The United States and Japan face many new challenges common to man-
kind as they endeavor to preserve the natural environment and to open new areas
for exploration such as space and the oceans. In broad cooperation with other
countries, they will promote research and facilitate the exchange of information
in such fields as science, technology and environmental protection, in an effort
to meet the needs of modern society, improve the quality of life and attain more
balanced economic growth.
9. The United States and Japan recognize that their durable friendship has
been based upon the continued development of mutual understanding and en-
hanced communication between their peoples, at many levels and in many as-
646
