September 23
[94]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
93
Statement on Signing the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Education
Act Amendments of 1974. September 21, 1974
I AM today signing into law H.R. 9456, the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Education
Act Amendments of 1974.
I share the concern of the Congress and the people about the problem of
alcohol and drug abuse among our Nation's youth. At the Federal level, this
concern has been expressed over the past 5 years in greatly increased efforts to
find effective ways of dealing with the problem. The 1975 budget proposed Fed-
eral spending of over $600 million to support alcohol and drug abuse prevention
and treatment-apart from law enforcement activities.
This act improves the overall program a number of ways. It includes alcohol
education explicitly as a part of the program. It provides for comprehensive
school and community demonstration activities which focus on the causes rather
than on the symptoms of drug and alcohol abuse. Most important, it consoli-
dates scattered activities under the Office of Education. This will provide more
economical and higher quality development of educational and demonstrational
materials. It will provide more effective thrust and more effective management.
In signing this bill into law, I wish to reemphasize my determination to keep
the overall budget in line, in this area as in other areas of Federal activity. This
act provides a means and a commitment for more effective management; it does
not represent a commitment to greater spending.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9456, approved September 21, 1974, is Public Law 93-422 (88 Stat. 1154).
94
Remarks to the Ninth World Energy Conference,
Detroit, Michigan. September 23, 1974
President Groza, Steve Bechtel, Walker Cisler, Governor Milliken, Senator
Griffin, Mayor Young, Minister Macdonald of Canada, other distinguished
guests from abroad, and all participants in this special World Energy
Conference:
On behalf of the American people, on behalf of my home State of Michigan,
on behalf of the city of Detroit, it gives me a very great privilege and pleasure
to welcome you to the city which some blame for the energy crisis.
177
