October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is categorically no. Before I became Vice Presi-
dent, Mr. Smith, I, on several occasions-I can't recall how many-indicated to
President Nixon himself that I thought he should not resign.
If my memory is accurate, Mr. Smith, before I became Vice President, there
were individuals both in the Congress and otherwise who were advocating that
Mr. Nixon resign.
I do recall on one or more occasions telling Mr. Nixon in my judgment he
should not, because I thought that would be an admission of guilt, and on the
information I had at that time, I did not believe Mr. Nixon was guilty of any
impeachable offense.
CONGRESSMAN SMITH. Thank you, Mr. President. You touched upon your
observations of President Nixon's health, and I wonder whether at any time be-
fore
you became Vice President of the United States did you learn any facts
about his physical or mental health which later became relevant to your decision
to pardon Mr. Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. Before I was Vice President I saw Mr. Nixon periodically,
coming to the White House for leadership meetings or for other reasons, and
during that period, I had the distinct impression that his health was good.
I didn't see any discernible change, in my own opinion, until the last day or two
of his Presidency. I did notice the last time I saw him in the Oval Office on
August 9-thought he was drawn and possibly a little thinner, but that is the
only observation I made.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The gentleman from California, Mr. Edwards.
CONGRESSMAN DON EDWARDS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. President, on pages 10 and 11 [pages 343 and 344] of your statement, you
indicate that there were some general discussions with General Haig and Mr.
St. Clair, before the resignation, about the pardon power in general.
Did they have any reason to carry a message to then President Nixon that this
pardon power could possibly be used on his behalf if he resigned?
THE PRESIDENT. None whatsoever. Categorically no.
CONGRESSMAN EDWARDS. Then why, Mr. President, those general discussions
about pardon?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I indicated in my prepared statement, General Haig
came to me first to apprise me of the dramatic change in the situation, and as
I indicated in the prepared statement, told me that I should be prepared to
assume the Presidency very quickly, and wanted to know whether I was ready to
do that.
}
355
