[145]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Continuing Resolution the Congress has passed and sent to me for signa-
ture contains an amendment requiring an immediate cut-off of all military as-
sistance to Turkey. That amendment was passed despite my own public
objection to it, and in the face of the unanimous opposition of the bipartisan
leadership of both Houses of Congress. It is an act which is harmful even to
those it purports to help.
The United States is making every effort to play a useful role in assisting the
parties to a resolution of the Cyprus dispute. The Continuing Resolution as
amended is entirely destructive of those efforts. Instead of encouraging the par-
ties involved in the Cyprus dispute to return to the negotiating table, an arms
cut-off to Turkey could mean the indefinite postponement of meaningful nego-
tiations. Instead of strengthening America's ability to persuade the parties to
resolve the dispute, it would lessen our influence on all the parties concerned.
It would as well imperil our relationships with our Turkish ally and weaken
us in the crucial Eastern Mediterranean. It directly jeopardizes the NATO
alliance.
Most tragic of all, an arms cut-off would not help Greece or the Greek
Cypriot people who have suffered so tragically over the past several months. We
recognize that we are still far from a settlement consistent with the honor and
dignity of Greece, and are prepared to exert our influence to that end. But
reckless acts that prevent progress toward a Cyprus settlement harm Greece, for
it is the Greek government and the Greek Cypriots who have the most to gain
from a compromise settlement. And it is they who have the most to lose from
continued deadlock.
It is for these reasons that I am vetoing the bill sent to me. I do so because,
should this measure become law, it would be impossible for the United States to
continue to play any meaningful role in assisting the parties to resolve the Cyprus
dispute. We would inevitably be forced to withdraw from the negotiations
because the Congress would have taken from us the tools we need to affect the
outcome.
My choice, then, is unavoidable; my responsibility clear. I ask that the
Congress reconsider its action and send to me a bill that we can all support; a
bill that provides the flexibility needed to carry forward the foreign policy of the
United States.
The White House,
October 14, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained the President's veto on October 15, 1974.
300
