[170]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now let me speak, if I might, as to how you can participate and cooperate.
You see on my lapel here a button that says W-I-N, WIN. It means "Whip Infla-
tion Now."
So far, in the White House we have received over 100,000 communications
from citizens all over this great country-rich, poor, old, young-individuals
who understand that it is essential, it is vital, that if we are to preserve our way of
life, our economy, our Government, that we have to enlist in this battle, a battle
to save America.
And so I urge every one of you here to write the White House, and we will
send you a WIN button which indicates that you have pledged yourself and that
get others to join in this struggle which is crucial to the future of our
you
will
great country.
Now in this program that I submitted to the Congress about 10 days ago, there
were 31 different proposals. It was a comprehensive program aimed at winning
the battle against inflation, keeping our economy strong and constructive and
moving forward. It was a plan and a program to conserve energy and to develop
our natural resources so we would have more supplies and not be in a practical
problem of allocating shortages.
Now the Congress has a responsibility to move on that program, and one of
the ingredients of that program was to ask the Congress to set a ceiling of $300
billion on Federal spending which would amount to about a $5.4 billion saving.
I regret to tell you that the Congress has not sent to my desk this spending
limitation.
Now what we need in Congress are candidates who will cut redtape, who
will cut the budget, and, in effect, cut the mustard. And I urge you to make
sure that the ones you elect this fall meet those criteria.
Now, let me say a word or two, if I might, about some of the gentlemen that
have appeared here, others you will see between now and November 5. I indi-
cated at the outset that I am proud of the candidates that the Republican Party
have fielded in the State of South Carolina. They are good people. They are seek-
ing to give to you and South Carolina competition.
A long time ago I competed in college athletics, and I found there that com-
petition was good for everybody. Later, I practiced law, and I found that compe-
tition in the legal field was good. I have been in the Congress, or I was in the
Congress, for almost 26 years. I found that competition in Congress was good for
America. Competition is one of the basic ingredients of the American system.
386
