[209]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
On the other hand, if some of you sit it out, this election can be lost. I do not
think you are going to be the kind of a villain who won't participate.
I don't think you are going to be apathetic or you would not be here tonight,
but there are many of your neighbors and your friends who, according to the
statisticians, are not going to participate.
Let me give you something that is terribly disturbing-it ought to scare you
as it does me. Take the national percentage of votes cast in the Congressional
off-year elections, like the one that is coming up next week: Based on a total
number of eligible voters, only 46.3 percent cast their ballots in 1962, only 45.6
percent took the time to do so in 1966, and the percentage of eligibles who voted
in the last off-year election, 1970, was even lower-43.8.
Now, in this last special election that was held in February, about 35 percent
in this district went to the polls. According to the statisticians, the computer
projection, only 42 percent of your fellow Americans are going to vote in this
election in all 50 States on November 5.
I made a speech earlier this week at the Arlington Cemetery. I made a speech
there because it was Veterans Day. We were paying tribute to and memorializ-
ing the hundreds and hundreds who have been buried in that wonderful ceme-
tery. It gave me an inspiration to say to you that if they could give their lives
to give you the right to vote, you ought to exercise that right to vote.
I cannot imagine an election that is more important to this district, to this
State, than what will take place and transpire right here in the Fifth District
next week.
Paul Goebel I have known since he was just a lad. His dad knew me when I
was back at South High—an inspired if not very competent football player. But
I have known the Goebel family a long time, and they are strong and they
are tall, and they are the kind of people who are dedicated to public service.
Paul, Jr.'s, father was; Paul, Jr., himself is.
And I have seen nothing but the finest in that family, and young Paul, he epit-
omizes all the great characteristics of that family.
And therefore, on the basis of quality as a person and experience in business
and government, you have a great candidate. You have the kind of candidate
that will do a job for all of you and for our State and for our country.
I know that he will stand up when the going is tough in the House of Rep-
resentatives. And I know the trials and the tribulations that a Member of Con-
gress goes through when he has to decide what is good and what is bad—and it
is not always black or white; it is a little gray here and there.
518
