[131]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
and produce those resources at home-whether it is oil or coal or geothermal or
solar or any one of the other alternatives, nuclear included, that will be a sub-
stitute-so we cannot be held up by others who come from lands across the
oceans.
There are some 17—or were, I should say—some 17 bills before the Congress
that would have helped significantly in this battle to provide alternative means
of energy or to expedite the utilization of energy, the energy that we have. Thus
far, two out of those 17 have been approved by the Congress. One more is prob-
ably going to come to my desk in the next several days. But that leaves some 14
major proposals that the Congress must act upon, if we are to get the kind of
energy sources and supplies that are needed to give us alternative opportunities
to those that we've relied on for so long, if we are to use those resources at home
in a proper and effective way.
And let me say that here in Pennsylvania you have had a great experience. I
talked to Hugh and Dick on the way up from Washington today. One of those
bills is a proposal to provide reasonable environmental safeguards while per-
mitting vitally needed increases in coal production through surface mining in
Pennsylvania and other States.
Each, if I might point out, each ton of unmined Pennsylvania coal makes it
necessary for us to import four barrels of expensive foreign oil. You know better
than I that Pennsylvania has a totally adequate and effective State law governing
surface mining which has achieved a reasonable balance between productivity
and environmental concerns. What we need at the Federal level is a piece of
legislation comparable to that which you have in the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, and I hope the Congress will see the wisdom of putting the final touches
on such legislation.
But in addition, we need some changes in what is called the Clean Air Act
to remove unrealistic deadlines and to permit the use of available domestic coal
supplies. I think this can be done—the record is clear—without endangering the
health of any of our citizens.
The Administration, for example, has proposed 13 amendments to the existing
Clean Air Act. Unfortunately, neither the House nor Senate has held any mean-
ingful hearings in this regard. I can assure you that if the Congress were to pass
this legislation, it would help materially in us meeting the challenge of domestic
energy and would help us immeasurably in cutting down 1 million barrels per
day of foreign oil imports.
Let me make one observation concerning the elections in 1974—and I happen
270
