October 22
[182]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Congress. They didn't want a judicial system that would dominate all branches
of the Government. They wanted a system of checks and balances. And the
net result is we have had for almost 200 years this finely tuned form of govern-
ment which is a system of checks and balances. And the consequence is we
have ended up with more freedom, more opportunity, and more material bless-
ings than any people in the history of the world.
But if a veto-proof Congress is elected, that finely tuned balance will not exist,
because one branch of the Federal Government, one of the three, will totally
dominate at least one of the others, and possibly the third. And that system of
checks and balances will be gone. Much of the freedom, much of the opportu-
nity, much of the material blessings that all of us and our predecessors have
enjoyed will be in jeopardy.
So, in a broad, philosophical sense as well as the fiscal aspect that I discussed,
the challenge is in the next 15 days for all of us to maximize our efforts.
Let me close with one comment, if I might. Some of those on the other side
of the political aisle, some of the news media, have suggested that I, as President,
ought to stay in Washington and worry about the polls and do nothing about
the situation.
I respectfully disagree with those who make that recommendation. I happen
to think by coming to Oklahoma City, by going to Cleveland on the way back
to Washington tonight, and by other trips throughout our country, I am going
to be the beneficiary of some valid recommendations, observations, and
proposals.
It seems to me it is wholesome and very healthy for a President to listen to
people other than those you see on the banks of the Potomac, and I am here in
Oklahoma City for that purpose. I am going to be in Cleveland tonight for
that purpose, and I am going to be elsewhere between now and November 5.
I am the beneficiary of what I can learn in all 50 States, and I hope and trust,
as I speak to people such as you here this morning, I can stimulate you indi-
vidually and collectively to broaden your effort, to influence your friends, to
protect that very important ingredient in our Government of checks and
balances, and also to the maximum degree do what you can to make sure we
have an inflation-proof Congress, not a veto-proof Congress.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. in the Crystal Ballroom at the Skirvin Plaza Hotel.
429
