[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Jaworski, prepared by Mr. Ruth, there were 10 possibilities listed. On the other
hand, there was, I think, well-known information that there was a distinct pos-
sibility of Mr. Nixon being indicted on the grounds of obstructing justice.
CONGRESSMAN KASTENMEIER. The effect of the pardon in terms of the 10 pos-
sible areas of investigation as you saw it at the time was to terminate those in-
vestigations, as well as end any possibility of indictment on those grounds.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the power of pardon does cover any criminal actions
during a stipulated period, and as the pardon itself indicated, it went from the
day that Mr. Nixon first took the oath of office until he actually resigned on
August 9.
CONGRESSMAN KASTENMEIER. My question is, did you have reason to believe
that other than the 10 areas of investigation and the coverup, that the former
President might need to be protected in any other area where possibility of
criminal prosecution existed?
no.
The President. I knew of no other potential or possible criminal charges,
CONGRESSMAN KASTENMEIER. My time has expired, Mr. Chairman.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The gentleman from New York, Mr. Smith.
CONGRESSMAN HENRY P. SMITH III. Mr. President, in regard to your answer on
page 18 [page 347] of your statement of whether you consulted with certain
persons and in that connection and in connection with question number six
of H.R. 1367, you stated in regard to the Vice Presidential nominee, Nelson
Rockefeller, that your only conversation on the subject with him was to report to
him on September 6, 1974, that “I was planning to grant the pardon.”
Now, the question asks whether he gave you any facts or legal authorities and
my question is, did he do so?
THE PRESIDENT. Nelson Rockefeller did not give me any facts or legal au-
thorities. He was in my office to discuss with me the proceedings concerning his
nomination, and at the conclusion of a discussion on that matter, I felt that
I should inform him of the possible or prospective action that I would be taking,
but he gave me no facts, he gave me no legal advice concerning the pardon.
CONGRESSMAN SMITH., Mr. President, as you were minority leader of the Con-
gress before you became Vice President of the United States, did you at any
time discuss the wisdom or advisability of a possible Presidential pardon for
President Nixon with President Nixon or any of his representatives or any
member of the White House Staff?
This was in the period before you became Vice President.
354
