[210]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
There is no intention on my part to increase dairy imports into the United
States.
Third, this Administration is not going to permit foreign dairy producers to
compete against the American dairymen in the U.S. market with subsidized
products. If the Europeans reinstitute their export subsidies on dairy products
directed at this market, I will impose countervailing duties on their products.
And one final announcement, which I think rounds out a pattern of strong,
effective action to help the cattle and dairy business—and let me be quite
specific. In addition, I have asked the Secretary of Agriculture to investigate
USDA purchases of ground beef for use in the National School Lunch Program.
These purchases would provide a highly nutritious food to schools for, I think.
proper use in the school lunch program.
Let me add this, because it is not too well understood by many. These pur-
chases will not be an additional cost to the Government, as the USDA is obligated
by law to finance each school lunch program by 10 cents, either in cash or in
commodities.
So, this report by the Secretary of Agriculture on prospective purchases should
be in my hands in a relatively short period of time, and I hope his recommenda-
tion is favorable for these purchases.
Now, as I have in the past—as Republican leader in the House, and as Vice
President, and now as President—as I look at the problems of agriculture, I will
consult with Wiley Mayne for guidance, for help in the solving of agriculture's
problems.
I hope that I do not duplicate some of what Wiley has been telling you as he
has campaigned all over the Sixth District in the northwest corner of Iowa, but
I want to remind you, if I might, about the kind of service I know he has
rendered to this district.
In a period when big corporate farms are taking over some of agriculture's
production, Wiley has been in there fighting for the family farm and the family
farmer.
Let me just quote, if I might, one precise example. Wiley has helped lead the
fight in the House during the last 3 or 4 years to limit Government payments to
the total of $20,000 per farm. He did so because he was in contact on a person-to-
person basis with the farmers in this district who advised him that these massive
payments to big farms were discrediting your total farm program.
That is the kind of a Congressman, in my judgment, that this district deserves;
one who can listen to people, the 460-some thousand who reside in this district;
524
