[29]
August 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
29
Remarks on Signing the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974. August 22, 1974
Secretary Lynn, my former colleagues in the House and Senate, distinguished
guests:
It is a great privilege to be here on this landmark day in the field of housing
legislation. It is landmark in that it has a new impact on community develop-
ment and housing legislation generally. I think it was Chairman Sparkman who
said that this new legislation is the most significant community development
legislation since the 1949 act. He had added, however, that this legislation is the
most significant in the field of housing legislation since the 1934 act.
There seems to be almost universal agreement that very significant progress
has been made. I think we can say without any reservation that the move from
the narrow programs of the past in community development to programs that
are very broad gauged, a consolidation of programs such as Model Cities and
urban development, will give a real impetus to local decisionmaking, local
action, and local responsibility, and I am confident that the mayors, the Gover-
nors, the other local officials will assume that decisionmaking, that action, and
that responsibility.
In the field of housing, there are some innovative efforts. There are some
extensions of existing programs. The housing industry needs a shot in the arm,
and this bill, I think, can be extremely helpful in this area.
I would be very remiss if I did not pay tribute to the long and, I think, skillful
efforts of those both in the executive branch and those in the Congressional field
for what has been accomplished.
I know how hard Jim Lynn has worked, how hard Jim Mitchell has worked,
but I think those in the Congress, particularly those who were on the conference,
deserve a very special tribute.
I know at times it seemed like an impossible obstacle to overcome the vast
differences between the House and the Senate versions, but by patience, by under-
standing, by the kind of give-and-take and compromise we—not just myself and
a few—but we, the American people, are the beneficiaries.
I think that Chairman Patman, Bill Widnall, Chairman Sparkman, Senator
Tower deserve very special commendation. We are very grateful for what they
did, but if I might be a little provincial or parochial, it seems to me that the
Middle West, from which some of us come, deserves a little pat on the back.
42
