[234]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
thank you from the bottom of my heart for your warm and friendly welcome.
It is nice to be here.
At the outset, I wish to pay a very special tribute to the members of the Na-
tional Association of Realtors for all that you have achieved in the face of a very,
very serious and difficult economic environment.
You know, I always think it is a help, as a matter of fact, when the complex
problems we all deal with are at least recognized in part by others, and some-
times this happens in very strange ways.
Two weeks ago, I went back to my hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan,
for a rally in a tremendous college fieldhouse. And just as I was coming into the
building, I heard the master of ceremonies ask the marching band to play one
more selection, something that would be appropriate for the President of the
United States. So, they played "Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen.”
[Laughter]
But one of the things I have always admired about the members of the Na-
tional Association of Realtors is that you are always optimists, and I am, too.
Believe me, anyone who wears a WIN button in Las Vegas has to be an optimist.
[Laughter]
Well, in the area of real estate, I am something of an optimist, too. The Ford
family owns a condominium in Colorado, a house in Virginia, an apartment in
Grand Rapids, and for the last 3 months, we have been living in a one-family
dwelling at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. We call it home. I believe some of you
might call it public housing. [Laughter]
But the White House is just one of some 70 million housing units in America
today, and that figure is nearly double the number of 1940. The National Asso-
ciation of Realtors has played a very major role in bringing about this phenom-
enal growth, and I am delighted to be able to join in this well-deserved tribute
and salute, I should say, to you and your association.
John Ruskin, the English author, wrote a book called "The Seven Lamps of
Architecture.” In this book he told us a very great truth: It is more important to
build a life than to build a cathedral.
Your association is fortunate, however, to combine both—to be involved in
building good lives as well as good cathedrals. The cathedrals of this land are
its homes. It is the family home which is the foundation of what we call the
American dream. Your industry and the housing industry are closely related.
One hardly need look beyond this community to recognize that the housing
industry is suffering the ill-effects of inflation more intensely than most other
industries in our great Nation.
590
