October 21
[178]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
We should understand that whatever problem
comes up in any corner of the world-in Asia, Africa,
Oceania, Latin America-are problems that affect
all of us, even the richest and most industrialized
countries, because we must understand that the
destiny of mankind is one and indivisible.
President Ford, this is the doctrine of Mexico, sir,
with which we receive you with great cordiality. We
want you to feel at home among us.
178
Toasts of the President and President Echeverría of Mexico at a
Luncheon in Tubac, Arizona. October 21, 1974
Mr. President, distinguished guests, friends:
I am very pleased to have the opportunity to have our distinguished guest here
in Tubac, Arizona, and to reciprocate on this occasion for the warm welcome
that he and the people of Mexico gave to me and to the American people during
the day, which was an unbelievably pleasant, warm, and just a wonderful op-
portunity to be together.
I am most grateful to you, Mr. President, for having suggested that we meet
in Magdalena de Kino for the meetings that we had during the day. Your sense
of history, your understanding of the great role that Father Kino played in the
history of this part of the world, made it an ideal setting for the discussions that
we had on very important matters.
Mr. President, the Jesuit priest whose statue is in the United States Capitol
and whose statue is in the state capitol of Sonora and the capitol of Arizona,
lived and worked here almost three centuries ago. His efforts gave the first great
stimulant to progress among the people of this part of the North American
Continent, and we are all proud of his contribution to this flourishing part of
our Nation as well as yours.
Mr. President, with the horse, the cross, and the plow, he explored this area
of your country as well as ours. He not only served his faith, Mr. President, but
he also introduced agriculture, livestock to the inhabitants of this area. And all
of these ingredients, Mr. President, are vital to the progress of your country as
well as ours.
Father Kino lives in the memories of those in the town that we visited this
morning. On both sides of the border we owe him a very great debt of gratitude.
The heritage of Father Kino is an inspiration for all of us to continue the work
that he started three centuries ago.
Mr. President, as I am sure you realize, I am a great believer in personal dialog.
I believe that the straight talk that you and I had today contributed significantly
415
