November 24
[257]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:20 p.m. at the Okeansky Sanitarium. No transcript was issued of the
General Secretary's toast.
257
Joint United States-Soviet Statement on the Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Arms. November 24, 1974
DURING their working meeting in the area of Vladivostok on November 23-
24, 1974, the President of the USA Gerald R. Ford and General Secretary of the
Central Committee of the CPSU L. I. Brezhnev discussed in detail the question
of further limitations of strategic offensive arms.
They reaffirmed the great significance that both the United States and the
USSR attach to the limitation of strategic offensive arms. They are convinced
that a long-term agreement on this question would be a significant contribution
to improving relations between the US and the USSR, to reducing the danger
of war and to enhancing world peace. Having noted the value of previous agree-
ments on this question, including the Interim Agreement of May 26, 1972, they
reaffirm the intention to conclude a new agreement on the limitation of strategic
offensive arms, to last through 1985.
As a result of the exchange of views on the substance of such a new agreement
the President of the United States of America and the General Secretary of the
Central Committee of the CPSU concluded that favorable prospects exist for
completing the work on this agreement in 1975.
Agreement was reached that further negotiations will be based on the follow-
ing provisions.
1. The new agreement will incorporate the relevant provisions of the Interim
Agreement of May 26, 1972, which will remain in force until October 1977.
2. The new agreement will cover the period from October 1977 through De-
cember 31, 1985.
3. Based on the principle of equality and equal security, the new agreement
will include the following limitations:
a. Both sides will be entitled to have a certain agreed aggregate number of
strategic delivery vehicles;
b. Both sides will be entitled to have a certain agreed aggregate number of
ICBMs and SLBMs equipped with multiple independently targetable warheads
(MIRVs).
657
