[250]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
welcoming the Japanese delegation to the historic East Room of the White
House. Since that occasion, the American Government has never ceased to look
to the East as well as to the West.
Our visitors then regarded us as Americans, as strange creatures, and observed
us in every detail. It was with equal fascination that we viewed our Japanese
visitors. We learned from each other then, and we are continuing to learn today.
The most important lesson that I have learned during this visit corresponds
with a brilliant insight of one of the Japanese envoys on the first mission to the
United States. The occasion was a visit to the New York home of the widow of
Commodore Perry. The Japanese envoy expressed a very deep emotion at the
realization that he was in the home of Commodore Perry and said, and I quote:
The time has come when no nation may remain isolated and refuse to take part
in the affairs of the rest of the world.
That concept is even more compelling today. The links between our two na-
tions can serve as a model for a world increasingly aware of the need for greater
international cooperation. Accordingly, in recalling that first Japanese delega-
tion to Washington, I pledge that my Government will not isolate itself from
the world or from Japan.
On behalf of the Nation that I am privileged to represent, to lead, I reaffirm
the spirit of friendship that endures between us. I reaffirm my determination to
see that warm relationship continues and grows.
Your Majesties, in that spirit and with a heart filled with faith in the future
and appreciation of our guests, I offer a toast to the health and to the well-being
of Your Imperial Majesties.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 p.m. in the Banquet Hall at the Akasaka Palace in Tokyo.
251
Remarks to Reporters Following a Visit to Nijo
Castle in Kyoto.
November 21, 1974
WELL, I do want to thank all of the people who have made this afternoon
so interesting. It is an afternoon which has given us a special insight into the
history and into the traditions of Japan.
And I want to thank the young ladies here and the others who have shown
us the several castles.
The culture of Japan certainly is an inspiration. It is different. It is something
that by its simplicity inspires you to see what can come from hard work and a
648
