September 18
[81]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
"just a little straight talk among friends." Straight talk is what I propose here
today in the first of my addresses to the representatives of the world.
Next week, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger will present in specifics the
overall principles which I will outline in my remarks today. It should be
emphatically understood that the Secretary of State has my full support and the
unquestioned backing of the American people.
As a party leader in the Congress of the United States, as Vice President, and
now as President of the United States of America, I have had the closest work-
ing relationship with Secretary of State Kissinger. I have supported and will con-
tinue to endorse his many efforts as Secretary of State and in our National Secu-
rity Council system to build a world of peace.
Since the United Nations was founded, the world has experienced conflicts and
threats to peace, but we have avoided the greatest danger—another world war.
Today, we have the opportunity to make the remainder of this century an era of
peace and cooperation and economic well-being.
The harsh hostilities which once held great powers in their rigid grasp have
now begun to moderate. Many of the crises which dominated past General As-
semblies are fortunately behind us. And technological progress holds out the
hope that one day all men can achieve a decent life.
Nations too often have had no choice but to be either hammer or anvil, to
strike or to be struck. Now we have a new opportunity-to forge, in concert with
others, a framework of international cooperation. That is the course the United
States has chosen for itself.
On behalf of the American people, I renew these basic pledges to you today:
-We are committed to a pursuit of a more peaceful, stable, and cooperative
world. While we are determined never to be bested in a test of strength, we will
devote our strength to what is best. And in the nuclear era, there is no rational
alternative to accords of mutual restraint between the United States and the
Soviet Union, two nations which have the power to destroy mankind.
-We will bolster our partnerships with traditional friends in Europe, Asia,
and Latin America to meet new challenges in a rapidly changing world. The
maintenance of such relationships underpins rather than undercuts the search
for peace.
-We will seek out, we will expand our relations with old adversaries. For
example, our new rapport with the People's Republic of China best serves the
purposes of each nation and the interests of the entire world.
-We will strive to heal old wounds, reopened in recent conflicts in Cyprus,
157
