[219]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
have any conscience, I want to be honest with you. But I will say that the tilt of
spenders is in the opposition party, and the tilt of savers is in our party. So, as I
travel around the country, I want savers not spenders elected to the Congress, so
we can whip inflation.
Well, there is one other thing that I would like to mention before closing.
You know, we have three great branches of this Government of ours. I fervently
respect it as a lawyer, as a public servant, as a citizen. We have a strong President,
supposedly, in the White House. We have a strong Congress, supposedly, in the
legislative branch. We have a strong Supreme Court, supposedly, heading the
judiciary system. They are equal, coequal branches of our Government. Our
forefathers, some 200 years ago, put together this system that was to be so finely
tuned that it would protect our freedom, give us the opportunity for participa-
tion, and also make it right for us as we moved on to pass through the years
ahead.
How lucky we were they were right, they did it correctly. But now we face a
challenge, and I do say it right to all of you. There is the possibility that through
apathy, you could end up in this next Congress with what I very pragmatically
call a veto-proof Congress.
What does that mean? It totally disrupts and tears apart that finely tuned bal-
ance so that you no longer have a system of checks and balances. It means that
one branch of our Federal Government will have a totally dominating, con-
trolling impact on how your Government is run.
Wayne knows that. He and I have not always agreed on whether a veto ought
to be sustained or not, or whether it ought to be done on a Democratic or Re-
publican basis. But if you so distort the ratio in the Congress so that the Congress
can totally override by a veto-proof Congress whatever a President decides, you
have destroyed, you have upset, you have literally torn asunder a basic concept of
what is good for America.
I don't want to come back here 2 years from now and say, "I told you so,"
because I think you have more judgment. You are going to send Jim Johnson,
Pete Dominick, and your good Governor, not only to Washington but to your
State capital, to give you the kind of government that will be balanced, that will
be right, that will have vision, that will have responsibility. It is the kind of gov-
ernment that is good for all of us, and I pray you will do your very best on
November 5.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:57 p.m. at Lincoln Park Baseball Field.
568
