[75]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
The American people have a great deal of understanding and sympathy and
dedication to the same kind of ideals that are representative of Israel. And,
therefore, I think we in America have a certain rapport and understanding with
the people of Israel.
We, as two nations who believe in peace, have sought by joint action in con-
junction with others a durable and stable peace in the Middle East which I think
all of us agree is in the best interest of your country and the Middle East—the
world as a whole.
We, as a country, are proud to be associated with Israel in this mutual effort
to move and to continue to move in the direction of an even better, more stable,
and more equitable peace in the Middle East.
I can't tell you how pleased that we are to have the opportunity of expressing
our gratitude for all of the things that our countries have done together and all
of the things that I hope that our two countries can continue to do in the future.
We have mutual aims and objectives. We have a friendship that is durable and
growing. We have the kind of relationship that I think, if expanded worldwide,
would be beneficial to all mankind.
And so if I may, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask all of our guests here
tonight to stand and to offer a toast to your President, and to you and Mrs. Rabin.
To the President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:58 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Prime Minister
Rabin responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, distinguished guests:
In the name of my wife and myself, I would like
to thank you very much for inviting us and taking
care of us during our visit here.
I remember, Mr. President, meeting you while you
were the minority leader in the House. I had many
talks then with you; I learned very much to admire
you. And I know that by assuming the responsi-
bilities of the President of the United States, you
have taken upon yourself tremendous-tremendous
role not only for this country but I believe that the
President of the United States is the leader of the
free world and has to bear in mind, if you would
allow me to say so, not only the well-being of this
country but the well-being of all countries that strive
for freedom, for democracy; because in the world
that we live today, it is not always possible to a
small country to do it against odds.
The relations between the United States and Israel
started many years ago. When our country was re-
born we faced many problems. The first one was the
absorption of many newcomers, immigrants, the
remnants of the holocaust of Europe, the Second
World War, the refugees that came from the Arab
countries. I believe that we were a country that half
of its population were refugees.
And then the United States offered Israel eco-
nomic aid, technical aid that made it possible to us
to absorb these people, our brothers, in a way that
the transformation from refugees to be part of our
creative society was very much facilitated by your
help.
During the years other problems appeared. The
threat from outside became more apparent, and the
United States added also military aid in terms of
supplying us arms to be able to defend ourselves by
ourselves.
I think that 26 years from 1948 have proved that
your support to us was used in the best way for
the well-being of our people and for preservation of
a democracy and the free country in that part of the
world.
And I would like to thank you, to thank every-
body in this country that has made it possible till
today.
I don't know, Mr. President, if you have seen it. I
have given a small present to you. It is a sculpture,
a sculpture that describes the struggle between David
134
