Appendix D
duck session, period. They do not want to do it by
mandatory action. All they want to do is, if they
do anything, is to give the President the option to
impose them.
So, I do not think they are needed now. Appar-
ently the Congress does not think that they are
needed now, and I do not find many advocates to-
day-although the polls show that there is 60 per-
cent or thereabouts-the public thinks they are
needed.
Q. You have been accused of moving too slowly
in putting your own stamp and personality on this
Administration. You have talked about the stand-
ards by which you are going to judge members of the
Cabinet. Do you plan, other than what you have
mentioned before about the Cabinet, to move more
quickly in making this a Ford Administration, rather
than a Ford-Nixon Administration?
A. I think that the most important job for me to
do at the outset was to put a Ford Administration
into the White House. That is about 99 per cent
achieved at the present time. Nobody in the old
Administration who at the top level had any respon-
sibility is still here.
Q. In light of the information that has come out
in recent weeks in the Watergate cover-up trial,
would you reiterate that your decision was correct
in pardoning President Nixon when you did it?
A. I am more convinced than ever, and I have
thought a good deal about it. I have tried to analyze
where we would be today if I had not done it. And
it is my judgment now that the decision I made
then, Sept. 9, is more right now than it was then.
Q. Where do you think we would be, Mr. Presi-
dent, had you not done it?
A. I think that the divisiveness that was evident
then, pros and cons, the clash that was there then,
would be even more so now. I think Mr. Nixon's
devoted friends-and he has a lot of them-in light
of his health, would be really up in arms if they
tried to subpoena him and if they tried to prose-
cute him.
I think the people who hated Mr. Nixon would
have no sympathy, regardless of his health. So, you
. would have this constant clash, which I think was
bad then and I think it would be worse now.
Q. In the last month or so you have been sub-
jected to an increasingly vituperative kind of attack,
which is probably uncharacteristic of your whole
political career. A magazine in New York recently
portrayed you as Bozo the Clown.
A. I just read about that . . .
Q. Do you think some of this approach is getting
out of bounds, that you are now being subjected to
the kind of attack that is malicious and destructive
rather than constructive?
A. I learned a long time ago in athletics, and in
rigors of the political arena, that you just cannot
concentrate on the job if you worry about those
kinds of articles, whether it is newspaper or cartoon
or anything else.
Sure, you don't like them, but I don't sit and
moan and groan about them. Just like in a ball
game, if you miss a pass, the fans boo you. It does
not help to catch the next one, if you wring your
hands and get frightened about it. If you think
you are right, I think you have to keep on doing
what you have decided to do, and you cannot let
people who are critical affect your judgment on what
you have decided.
Now, to some extent I think here is a way to illus-
trate it. I have some friends, as well as some critics,
up on the Hill, who say I should not veto something
if I know in advance it is going to be overriden.
That is no way to judge from this office whether a
piece of legislation is good or bad.
They have their obligations. I have mine, and if
I predicate my decision on the basis of their responsi-
bility or irresponsibility, I am not carrying out the
function of this office.
So, I have told every member of the Cabinet that
we are not going to decide what we do on legisla-
tion because of critics out there or on the basis of
whether they are going to sustain or override the
veto.
Q. Yet, Mr. President, you are citing that kind
of Congressional resistance in rejecting any thought
of a gas tax?
A. Yes. I think it is a little different, though,
than whether you veto a bill-that is one circum.
stance. The other is whether you send something
up there that you know is going to fall flat. Maybe
it is not as clear a distinction as it should be, but
at least I can see the difference.
Q. In general, Mr. President, do you think you,
have been getting a fair shake from the press?
A. I think I am. I really do. Even if I did not
think so-
Q. You would not say so.
A. . . . No. As a matter of fact, I think I have
gotten a fair shake, but I am not going to worry
about it even if I don't think I get a fair shake.
It is not going to interfere with my personal rela-
tionship with members of the press, even if I thought
I was not getting a fair shake. That does not help.
any.
Q. You have said that a top priority was for Con-
gress to confirm Nelson Rockefeller, which they are
about to do. What particular role do you see for him
in this Administration?
A. I want him to be a full partner, and that means
obviously being in on the foreign policy, but I would
say his main emphasis would be on the domestic
side. Nelson, I think, has a particular and maybe
peculiar capability of balancing the pros and cons
808
