September 16
[79]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
In the interim while we are keeping strong, we are going to make conscien-
tious efforts to negotiate with the Soviet Union, broadening our détente, seeking
to make our total effort one of negotiation, not necessarily confrontation.
We are going to be working intimately with the problems of the Middle East,
trying to move forward the successful efforts of disengagement which took place
last fall.
We will concentrate in seeking to obtain a just and durable peace in that very
difficult area of the world, but that is not the only area where we must concen-
trate. The Pacific, where over a period of about 10 years almost 60,000 Americans
lost their lives—that was a great sacrifice, a sacrifice for an objective that many
administrations, not just one, felt was in the best interests of the United States
and the world at large.
We cannot afford to throw away the sacrifices of those people. So, we must
maintain our own strength and help our allies who are trying to retain the gains
that were made in Vietnam and elsewhere in the Pacific.
We have the problem of Western Europe. The key to peace in the minds of
many is the strengthening of NATO. We are working to keep better coopera-
tion, stronger military and economic policies moving ahead.
I am encouraged, and we are going to be meeting from time to time, Secretary
Kissinger and others, with those who can have a meaningful impact on the
NATO organization, keeping it strong militarily, economically, diplomatically,
and otherwise.
When you look at the other areas-Latin America, we are not going to neglect
Latin America. We are going to work for greater cooperation there, and the
activities of Dr. Kissinger in this area in the last 5 or 6 months have been
significant.
We are not going to neglect Africa. We have and we will continue to work
with those nations in that area of the world.
So anyplace you go, our broad policy of global peace will get our first and top
attention, because if we are going to keep peace, we can solve more easily our
problems at home.
As I close, let me just thank all of you for the wonderful job you did in
endorsing Mary Louise and Dick. Let me thank George for his tireless efforts,
effective ones, and let me thank the Republican leadership in the House, Hugh
Scott, John Rhodes, and their associates, and let me express to my staff that have
been so helpful to me that I am grateful, and we are moving, and we are going to
move with the Republican workers throughout the country. It is vital for us
145
