[16]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Korean war, John Stang, as your new national commander-in-chief. And I
compliment you and congratulate you as well as John.
We have struggled for years in America to overcome discrimination against
younger Americans, against older Americans, against Americans of various
creeds, religions, races and, yes, against women. I will not tolerate any discrimi-
nation against veterans, especially those who served honorably in the war in
Vietnam.
I am deeply concerned about employment opportunities for the Vietnam-
era veterans. We have had some success in placing veterans in the age span of
20 to 34, but the facts and figures show us that there are some tough problems
in this category.
As of last month, the rate of unemployment for veterans between 20 and 24
was nearly 10 percent, much too high. The rate of unemployment for these
young veterans who are members of minority groups was 19 percent. And far,
far too many disabled veterans are still without jobs.
I can assure you, without hesitation or reservation, that this Administration
puts a very high priority on aiding the men who bore the brunt of battle. If
we can send men thousands and thousands of miles from home to fight in the
rice paddies, certainly we can send them back to school and better jobs at home.
I am consequently considering the veterans education bill in this light. But
your Government, of necessity, has to be constrained by other considerations
as well. We are all soldiers in a war against brutal inflation. The veterans edu-
cation bill more than likely will come before me very shortly for action. It
comes when I am working hard, along with others from the Congress, labor,
management, and otherwise, on a nonpartisan battle against excessive Govern-
ment spending.
America today is fighting for its economic life. The facts are that uncontrolled
inflation could destroy the fabric and the foundation of America, and I will not
hesitate to veto any legislation to try and control inflationary excesses. I am open
to conciliation and compromise on the total amount authorized so that we can
protect [veteran] trainees and all other Americans against the rising cost of
living.
I commend not only the past service of veterans but also the continuing
involvement of many of you in the National Guard and Reserve forces. With
current manpower reductions in the active duty Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines, the Commander in Chief must, of necessity, place continuing reliance
on the readiness of our National Guard and Reserves. And I intend to put
muscle into this program.
26
