[175]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
of government with three coequal branches, one looking after the other two
and vice versa.
And how blessed we have been, how fortunate this country has been because
of that finely tuned system. No one person, no one part of our Government, no
segment of our society has dominated. And the net result is that we have made
progress maintaining our freedom, giving opportunity to people, and giving us
material blessings beyond anything that has happened to any nation or to any
people in the history of mankind.
But this system of checks and balances requires that everybody in each of the
three branches has a part. But some of our opponents are looking at the pros-
pects, they have looked at the polls—I don't agree with the polls, but that is
immaterial—they look at the polls and they say, “Oh, boy, we have got a legis-
lative dictatorship with a veto-proof Congress."
What does that mean to you and to your friends, your neighbors, your asso-
ciates? A veto-proof Congress means a legislative dictatorship. Do you want a
dictatorship in any one of the three branches of our form of government? Of
course you don't. You want that same finely tuned balance that has made so
much for all of us and those that are to follow.
A legislative dictatorship in this country is not good for America. And what
does that mean that you have to do on November 5, or I should say between now
and November 5? It means that you show your support financially, your support
at the polls, your support by convincing others that a person like Marlow Cook
is going to be reelected to the United States Senate because he is for you and
he won't be a part of any legislative dictatorship.
He may listen to me; he doesn't always agree with me. He is going to be a rep-
resentative of the great Commonwealth of Kentucky, and that is what you want,
and that is why I am here to make sure that he is going to be reelected.
And the same holds true in the House of Representatives with Tim Lee Car-
ter and Gene Snyder. I used to have to talk to both Gene and Tim Lee. Occa-
sionally, I had a little difficulty with them. They didn't always do as I said or as
I wanted, but they were independent; they were strong. They represented you,
and I admired them for it, and I respected them.
But they are the kind of people that I think you in the great Commonwealth
of Kentucky should have representing you, and they are the opposite of those
that will bend with the individuals who talk about a veto-proof Congress and
a legislative dictatorship.
But let me present the alternative. I can assure you, as I think Marlow said,
that if you get a veto-proof Congress and the kind of people that will be elected
408
