December 19
[313]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
rial. In the event it is determined that the former President has been deprived
of personal property under the provisions of title I, “just compensation" shall
be paid to him.
Title II: establishes a "Public Documents Commission" to study problems with
respect to the control, disposition, and preservation of records produced by or
on behalf of "Federal officials." These are defined to include elected Federal
officials and any officer of the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the
Federal Government. The Commission is directed to make specific recom-
mendations for legislation and other recommendations for rules and proce-
dures as may be appropriate regarding the documents of such officials. A final
report fulfilling their mandate is to be submitted to the Congress and the
President by March 31, 1976.
It has been my consistent policy toward the records of the former President
to protect both the records themselves and the legal rights of all parties involved.
Following the release of an opinion of the Attorney General of the United States
to the effect that the tapes and materials of the former President constituted his
personal property, an agreement was entered into by Mr. Nixon and Mr. Samp-.
son, the Administrator of General Services, on September 6, 1974. This agree-
ment was intended to govern the possession, security, and accessibility of the
tapes and materials and it secured them from destruction or alteration during the
periods when they might be needed in court and grand jury proceedings. Since
then, a great deal of litigation and public attention have centered on that agree-
ment. Although I believe it would not be appropriate to comment on the various
issues, constitutional or otherwise, which are presented by pending cases or by
the subject bill, I do want to mention that, by agreement made November 9,
1974, the interests of the Watergate Special Prosecution Force for access to the
tapes and materials were fully accommodated.
It is my understanding of the intent of the Congress that this act will provide
the former President and others with the opportunity to litigate any right or
privilege which may be asserted relevant to the tapes or materials.
The Administrator of General Services will move promptly to obtain com-
plete possession and control of the tapes and materials and to discharge his other
duties under the law.
I will name the Presidential appointees to the "Public Documents Commis-
sion" as quickly as possible. I am hopeful that the Commission will suggest even-
handed and uniform rules governing the documents of all Federal officials.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 4016, approved December 19, 1974, is Public Law 93-526 (88 Stat. 1695).
769
