October 31
[211]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
vember 18 and January 3, we will meet the challenge and act effectively on this,
I think, finely tuned proposal.
Now, I am not going to be so brash as to stand here and tell you that all of
the big spenders belong to the opposition party, although the percentages tilt
pretty far that way. But I would like to note—I would like you to note, and
Governor Reagan mentioned it, others have said it, but I think it is good to re-
emphasize it—that the Democratic Party has controlled the United States Con-
gress for 38 out of the last 42 years, and for the last 20 years consecutively.
During this period of time, Federal spending has shot up from roughly $4.5
billion on an annual basis in 1934 to $300-plus billion in the current fiscal year.
It is a simple fact that no President and no Administration can spend a single
dollar—and to be more precise, a single penny-that Congress has first not
appropriated.
I cannot emphasize that enough. Congress appropriates every penny that is
spent by any President or by any Administration. So, when you look at it, if you
are unhappy about the handling of our Nation's finances in the Capital over the
past 20 years, if you think it is time for a change, remember next Tuesday who
the big spenders are and throw the big spenders out. And if some of them
are Republicans, so be it.
I think it is time for responsible men and women of all political persuasions—
Republicans, Democrats, Independents—to come together, not in an effort for a
political advantage, but in a spirit of true American patriotism, to whip problems
like inflation, energy, the environment, to strengthen our successful foreign
policy by the restoration of bipartisanship. And it is also time for the American
voter, whatever his views, to demonstrate by the ballot that he supports a respon-
sible and responsive anti-inflation policy; that he opposes wasteful Government
spending; that he demands a strong, secure national defense program; and
most important, that he wants elected representatives who feel the same way.
And in Congress, that does not mean a one-party monopoly. It does mean a
Congress in which reasonable men of both parties can work together with an
administration in a spirit of cooperation for the good of all of us.
I think this is the kind of Congress I have tried to campaign for in some 14 or
15 States in the last month, and with your help, it is the kind of a Congress that
we can elect.
If we are successful next Tuesday, the average hard-working American citizen
will be the beneficiary.
Just a few weeks ago, while I was out on the campaign trail, I met a lovely lady
535
