October 16
[151]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
grams, the problems that come up every day—to make sure that our Govern-
ment at the Federal level is run properly.
Gene Taylor, in my humble opinion, meets all of the criteria for a great
Member of the House of Representatives, and I hope the people in the Seventh
District send him back to Washington with a resounding margin.
But at the national level in the two big areas of how we keep our economy
strong and how we maintain the peace, I need a stronger Congress.
Let's take the first issue, the issue of how to put a lid on inflation on the one
hand and keep our economy strong on the other. This is a very difficult line to
draw. It requires leadership in the White House; it requires cooperation in the
Congress; it requires the total cooperation of Governors and local officials
throughout all 50 States.
Let me speak for a moment, if I might, about Kit Bond. When I arrived yester-
day at the airport, Kit handed me his response to the telegram that I sent every
Governor the day before asking for their help, their cooperation. And here is the
letter that Kit sent me. It indicates that he and the people of Missouri have co-
operated. And he indicates that he and his administration will continue that co-
operation.
It means we have to save energy by driving less-the enforcement of the 55-
mile speed limit, the conservation in your State government and its affairs. By
driving less you save money and you save lives—and, as I recall the letter, Kit, a
31-percent reduction in lives saved on the highways of Missouri.
I congratulate you and the people of Missouri for this great achievement.
But what I am saying is that if we got from every Governor of every State the
cooperation we have gotten from Kit and his associates, we would be well ahead
of the program and the schedule that I have outlined.
But a moment ago I said we had to have the help and assistance of the Con-
gress, and this brings up my comments concerning an old and dear friend of
mine, Tom Curtis. We served together in the House of Representatives for about
20 years.
Tom Curtis is one of the most expert individuals I have ever known in the
Congress on the problems of taxation. He served on the Committee on Ways and
Means with skill and dedication, total integrity, also served for a number of
years on the Joint Economic Committee-the House and Senate, the experts
that are drawn from both the House and the Senate to take a look not just at
taxation but the total economic problems.
And from that experience, he can contribute significantly to not only Missouri
but to the country as a whole when he is elected on November 5.
315
