[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
allegedly criminally culpable through resignation should be entitled to any
treatment different from any other citizen?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Mann, I don't think I should answer a hypothetical
question of that kind. I was dealing with reality, and I have given, in my best
judgment, the reasons for the action that I took. And to pass judgment on any
other person or individual holding any other office in public or private, I think
it would be inappropriate for me.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. You have heard the maxim that the law is no respecter
of persons. Do you agree with that?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly it should be.
CONGRESSMAN DENNIS. Thank you, Mr. President.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. The gentleman from Iowa, Mr. Mayne.
CONGRESSMAN WILEY MAYNE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. President, I believe that the chairman and others in their questioning
have established very clearly that your appearance here today is an entirely
voluntary one on your part, that it was your idea, that you had not been requested
by the committee to come in person, that we had indicated that it would be
entirely satisfactory as far as we were concerned if some assistant appeared
instead.
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct, sir.
CONGRESSMAN MAYNE. I do not think, however, that it has yet been made clear
in the record, and I think this should be, that it is also true that you were willing
to come and to tell this full story, as you have done, before the committee and on
television before the American people, much earlier than today. Is that not true?
The President. Yes. I think the original schedule was set for about a week
ago. I have forgotten the exact date.
CONGRESSMAN MAYNE. My recollection, and you can correct me if I am
wrong, is that as early as September 30, you offered and volunteered to appear
before the subcommittee at our next regular meeting, which would have been
on October 1, but it was indicated to you that that would be too early for the
committee to be able to accommodate such an appearance.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't recall that detail, but when I indicated that I would
voluntarily appear, a member of my staff met with, I think, Chairman Hungate,
and between them they tried to work out what was an acceptable, agreeable time
as to when I should appear.
CONGRESSMAN MAYNE. There was, of course, the concern which developed in
the subcommittee as to whether there would be any possible jeopardy to the
impaneling of the jury in the Watergate cases, but I think this timetable should
360
