October 28
[192]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
just as they did their duty in wartime. Others we shall never see again. But they,
especially, are here with us in spirit in the shadow of the Tomb of the Unknowns.
We are all here today and we are all free today because for nearly 200 years,
whenever freedom has been threatened, gallant men and women have answered
the call of their country. From all branches of the services they risked and some-
times gave their lives for this Nation.
We owe more than we can ever repay to the veterans of all wars in which this
Nation has been involved. But today, if I might, I would like to emphasize our
debt to the Vietnam veterans.
They served in spite of the most difficult psychological pressures. They served
at a time when many of their peers and their elders were denouncing service to
one's country as immoral. They served while some avoided service. And they
served without the full moral support that this Nation has usually given to its
fighting forces.
Nevertheless, the veterans of the Vietnam generation served with high pro-
fessional competence, with courage, and with honor. America has a deep moral
obligation to these fine men and fine women. As they served us in war, so must
we serve them in peace. As they protected our freedom and prosperity, so must
we see to it that they participate fully in the benefits that our system offers.
It has been said that the forgotten men of the Vietnam conflict are those who
served. They are the silent heroes of their generation. Too often those who failed
in their duty have monopolized the headlines and distorted the image of their
generation. I intend to see to it that the silent heroes-the more than 6½ million
Americans who served their country in the Vietnam era with quiet courage—are
not forgotten. And I intend to make it certain, just as certain as well, that the men
missing in action are not forgotten. And to their families and their friends I make
this pledge: I will do everything possible to resolve the uncertainty of their
status.
It should be a source of great pride to all of us that this country is now provid-
ing higher education and training to 14 million veterans of the Vietnam
era. But like all of us, they are feeling the pinch of inflation and feeling it badly.
With this in mind, we have proposed that their wide range of benefits be in-
creased to keep up with the cost of living.
I am particularly concerned, however, with the plight of the young veteran
without a job, especially if he is a disabled member or one of a minority group.
For several months now a special interagency task force has been at work devel-
oping a program to meet his needs. My assistants have met with representatives
475
