December 2
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I am sure you know we are involved in mutual balanced force reductions in
Western Europe. When we get closer to an agreement there—and I hope we
will; we are presently negotiating in Vienna in this area—it is hopeful that we
can make some reductions, both in numbers of military personnel between
ourselves and the allies on the one side and the Warsaw Pact nations and the
Soviet Union on the other, as well as any arms reductions.
Q. Beyond your hope, is that a commitment that you made to the Soviet lead-
ers in Vladivostok ?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we made no agreement concerning the mutual balanced
force reductions. We did agree to continue negotiations.
[9.] Q. Mr. President, are you satisfied that the Soviets are carrying out the
spirit and the letter of the 1972 arms limitation agreements?
The President. We know of no violations, either on the part of the Soviet
Union or by ourselves. There have been some allegations that the Soviet Union
has violated the SALT I agreement. We don't think they have.
There are, however, some ambiguities. When the SALT I agreement was
agreed to, there was established a standing consultative commission made up of
the Soviet Union and the United States. That commission can meet twice a year
to analyze any allegations as to violations of SALT I. It is our intention to call for
a meeting of that group-I think in January of next year—to analyze any of the
ambiguities that have been alleged. We don't think there have been any viola-
tions, but I have a responsibility to find out. And we intend to follow through
under the agreed procedure of the 1972 agreements.
[10.] Q. Mr. President, since there is no limit in this agreement on throw
weight and since there is no limit on multiple warheads, and since additional
multiple warheads could be put on the bigger missiles, more or less ad infinitum,
how can you say that this is a lid or cap on the arms race?
The President. Well, it certainly, number one, puts a limit on the delivery
systems-2,400-and as I indicated at the outset, this does result in a cutback as
far as the Soviet Union is concerned.
The 1,320 limitation on MIRV's does put a lid on the planned or programed
program for ourselves as well as the Soviet Union.
Now, the throw weight problem is one that we can remedy if we want to. Our
military took a different point of view some years ago when they designed our
ballistic missiles, but we have that flexibility.
Now, if we decide to go to a heavier throw weight, we can add on a MIRVed
missile a greater number of individual warheads. That is a choice of flexibility
that we have, and I think it is one of the benefits of this agreement.
683
