[30]
August 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
will put Federal funds to work on behalf of our cities and towns far more
effectively than before by:
-providing communities with greater certainty about the level of Federal
funding they can expect;
-distributing Federal funds to communities according to what they need
rather than who they know;
-replacing Federal judgments on local development with the judgments of
the people who live and work there; and,
-allowing local officials to concentrate on comprehensive programs for com-
munity betterment instead of grant applications for individual projects.
In a very real sense, this bill will help to return power from the banks of
the Potomac to people in their own communities. Decisions will be made at
the local level. Action will come at the local level. And responsibility for re-
sults will be placed squarely where it belongs—at the local level.
I pledge that this Administration will administer the program in exactly
this way. We will resist temptations to restore the redtape and excessive Fed-
eral regulation which this act removes. At the same time, of course, we will not
abdicate the Federal Government's responsibility to oversee the way the tax-
payers' money is used. In particular, we will carefully monitor the use of
funds to assure that recipients fully comply with civil rights laws prohibiting
discrimination.
This act will also provide significant assistance to the mortgage market and
those who depend on it-home buyers, homebuilders, and mortgage lenders.
The act makes FHA mortgage insurance available to a greater number of
families by reducing required downpayments, expanding the limits on mort-
gages eligible for Federal insurance, and enabling FHA on an experimental
basis to tailor plans for loan repayment to the unique circumstances of individ-
ual home buyers. Other sections of the act broaden the lending and investment
powers of federally regulated financial institutions, making more credit available
for mortgage loans, and thereby providing some needed help for the housing
sector.
By prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sex in making mortgage loans,
this measure will also enable millions of hardworking women and married
couples to obtain the mortgage credit to which their economic position clearly
entitles them. I fully support these efforts to eliminate discrimination based
on race or sex.
44
