[153]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
sons-the elements; a lack of, maybe, fertilizer; and some other problems that
I won't enumerate. But I want to compliment the farmers of the State of Ne-
braska for the job they have done. They deserve your applause and your support,
because they are real inflation fighters that have and can contribute.
In return for the request that I have made to each and every one of them that
they produce to full capacity, I think we ought to make some commitments to
them. And let me enumerate some commitments that I will make, representing
the executive branch of the Government.
Number one, I am committed to give them the fuel and the fertilizer for them
to do the job. Even though we are going to cut back 1 million barrels of imported
fuel oil every day, the farmers will get fuel and fertilizer if we have to allocate it
arbitrarily.
Prior to my speech to the Congress a week or so ago, I was quoted extensively
by a lot of people who thought they were reading my mind. And they were read-
ing it on the belief that I was going to ask the Congress to pass an increase in the
Federal gasoline tax. Well, some of these oracle readers or people who thought
they could read my mind were 100 percent wrong. I did not ask for a gas tax;
I am opposed to a gas tax; and, I know the Congress won't pass one.
About a week ago Saturday, I was faced with a real tough decision. There had
been some very substantial orders placed for wheat and corn for shipment
overseas.
Now, I am against the export controls for our farm commodities, and I do
not intend to impose them. But at the same time, because I do feel I have an
obligation to protect adequate reserves, we are going to monitor those sales. We
will permit the sales of reasonable amounts phased over a reasonable period of
time so our farmers will be able to sell their commodities, because those commo-
dities are important as we, a great country, sell those things abroad that are
necessary for our balance of payments. So the farmers can have full assurance
from me: There will be no blanket embargo on the products they produce on
the land with their own toil.
One day last week, Charley Thone and a number of other Congressmen,
Democrats as well as Republicans, along with some dairy farmers, came to the
White House to talk to me about the problems of the dairy farmer. I know the
dairy farmer in America has been hit by rising costs. I know the dairy farmer
has been hit with some of the problems of getting an adequate price in the mar-
ketplace. The cost-price squeeze to the dairy farmer is a serious one. But I make a
pledge here today as I did in Sioux Falls earlier: We are not going to let sub-
328
