[154]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
including myself, hate to think back that long. It was 19 years ago, in 1955. There
is an old saying that many of us recollect, from time to time-the more things
change, the more they stay the same.
Looking back for a moment to 1955, there seems something to it. In 1955, if
you will refresh your memories, violence in Cyprus was making headlines;
people were worried about peace in the Middle East; and threats of inflation and
recession weighed heavily on the minds of a lot of worried Americans.
Here we are 19 years later-strife in Cyprus, the Middle East is on a very
difficult balance right at the moment. On the front page, of course, the economy
in America is again a worry.
Americans have been rediscovering a lot of other things, too. In the wake of
Vietnam, Watergate, the energy crisis, and the economic challenge, we are learn-
ing some of the very basic things that help to build America into the great coun-
try it is.
I have in mind, for example, things like the need for integrity in govern-
ment, a need for fiscal responsibility to fight inflation, the timeless balance
created by Founders-those great Founders of our country almost 200 years
ago-between the three branches of Government, and the need for a balance in
Congress through a viable two-party system.
I think it is the need for this balance and the challenge it faces in this election
that I would like to say a few words about tonight.
A great English statesman of a few decades ago, Lord Acton, once said—it
is a frequently but, I think, appropriately quoted comment from him-it goes
like this: "Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely."
Again and again the truth of those words has been well proven. Whenever any
one branch of Government, any one person, or any class or faction in a country
enjoys monopoly of power, corruption and extremism are the inevitable result.
Only checks and balances, the free play of different ideas, and the vital com-
petitive two-party system, in my judgment, can preserve a nation's freedom and
deal adequately with corruption and wrongdoing in any part of our Govern-
ment.
We need the built-in protection now and in the future of a strong, two-party
political system in the United States, and the public must stand for it and fight
for it and defend it.
Oh, I have listened to the forecasts and the speculation of people who look at
the polls and say our party is going to take a shellacking, a licking, on Novem-
ber 5. Well, I don't happen to agree with that. But I do add this, and I say it to
334
