September 20
[92]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
but I was pleased to find out in my discussions with him that he has a background
in the writing press.
So, we are very fortunate to have someone like Ron who not only knows the
writing but also the electronic press.
I had the opportunity of getting acquainted with Ron in the many, many trips
that he took with me on Air Force Two. I think the number is some 57. So, in that
luxurious aircraft—[laughter]—in the many travels we made around the coun-
try, I was given the opportunity of getting to know Ron very well.
I admired his skill and objectivity as a reporter. I enjoyed his company. I was
greatly impressed with his ability and overall approach to the problems that I
faced and others did.
So, when I asked Ron if he would take the job, I couldn't have been more
pleased.
I must say that this announcement comes at a somewhat unique time. I just
spent 2½ hours with one of the leading Communists, and now I am about to
meet with one of the most wealthy and influential capitalists.¹ So in between those
two meetings, it is my privilege and pleasure to indicate to all of you that Ron
Nessen will be my Press Secretary, and I couldn't be more pleased.
MR. NESSEN. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine, Ron. You are the boss.
MR. NESSEN. My wife said to tell you that this entitles you to one free dancing
lesson. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I need it. [Laughter]
MR. NESSEN. Thank you very much for the trust you put in me, and I will try
to live up to it.
THE PRESIDENT. I have no doubt about it, Ron.
So, I will turn the job over to Ron. He has my full backing and support, and I
think I am very lucky to have somebody like him handling the job.
MR. NESSEN. You are not going to leave me out here all alone, are you?
THE PRESIDENT. You better get used to it. No, I am going to stand here until
you finish your remarks.
MR. NESSEN. Well, I did want to say a couple of things.
I hope the White House press corps is ready for another Ron. I am a Ron, but
not a Ziegler, I can tell you that.
I do want to say a couple of things. One is that I will never knowingly lie to
the White House press corps. I will never knowingly mislead the White House
¹The President was referring to his meetings with Soviet Foreign Minister A. A. Gromyko and David
Rockefeller.
175
