November 14
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
on the one hand and people have to be wiser on the other, saving energy, hope-
fully, in a voluntary way.
If not, we may have to impose some limitations or restrictions. But I don't see
us having to retrogress. I don't see us having to go backwards, which, in my judg-
ment, is so contrary to the philosophy of America. We have got a great country;
we can make it grow and prosper. We just have to tighten our belts and get rid of
the fat and the excesses, and we will be a lot better off as a country and as
individuals.
TRIP TO JAPAN, THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA, AND THE SOVIET UNION
[15.] Q. Mr. President, Norman Kempster of the Washington Star-News.
You have spoken of the danger of the Nation being without a Vice President.
On Sunday you are planning a trip to Japan, where some violence is threatened.
What do you expect to achieve on this trip to Japan that can make it worth the
risk?
The President. There are three very important countries that I am visiting.
And I should preface that with a comment that a President has two major
responsibilities, one in the field of domestic policy and the other in the field of
foreign policy.
And where we have three extremely important countries, two where we have
good relationships, treaties, where we are allies-Japan and South Korea—
where we want to strengthen that relationship, and the third, the Soviet Union,
where we have been trying to achieve a détente and broaden it, where we are
going to hopefully lay a broader foundation for SALT Two. When you add up
the pluses, I think that there is convincing evidence that I, as President, should go
to Japan, to expand our good relations with Japan; go to South Korea, a staunch
and strong ally and to work out some differences, if any, and to broaden our
relations there; and to go to the Soviet Union to hopefully make some progress
in détente, in the reduction of arms.
I think it is a very worthwhile trip.
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up, what is the urgency that would not
permit waiting until Governor Rockefeller is confirmed?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if I knew the Congress was going to act, there might be
some justification for it, but I can't sit and twiddle my thumbs and not do some-
thing which I think is important for the benefit of foreign policy of the United
States.
We have to do things on an affirmative basis which I think are necessary, and to
607
