[155]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Chairman, may I add to something I said just to make it
correct?
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Somebody asked about when I last saw the President. I said
that I had seen him on the 9th. I did as he departed, but I had also seen the
President the morning of the 8th at the time I was asked to come and see him,
and at that time we spent an hour and 20 minutes together, or thereabouts, when
he told me that he was going to resign.
So, I saw him both the 8th and the 9th, just to make the record accurate.
CONGRESSMAN HUNGATE. All of us are aware of our time constraints. I yield
to the gentleman from Wisconsin for a question.
CONGRESSMAN Kastenmeier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I would like to, for the record, indicate that the statement of the gentleman
from Maryland, Mr. Hogan, the effect that the proposal that this subcommittee
try to contact certain staff members, such as General Haig and others, was
supported by me.
I think it would have been excellent. We have in the past done very well in
terms of staff work preliminary to hearings that might have helped put some of
the questions Ms. Holtzman had to rest.
Mr. President, you indicated that as far as Mr. Haig was concerned, that he
had suggested certain options to you, but did not in fact make a recommenda-
tion to you with respect to the pardon, is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct. I answered that, I think, as fully as I can in
my prepared statement. He discussed the options. He made no recommendation.
CONGRESSMAN Kastenmeier. Which other persons to you personally made
recommendations that the former President be pardoned from that time in early
August to the day of September 6 when you made your decision?
The President. No other person, to my knowledge, made any recommenda-
tion to me from that time until the time that I made a decision about September 6;
nobody made any recommendation to me for the pardon of the former President.
CONGRESSMAN KASTENMEIER. With respect to discussions between General
Haig and Mr. Nixon, or other matters in question, too, you indicated you had no
personal knowledge, both in writing and, I think, in your statement today.
I take it you would have no objection if the subcommittee sought to question
Mr. Haig or others on the subject before us this morning to supplement this
hearing and this inquiry?
The President. I don't think that is within my prerogative. I have come
368
