[187]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
As we try to use our food that is produced on the farms in America for
reasons to benefit the United States, we should be so thankful that we are
blessed with the land and the farms of America.
Food is, as we know, a basic key to world peace, and we in America hold
that key. As I said in my speech last month to the United Nations General
Assembly, the United States recognizes the special responsibility that we bear
as the world's largest producer of food. We recognize that responsibility and I
think we will accept it. I know it as a matter of fact, because of the people I see
here in Iowa today, especially these attractive, enthusiastic, young people in the
front of the audience-the cream of Iowa's bountiful crop.
This group of some 600-as I said, the cream of Iowa's bountiful crop—are
delegates to the United Nations Youth Conference Day. I commend Icwa for
its emphasis on the United Nations Day, and I thank all of you young people
for participating.
Yes, the decisions they make as citizens of this great food-producing State
will directly affect the well-being of the citizens of the world—I know that
everybody in Iowa is very proud of each and every one of you—and the under-
standing that they are individually developing of the world situation will serve
us all well in the future.
I am convinced that the future is now, right here in Iowa, and I pledge to
you today—and especially to all of you young people, whether you are in this
group or any other group-that I will do everything in my power to make sure
that the American farmer is fully rewarded for his services rendered. America
owes that to the American farmer, and so does the world.
If I might, let me stress this point, and I speak to you on this point not as a
political partisan but as a partisan of the American system of government. Our
system rests not only on the balance of urban and rural America but also on
the balance within our Federal Government.
The basic principle underlying our system is balance, a finely tuned balance,
the timely balance conceived by the Founding Fathers some 200 years ago
among three branches of Government—the delicate balance within the Congress
and the country through the two-party system.
This year the polls are telling us that our delicately balanced, two-party system
is in some trouble, some jeopardy. If one party upsets that balance because
members of the other party are apathetic, not concerned, and as a consequence,
won't get out and vote, then we stand guilty, as I see it, of abusing the American
electoral process and forfeiting our hope for an effective Government. There-
fore, with deep conviction I urge you to keep this very great, balanced system
452
