October 15
[150]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
In the letters that I have received at the White House are thousands of good
suggestions; for instance, take all you want, but eat all you take. The first words
I can remember in my dad's house were very simple but very direct: Clean up
your plate before you get up from the table. And that is still pretty good advice.
When you aren't using them, turn off the lights, turn off the television,
turn off the radio, turn off the water, use less hot water, insulate attics and win-
dows, shut doors, keep rooms at 68 degrees in wintertime when you are awake,
and lower temperatures when you sleep.
Reducing waste, we know, can save money and energy at the very same time.
It is a double duty for inflation fighters.
My twelfth and final point is an important one to every one of us: Guard
your health. One of the worst wastes we have in America is days lost through
sickness. Statistically, we are one of the healthiest nations in the world, and
your governments and the medical profession are constantly trying to improve
public health and disease prevention.
But the facts are we can do much better. This will materially strengthen our
attack on inflation by increasing individual productivity, by reducing demand
for health care and the checking of its soaring costs, by helping balance the
family budget in this essential but unpredictable cost item.
The success of cooperative voluntary action will depend on a mutuality of
effort, a sense of fairness, and a widespread support of goals. The benefits of
such action will lead to greater civic efforts by millions of Americans and a
focused awareness of what directions public policy should take toward economic
justice for all.
I have requested the Governors of every State and the governing authorities of
our territories and the District of Columbia to form WIN committees on the
State and local levels. It is my observation that a chain reaction has started.
Our Government will not dictate this drive but will use its existing mechanisms
to assure the cumulative effort.
I have asked the Federal Energy Administration to continue and make pub-
lic, to exhibit for all of us to look at, monthly reports on gasoline consump-
tion so we can make sure that we save that 1 million barrels per day from foreign
imports.
Earlier, I asked every American to drive or to cut his car mileage by 5 per-
cent. That is not very hard. That would save one-fourth of the 1975 goal for
petroleum savings.
311
