November 1
[213]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
we are going to have only 42 percent of the eligible voters in America participate
in that great election in all 50 States next Tuesday.
Let me tell you why I think it would be tragic, why it would be catastrophic.
If only 42 percent of the American people vote next Tuesday, it means that 21 per-
cent of the eligible voters in America will make the decision for 100 percent.
Now, we want not 21 percent of the people telling us how to run the Govern-
ment. I think we want 100 percent of the people. And I say to all of you young
people, those right in front of me and those in the bands: I think you have a
very special mission. You have more impact, you have more influence, you can
do more to get your parents to go and cast that ballot than anybody else in the
whole area of Fresno and the surrounding environs.
I hope you will make that a special mission, to grab Mom and Dad by the
hand and ask them on Tuesday morning, “Are you going to vote?" You can,
and you will.
And this is important for Democrats, Independents, and Republicans alike.
If they do, I am confident that you will send people like Bob Mathias back to
Congress. You will send people like Hugh Flournoy to the statehouse in
Sacramento. I think you will send a good team to help Hugh Flournoy in your
great State capital of Sacramento.
Now, it is just as important to attack the problems in Sacramento as it is in
Washington. We want a creative Congress. We want a forward-looking occupant
of your statehouse, your State capital in Sacramento. We want responsive, respon-
sible government in all parts of our government at the local, State, and national
level.
The urgency of the problem to be responsible and responsive in the handling of
your tax dollars is not just at the national, it is at the State or the local level.
I am told that Hugh Flournoy's opponent for the office of Governor in the
State of California says inflation is not the problem of California.
I respectfully disagree with that very limited observation. California is one-
tenth of the American people. It is the biggest State. It has got the biggest vision.
It is a rapidly growing State, and I am amazed that a candidate for the Gover-
norship of California would have such a limited perspective of the problem.
It seems to me that a prospective, or a candidate for Governor of California
ought to recognize that with a State as big, as wealthy, as powerful—can have
an impact on inflation. One out of every ten people in the United States lives in
California. And what you do and what your delegation does in the Congress of
the United States will have an impact.
541
