[191]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
highly successful in meeting the challenge of those who have a different political
philosophy or a governmental point of view.
We have some terribly serious problems facing us, yes, at home, but equally
abroad. The Middle East is still a tinderbox. Unfortunately, two good allies—
Greece and Turkey-are at swords' points over Cyprus. We have problems in
the Pacific. We are trying to build a new relationship with the People's Republic
of China, which needs a very, very careful maneuvering to be sure that it is right
and strong and sound.
We are trying to broaden a détente with Moscow. What we need today is a
strong continuation of that bipartisanship that was so successful in the post-
World War II era. If that bipartisanship is ruptured, if that bipartisanship is torn
asunder, our problems worldwide can be complicated.
Let me say so that it is not construed to be partisan, in recent weeks I, as a
Republican President, had the full support of the Democratic leadership in the
House and Senate, but their troops were all over the lot, and the net result is
we may have some difficulties.
So, as I conclude, let me just add this final comment: You elect the right kind
of a Congress, and we will solve our problems at home and will meet those
challenges abroad for the benefit of all of us—Democrats, Republicans, and
Independents.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Conrad Hilton Hotel.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Richard B. Ogilvie, Governor of Illinois 1969-73;
William G. Stratton, Governor of Illinois 1953-61;
and Ray H. (Harry) Page, Republican candidate for
State treasurer of Illinois.
192
Remarks at Veterans Day Ceremonies at Arlington
National Cemetery. October 28, 1974
Mr. Smith, Mr. Roudebush, Mr. Holt, Sergeant Littrell, distinguished repre-
sentatives of America's veterans organizations and their auxiliaries, my fellow
Americans:
Today, as we all know, is a very special day for all Americans. But to those of
us who are veterans ourselves, it has a very special and added meaning. Memories
come back of families and old comrades—of distant days and places from the
past. Some of those friends are still with us, sharing in the challenges of peace,
474
