[66]
September 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
The people of Israel stand united in the convic-
tion that war is futile, that it cannot solve problems,
that only human suffering is brought in its wake.
As far as our part of the world is concerned, we are
convinced that there is no issue, however compli-
cated it may now appear, that it cannot be resolved
by patient negotiations.
What is needed is an equal measure of desire and
determination on all sides to achieve peace.
Much depends at this stage on what other govern-
ments in the area are prepared to do. At any rate,
we in Israel are ready for the peacemaking effort.
I must, however, with a full sense of responsibility,
add this: As you, Mr. President, assumed high office
you conveyed to your people and to the world the
message that a strong America is a paramount
guarantee for peace in the world. This is true in the
same measure as far as Israel and her own region are
concerned. Only a strong Israel which has the
capacity to deter aggression and to defend herself
successfully by her own strengths, has a chance of
winning peace.
I cannot underline strongly enough our convic-
tion that the constant maintenance of Israel's
strength is an absolute prerequisite for the attain-
ment of solutions to the problems of our troubled
region.
On these and other matters of common interest
and concern, I shall be exchanging views with you,
Mr. President, and your colleagues, within the next
few days. I look forward to doing so in the spirit of
confidence and of the cultivation of a good future
which has linked our governments and our people
for so many years.
I am confident that I shall return to Jerusalem
assured of the United States' determination to sup-
port the well-being of Israel within a Middle East
that we hope that will finally be advancing on
the road towards a just and durable peace which
assures security and progress for all its people.
Thank you very much.
67
Remarks to the Conference on Inflation. September 11, 1974
LET ME at the outset wish you all a good morning and to express my deep
appreciation for your attendance at this very important and very critical meeting.
Naturally, I am very pleased to have in attendance the distinguished Members
of the House and the Senate-both Democratic as well as Republican—and I am
especially pleased to see so many outstanding labor leaders in the United States.
And I warmly welcome each and every one of you.
Obviously, we have gathered here to deal with inflation and the immediate
danger that is threatening every American, young and old, poor and well-to-do.
It is a very critical issue. I think the future of labor union members and all
other Americans depends upon what we can achieve together in this campaign
against inflation. And I wish to reemphasize my appreciation for your
participation.
Some of you have generously accepted an additional burden by agreeing to
participate in such other meetings. By so doing, you have indicated that you share
with me the conviction that inflation is the most critical national domestic issue
facing the United States.
I am grateful for your willingness to work together with me on a problem
that transcends America's many special interests, whether Republican or Demo-
cratic, labor or business, urban or rural.
114
