[6]
August 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
My instinctive judgment is that the state of the Union is excellent. But the
state of our economy is not so good. Everywhere I have been as Vice President,
some 118,000 miles in 40 States and some 55 press conferences, the unanimous con-
cern of Americans is inflation.
For once all the polls seem to agree. They also suggest that the people blame
Government far more than either management or labor for the high cost of
everything they have to buy.
You who come from 50 States, three territories, and the District of Columbia,
know this better than I do. That is why you have created, since I left, your new
Budget Reform Committee. I welcome it, and I will work with its members to
bring the Federal budget into balance in fiscal year 1976.
The fact is that for the past 25 years that I had the honor of serving in this
body, the Federal budget has been balanced in only six.
Mr. Speaker, I am a little late getting around to it, but confession is good for the
soul. I have sometimes voted to spend more taxpayer's money for worthy Fed-
eral projects in Grand Rapids, Michigan, while I vigorously opposed wasteful
spending boondoggles in Oklahoma. [Laughter]
Be that as it may, Mr. Speaker, you and I have always stood together against
unwarranted cuts in national defense. This is no time to change that nonpartisan
policy.
Just as escalating Federal spending has been a prime cause of higher prices
over many years, it may take some time to stop inflation. But we must begin
right now.
For a start, before your Labor Day recess, Congress should reactivate the Cost
of Living Council through passage of a clean bill, without reimposing controls,
that will let us monitor wages and prices to expose abuses.
Whether we like it or not, the American wage earner and the American house-
wife are a lot better economists than most economists care to admit. They know
that a government big enough to give you everything you want is a govern-
ment big enough to take from you everything you have.
If we want to restore confidence in ourselves as working politicians, the first
thing we all have to do is to learn to say no.
The first specific request by the Ford Administration is not to Congress but
to the voters in the upcoming November elections. It is this, very simple: Sup-
port your candidates, Congressmen and Senators, Democrats or Republicans,
conservatives or liberals, who consistently vote for tough decisions to cut the
cost of government, restrain Federal spending, and bring inflation under control.
8
