October 16
[152]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
As I see it, we have got two or three major problems in this country. One, we
have got to lick the battle of inflation and keep our economy strong at the same
time.
And I submitted to the Congress a week ago, on Tuesday, a 31-proposition
package that, if enacted, if supported, will give us a better handle and success
against inflation and, if enacted and supported by the American people, will keep
us going on a steady, steady course upward to provide a better and better living
for all our people.
And I happen to think guys like Jim Abdnor, Leo Thorsness are the kind of
people than can work at helping in the problems not only at home but abroad.
What we need in this country is not a partisan foreign policy. Some 26 years
ago it was my privilege to go as a brand new freshman Congressman to the
Nation's Capital, and I was engulfed by a bipartisan foreign policy with a Dem-
ocratic President, Harry Truman, working with a Republican Congress in the
80th Congress. And those two people representing the executive branch, on the
one hand, and the Congress, on the other, gave us peace in Western Europe,
helped us to build the kind of policy that has been good for us in Western
Europe for almost 30 years.
What we need is a bipartisan foreign policy, and that can be supplied by Jim
Abdnor, by Leo, by Larry Pressler. We need that kind of support if we are going
to keep the peace and build the peace in the future. And I hope you support them
for those two very, very good reasons.
I know the State of South Dakota is one of the greatest States in the Union for
many reasons. But you have a particular pride, a special feeling about the con-
tributions that this great State of South Dakota does in being a significant part
of the breadbasket of not only the United States but the world.
Now let me talk, if I might, about the part that farmers and those associated
with them can do in this great struggle to win the battle against inflation.
I have assured the farmers of this and every State that they will have all the
fuel, all the fertilizer that they need to harvest their bountiful crops this year
and next year. They will be in your hands.
And let me add one other thing while I am talking about fuel. Prior to my
speech a week ago, everybody else but myself was telling the American people
what I was going to say about gasoline taxes. Well, I have now said or given my
own views, but I want to reiterate it right here to you in South Dakota: I am
vigorously opposed to any additional Federal tax on gasoline, and I will fight it
as hard as I possibly can.
We want to keep this country rolling, not parked on a dead-end street.
321
