October 8
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
the creation of a national energy board.' It will be chaired with developing—
or I should say charged with developing a single national energy policy and
program. And I think most of you will be glad to know that our former col-
league, Rog Morton, our Secretary of Interior, will be the overall boss of our
national energy program.
Rog Morton's marching orders are to reduce imports of foreign oil by 1 million
barrels per day by the end of 1975, whether by savings here at home, or by in-
creasing our own sources.
Secretary Morton, along with his other responsibility, is also charged with in-
creasing our domestic energy supply by promptly utilizing our coal resources
and expanding recovery of domestic oil still in the grounds in old wells.
New legislation will be sought after your recess to require use of cleaner coal
processes and nuclear fuel in new electric plants, and the quick conversion of
existing oil plants. I propose that we, together, set a target date of 1980 for elim-
inating oil-fired plants from the Nation's base-loaded electrical capacity.
I will use the Defense Production Act to allocate scarce materials for energy
development, and I will ask you, the House and Senate, for whatever amend-
ments prove necessary.
I will meet with top management of the automobile industry to assure, either
by agreement or by law, a firm program aimed at achieving a 40 percent increase
in gasoline mileage within a 4-year development deadline.
Priority legislation—action, I should say—to increase energy supply here at
home requires the following:
-One, long-sought deregulation of natural gas supplies,
-Number two, responsible use of our Naval petroleum reserves in California
and Alaska,
-Number three, amendments to the Clean Air Act; and
-Four, passage of surface mining legislation to ensure an adequate supply
with commonsense environmental protection.
Now, if all of these steps fail to meet our current energy-saving goals, I will
not hestitate to ask for tougher measures. For the long range, we must work
harder on coal gasification. We must push with renewed vigor and talent re-
search in the use of nonfossil fuels. The power of the atom, the heat of the sun
and the steam stored deep in the Earth, the force of the winds and water must
be main sources of energy for our grandchildren, and we can do it.
Number three: restrictive practices. To increase productivity and contain
prices, we must end restrictive and costly practices whether instituted by Gov-
¹ On October 11, 1974, the President signed Executive Order 11814 activating the Energy Resources
Council.
231
