October 9
[131]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
|
for our children and our grandchildren—they won't fall back and criticize, they
will step up and do what is right. And the politicians ought to do the same thing.
In the remarks I made about a month ago here in Philadelphia, saluting the
convening of the First Continental Congress about 200 years ago, I cited—it was
interesting, some of the parallels that Congress, that Congress and the 93d
Congress today face.
One of the basic issues at that time, two centuries ago in this great city, was
inflation. By taking tough positions then, the inflation fighters of 1774 whipped
that problem, just as the inflation fighters and energy savers in 1974 will whip
this one.
But as I tried to express, and reiterated today, this is not something Hugh or
Dick or Drew or Bill Scranton or my former colleagues in the House can do
alone. The 1,500, or whatever the number here is tonight, can be massively
helpful. And the millions of people throughout this country can do exactly the
same. And if the mail I've received or the communications that we have gotten
are indicative of the feeling of the American people, they want to participate.
They want to do something, and they will, because they know there is a chal-
lenge here at home and a challenge throughout the world to win this battle, and
we will.
I don't have to portray to this group—you are very sophisticated and knowl-
edgeable—but the problem is if we don't, we lessen our economic security here
in America, we weaken our capability to govern ourselves, we threaten our
domestic stability, and we lose our leadership throughout the world. We don't
want that.
What I ask you to do tonight is to help us in every Congressional district in
every State. Support those candidates that want to charge ahead, to whip—to
whip inflation and to save energy. You can do it. You can send to the Congress
those individuals whose record justifies it. And I am confident that those here
tonight warrant and justify your support.
But let me take a minute, if I might, to talk about a particular subject that is
related to inflation. The facts show that our energy problem is a major difficulty
in the battle against inflation. We know that the cost of energy has gone up very
substantially, primarily because of the fact that we import some 6 million barrels
of oil from outside the continental limits every 24 hours, and the cost of that oil
has gone up unbelievably.
If we are to get a hold, if we are to grasp successfully the problems of energy,
we have to do something affirmatively to find other sources. We have to develop
269
