[70]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
little rub-off from some of the people who are inductees and others who are
participating.
I can only say, regardless of which sport, I think, whether it is golf, profes-
sional or college football, or any one of the other wonderful athletic areas of
competition, so much is added to America's society by the things that you learn
and the things that you do.
So, I am always a willing participant in anything that involves athletics. I
think it is great and wholesome, not only for the United States but the world.
And, naturally, I wish to compliment and congratulate Don and Bill¹ and
those who had the vision and the foresight. I am sure you realize what a thrill
it is for a weekend golfer like myself to walk the same fairways today with
Byron Nelson, Gene Sarazen, Ben Hogan, Sam Snead, Arnold Palmer, Jack
Nicklaus, Gary Player, Patty Berg.
I always have idols in athletics, and I don't apologize for it now. These are
the kind of idols that I think are good and wholesome for America.
And then, of course, there are the immortals who are not here today. They
are here in spirit: Walter Hagen, Harry Vardon, Francis Ouimet, Babe Didrik-
son Zaharias, and that great statesman of golf, of course, Bobby Jones.
I think it is fair to say that there is another great golfer who I know is actually
watching us here today. He wasn't a professional, but his love for golf was pro-
found, and I think he did as much as any man in this century to make golf one
of the world's number one participant sports. And I, of course, on this occasion
refer to Ike Eisenhower.
Ike would be deeply honored that some of his golfing gear is to be included in
the World Golf Hall of Fame here in Pinehurst.
As President Eisenhower knew so very well, golf is a very special game, and
it is not hard to understand its popularity. Fortunately, golf is a game that crosses
all borders and is played in virtually every country in the world.
Today we are dedicating the World Golf Hall of Fame, and I think the word
"world" is vitally important.
This is an international event, and participating with my good friend, Jim
Holshouser, who has proclaimed the “Grand Week of Golf,” are, of course, ath-
letes from all over the world. The list is long, and I won't read it at the present
time.
I think Americans sometimes lose sight of the fact that many things we value
most have been bequeathed to us by other nations. Golf, for instance, has a cen-
¹ Donald C. Collett, president, and William H. Maurer, board chairman, World Golf Hall of Fame.
120
