October 17
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
TAB B
Memorandum to: Leon Jaworski
From: Henry Ruth
Subject: Mr. Nixon
The following matters are still under investigation in this Office and may prove to have some direct
connection to activities in which Mr. Nixon is personally involved:
1. Tax deductions relating to the gift of pre-Presidential papers.
2. The Colson obstruction of justice plea in the Ellsberg matter.
3. The transfer of the national security wire tap records from the FBI to the White House.
4. The initiating of wire tapping of John Sears.
5. Misuse of IRS information.
6. Misuse of IRS through attempted initiation of audits as to "enemies."
7. The dairy industry pledge and its relationship to the price support change.
8. Filing of a challenge to the Washington Post ownership of two Florida television stations.
9. False and evasive testimony at the Kleindienst confirmation hearings as to White House participation in
Department of Justice decisions about ITT.
10. The handling of campaign contribution by Mr. Rebozo for the personal benefit of Mr. Nixon.
None of these matters at the moment rises to the level of our ability to prove even a probable criminal
violation by Mr. Nixon, but I thought you ought to know which of the pending investigations were even
remotely connected to Mr. Nixon. Of course, the Watergate cover-up is the subject of a separate memorandum.
cc: Mr. Lacovara
TAB C
September 4, 1974
Dear Mr. Buchen:
You have inquired as to my opinion regarding the length of delay that would follow, in the event of
an indictment of former President Richard M. Nixon, before a trial could reasonably be had by a fair and
impartial jury as guaranteed by the Constitution.
The factual situation regarding a trial of Richard M. Nixon within constitutional bounds, is unprecedented.
It is especially unique in view of the recent House Judiciary Committee inquiry on impeachment, result-
ing in a unanimous adverse finding to Richard M. Nixon on the Article involving obstruction of justice.
The massive publicity given the hearings and the findings that ensued, the reversal of judgment of a number
of the members of the Republican Party following release of the June 23 tape recording, and their state-
ments carried nationwide, and finally, the resignation of Richard M. Nixon, require a delay, before selec-
tion of a jury is begun, of a period from nine months to a year, and perhaps even longer. This judgment is
predicated on a review of the decisions of United States Courts involving prejudicial pre-trial publicity.
The Government's decision to pursue impeachment proceedings and the tremendous volume of television,
radio and newspaper coverage given thereto, are factors emphasized by the Courts in weighing the time
a trial can be had. The complexities involved in the process of selecting a jury and the time it will take to
complete the process, I find difficult to estimate at this time.
The situation involving Richard M. Nixon is readily distinguishable from the facts involved in the case
of United States v. Mitchell, et al., set for trial on September 30th. The defendants in the Mitchell case were
indicted by a grand jury operating in secret session. They will be called to trial, unlike Richard M. Nixon,
if indicted, without any previous adverse finding by an investigatory body holding public hearings on its
conclusions. It is precisely the condemnation of Richard M. Nixon already made in the impeachment process,
that would make it unfair to the defendants in the case of United States v. Mitchell, et al., for Richard M.
Nixon now to be joined as a coconspirator, should it be concluded that an indictment of him was proper.
The United States v. Mitchell, et al., trial will within itself generate new publicity, some undoubtedly prej-
udicial to Richard M. Nixon. I bear this in mind when I estimate the earliest time of trial of Richard M.
Nixon under his constitutional guarantees, in the event of indictment, to be as indicated above.
If further information is desired, please advise me.
Sincerely,
LEON JAWORSKI
Special Prosecutor
[Philip W. Buchen, Esq., Counsel to the President, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
351
