October 18
[168]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
167
Remarks on Signing a Drug Abuse Prevention Week
Proclamation.
October 18, 1974
I AM ABOUT to sign the Drug Abuse Prevention Week proclamation [4328],
and I will sign it in the presence of these three very important members of the
team that gives leadership to our effort in trying to handle the entry of drugs
from outside of the country, the handling of those who abuse our laws as far as
drugs are concerned, and the problem of trying to, through research, find an-
swers to the drug problem in advance.
So, on this occasion, it is a privilege for me to sign this proclamation, which I
hope will have an impact on our very sizable effort of about $750 million a year
in meeting the challenge of the drug problem in the United States.
Thank you very much, gentlemen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. in the Cab-
inet Room at the White House. Present at the sign-
ing ceremony were Ambassador Sheldon B. Vance,
Senior Adviser to the Secretary of State and Coordi-
nator for International Narcotics Matters; Dr. Rob-
ert L. DuPont, Director of the Special Action Office
for Drug Abuse Prevention; and John R. Bartels,
Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration, Department of Justice.
Following the signing ceremony, the participants
met with the President to discuss current Govern-
ment efforts to control drug abuse through treat-
ment, law enforcement, and international incentives.
168
Joint Communique Following Discussions With President
Francisco da Costa Gomes of Portugal.
October 18, 1974
AT THE INVITATION of President Ford, His Excellency Francisco da Costa
Gomes, President of the Republic of Portugal, visited Washington on October 18.
President Costa Gomes, who was accompanied by the Foreign Minister, Dr.
Mario Soares, had meetings with President Ford and with Secretary of State
Kissinger and was the guest of honor at a luncheon given by Secretary Kissinger.
President Costa Gomes outlined the achievements of the Portuguese Govern-
ment in light of recent events in restoring civil and political liberties to Portugal
and in creating the basis for a return to democracy. He reported on the negotia-
tions which had led to the independence of Guinea-Bissau and explained his
government's plans for the granting of self-determination and independence to
the remaining overseas territories. He reaffirmed his government's commitment
383
