October 31
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I want to also use this occasion, with your indulgence, to put some myths to
rest here in Sioux City. I have seen some very interesting reports in this cam-
paign here, and I consider it a very superb coincidence that we can bury these
political hobgoblins on Halloween eve.
I have seen some reports around the country that some candidates of the other
party are laying claim to being fiscal watchdogs. I have seen some reports that
they are even accusing the Republican Party of being for high spending.
Now, you and I know what causes inflation. It is not the Republican Party.
The facts are that it is largely due to the Government spending more money
than it should. And I will tell you flatly and categorically the votes to break the
budget did not come from Wiley Mayne or from those on his side of the
political aisle.
Let's take a look at the record. Some great politicians in the past have said,
"Let's look at what the record shows." And this is something I would like to
call to your particular attention, to many people in this audience today. As I look
around, I see there are a number between the ages of 20 and 42. This is an inter-
esting fact often forgotten or not known: If you are in this age group, from 20
to 42, the Congress of the United States has been in control of one political
party 85 percent of the time in your lifetime.
That means that 85 percent of your life has been lived under the legislative
control of a single political party, and this is the party which has to be held ac-
countable for so many of the problems that we face in this country today, in-
cluding inflation—especially inflation, which is the biggest legacy of this period
of monolithic Federal control.
Now, next Tuesday—it is a day that we cannot forget. I cannot believe there
is voter apathy in the great State of Iowa. I do not believe there is voter apathy
in the other 49 States. The issues are critical. The problems are serious. So, let's
all make up our minds that we do not go down the same road again that has
given us control by one party in 38 out of the last 42 years.
They have done a bad job, and they ought to be replaced.
Now, if you send Wiley Mayne-you send him back to the House of Repre-
sentatives, and you send Dave Stanley to the United States Senate, and if you re-
elect Bob Ray, your great Governor, then the ticket, the Republican ticket, will
be of great help in meeting the problems here in Iowa and helping to meet the
challenges of those problems we face both at home and abroad and in the
Nation's Capital.
I repeat, I need Wiley and Dave-you need them in Washington, you need
Bob Ray in Des Moines. And if you go out and do the job that you can do with
527
