[6]
August 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Last week, the Congress passed the elementary and secondary education bill,
and I found it on my desk. Any reservations I might have about some of its
provisions—and I do have—fade in comparison to the urgent needs of Amer-
ica for quality education. I will sign it in a few days.
I must be frank. In implementing its provisions, I will oppose excessive fund-
ing during this inflationary crisis.
As Vice President, I studied various proposals for better health care financing.
I saw them coming closer together and urged my friends in the Congress and in
the Administration to sit down and sweat out a sound compromise. The compre-
hensive health insurance plan goes a long ways toward providing early relief
to people who are sick.
Why don't we write-and I ask this with the greatest spirit of cooperation-
why don't we write a good health bill on the statute books in 1974, before this
Congress adjourns?
The economy of our country is critically dependent on how we interact with
the economies of other countries. It is little comfort that our inflation is only a
part of a worldwide problem or that American families need less of their pay-
checks for groceries than most of our foreign friends.
As one of the building blocks of peace, we have taken the lead in working
toward a more open and a more equitable world economic system. A new round
of international trade negotiations started last September among 105 nations
in Tokyo. The others are waiting for the United States Congress to grant the
necessary authority to the executive branch to proceed.
With modifications, the trade reform bill passed by the House last year
would do a good job. I understand good progress has been made in the Senate
Committee on Finance. But I am optimistic, as always, that the Senate will
pass an acceptable bill quickly as a key part of our joint prosperity campaign.
I am determined to expedite other international economic plans. We will be
working together with other nations to find better ways to prevent shortages of
food and fuel. We must not let last winter's energy crisis happen again. I will
push Project Independence for our own good and the good of others. In that,
too, I will need your help.
Successful foreign policy is an extension of the hopes of the whole American
people for a world of peace and orderly reform and orderly freedom. So, I
would say a few words to our distinguished guests from the governments of
other nations where, as at home, it is my determination to deal openly with
allies and adversaries.
Over the past 5½ years in Congress and as Vice President, I have fully sup-
10
