[236]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
public policy and that such vacancies should be filled as promptly as careful con-
sideration by the President and the Congress will permit.
In my case, despite one of the most exhaustive investigations ever undertaken
of anybody not on the FBI's ten-most-wanted list, the Congress moved expedi-
tiously and confirmed me within 8 weeks of my nomination, although I do have
to admit it, it seemed a little longer than that 8 weeks to me.
When I suddenly found myself President on August 9, 1974, and the Nation
again without a Vice President, I made it my first or highest priority—aside from
the Cyprus crisis, which I walked into-to search out and to select the most
capable and qualified person I could find for that high Office.
I finished the task in 11 days and sent to the Senate and to the House the name
of Nelson Rockefeller of New York. That was almost 3 months ago, and while
I recognize the need of the Congress to take a month off for campaigning—I did
it 13 times myself—I believe that the time has come for them to fish or cut bait in
this matter.
I have been assured by Speaker Albert and by Senator Mansfield, the majority
leader of the Senate, that they will make every effort to bring the nomination to
a final floor vote before the 93d Congress adjourns sine die probably in late
December. I am delighted to have their cooperation, because I believe it is what
the Constitution mandates and what the American people want from their
representatives. I am as convinced as ever that Governor Rockefeller is the right
man for the job, and I am anxious to have him as a working partner in our
Federal Government.
For the future, however, I will propose to the next Congress a reexamination
of the 25th amendment, which has been tested twice in as many years, to see if
the provisions of Section 2 cannot be tightened up either by constitutional
amendment or by public law.
There should be, in my judgment, a specific deadline for the President to
nominate and for the Congress to confirm a Vice President. If this reasonable
period passes without affirmative action, the Congress would then be required
to promptly begin confirmation hearings on another nominee.
It has been suggested to me—and I underline suggested—that if, because of
a partisan deadlock between the President and the Congress, the Congress fails
to act within the deadline, the next constitutional successor, presently the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, should be required to actually assume the Office
of the (Vice) President. Although I am not prepared to advocate such a step,
I must say there is really no way, despite secret briefings and all that, that anyone
can even partially be prepared to take over the duties of the Presidency on a
600
