October 24
[191]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
understand that a government big enough to give you everything you want is a
government big enough to take from you everything you have?
As I have looked through the pages of history, trying to analyze what one
political party or another has done for our people and to see if we were wrong
and the opposition was right, it is my thoughtful, honest judgment that the
Republican Party historically has stood the test.
It ended, in our recent memory, the longest and the bloodiest war in America's
history. It has begun the long, hard process of returning the power from Wash-
ington back to our local and State units of government-government back to
the people from those that wanted to control everything in the Nation's Capital,
returning authority and discretion to locally elected officials who are under
your more careful scrutiny.
The Republican Party, as I have seen it, has made an honest, determined effort
to give you a program that will fight inflation, conserve our energy, and keep our
economy strong.
Now, I was criticized for submitting a 31-point program to the Congress a
couple of weeks ago. Some of my Democratic critics called it a marshmallow
approach. Well, then I had the opportunity just the other night to listen to one
of the leading spokesmen for the Democrats coming up with their program.
Well, if mine was a marshmallow, theirs was a lemon.
Let me conclude with this: We can make headway both at home and abroad.
We have got a good program. We just need a few more troops. We can't afford
to lose some of the outstanding people that have been with us-some much
longer than others, some newcomers. They are all good. But we have got some
great problems here at home, and we have got some serious ones abroad.
I can recall vividly coming to the Congress on January 3, 1949. At that time,
we had just ended World War II, and our country was embarked on a great
bipartisan effort to have a foreign policy in America that would keep the peace
won so wonderfully in Europe and the Pacific.
There was a Democratic President by the name of Harry Truman who
worked very successfully with a Republican Congress, the 80th Congress, and
this bipartisan effort was successful in laying the foundation for peace, a founda-
tion that developed the North Atlantic Treaty.
It laid the foundation for strength in doing what was right from a humani-
tarian point of view in Latin America or in Africa or Southeast Asia. It was a
bipartisanship that was predicated on politics stopping at the water's edge. And
as we look back over the last 25 or 30 years, that kind of approach has been
473
