September 27
[106]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I am also very pleased to welcome representatives from many foreign lands.
This is, as we all know, an interdependent world. Inflation is an international
problem. The efforts of each nation can become more effective if concerted
action is achieved. The United States Government will consult with friends
abroad as we move to combat an international threat.
I look forward to a productive series of discussions today and tomorrow morn-
ing.
In the great tradition of the American town hall, this conference includes
the widest range of views and opinions. Inflation concerns all Americans. This
is a joint executive-legislative undertaking in response to a bipartisan recom-
mendation of the Congress. It demonstrates that Americans can still come
together in an effective way to confront an immediate danger threatening every
citizen.
There has been much talk at the various sessions throughout the country, but
there has been action and a generation of ideas that will be used as tools for us
on this occasion today and tomorrow.
We have taken a good look at many, many options, and we have already
narrowed some of the options to those which would appear to be most effective
and command the widest support.
I appreciate your willingness to work with me on the inflationary problem
which transcends America's many special interests, whether Republican or
Democratic, labor or business, urban or rural. Nor does inflation respect age,
sex, race, color, or creed. And inflation certainly punishes most cruelly those
least able to cope with it.
Today's conference, like others that preceded it, is wide open. All views and
opinions are invited. This Administration's commitment to visible and respon-
sive Government remains intact. I might not like everything I hear, but it is my
solemn duty as President of the United States to give fair consideration to all
views and to carefully weigh the possible courses of action.
At the outset of this session, a word about expectations is appropriate. In
searching for the very best policies, let us recognize that there are no quick or
easy solutions. No miracle cure has emerged from the pre-conference meetings.
Inflation is a problem which we must deal with patiently and persistently. In
this battle, there is no substitute for candor and hard work.
Spokesmen from the specialized meetings will report areas of general agree-
ment. I have also asked them, and I think this is important, to report areas of dis-
201
