[16]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am proud of America. You are proud of America. We should be proud to be
Americans.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:38 a.m. at the
Conrad Hilton Hotel. Prior to his remarks, the Pres-
ident was presented the VFW Citizenship Gold
Medal Award by Ray R. Soden, commander-in-
chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
17
Remarks on Intention To Nominate Nelson A. Rockefeller
To Be Vice President of the United States. August 20, 1974
Mr. Speaker, members of the leadership of the House and Senate, members of
the Cabinet:
After a great deal of soul searching, after considering the advice of Mem-
bers of the Congress, Republicans as well as the Democratic leadership, after
consulting with many, many people within the Republican Party and without,
I have made a decision which I would now like to announce to the American
people.
This was a difficult decision, but the man that I am selecting as nominee for
Vice President is a person whose long record of accomplishment in the Gov-
ernment and outside is well known. He comes from a family that has long
been associated with the building of a better America. It is a family that has
contributed significantly to many accomplishments, both at home and abroad,
for the American people.
His achievements in Government are well, well known. He served in the
Department of State under former President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. He
served under the Presidency of Harry Truman. He served in the Department of
HEW under President Eisenhower.
He has served as Governor of the great Empire State, the State of New York,
for 15 years, the longest period of time in the history of the State of New
York. He known across the land as a person dedicated to the free enterprise
system, a person who is recognized abroad for his talents, for his dedication to
making this a peaceful world.
It was a tough call for a tough job. The number of people who were consid-
ered by me in the process were all men and women of great quality. They
came from those suggested to me who serve in the Congress, the Senate and the
House of Representatives.
28
