[302]
December 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
The two Presidents noted that their views on these matters are comple-
mentary and, in this context, they agreed that the following interrelated steps
should be taken in sequence:
-They agreed that additional steps should be taken, within the framework of
existing institutions and agreements to which they are a party, and in consulta-
tion with other interested consumers, to strengthen their cooperation. In partic-
ular, such cooperation should include programs of energy conservation, for the
development of existing and alternative sources of energy and for financial
solidarity.
-Based on substantial progress in the foregoing areas, the two Presidents
agreed that it will be desirable to propose holding a preparatory meeting between
consumers and producers to develop an agenda and procedures for a consumer/
producer conference. The target date for such a preparatory meeting should be
March 1975.
-The preparatory discussions will be followed by intensive consultations
among consumer countries in order to prepare positions for the conference.
The two Presidents agreed that the actions enumerated above will be carried
out in the most expeditious manner possible and in full awareness of the common
interest in meeting this critical situation shared by the United States and France
and all other countries involved.
President Ford and President Giscard d'Estaing reviewed current develop-
ments in East-West relations. They discussed their respective meetings with
General Secretary Brezhnev, and Secretary Kissinger reported on his discus-
sions with leaders of the People's Republic of China. They exchanged views on
developments in East-West negotiations, including the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. They expressed their conviction that progress in
easing tensions was being made.
The two Presidents exchanged views on the present situation in the Middle
East. They agreed on the importance of early progress toward a just and lasting
peace in that area.
President Giscard d'Estaing described current efforts by France and other
members of the European Community to further the process of European unity.
President Ford reaffirmed the continuing support of the United States for efforts
to achieve European unity.
The two Presidents discussed the situation in Indochina. They noted that
progress in Laos toward reconciliation and reunification was encouraging.
The two Presidents agreed on the need for all parties to support fully the Paris
756
