[127]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
recall, I had about 15 mayors from all over the country down here to see me,
including some business people.
I told them I wanted to help. Within a day or so, I called Senator Williams.
After it was suggested, we worked out a figure and a time and a formula. And
as a result, Senator Williams, in conjunction with other Members of the Con-
gress, arrived at a mass transit bill that provides for a little over $11 billion over
a period of 6 years with a formula between capital outlays and operating
expenses.
I think we made a big step forward, and I compliment the Congress for coop-
erating. And there was no need for me to mention in that speech yesterday
something that was fait accompli the day before.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[18.] Q. Mr. President, in your recent U.N. speech, you added some last-
minute remarks praising Secretary of State Kissinger, and last night you made an
extraordinary move of going out to Andrews Air Force Base to see him off on his
trip abroad.
Are you upset by the criticism that Secretary Kissinger is receiving from the
press, the public, and Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I would put it this way, Mr. Jones [Phil Jones, CBS News].
I am very fond of Dr. Kissinger on a personal basis. I have tremendous respect
and admiration for the superb job that he has done since he has been the Director
of the National Security Agency (Council) and also as Secretary of State.
I think what he has done for peace in the world, what he is continuing to do
for peace throughout the world, deserves whatever good and appropriate things
I can say about him and whatever little extra effort I can make to show my
appreciation. And I intend to continue to do it.
Q. Sir, do you feel that his effectiveness is being undermined by this criticism?
The President. I haven't seen any adverse effects so far. We are making head-
way and, I think, constructively in all of the areas where I think and he thinks
it is important for us to do things to preserve peace and build a broader base for
peace.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDACY
[19.] Q. Mr. President, at your first news conference you told us that you
probably would run for a term of your own. Since then there has been what you
254
