[215]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
If I might now, I would like to say a word or two about some people that I
know very intimately, that I have known through my contacts both in the
Congress and as Vice President and now as President-and I say this, not
because of what somebody wrote for me but because I know, know from work-
ing in the relationship between a House leader and a Senator, or a House leader
and the people with whom he works on a day-to-day basis.
I presided over the United States Senate roughly 6, 7 months, and I used to
sit there and watch the 100 Members of the Senate-and there are some fine,
outstanding Members. In Mark Hatfield, you have a fine Senator.
But let me just say now that in Bob Packwood, you have in your junior Senator
the kind of a person that I admire and respect, the type of an individual who
seems to pick the right issues, the right side of issues. He works at the job, he is
highly respected on this side or that side of the aisle. So I am delighted to be here
in Oregon to urge you to maximize your effort on behalf of Bob Packwood.
I served 25-plus years in the House of Representatives, and I was told the
first year that I was sworn in-I sat down next to an old-timer, and he said,
"Jerry, do you know the definition of a Member of the House?"
And I said, "No." I was 35, and this man was 70. I looked at him with awe.
He had been there 30 years, and I had just been sworn in.
He said, "Jerry, do you know the definition of a Congressman ?"
I said, "No, I don't, Earl."
He said, "It is the shortest distance between 2 years." [Laughter]
Well, I survived that, but you have sent, in my lifetime, some great Members
of the House. One is leaving—a dear friend of mine-Wendell Wyatt. We will
miss him.
But in Diarmuid O'Scanlain you have a person who is starting out at a young
age, who can build a great career and ably represent the First Congressional
District in the State of Oregon. I hope you work to make sure that he is down
there to do the job for you.
You have an incumbent that many of you know is extremely able, just a
tremendous campaigner. His name has been mentioned here. He also is a very
close and very dear friend of mine-John Dellenback. You need him back there
representing Oregon.
And then, of course, you have got a vacancy here, a vacancy that ought to be
filled by the kind of a person that John Piacentini 2 is. John, we sure hope you
will make it. Good luck. We will see you down there January 3.
2 Republican candidate in the Third Congressional District of Oregon.
550
