[162]
October 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
apartments or condominiums, the bill unfortunately does not cover conven-
tional mortgages for apartment or condominium projects. Moreover, I had
hoped that this help for the housing industry could be delivered with a minimum
inflationary impact, and I know that the Congress intended the program to be
self-supporting. However, the bill establishes a rigid, illogical interest ceiling
formula that fails to relate interest income to actual borrowing costs and to
cover adequately administrative costs.
163
Remarks at the Dedication of the New Department
of Labor Building. October 18, 1974
Secretary Brennan, Secretary Weinberger, Administrator Sampson, former
Secretaries of Labor, distinguished leaders of organized labor, reverend clergy:
It is really a great privilege and pleasure for me to have the opportunity of say-
ing a few words this morning and to subsequently participate in the cornerstone
laying.
Now, let me at the outset say that at the White House this morning I received
an honorary membership in the Bricklayers, Masons and Plasterers, from Tom
Murphy.¹ This was the shortest apprenticeship that any bricklayer, mason, or
plasterer ever went through. But I thank them, nevertheless.
And may
I add to what the Secretary of Labor said a moment ago. He gave
me, as I came to the podium, this wonderful resolution signed by those who
were here, and some are here this morning—the vocational industrial youth
organization. I thank them and express my deep gratitude for their resolution.²
Well, Mr. Secretary and distinguished guests, this building will house the
administration of programs that vividly demonstrate America's sense of con-
cern, compassion, and equity.
Enormous progress, as you have mentioned, Mr. Secretary, has been made
since 1913 when the Department of Labor started its work. Its most urgent con-
cern then, as we look back on history, was child labor. Unemployment insurance
and workmen's compensation did not exist at that time. Neither did the dozens
¹ Thomas F. Murphy, president of the Bricklayers, Masons and Plasterers International Union of America.
"The Vocational Industrial Clubs of America, Inc., during their national leadership conference, held
October 12-18, 1974, in Washington, D.C., passed a resolution of support for the President's WIN (Whip
Inflation Now) program.
378
