[195]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
RESIGNATION OF MR. SAWHILL
[20.] Q. To follow that up, the Mr. Sawhill matter for a minute-
THE PRESIDENT. I can't see who asked that. I can't see with the lights and with-
out my glasses.
Q. Kraslow [David Kraslow, Cox Newspapers]. What policy differences, sir,
did you have, you and Mr. Morton have with Mr. Sawhill which precipitated his
resignation?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said a moment ago, I appointed a new man to head up
the Energy Council, and that requires, I think, when you give a man a new
assignment, the opportunity to make recommendations for those that will work
with him on the Council. It seems to me that with Rog Morton being given that
job, he ought to have the right, with my approval, to make changes, and that is
why we made the changes. I think they are good people. Mr. Sawhill, who I
admire, will be offered a first-class assignment in this Administration.
Q. Are you saying, Mr. President, that there were no policy disagreements?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there were any major policy differences. I think
there may have been some differences in approach or technique, but if you
give a man a job, you have to give him the people he wants to carry out that
responsibility.
CAMPAIGN STATEMENTS CONCERNING THE CONGRESS AND FOREIGN POLICY
[21.] Q. Mr. President, in Oklahoma City, you said that overwhelming vic-
tories in Congress this fall by the opposition party, being the Democrats, would
seriously jeopardize world peace. This is our first chance to question you on that.
I was wondering if you would elaborate on that. Did you mean it in the sense
that some Democrats accused you of, demagoguery, or is this consistent with
your original announced policy that you were going to try to unify the country
after Watergate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the facts that I referred to involved the conflict
we had with a majority of the Members of the House and Senate over the limita-
tions and restrictions they put on the continuing resolution. Those limitations
and restrictions on that particular piece of legislation, in my judgment and in
the judgment of the Secretary of State, will make it more difficult for the
United States to help the Greeks. It will make it more difficult for us to work
to bring about a negotiated settlement in the Cyprus matter.
That Congressional limitation will not help our relations with Turkey.
I point out that both the United States and Turkey are members of NATO,
490
