October 18
[165]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
theless, the risks created by the remaining ones fail to provide compensating
benefits. I will, of course, do my best to accomplish the goals which we had set
before the Congress took this action. Whatever we can still do to assist in resolv-
ing the Cyprus dispute will be done. But if we fail despite our best efforts, those
in the Congress who overrode the Congressional leadership must bear the full
responsibility for that failure.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res. 1167, approved October 17, 1974, is Public Law 93-448 (88 Stat. 1363).
165
Memorandum on Federal Energy Conservation.
October 18, 1974
MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
SUBJECT: Energy Conservation by the Federal Government
Last year, Federal agencies were directed to reduce anticipated energy use
during fiscal year 1974 by seven percent. I have now been advised that actual
results for the year will show a reduction of about 24% from anticipated energy
demand—more than tripling the original objective. This savings is equivalent
to about 90 million barrels of oil and $725 million in energy costs to the Federal
taxpayer. Part of this savings was due to the severe petroleum shortages we ex-
perienced during the embargo and to the mild winter, but the total savings
reflects serious and dedicated efforts to conserve energy.
I congratulate you and your employees for this fine achievement. The success
of the Federal Energy Management Program provides an excellent example for
all Americans, both of what can be accomplished in efforts to conserve energy
and of the dedication and sacrifice which employees of the Federal Government
are bringing to this important task.
I hereby direct that the Federal Energy Management Program be continued
through fiscal year 1975. I am today establishing a new energy conservation goal
for the Federal agencies for fiscal year 1975 of 15 percent savings below energy
consumed in fiscal year 1973. This will result in energy savings equivalent to
approximately 55 million barrels of oil during the year.
To achieve this new savings goal, it is imperative that all Federal agencies
examine facilities and operations, including Government owned-contractor
operated activities, for energy conservation potential during the remainder of
this year. In addition, I am asking the Administrators of the Federal Energy
381
