December 9
[285]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
Both sides were agreed on the importance of maintaining and developing the
ties between the Federal Republic of Germany and West Berlin as well as full
and complete implementation of all other parts of the Quadripartite Agreement.
The President and the Federal Chancellor reaffirmed the attachment of their
Governments and peoples to the high purposes of the United Nations. They
reviewed the proceedings of the current General Assembly and expressed their
hope that the spirit of cooperation would prevail over divergencies and divisions
so that the cause of international harmony, cooperation and a sound and endur-
ing peace would be furthered.
The President and the Chancellor agreed to remain in close touch with one
another, and to consult on all matters of mutual interest as might be required
in the future.
285
Statement on Signing the Departments of Labor, and
Health, Education, and Welfare Appropriation
Act, 1975. December 9, 1974
I HAVE signed H.R. 15580, the 1975 appropriations act for the Departments
of Labor and Health, Education, and Welfare and related agencies.
The Congress intended that the appropriations provided in H.R. 15580 should
not exceed the fiscal year 1975 budget. Nevertheless, amounts included in the bill
for mandatory Federal payments for public assistance are $1.2 billion below the
estimates in the budget. The conferees' report on the bill, however, explicitly
states that the "Conferees are acutely aware of the need to control inflation and
of the need to restrain spending as one means to achieve this objective." The
report further states: "The Conferees have no intention of approving new budget
(obligational) authority which will ultimately result in spending in excess of
the total budget estimate for the bill.” In conclusion, the conferees expressed the
willingness of the Congress to consider fully deferrals and rescissions submitted
by the President to achieve these objectives.
I commend the Congress on this responsible approach to reducing inflationary
pressures. I believe, however, that further review of mandatory public assistance
spending will confirm the need for significantly higher spending than provided
for in H.R. 15580. In the meantime, I will submit, as expected by the report of the
725
