[211]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
dollar treats, and then the trick is how to pay for them without higher taxation
or more inflation.
And it is my observation that one Halloween a year is enough. What we need
the rest of the time in Washington, in Sacramento, in State capitals across the
country, and in our county and local governments, are serious-minded, dedicated
individuals, inflation fighters and energy savers.
I am told that Hugh Flournoy's opponent in the California gubernatorial
race claims that one State alone cannot do much about inflation, that it is mainly
a Federal problem.
Well, I for one consider California part of the Union and a very important
part of our Union. One out of every ten Americans lives in this great State.
You have the largest of all delegations in the Congress and the largest number
of eligible voters of any State in the Union. You excel in so many, many fields—
in industry, agriculture, automobiles, advanced technologies, education, effective
State and local government, the arts, recreation, conservation, natural resources.
You have all of these great attributes and resources. You even, in my conver-
sations with many from California, run out of superlatives when you talk about
the State. And I think for good reason. So I ask, in all sincerity, this problem:
California not involved in the inflation problem?
My answer is categorical: nonsense. You are not only one-tenth of the
problem, you are also one-tenth of the solution.
This State has shown the rest of the country and the world there is nothing
Californians can't do when they really put their shoulder to the wheel. California
outstrips all but a handful of nations in wealth and productivity. Nothing
California can do about inflation? I repeat, nonsense.
If inflation were only a problem for Washington, I would be staying in
Washington trying to solve it. But the state of our economy is a national prob-
lem, and to the extent that it is a problem of the Federal Government, it is a
political problem.
Frankly, that is why I am traveling here in California this evening and Fresno
tomorrow and five or six other States this last weekend of this great campaign—
to share at least my views on the 1974 political campaign and the issues that are
involved.
And I am asking—as I and Hugh and the rest of the State ticket, including
your Congressional candidates, campaign day and night, literally—I am asking
all Californians to do their full share.
You have 10 percent of the political clout in the Congress and, I am quite
frank to say, one of the ablest, as well as one of the largest Republican delega-
530
