September 11
[71]
Gerald R. Ford, 1974
I frequently find myself in. There was a water hazard beyond that, and then
some 95 feet or more to the pin, and Henry conceded the putt. [Laughter]
But this afternoon, I had one of the greatest thrills of my lifetime, the chance
to play a few holes with the superstars of world golfing, and I thoroughly en-
joyed it and they were most considerate of my difficulties.
I can't tell you how I felt out there surrounded by such legendary names as
Berg, Hogan, Nelson, Nicklaus, Palmer, Player, Sarazen, Snead. And in all
honesty, it was something like being in a golfer's heaven, and I appreciate the
opportunity to be there.
But as the cliché goes, tonight I have good news and some bad news. The good
news, that four of our honorees-Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, Gary Player,
and Sam Snead-will be competing in the World Open beginning tomorrow.
The bad news is today they shared the course with me. And I will tell you
what I mean.
In 1972, I played with Sam Snead in the Pro-Am before the Kemper Open,
and he didn't win. In 1973, I played with Miller Barber before the Kemper Open,
and he didn't win. And this year, I played with Tom Weiskopf before the Kem-
per Open, and then I played with Dave Stockton up at Pleasant Valley in the
Pro-Am, and neither of them won the tournament.
Now, you know why, I am sure, in Washington I am known as the President
of the United States, and in golf I am sort of known as the jinx of the links.
[Laughter]
Frankly, I figured it out, that Snead, Barber, Weiskopf, and Stockton blew
about $165,000 in prize money by their performance with me in the several
pro-amateurs that I indicated. But if you think they are unhappy, you should
see the Internal Revenue Service. [Laughter]
As you undoubtedly know by now, I thoroughly enjoy golf, not only the
competition but the people. I enjoy the exercise it provides, the competitive
challenge, the good fellowship before and after each game.
But if I had to single out one attribute of golf above all others, it would be
found in the very simple statement from the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and I
quote: Golf is played on the honor system. A player is expected to count his
own strokes even though he may miss the ball completely, to acknowledge the
fact promptly if he violates a rule and incurs a penalty, and to avoid interfering
in any way with his opponent's or his fellow competitor's play.
Golf is one of the few games where honor is more important than the rules.
Without good sportsmanship, golf could not exist. Without trust, another name
for good sportsmanship, governments cannot exist.
123
