Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 17 [60]
policy directions and organizational struc-
ture of this important program.
The proposals are made necessary by
the dramatic changes which have taken
place over recent years in the conditions
that surround and influence development
assistance:
-The lower income countries them-
selves have made impressive progress
and gained experience which makes
it possible for them to stand at the
center of the development process;
-The other industrialized nations can
now afford to provide major assist-
ance to the poorer nations, and most
of them now have substantial and
expanding programs in this field;
-A number of international develop-
ment institutions now possess a cap-
ability to help match the efforts of
the recipient countries themselves
with the most effective possible blend
of assistance from donor nations;
-The private sector has become in-
creasingly active and effective in
channeling investments in a fashion
to stimulate growth in the lower in-
come countries.
The Annual Report on the Foreign
Assistance Program for Fiscal Year 1970,
which I transmit herewith, covers
period in which we undertook to formu-
late and present to Congress a more effec-
tive foreign assistance program tailored
to the needs of the 70's. But it was also a
period in which our present foreign
assistance program helped lower income
nations to achieve a number of gratifying
successes:
-India harvested the largest food grain
crop in its history and was able to
reduce food grain imports 50 percent
below the previous year's level;
-Thailand approved voluntary family
planning as a national policy, and
Ghana adopted a major population
program;
-West Pakistan produced enough
wheat not only to meet its own needs
but to allow shipments of wheat to
East Pakistan;
---Domestic savings in Turkey, encour-
aged by an effective fiscal policy, rose
to 18 percent of that country's gross
national product and financed 91
percent of its fixed investment;
-Ten million school-age children in
Brazil each day received nutritious
lunches which included U.S. food-
stuffs.
In the important field of technical as-
sistance, the Agency for International De-
velopment focused its efforts increasingly
on a limited number of key problems.
Among these were the "second-genera-
tion" problems resulting from the "Green
Revolution." Dramatically increased agri-
cultural yields and new technology have
in some instances contributed to shortages
of facilities for storage, shipment and
marketing and to rural unemployment.
AID sought to assist in solving these prob-
lems in order to insure the ongoing suc-
cess of this significant "Revolution." It
also sponsored new research in important
areas such as food production and family
planning. A total of $75 million was pro-
vided for the conduct of population pro-
grams, a rise of 64 percent over the
previous year.
I am proud that our present foreign
assistance program has achieved impor-
tant successes in a field in which quick
and dramatic successes are few. Develop-
ment assistance, however slow its results, is
an important means of cooperating with
the lower income nations to help them
solve their most critical problems-those
71-234-72-14
157
