Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 17 [61]
And he also pointed up another fact
that, of course, has been overridden by the
Laotian activity: that the operation in the
Chup Plantation led by General Tri is
going along in a fashion much better than
was expected, with a great number of
enemy casualties and, as General Abrams
put it, excellent performance on the part
of those
groups.
Q. Mr. President, it is reported in both
the South Vietnamese and, I think, in our
statement the operation will be limited in
time and scope. Can you define those
terms?
THE PRESIDENT. By time, the opera-
tion will be limited to the time that is
necessary to accomplish the objective. The
objective is not to occupy any part of Laos.
The South Vietnamese are not there to
stay. They are there to disrupt the enemy's
lines of communication, their supply lines,
their infiltration routes, and then to get
out.
Once that is accomplished, if it is ac-
complished early, they will get out. If it
takes a longer time, they will stay in.
There is also another limitation in terms
of time. And that is the weather. In the
latter part of April or the early part of
May, the rains come. And they would have
to get out then because then the North
Vietnamese also would pose no threat.
In terms of area, space, it is limited to
the specific area that you see on the maps
here, in terms of cutting across the trails-
and it is more than one trail, there are
three or four trails-the trails that are the
supply lines on which the North Viet-
namese operate.
TROOP WITHDRAWALS
[5] Q. Would you have any further
word on troop withdrawals for us at this
time or when can you tell us about fur-
ther troop withdrawals?
THE PRESIDENT. I will make a further
announcement on troop withdrawals, as I
have indicated, before the May 1st period
when the last troop withdrawal period
will have expired.
By that time, as you know, 265,000
Americans will have been withdrawn, and
the further withdrawal announcement
will be made then.
I can say today that as a result partially
of our success in Cambodia, and based on
also the present success of the Laotian
operation, that the troop withdrawal pro-
gram will go forward on schedule.
I should also point out, however, that
as far as this year is concerned, even if the
Laotian operation had not been under-
taken by the South Vietnamese with our
air support, the troop withdrawal program
could have gone ahead on schedule.
What this relates to, insofar as Ameri-
can troop withdrawals are concerned, is
not this year but next year. Next year will
be a year when the Vietnamization pro-
gram's very success creates the point of
greatest danger, because then the number
of ground combat troops that we will have
in South Vietnam will be lower.
Q. If this is a great success, it could go
next year much faster-is that a right
inference?
THE PRESIDENT. When I made the an-
nouncement about moving into Cam-
bodia, I said that its purpose was to insure
our troop withdrawal, to reduce our casu-
alties, and, we hope, to shorten the war. It
has had those effects. Our casualties, even
in this past week in which we have moved
in with air support in support of the South
Vietnamese and have suffered some air
losses, were only half of what they were in
the same week before Cambodia.
161
