Richard Nixon, 1971
July 5 [221]
was meeting in Philadelphia. He used to
stand up writing at that desk because
while he was a relatively young man, not
perhaps by your standards, but certainly
by mine, only 33 years of age, he had
arthritis and he therefore liked to write
standing up.
Coming now to the basic theme, the
reason that I believe that young Ameri-
cans--you who represent the youth of
America at its best-the reason that I
believe that you will represent America
well abroad, the reason I believe that
your
generation, the II million new voters, will
do so much for America at home, is that
you will infuse into this country some
idealism, some courage, some stamina,
some high moral purpose that this Nation
always needs, because a country through-
out history, we find, goes through ebbs
and flows of idealism. Time after time
the country needs an infusion of new
spirit, an infusion of youth. You are bring-
ing that.
As I meet with this group today, I sense
that we can have confidence that Amer-
ica's new voters, America's young genera-
tion, will provide what America needs as
we approach our 200th birthday, not just
strength and not just wealth but the
"Spirit of '76," a spirit of moral courage,
a spirit of high idealism in which we be-
lieve in the American dream, but in which
we realize that the American dream can
never be fulfilled until every American
has an equal chance to fulfill it in his own
life.
That is what I believe. It is what you
believe. And that is why, I think, we are
so proud to have you in this room today on
this historic occasion.
Mr. Ramsey, we have had some great
stars perform in this room, of course, some
of the great stars in opera and some of
the marvelous singing groups, and some
from the age of jazz-Duke Ellington, for
example, was here-and many others that
are perhaps more relevant to the group
here. But I think that this room would
be honored to have this group that is going
to represent us in Europe sing in the White
House. Could we have a number from
you?
[At this point, the "Young Americans in Con-
cert," under the direction of William Ramsey,
sang the "Battle Hymn of the Republic." The
President then resumed speaking.]
Mr. Ramsey, I have heard the "Battle
Hymn of the Republic" at least 700 or 800
times, and I have heard it sung by many
fine groups, but I can tell you that after
hearing this rendition, that no group has
ever sung it better. Believe me, this is a
magnificent job.
Now, I want to ask you a question:
How many of you have been to Europe
before? Just a few.
Now, one thing you are going to find is
that when you are there, it is very excit-
ing, you know, to see all these places that
you read about when you were in school
and the rest, and the sightseeing, in addi-
tion to the performance, and the people
you are going to meet, and you are going
to, of course, get acquainted with some
different kinds of food than you have been
used to, but it will be fun.
From my own experience, I can tell you
that after traveling to about 70 countries
in the world that I have always enjoyed
it, and I have always enjoyed particularly
trying different kinds of food. But after
I have been gone about a month, I say,
"Gee, I would like to have some home
cooking." Now, I told Mrs. Nixon, as we
were getting off the helicopter, that we
really ought to provide some home cook-
ing. We don't quite have enough for 500,
801
