Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 24 [72]
3. Develop proposed safety standards
with reliance on recognized private stand-
ards setting organizations;
4. Promulgate standards after a hear-
ing and testimony on the benefits and
burdens of the proposed legislation; and
5. Monitor industry compliance and
enforce mandatory standards.
The mechanisms which will be included
in this bill provide for full participation on
the part of private organizations and
groups in the development of standards.
NATIONAL ATTACK ON CONSUMER FRAUD
Consumer fraud and deception jeop-
ardize the health and welfare of our peo-
ple. They cheat consumers of millions of
dollars annually. They are often directed
against those who can least afford the loss,
and are least able to defend themselves-
the elderly, the handicapped, and the
poor.
At the same time, the honest business-
man is damaged by fraud and deceptive
practices every bit as much as the con-
sumer-and perhaps more. He is sub-
jected to the unfair competition of the
unscrupulous businessman, and he loses
money. He is subjected to the opprobrium
of those who have suffered at the hands of
unscrupulous businessmen, and he loses
the goodwill of the public. For it is a fact,
however unfortunate, that in the area of
business especially, the many are com-
monly judged by the actions of the few.
Efforts to eliminate these unethical
business practices have not been successful
enough. It is commonly profitable for un-
scrupulous businessmen to operate in
defiance of the enforcement authorities, to
accept whatever penalties and punish-
ments are incurred, and to continue to
operate in spite of these. The penalty is
just part of the overhead. I want these
practices brought to an end.
With this message I am committing
this administration to a full and forceful
effort to see that they are brought to an
end.
CONSUMER FRAUD PREVENTION ACT
I am again submitting and I urge
prompt attention to a bill to make un-
lawful a broad but clearly defined range of
practices which are deceptive to con-
sumers. The legislation would provide
that the Department of Justice be given
new powers to enforce prohibitions
against those who would victimize con-
sumers by fraudulent and deceptive
practices.
It would give consumers who have been
victimized by such practices the right to
bring cases in the Federal courts to re-
cover damages, upon the successful ter-
mination of a government suit under the
Consumer Fraud Prevention Act.
I am also recommending civil penalties
of up to $10,000 for each offense in viola-
tion of this act.
The Department of Justice has created
a new Consumer Protection Section with-
in the Antitrust Division, which has cen-
tralized the Department's enforcement in
the courts of existing statutes designed to
protect the consumer interest. Thus the
Department of Justice is prepared to en-
force promptly the proposed Consumer
Fraud Prevention Act.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
While there is a need for new legisla-
tion to insure the rights of the consumer,
207
