Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 18 [108]
the challenge of changing community val-
ues. This flexibility can best be achieved
by concentrating more decisionmaking
power in the States and the localities.
The purpose of Special Revenue Shar-
ing is to focus Federal resources on major
public problems and at the same time
maximize flexibility of choice at the State
and local level. The Special Revenue
Sharing approach provides an ideal
means for addressing national problems
that have local solutions.
A SPECIAL REVENUE SHARING PROGRAM
FOR TRANSPORTATION
The proposal I am submitting today
would establish a new Special Revenue
Sharing Program for Transportation. In
simplest terms, this program means re-
turning Federal tax dollars to States and
to local communities for investment in
transportation--without the usual Fed-
eral controls and restraints. It signals a
philosophical return to the days when the
man who best understood the local terrain
was the man who blazed the trail.
FUNDING
I propose that the Special Revenue
Sharing Program for Transportation be-
come effective on January 1, 1972, and
that it be funded initially at an annual
level of $2.566 billion. All funds that
would be included in this new program
would come from twenty-three existing
Federal grant-in-aid programs which are
now grouped under five major headings:
Urban Mass Transit Grants, Airport
Grants, Highway Safety Grants, Federal
Aid for Highways (but not the Interstate
System), and Highway Beautification
Grants. The size of these programs in my
proposed budget for Fiscal Year 1972 is
as follows:
Millions
of dollars
$525
220
Urban Mass Transit____.
Airport Grants_____.
Highway Safety Grants___.
Federal Aid for Highways (Except for
the Interstate System)_.
Highway Beautification Grants___
130
1,625
66
$2,566
The money for these programs pres-
ently comes from three different funding
sources: general tax revenues, the High-
way Trust Fund and the Airport and Air-
way Trust Fund. The two trust funds
were established so that money could be
collected directly from those who use
highways or airports-through special
taxes on gasoline and on air tickets-and
then used to improve the related trans-
portation mode.
This principle would continue to be ob-
served under Special Revenue Sharing. In
the first year of operation, Special Reve-
nue Sharing money would be drawn from
the two trust funds and from general reve-
nues in the same proportion as under the
existing categorical grant system, though
it could be spent as the localities see fit.
After that, however, the portion of the
Special Revenue Sharing Program for
Transportation derived from the trust
funds in any year would equal the portion
of the program that was used for high-
ways and for aviation-related purposes in
the preceding year. Thus the money in
the trust funds would still go to achieve
the general purposes for which the funds
were established. General funds would
pay for all other transportation activities.
The National System of Interstate and
Defense Highways would not be included
in this Special Revenue Sharing Program.
443
