Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 4 [349]
349 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Gandhi
of India. November 4, 1971
Madam Prime Minister, our very distin-
guished guests from India, and our very
distinguished guests from the United
States:
Madam Jha, the wife of the very able
Ambassador to the United States from
India, said a moment ago that for her
this was a very historic occasion. I think
all of us should realize that this is, in-
deed, a very historic occasion for a very
historic room.
As I sit here tonight by the Prime
Minister of India, my mind goes back to
the other times that I have been in this
room. My memory goes back, as does, I
am sure, the memories of most here, to
the dinners that have been held in this
room, not a large room compared with
the great rooms of Europe and Asia and
the rest, but it is the room where Presi-
dents of the United States for over 190
years have entertained state guests.
In the chair that the Prime Minister
now occupies, in my time I have seen
Winston Churchill, Charles de Gaulle,
Chancellor Adenauer, Prime Minister
de Gasperi, Kishi of Japan, Sukarno of
Indonesia-large countries, small coun-
tries-all honored men, honored women,
who have occupied the place of head of
state or head of government visiting the
United States of America.
I think of what makes this occasion
particularly special, particularly historic,
in a room that has seen so many historic
occasions. I am reminded of the fact that
just 2 nights ago in the East Room-
where tonight we will hear or see one
who has been described as America's out-
standing ballet dancer-2 nights ago we
heard a man who was described by Time
magazine, when he completed his 25th
year at the Metropolitan Opera House,
as the best tenor in the world-Richard
Tucker.
Afterwards we went upstairs, and I
had a chance to talk to him a bit. He told
me about his sons. He had three sons. He
was very proud of them. One was a doc-
tor. One was a broker in New York City.
Another was a very successful businessman.
I said to Mr. Tucker, "But no tenor, no
singer?" He said, "No, Mr. President." He
said, "You will find that in the field of
music that it is the exception." As a mat-
ter of fact, he could think of no case
where it was not the case that the great
talent that one in the field of music has
is transferred to the second generation.
Sometimes to the third, but never to the
second. So his sons-a doctor, a broker,
a businessman.
Naturally, tonight our thoughts go to
the field of politics. Is the great genius
that we see in the field of politics trans-
ferred to the second generation or to the
third or the fourth, or what is the case?
I think back to the year 1957. Prime
Minister Nehru sat in this chair. Presi-
dent Eisenhower sat in this chair. Our dis-
tinguished guest of honor was here with
Prime Minister Nehru. She sat in that
chair.
I think what has happened since that
time, and I think back to what Mr.
Tucker said about music-that the genius
and talent of a great star is not repeated
in the second generation. Then I think of
the career of our honored guest.
I could speak of her tonight as repre-
1081
