[26] Jan. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion's responsibilities, and in which we
share our Federal revenues with them so
that they can meet those responsibilities.
To achieve this goal, I propose to the
Congress tonight that we enact a plan of
revenue sharing historic in scope and bold
in concept.
All across America today, States and
cities are confronted with a financial
crisis. Some have already been cutting
back on essential services-for example,
just recently San Diego and Cleveland cut
back on trash collections. Most are caught
between the prospects of bankruptcy on
the one hand and adding to an already
crushing tax burden on the other.
As one indication of the rising costs of
local government, I discovered the other
day that my home town of Whittier, Cali-
fornia-which has a population of 67,-
ooo-has a larger budget for 1971 than
the entire Federal budget was in 1791.
Now the time has come to take a new
direction, and once again to introduce a
new and more creative balance to our
approach to government.
So let us put the money where the needs
are. And let us put the power to spend it
where the people are.
I propose that the Congress make a $16
billion investment in renewing State and
local government. Five billion dollars of
this will be in new and unrestricted funds
to be used as the States and localities see
fit. The other $11 billion will be provided
by allocating $1 billion of new funds and
converting one-third of the money going
to the present narrow-purpose aid pro-
grams into Federal revenue sharing funds
for six broad purposes-for urban devel-
opment, rural development, education,
transportation, job training, and law en-
forcement-but with the States and local-
ities making their own decisions on how
it should be spent within each category.
For the next fiscal year, this would in-
crease total Federal aid to the States and
localities more than 25 percent over the
present level.
The revenue sharing proposals I send to
the Congress will include the safeguards
against discrimination that accompany
all other Federal funds allocated to the
States. Neither the President nor the Con-
gress nor the conscience of this Nation can
permit money which comes from all the
people to be used in a way which discrim-
inates against some of the people.
The Federal Government will still have
a large and vital role to play in achiev-
ing our national progress. Established
functions that are clearly and essentially
Federal in nature will still be performed
by the Federal Government. New func-
tions that need to be sponsored or per-
formed by the Federal Government—such
as those I have urged tonight in welfare
and health-will be added to the Federal
agenda. Whenever it makes the best sense
for us to act as a whole nation, the Fed-
eral Government should and will lead the
way. But where States or local govern-
ments can better do what needs to be
done, let us see that they have the re-
sources to do it there.
Under this plan, the Federal Govern-
ment will provide the States and localities
with more money and less interference-
and by cutting down the interference the
same amount of money will go a lot
further.
Let us share our resources.
Let us share them to rescue the States
and localities from the brink of financial
crisis.
Let us share them to give homeowners
54
