[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment is not performing well. It promises
much, but it does not deliver what it
promises. The great danger, in my judg-
ment, is that this momentary disillusion-
ment with government will turn into a
more profound and lasting loss of faith.
We must fight that danger. We must
restore the confidence of the people in
the capacities of their government. In my
view, that obligation now requires us to
give more profound and more critical at-
tention to the question of government
organization than any single group of
American leaders has done since the Con-
stitutional Convention adjourned in Phil-
adelphia in September of 1787. As we
strive to bring about a new American
Revolution, we must recognize that cen-
tral truth which those who led the original
American Revolution so clearly under-
stood: often it is how the government is
put together that determines how well the
government can do its job.
This is not a partisan matter, for there
is no Republican way and no Democratic
way to reorganize the government. This
is not a matter for dogmatic dispute, for
there is no single, ideal blueprint which
will immediately bring good order to Fed-
eral affairs. Nor is this a matter to be
dealt with once and then forgotten. For it
is important that our political institutions
remain constantly responsive to changing
times and changing problems.
RENEWED INTEREST IN COMPREHENSIVE
REFORM
The last two years have been a time
of renewed interest in the question of how
government is organized. The Congress
has instituted a number of reforms in its
own procedures and is considering others.
Judicial reform at all levels of govern-
ment has also become a matter of intense
concern. The relationship between various
levels of government has attracted in-
creased attention—and so, of course, has
the subject of executive reform.
This administration, with the counsel
and the cooperation of the Congress, has
taken a number of steps to reorganize the
executive branch of the Federal Govern-
ment. We have set up a new Domestic
Council and a new Office of Manage-
ment and Budget in the Executive Office
of the President. We have created a new
Environmental Protection Agency and a
new United States Postal Service. We
have worked to rationalize the internal
structure of Federal departments and
agencies.
All of these and other changes have
been important, but none has been com-
prehensive. And now we face a funda-
mental choice. We can continue to tinker
with the machinery and to make con-
structive changes here and there each of
them bringing some marginal improve-
ment in the Government's capacities. Or
we can step back, take a careful look, and
then make a concerted and sustained ef-
fort to reorganize the executive branch
according to a coherent, comprehensive
view of what the Federal Government of
this Nation ought to look like in the last
third of the twentieth century.
The impulse for comprehensive re-
organization has been felt before in recent
decades. In fact, the recommendations I
am making today stem from a long series.
of studies which have been made under
several administrations over many years.
From the report of the President's Com-
474
