Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 9 [352]
whole world to a period of peace such as
the world so desperately needs. This is
our challenge. Thank you for helping us
meet it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:28 p.m. in the
Imperial Ballroom of the Americana Hotel.
His remarks were broadcast live on closed-
circuit television to a series of similar Repub-
lican fundraising dinners in Atlanta, Boston,
Charlotte, Cleveland, Miami, Orlando, Phil-
adelphia, Pittsburgh, Rochester, Washington,
D.C., and Wilmington.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New
York, Gov. Thomas J. Meskill of Connecticut,
Gov. William T. Cahill of New Jersey, Senator
Jacob K. Javits of New York, and Secretary
of State William P. Rogers.
352 Remarks at a "Salute to the President" Dinner in
Chicago, Illinois. November 9, 1971
Mr. Vice President, Governor Ogilvie,
Senator Percy, all of the distinguished
guests, Members of the House, State of-
ficers, others at the head table, and all of
the distinguished guests here in the audi-
ence in Chicago, all of the distinguished
guests at all of the other dinners who are
on this telecast across the Nation:
1
I was saying a moment ago to the chair-
man of the dinner and to Bill Fetridge ¹
that it is somewhat embarrassing to sit
and listen to salutes to the President of
the United States, if you happen to be the
President of the United States. I must
say, however, that I know that the custom
in military circles-and I have had some
military service many, many years ago—
is to return a salute. I am very honored
to do that tonight before my remarks on
the occasion of this dinner.
I want to salute, first of all this evening,
the bigger contributors. By "the bigger
contributors," incidentally, I don't mean
those who bought the most tables. You
gave a lot of money. But what I do mean
are people like Bob Hope and Art Link-
letter and others across this Nation, celeb-
rities appearing at 20 dinners. They gave
1 William C. Croft was chairman of the
Chicago dinner and William H. Fetridge was
president, United Republican Fund of Illinois.
their time, time that we could not possibly
afford to buy. I salute them tonight along
with you.
I salute, too, as all of you do, the other
speakers on this program. You have seen
some of them on the closed-circuit tele-
vision: Governor Reagan from California,
and the Attorney General, and, of course,
know others that are appearing across
the Nation. And here tonight you have
heard our great national chairman, Bob
Dole. You, of course, have heard the
Governor and Senator Percy.
you
There is one in particular that I would
like to salute tonight, and in saluting
him, I can do so in a very personal way.
It is often said that the job of the Pres-
idency of the United States is the most
difficult job in the world. As one who has
served both as President and as Vice Pres-
ident of the United States, I can tell
you
that the job of Vice President of the
United States can in some ways be more
difficult than being President of the
United States.
May I say tonight that I know that
all of you will agree with me that this
country is fortunate in having as its Vice
President a man who is loyal, a man who
"Senator Robert Dole was chairman, Re-
publican National Committee.
1091
