Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 19 [147]
the mainstream of American life, you
know this very well.
Now, let's look at government in this
country today. You know what you hear
on all sides-discouragement, disgust,
which so many Americans feel about all
government, Federal Government, State
government, local government. We can
sense the urgent need when we hear those
feelings expressed for government renewal
on what I call a revolutionary basis. The
Federal system was brilliantly conceived,
and it was erected in a way that we can all
be very proud of.
But what has happened in recent years,
particularly over the past 40 years, is that
it has become seriously imbalanced. Politi-
cal power, tax revenue, have flowed in-
creasingly from the States and from the
communities and from the cities to Wash-
ington, D.C.
What is the result? The result is, the
State and local governments which, by
rights, should be vigorous instruments of
the people's power, have fallen into dis-
repair. At the same time, the rapid and
largely unplanned expansion of the Fed-
eral Government has resulted in a struc-
ture so complicated, so confused, so
contradictory, that it can neither serve the
people well, nor respond reliably to
the direction of the people's elected
representatives.
In short, what the times call for now is
decisive action. They demand a new
American revolution, a peaceful revolu-
tion, to move us by giant steps towards
Lincoln's ideal that America should have
a government of the people and by the
people and for the people.
Now, what are those steps?
First, you will recall that I have pro-
posed a program of $16 billion-the
amount is not important; it is what it does,
the purpose-in revenue sharing, which
will be a continuing Federal investment in
revitalizing State and local government.
Revenue sharing would give the cities and
States, where the people have the best
chance to make their wishes felt, both the
money and the authority they need to
govern effectively.
Second, I proposed a sweeping reorga-
nization of the Cabinet departments here
in Washington. This plan would trim and
streamline the Federal executive branch.
The new departments would be orga-
nized to serve broad public purposes
rather than narrow, special considera-
tions. They would be planned not just for
the next few years, but planned, as those
Revolutionary forebears of ours planned,
for the entire century ahead and even
beyond.
As heirs of the first American Revolu-
tion, you are in an excellent position to
appreciate the pressing need for a new
one. You know that the Declaration of
Independence remains a living force in
this Nation. You insist, and you should
insist, that government derive its just
powers from the consent of the governed.
And so you will not tolerate, and
you should not tolerate, just as the Found-
ing Fathers would not tolerate these
circumstances and now I am going to
quote directly from the Declaration of
Independence:
-circumstances which "erected a mul-
titude of New Offices, and sent
swarms of Officers to harrass our
People, and eat out their substance";
-circumstances which altered "fun-
damentally the Forms of our Govern-
ments";
-circumstances which weakened our
legislatures and imposed burden-
some taxation.
561
