[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
This comprehensive approach came
against a background of consistent efforts
to reach diplomatic solutions. From the
outset, this Administration has continued
American support for the efforts of Prime
Minister Souvanna Phouma to recon-
stitute the 1962 Geneva Agreements
guaranteeing his country's neutrality, in-
dependence and territorial integrity. In
Cambodia we long tolerated a difficult
military situation and encouraged nego-
tiations when Prince Sihanouk
removed.
was
To date, Hanoi has rejected diplomacy
and spread the conflict. The Lao govern-
ment for many years, and the Cambodian
government this year, have turned to us
and others for assistance.
These developments left us with the
choice between military options. After
our one-time sweep against the Commu-
nist bases in Cambodia, we have ruled
out American ground combat troops in
either Laos or Cambodia for several rea-
sons. Our fundamental Vietnam-related
objectives are served by other means. In
any event, we believe the two gov-
ernments can survive through their own
efforts, our various kinds of assistance, and
that of other friends. We look to them to
shoulder the primary combat responsi-
bilities for their own defense.
Moreover, the enemy has its own prob-
lems. Despite its ability and willingness
to pour thousands of troops into all three
countries, North Vietnam faces certain
limits imposed by manpower drain and
long supply lines. Lack of indigenous sup-
port in Laos and Cambodia severely ham-
pers Communist troop movements. And
we do not assume that Hanoi's allies want
Laos and Cambodia removed from the
map of Southeast Asia.
Thus we did not oppose Congressional
restrictions this past year on the use of
U.S. ground combat forces in those coun-
tries, even though we had strong reserva-
tions about the principle of circumscribing
executive authority.
Instead of deploying our troops, we
have helped those countries help them-
selves. In Cambodia, South Vietnam's
preemptive thrusts have been crucial for
their mutual defense.
Three arguments are raised against
these South Vietnamese operations out-
side their borders:
-That they spread South Vietnamese
forces thin. On the contrary, by strik-
ing against the enemy's supply sys-
tem and reducing the border threat,
these actions contract the territory
that the South Vietnamese army
must defend. The alternative of in-
violate enemy sanctuaries along a
front of 600 miles would stretch
South Vietnamese forces much more
severely.
-That South Vietnam is expanding
the war. Its troops have gone only
where the North Vietnamese have
been entrenched and violating one
country's territory to attack another.
It is Hanoi which expanded the war
years ago.
-That our support of the South Viet-
namese will draw us into wider war.
If we are to reduce our involvement
in Indochina, we must shield our
withdrawals by backing these sweeps
against potential threats. At a time
when we are cutting our military
presence in one country, we are nat-
urally reluctant to send troops into
neighboring ones—on grounds both
of strategy and American domestic
support. It would make little sense
for us, while withdrawing hundreds
264
