[157] May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
family farm operators, because they are
still the backbone of American agricul-
ture.
Let me turn now to another set of
problems-crop, plant, and livestock dis-
ease. I am today announcing several
measures to step up our fight in this area.
In the first place, I am asking Congress
to provide an additional $7.6 million to
the Agricultural Research Service and to
the State Agricultural Experiment Sta-
tions. A good deal of this money would
go for fighting Southern leaf blight which
recently has created such major problems
for corn farmers. Some of this added re-
search money would also be used to find
new ways of controlling insects, including
cattle ticks, and to do needed work on the
relationship between hosts and parasites,
and on disease-resisting plants.
At the same time, I am offering or or-
dering the use of $2 million from this
year's budget for more applied research
on controlling the fire ant and the gypsy
moth which is seriously threatening our
Eastern timber stand.
I have also directed that more money
be used for accelerated research on mat-
ters like cotton seed proteins and insect
pests.
Another area where government should
do more to provide technical assistance
for farmers is that of soil and water con-
servation. Long before most Americans
were thinking very much about the en-
vironment, our farmers, our ranchers, our
woodland owners, were working together
with government to conserve our natural
resources. I believe we should now be
providing more help for our dedicated
corps of soil conservationists whose num-
ber has dropped sharply in the last 4 years.
I am therefore increasing my new
budget request for the Soil Conservation
Service by $12 million to provide more
manpower for this valuable work. I am
also proposing that Federal grants for
small watershed projects be increased by
$28 million to a level of $105 million, and
that 75 new projects be authorized. I am
further recommending quadrupling of
loan programs to help local communities
finance their share of these projects.
In many other ways we are working to
fulfill our responsibilities to the agricul-
ture community. For example, I am
ordering an additional increase of $100
million this year and $111 million next
year in our insured loan program for
building water and sewer systems in rural
areas. Through such programs I know
that this Administration can work closely
with farmers, with farm organizations,
and with the Congress to serve agricul-
tural America more effectively. Working
together we can resolve difficult issues in-
volved in pesticide control, farm labor,
farm bargaining legislation, other com-
plex matters, as well as the many aspects
of other national policies that bear directly
on the lives of farmers.
But even as I mention all of these
government programs, I know that the
agricultural community also shares my
feeling that in the final analysis the prob-
lems of American agriculture can best be
solved by those who know farming best,
farm people themselves, with government
backup when necessary. That is one reason
why I have high hopes for the new farm
programs which are in effect this year.
They remove some of the old restraints in
a way which gives every farmer a chance
to make more of his own decisions about
616
