[354] Nov. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
major farm organizations eventually to
support the Agriculture Act-or at least
not to oppose it—of 1970, and it was a
very forward-looking piece of legislation
in the field of agriculture.
In addition to that, he led the fight for
the new program on hunger. Rather than
3 million people receiving food stamps,
over 9 million, and perhaps 10 million
now, receive them today. He led within
the Administration and in his travels
abroad-he has just returned from one
trip—a major program to increase
agricultural exports. They have been in-
creased dramatically. And the last ini-
tiative, that was announced just a few
days ago with regard to the sale of grain
to the Soviet Union, was in great part due
to the advocacy of the Secretary of Agri-
culture within the councils of the
Administration.
Finally, there are many things that have
happened on the organization side that I
cannot go into because of time considera-
tions, but I will say that from all accounts,
he has run the Department with great
skill, with great thoughtfulness, and has
loyalty up and down the line from the
many fine career employees in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. We will miss him.
We will miss him not only because he has
been a fine member of the Cabinet, but we
will miss him because the Hardin family
is very close to our Cabinet family and
particularly close to the Nixon family. We
are glad that they will be coming back
from time to time and that he will be
available for some assignments, I hope, on
a nonpaying, at least, basis.
For his successor, we have gone to my
mother's home State of Indiana. The suc-
cessor as Secretary of Agriculture is not
new to the Department. He served as the
Assistant Secretary of Agriculture from
1954 to 1957 during President Eisen-
hower's period as President of the United
States. He grew up on a farm. His whole
life has been spent in agriculture. After he
finished college, he operated a farm be-
fore going into the field that he has occu-
pied with such distinction, except for his
brief service in government of 3 years—
the field of teaching in agriculture.
He is now professor of agricultural
economics in Indiana, at Purdue, and he
has had, also, distinctions far beyond that
professorship as one of the top agricul-
tural spokesmen in the country. He will be
a vigorous advocate of the interest of the
farmer and of agriculture within the
President's Cabinet, just as Secretary
Hardin has been. And we are delighted to
have him and Mrs. Butz, who is no
stranger to Washington, here in our Cabi-
net family taking the place of the Hardins.
REORGANIZATION PLANS
Finally, I want to announce one change
with regard to our reorganization plans, a
change which has been vigorously advo-
cated by the man who will serve as the
new Secretary of Agriculture and also ad-
vocated by Secretary Hardin.
As you know, in our reorganization
plans, the various activities of the Agri-
culture Department, many of which are
peripheral to agriculture specifically, were
divided and put into the other major
Cabinet departments that are set up un-
der the reorganization scheme.
We have now concluded that it is neces-
sary to have a separate Department of
Agriculture. However, not the old De-
partment, but an entirely new one-one
in which all of the peripheral activities.
will be transferred to other new depart-
ments, the Departments particularly of
1098
