Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 7 [325]
of politics have advised me that the only
politically popular position to take is to be
against profits. But let us recognize an un-
assailable fact of economic life: All Amer-
icans will benefit from more profits. More
profits fuel the expansion that generates
more jobs. More profits mean more invest-
ments, which will make our goods more
competitive in America and in the world.
And more profits mean there will be more
tax revenues to pay for the programs
that
help people in need.
That is why higher profits in the Amer-
ican economy would be good for every
person in America.
"Windfall" profits, however, as I will
describe them, are quite another thing.
When wages
and other costs are held down
by the Government, even though prices
are also held down, circumstances could
arise in some cases that might generate
exorbitant profits-in other words, where
someone will profit from the wage-price
stabilization program.
In the few cases where this happens,
rather than tax such excess profits, the
Price Commission's policy will be that bus-
iness should pass along a fair share of its
cost savings to the consumer by cutting
prices.
We have lived too long in this country
with an inflation psychology. Everybody
just assumes that the only direction of
prices is to go up. The time has come for
some price reduction psychology. Let's see
some prices go down. This is not only in
the public interest; it makes good, com-
petitive business sense.
Summing up these actions to stop the
rise in the cost of living, here is what we
will do and what we will not do:
We will permit some adjustments of
prices and wages, adjustments that fair-
ness and equity demand, but we will not
permit inflation to flare up again.
We will concentrate on those major
portions of the economy that are the pri-
mary causes of inflation, but we will not
hesitate to take action against any part of
the economy that fails to comply.
We will continue wage and price re-
straints until inflationary pressures are
brought under control, but we are not
going to make controls a permanent
feature of American life. When controls
are no longer needed we will get rid of
them.
We will rely primarily on the good faith
and voluntary cooperation of the Ameri-
can people to make this program work,
but we will not let any selfish interest es-
cape the fair enforcement of the law.
I call upon all of you tonight to look
at this program, not as Democrats or
Republicans, workers or businessmen,
farmers or consumers, but as Americans.
Let us recognize this profound truth:
What is best for all of us is best for each
one of us. We cannot afford a business-as-
usual attitude anywhere, because fighting
inflation is everybody's business. Let us
look for a moment into the future. Some
of
you have heard me say that 1972 will
be a very good year for the American
economy. Let me broaden that estimate
tonight. The coming year can be more
than a very good year for the American
economy. It can be a great year for
America and the world.
It can be a year, for the first time in
15 years, in which we can achieve our goal
of prosperity in a time of peace. It can
be a year in which great progress can be
made toward our goal of full employment
without the inflation that robs working
people of the full value of the dollars they
earn. It can be a year in which the Ameri-
can competitive spirit is reborn as we
1025
