[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ployment of MIRV's serves the same
purpose. They do not have the combi-
nation of numbers, accuracy, and warhead
yield to pose a threat to the Soviet land-
based ICBM force.
With the programs we have under-
taken, the bulk of our retaliatory forces
are currently secure from attack and
should remain so in the near future. How-
ever, continuing Soviet deployments and
improvements-in particular, the large
SS-9 missile with accurate independently
targetable multiple warheads-could
threaten the survivability of the land-
based portion of our forces. That would
not, of course, be an acceptable situation.
We will, therefore, keep this matter under
close review. We will, as a matter of the
highest priority, take whatever steps be-
come necessary to maintain the assured
survivability of our retaliatory capabilities.
Flexibility-the responses available to
us. We have reviewed our concepts for re-
sponses to various possible contingencies.
We must insure that we have the forces
and procedures that provide us with al-
ternatives appropriate to the nature and
level of the provocation. This means hav-
ing the plans and command and control
capabilities necessary to enable us to se-
lect and carry out the appropriate re-
sponse without necessarily having to resort
to mass destruction.
The mix of forces. For several years we
have maintained three types of strategic
forces-land-based ICBMs, bombers,
and submarine-launched missiles. Each is
capable of inflicting a high level of dam-
age in response to a nuclear first strike.
Taken together they have an unques-
tioned capability of inflicting an unac-
ceptable level of damage. This concept
takes advantage of the unique character-
istics of each delivery system. It provides
insurance against surprise enemy techno-
logical breakthroughs or unforeseen op-
erational failures, and complicates the
task of planning attacks on us. It com-
plicates even more the longer range
planning of the levels and composition of
the opposing forces. If the effectiveness
and survivability of one element were
eroded, the Soviet Union could choose
to concentrate its resources on eroding the
effectiveness and survivability of the
others. This would confront us with seri-
ous new decisions, and we will therefore
continue to review our forces in the light
of changing threats and technology to en-
sure that we have the best possible mix
to meet the requirements of sufficiency.
While this review of the sufficiency of
our strategic posture has taken place, we
have also continued to seek agreement on
a strategic balance with the USSR at
the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
(SALT). I will discuss in greater detail
elsewhere in this report the progress of
those talks.
THE FORCES FOR SUFFICIENCY
Last year,
I announced my commit-
ment to maintain our existing strategic
forces with relatively little change. The
grounds for this decision were that:
-Sharp cutbacks would not permit us
to satisfy our sufficiency criteria and
were unwarranted in view of the
continuing growth of Soviet forces.
Unilateral reductions could-para-
doxically-eliminate any Soviet in-
centives for an agreement to limit
strategic arms. They would also
raise serious concerns among our
allies, particularly in NATO.
-On the other hand, sharp increases in
our forces, unless spurred by new
312
