[40] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
the initiation of new military aeronautics
programs that will enhance our national
security. We must consider other new
means to insure that our national aero-
nautics program is given the opportunity
and encouragement to contribute to our
national well-being.
I am pleased to transmit to Congress
this report of our national aeronautics
and space activities during 1970. I take
this opportunity to express my admiration
for the men and women whose devotion,
courage and creativity have made our
aeronautics and space progress a source
of national pride.
The White House
February 2, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President's message is printed in
the report entitled "Aeronautics and Space Re-
port of the President, Transmitted to the Con-
gress January 1971" (Government Printing
Office, 115 pp.).
41 Special Message to the Congress on National Emergency
Labor Disputes in the Transportation Industry.
February 3, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Early in 1970, I proposed to the Con-
gress a new approach for dealing with
national emergency labor disputes in the
transportation industry. The proposal was
based upon my belief that existing law did
not provide adequate remedies for settling
such disputes, and thus failed to protect
the national interest.
Today, I am again recommending that
proposal, the Emergency Public Interest
Protection Act. Events since the bill's first
introduction have made its enactment
even more urgent. I am hopeful that the
Congress will give the proposal its prompt
and favorable consideration-before there
is another crisis in the transportation
industry.
The bill I propose would give the Presi-
dent vital new authority to deal with na-
tional emergency disputes in the railroad,
airline, maritime, longshore, and trucking
industries.
First, the bill would abolish the emer-
gency strike provisions of the Railway
Labor Act-which now govern railroad
and airline disputes-and make all trans-
portation industries subject to the national
emergency provisions of the Taft-Hartley
Act.
Second, the bill would amend the Taft-
Hartley Act to give the President three
new options in the case of a national emer-
gency dispute in a transportation industry,
when that dispute is not settled within the
eighty-day "cooling-off period" author-
ized by Taft-Hartley. Under those cir-
cumstances, if a strike or lockout should
threaten or occur, and national health or
safety continued to be endangered, the
President could select any one of the fol-
lowing courses of action:
-He could extend the cooling-off pe-
riod for as long as thirty days. This
might be most useful if the President
believed the dispute to be very close
to settlement.
-He could empanel a special board to
determine if partial operation of the
industry were feasible and, if so, to
set out the boundaries for such an
operation. This alternative would
108
