Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 13 [394]
Michael. And then the discoverers reached the
third. Three is a magic number. It had to be
celebrated in a special way, and the island
was given the name of Jesus Christ.
During its first period of settlement, the
island was indeed called Jesus Christ. And more
than any other land it is linked through its
former name with the culture and civilization
which ennobled Europe and marked the growth
of the Americas.
On the other hand, placed between Europe
and the Americas, the archipelago of the Azores
has always been a connecting link between the
two continents. Lord of Ilha Terceira in the
earlier period of its colonization, a Corte-Real,
is found to be connected with the discovery of
Newfoundland. In later times, when the size
of the population outgrew the scanty space of
these islands and was scarce in the vast areas of
the Americas, there started in that direction
a continuous flow of emigrants which has not
yet ceased.
In the United States of America, Azoreans
build up the major part of the Portuguese
community. Many of them came from this
island where, since the last war, an air base has
been established that has rendered no small
service to the cause of the West and to the
security of the Atlantic.
The two peoples cannot but understand each
other. The Portuguese are sensitive to the pres-
tige of a nation which, like the American, bases
its greatness on the moral strength of its civic
life and on the indomitable energy of its chil-
dren, and they admire the courage with which
it fights to preserve the freedom of the Western
World. Here, in the Azores, is one of the bul-
warks for that struggle.
[After delivering the above remarks in English,
the Prime Minister continued his remarks in
French. A translation follows:]
However, if the President of the United
States of America has good motives to find in
this place many affinities with his country and
to be welcome here with warm friendship, the
reasons why the President of the French Re-
public may feel in friendly country are none
the less.
In order to colonize the islands in the 15th
century, the Portuguese resorted to other peo-
ples in Europe. And many of the first settlers
came from territories which nowadays are
French or which enjoyed at the time a very
close relationship with France.
At São Miguel there is a village called Bre-
tanha. And the language spoken there is still
typical compared to the other parts of the
island. Many of those who accepted to take part
in the adventure of covering with human
life these bits of solidified lava were Flemish.
The landscape, the habits, the language have
kept an indelible imprint left by those men
who brought with them their own tradition
and the elements of a culture that has so
strongly contributed to the wealth of French
culture, which was then taking its modern
form.
You cannot compare France's cultural in-
fluence in Portugal to that of any other coun-
try. No economic or political influences can
be called to justify this fact. The only valid
explanation must come from affinities of the
mind. The cultured Portuguese admires the
French literature, French art, the French way
of life and of being. And it is not only admira-
tion that he feels; it is also love. Sadness over-
comes him when he sees, so often, how mis-
judged and badly known his country is,
owing to lack of information, but he forgives
many a thing out of that tolerance which, in
the heart of the Lusitanian, goes hand in hand
with friendship.
Luckily, the relations between the two peo-
ples are very cordial, and that cordiality is
mirrored in the relations between their govern-
ments. Many Portuguese are at present working
in France, thus contributing towards the eco-
nomic prosperity of the country and creating
link between the two mother
one
countries.
These are indeed good reasons to welcome
warmly the presence on Portuguese soil of the
President of the French Republic.
The world expects a lot from this meeting
between the two of you, Mr. Presidents, and it
is justified in doing so. Two gentlemen are
talking face to face. Two experienced states-
men are drawing up the balance of a critical
situation. The leaders responsible for two great
nations are facing courageously, but carefully,
the difficulties of the present and the ways of
the future.
My wish is that the atmosphere of this place
may contribute to an understanding in these
talks and to their happy conclusion. Beyond
1187
