Richard Nixon, 1971
July 15 [231]
place in which to live. We help those vol-
untary agencies which are working to
lessen the pain and distress of illness and
are supporting research to seek cures from
dreaded diseases. We assist those agencies
which serve beyond our own national
boundaries, extending a helping hand to
our friends in overseas lands. Thus the
voluntary agencies supported by CFC are
doing those things which in a free society
they can best do to enhance the quality
of life.
This year, for the first time, the Com-
bined Federal Campaign will be the uni-
form fund-raising method for the entire
Federal service, thereby enlarging the
number of Federal employees and mili-
tary personnel who will have the oppor-
tunity to participate in this convenient
form of charitable giving.
I commend to you the 1971 Combined
Federal Campaign. It is a worthy cause.
Generosity and concern for others has
always been a tradition of all who serve
in the United States Government. From
my proud association with you over the
past several years, I feel confident you
will continue this tradition and that you
will welcome the opportunity to be
of service through your voluntary
contributions.
I send you every best wish during this
year's Combined Federal Campaign.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandums were released at
San Clemente, Calif.
231 Remarks to the Nation Announcing Acceptance of an
Invitation To Visit the People's Republic
of China. July 15, 1971
Good evening:
I have requested this television time
tonight to announce a major development
in our efforts to build a lasting peace in
the world.
As I have pointed out on a number of
occasions over the past 3 years, there can
be no stable and enduring peace without
the participation of the People's Repub-
lic of China and its 750 million people.
That is why I have undertaken initiatives
in several areas to open the door for more
normal relations between our two
countries.
In pursuance of that goal, I sent Dr.
Kissinger, my Assistant for National
Security Affairs, to Peking during his
recent world tour for the purpose of hav-
ing talks with Premier Chou En-lai.
The announcement I shall now read is
being issued simultaneously in Peking and
in the United States:
Premier Chou En-lai and Dr. Henry
Kissinger, President Nixon's Assistant
for National Security Affairs, held talks
in Peking from July 9 to 11, 1971.
Knowing of President Nixon's ex-
pressed desire to visit the People's
Republic of China, Premier Chou En-
lai, on behalf of the Government of the
People's Republic of China, has ex-
tended an invitation to President Nixon
to visit China at an appropriate date
before May 1972. President Nixon has
accepted the invitation with pleasure.
The meeting between the leaders of
China and the United States is to seek
the normalization of relations between
819
