Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 26 [29]
vision for the Federal City. The proposal
being resubmitted would create a public
corporation to prepare plans for carrying
forward the revitalization of the heart of
Washington, and for generating the maxi-
mum private and commercial investment
for the fulfillment of that dream. I
the Congress not to allow any more time
to be lost in completing this promising
enterprise.
urge
D.C. CAPITAL PROGRAM FINANCING ACT
Currently, when the District of Colum-
bia Government is confronted with the
need to borrow for major new building
and construction, it must turn to the
United States Treasury; and it can bor-
row only up to a temporary formula limit
set by the Congress.
I now renew this administration's pro-
posal that the Congress grant the District
of Columbia Government the authority to
issue its own local bonds, and that the
future limit on borrowing be set accord-
ing to a permanent flexible formula based
on District revenues. Removing the Dis-
trict's capital spending requirements from
the Federal budget would mean savings to
the Treasury. Further, it would give
Washington responsibilities and rights
commensurate with those of other great
American cities.
TRANSPORTATION
Under this heading, two proposals are
being resubmitted. They relate to water-
ways safety, the need for which has be-
come increasingly apparent as more and
more great vessels ply the navigable
waters of the United States. Decreasing
accidents at sea is an important part of
our overall program to provide greater
safety to the traveling public. In addition,
these bills enhance our efforts to prevent
the damaging pollution of the Nation's
waterways which often results from
collisions at sea.
PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY ACT
to
As commerce grows, and as world
trade expands, more and more great ships
use American waters. Many carry hazard-
ous cargoes-potential dangers
America's ports, harbors, waterfront
areas, the waters themselves and the re-
sources they contain. There would, I be-
lieve, be a substantial benefit in the crea-
tion of a coordinated safety program. And
I again ask that the Secretary of Trans-
portation be empowered to prescribe
standards and regulations, and to act
upon them, to give the protection the
nation increasingly needs.
VESSEL-TO-VESSEL RADIO PHONES
With the increasing number of vessels
operating on inland and coastal water-
ways, the danger of accidents and col-
lisions has become more serious. To help
prevent unnecessary loss of life and prop-
erty in future years, I am again proposing
to the Congress legislation requiring that
certain vessels transiting these waterways
carry equipment for direct bridge-to-
bridge contact. While most vessels today
carry radio equipment, there is not always
a compatible and open communication
channel between two ships-and hence,
they often cannot communicate even the
most basic navigational information.
Many vessels are already adequately
equipped to meet the new requirements;
the cost to the remaining shipowners
would not be great.
67
