[145] Apr. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
who are able to help themselves and re-
fuse to do so. That is what we have to do.
And so to those who see our present
welfare system as a simple refinement of
the old program, let me say strongly, this
is not the case. We have no intention of
measuring the success of this Nation's
welfare programs by the money spent or
the number of people supported. We are
going to measure it by the money saved
and the number of people who are given
back the incentive and the opportunity
to support themselves. We are going to
measure it by the dignity it promotes and
not by the dole it provides.
One of the great strengths of America
has always been that we believed in the
value of work. We need a system of caring
for the poor, for those who are unable to
care for themselves, that rewards and
encourages work.
Another great strength of America is
that we believe in a helping hand for those
of genuine need. The Bible tells us that
charity is the greatest virtue and, as all of
you know, that word "charity" in the
Bible, in some versions, is interpreted as
love. It blesses both the giver and the
receiver.
But I submit to you, gentlemen, that it
is not charity to maintain a system which
permits or encourages human beings to
let die within themselves the energies, the
dignity, the drive that gives meaning and
satisfaction to life itself.
It is not charity to bind human beings
into a cycle of despair and dependence
when, with a little courage and a little
imagination and a little common sense,
we can end this cycle.
Let me share with you a very interest-
ing experience I had last week in Wash-
ington, D.C. This is a beautiful time of
the year in Washington, as it is here in
Williamsburg. As a result, a record num-
ber of tourists are coming through the
Nation's Capital, and I receive as many
as I can, just as you receive them when
they come to your State capitals. And
particularly the high school and college
groups, when they come through, I often
walk out into the Rose Garden of the
Capital which you have often seen-that
now, incidentally, is a tulip garden, be-
cause the roses don't grow until later-
and receive a group from any State that
happens to be there on that particular
day at that particular time.
Thursday of last week I had a request
to receive a group from Texas, from Rio
Grande High School. Senator Tower,
who recommended strongly that I see
this
group, told me in advance that
Rio Grande High School was in the
poorest county in all of Texas. He said
this group was primarily a Mexican-
American group. "But," he said, "I hope
that you see them." And I am awfully
glad that I did.
I am awfully glad that I have seen all
of the groups, but this one in particular
had a message for me, and it has a mes-
sage for you; it has a message for
America.
Let me tell you what they did. They
came from the poorest county in Texas,
true, but they were not poor in spirit. A
year ago some members of the junior class
decided that they would like to go to
Washington. They knew that they would
have to get the money to go. They didn't
ask the school district to provide it or the
State to provide it or some foundation to
provide it. And they didn't go around to
all the business houses in the community
and ask them to contribute as they might
556
