Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 26 [308]
this Administration to a partnership with
industry in the joint construction of a
liquid metal fast breeder reactor demon-
stration plant. The funds requested from
the Congress to support the accelerated
breeder program have been made availa-
ble through the enactment this past week
of the public works appropriation bill for
fiscal year 1972.
I am especially pleased to note that not
only the Congress but also the electric
power industry has responded to my call.
On August 26, the Edison Electric In-
stitute announced commitments, totaling
approximately $180 million, to support a
demonstration plant for the liquid metal
fast breeder reactor program by 53 elec-
tric utilities from throughout the country.
This response is the largest single research-
development commitment in the history
of the electric power industry.
Large as it is, additional commitments
from the remaining investor-owned facil-
ities are needed, as well as from the rural
electric cooperatives and from the pub-
licly owned utilities. Privately owned elec-
tric equipment manufacturers, which
serve all sectors of the industry, must also
bear their share to make this effort
succeed.
In my June 4th message, this Admin-
istration also committed itself, again in
partnership with industry, to the develop-
ment of coal gasification technology. This
process would convert our vast coal
deposits into clean gas. Through under-
ground pipelines-many of which are now
operational-gas could be channeled
across the Nation into homes and indus-
try. In August, the American Gas Associa-
tion and the Department of the Interior
contracted for a jointly funded program
to underwrite this coal gasification tech-
nology. I am pleased to note that here,
too, the industry has already obtained
commitments for virtually all of its $10
million share of the first year's outlay.
In this case, however, progress by the
private sector has not yet been matched
by the Federal Government. The Federal
contribution of an additional $10 million
has yet to be acted upon by Congress.
Since this country is in need of a variety of
energy options, fossil fuel as well as nu-
clear, I urge the Congress to act swiftly
to fund the Government's share of the
coal gasification program.
The development of these two new tech-
nologies for clean energy marks a level of
cooperation between the Federal Govern-
ment and industry that is truly gratifying.
I hope that this mutual sharing will ex-
pand and mature. Collaboration between
the Federal Government, industry, and
the general public will be required if we
are to develop and use our energy re-
sources in a way that is responsible and
efficient.
NOTE: The statement was released at the
Atomic Energy Commission's Hanford Works
near Richland, Wash.
308 Statement About the Trans-Alaskan Pipeline.
September 26, 1971
THE QUESTIONS raised by the pro-
posed Trans-Alaskan Pipeline involve
two resources of great magnitude and
great value: the Alaskan environment and
Arctic oil.
Under the law, we are required to move
1003
