Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 10 [92]
rural Americans the full share of national
prosperity and the full participation in the
rich benefits of our society, which they
rightly deserve. Much more would be
done if the Congress acts to set in motion
the broad strategy for accelerated rural
development which I have placed before
it in recent weeks.
Rural communities throughout the na-
tion would share in the $5 billion of Gen-
eral Revenue Sharing which I have
proposed. Rural communities would re-
ceive direct assistance in building their
human resources, their social services, and
their economic base through my Special
Revenue Sharing proposals for manpower,
education, transportation and law en-
forcement. My proposals for improving
our system of health care include Area
Health Education Centers to be located in
rural areas and financial incentives for
doctors and providing medical care in
scarcity areas. My welfare reform pro-
posals would have immediate and dra-
matic effects on rural poverty: in the first
year nearly $1 billion in new cash benefits
would go into rural areas to add to the
incomes of the millions of rural Americans
who are poor or underemployed.
To unify and consolidate the rural de-
velopment effort in each State-I am
today proposing that the Federal Govern-
ment establish a $1.1 billion fund to be
shared among all the States for fully dis-
cretionary spending to meet their rural
needs and accelerate their rural develop-
ment. This would be accomplished by
combining programs which I listed above
into a new program of Special Revenue
Sharing for Rural Community Develop-
ment, and by increasing their present an-
nual funding of $921 million by $179
million during the first
year.
HOW REVENUE SHARING WORKS
Beginning January 1, 1972, these funds
would be paid out to the States and to
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and
Guam, in regular installments on a
formula basis, according to an index of
need based on three factors: the State's
rural population, the State's rural per
capita income compared to the national
average of per capita incomes, and the
State's change in rural population com-
pared to the change in population of all
States. All 53 recipients would share
equally in 1 percent of the funds. Every
State would receive at least as much from
Special Revenue Sharing for Rural Com-
munity Development, as it now receives
from the eleven existing rural assistance
programs combined.
This proposal recognizes that patterns
of development potential vary widely
within the different States and seldom
conform neatly to intra-State govern-
mental jurisdictions. It therefore imposes
no Federally dictated distribution of
shared revenues within the States. Neither
would it require matching or maintenance
of effort spending by a State in return for
the shared rural development funds. In-
deed the shared funds could if necessary
be used to match other Federal grants-in-
aid for rural assistance. But there would
be a firm requirement that all rural com-
munity development funds be spent for
the direct benefit of rural people. The
funds could be spent for any of the pur-
poses now authorized under the existing
aid programs, including the option of
direct grant assistance to private firms
which locate in rural communities.
Rural areas would be defined in this
Act as counties with a population density
4II
