[37] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
keep the economy exactly on a narrow
path. But fortunately absolute precision is
not required. What is required is that we
operate within a range where both un-
employment and inflation are moving
unmistakably downward toward our goal.
The full resources of Government, with
the understanding and cooperation of the
citizens, can accomplish that.
THE DUAL TRANSITION OF 1970
Faced with one of the largest inflations
in American history we have sought first
to stop its rate from speeding up and then
to get the rate down. This has been done.
The annual rate of increase of the con-
sumer price index, which was 6.0 percent
from June 1969 to June 1970, dropped to
4.6 percent in the last half of 1970. Whole-
sale prices, which usually move before the
prices consumers pay, have slowed down
even more, from a 5.3 percent rate in the
first half of 1969 to a 2.1 percent rate in
the second half of 1970. Because produc-
tivity began to rise, after earlier sluggish-
ness, labor costs per unit of output rose
much less in 1970 than they did in 1969,
and this contributed to slower price in-
creases.
While the Nation was making the tran-
sition to a less inflationary economy
it was
also making the transition to a lower level
of defense spending. Men released from
the Armed Forces have been out of touch
with the civilian labor market and need
time to readjust. Workers laid off from
defense production are likely to be con-
centrated in particular areas, which are
often not the areas where nondefense
activity is expanding. Their curtailed
pur-
chasing power further tends to lower em-
ployment of others in their area. During
1970, the number of persons in military
and civilian employment for defense was
reduced by about 1 million. Most of these
people have found work, and others will
soon do so. But during the transition many
were unemployed, and their number
added to the total unemployment rate.
These two simultaneous transitions,
from a wartime to a peacetime economy
and from a higher to a lower rate of in-
flation, would inevitably be accompanied
by some decline in output and rise in un-
employment. The aim of our policy was to
keep the decline in output and the rise
in unemployment as small as possible.
Fiscal and monetary policy both be-
came more expansive early in 1970, in
order to get output rising again while the
cost of living slowed its rise. This result
was achieved. Total output declined only
I percent from its high reached in the
third quarter of 1969 to the first quarter
of 1970; it leveled out in the second
quarter and rose in the third. Fourth-
quarter output was held down by the auto
strike; without it, another increase would
have been shown.
The timely shift of policy limited the
decline of output; it also helped counter
the increase in unemployment caused by
the dual transition. The average unem-
ployment rate for the year was 4.9 per-
cent. At the end of the year, partly as a
result of the auto strike, the unemploy-
ment rate was about 6 percent. About half
of the unemployed had been without work
for less than 6 weeks. Most of the unem-
ployed who had lost their most re-
cent job were receiving unemployment
compensation.
THE ROAD TO ORDERLY EXPANSION
Our first task now must be to assure
more rapid expansion and so to reduce
98
