Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 2 [40]
have enmeshed them in a web of rigid and
intricate personnel policies which have
frustrated their efforts and arrested their
professional growth.
We need both dedication and high per-
formance from our Federal executives.
Mere competence is not enough. Mere
continuity is self-defeating. We must
create an environment in the Government
service in which excellence and ingenuity
can flourish—and in which these qualities
are both encouraged and rewarded.
It is to this end that I urge prompt and
favorable consideration of this landmark
legislation.
The White House
February 2, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The proposed legislation was intro-
duced as H.R. 3807 and S. 1682.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the pro-
posed Federal Executive Service by Robert E.
Hampton, Chairman, and Seymour S. Berlin,
Director, Bureau of Executive Manpower,
United States Civil Service Commission.
40 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on United States Aeronautics and Space
Activities. February 2, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In this first year of the new decade, we
have been working to establish a firm
basis for a balanced national aeronautics
and space program which is compatible
with our national priorities, goals and re-
sources and which insures continuing
progress throughout the decade. 1970 has
been a year of transition from past suc-
cesses to new challenges.
The activities of our space program
during the year are consistent with the rec-
ommendations I made in March for a
balanced space program. Our goals are
continued exploration, scientific knowl-
edge and practical applications. The
technology acquired through our space
programs has many practical applications
on earth ranging from communications,
meteorology and navigation to agricul-
ture, education and transportation.
Specific objectives guide our space en-
deavors. We should continue to explore
the moon and increase the scientific re-
turn on the investment in the Apollo pro-
gram. We should also continue to explore
the planets of our solar system and the
universe. We must strive to reduce the
cost of space operations. We should try to
expand our knowledge of man's ability to
perform productively in the hostile en-
vironment of space and to relate this
knowledge to uses here on earth. We must
apply space-related technology to the crit-
ical assessment of our environment and
to the effective use of our resources. We
should also promote international coop-
eration in our space program by pursuing
joint space ventures, exchanging scientific
and technical knowledge, and assist-
ing in the practical application of this
knowledge. We are greatly encouraged
by European interest in joining us in co-
operative post-Apollo planning.
From our aeronautics activities have
come substantial contributions to con-
tinued U.S. pre-eminence in civil avia-
tion, major improvements in aeronautical
services, and impressive developments in
a sound SST program. This year has seen
107
