Richard Nixon, 1971
June 18 [204]
major responsibility and some really very
significant gains have been made. We have
been pulling it together; it is much better
coordinated. But, on the other hand, there
is a lot that remains to be done due to
the fact that the problem has become
more and more serious.
And third, and this was the major an-
nouncement that was made yesterday, in
the treatment of drug addicts we finally
are pulling it together in one program.
I hope that Dr. Jaffe, the man that
we have appointed to head this up, can
come up to appear before-and I am
sure he would be able to and would be
glad to if you invite him, some of you-
to meet with some of your editorial boards
collectively or otherwise and tell you what
he did in Illinois and what I have told
him to do nationally.
In the field of drug addiction, what we
have found is that there are nine Govern-
ment agencies, Federal Government agen-
cies, working in this field. What often
happens is that these Government agen-
cies are more interested in knowing who
is going to get the biggest appropriation,
who is going to get the most slots, than
in doing the job.
Dr. Jaffe is controversial. He is blunt.
He is abrasive. He is going to knock heads
together, and I have told him to, because
we need a controversial, blunt, abrasive
man to take this problem. And one thing
we are going to accomplish: We are
going to see to it that the nine Govern-
ment agencies that are presently operating
in this field quit fighting each other and
start fighting the drug problem.
This is going to take leadership from
the very top because when you have these
interagency fights, as the Secretary of the
Treasury knows, and the Under Secre-
tary will tell you, they are all equals. But
usually they will pay attention if the White
House tells them. Sometimes, at least,
they do.
In any event, we are backing up Dr.
Jaffe in this. He will have the total back-
ing of the White House and our total
interest.
I mentioned abrasiveness, toughness,
and the rest. I am also impressed by him
because he is a very compassionate man.
He understands this problem. We must
be compassionate with regard to the prob-
lem of drug addiction. He is one who un-
derstands it, but one who also realizes
that we must solve it.
The other point that I make involves
you: that is that the fourth part of any
program is education. Dr. Jaffe points up
that we can cut off the source of supply.
We can prosecute the pushers; we can
treat the addicts. But in the final analysis,
unless we establish a new attitude among
our people and here you have got to
start with young people at high school,
even grammar school, age-it means that
the traffic will continue to grow. So edu-
cation-education by the media, by the
newspapers and the television and the
radio, by the teachers, by all leaders of
opinion-is an absolute essential or our
program will fail.
So we ask for your help in this. We are
going to be sending a lot of materials out.
Please don't treat it as boiler plate. It is,
in my view, as I have indicated, drug
traffic is public enemy number one domes-
tically in the United States today, and we
must wage a total offensive, worldwide,
nationwide, governmentwide, and if, I
might say so, mediawide.
Let me touch briefly on one other area
that I think it is appropriate to mention
in Rochester, because in this city I recall
4 or 5 years ago there were some difficult
755
