[304] Sept. 26 Public Papers of the Presidents
ter of a century will be the era of the
Pacific? Think of the millions of people
that live there. Think of the trade and
everything that will develop in the years
ahead there. Here in the Pacific Northwest
we have the gateway to the Pacific.
State of Washington-as Governor Evans
has so often and so eloquently and so
vigorously emphasized to me in his visits
to Washington since I have occupied the
President's Office-the State of Washing-
ton has had economic problems due to the
fact that we are changing from war
production to peace production. Two mil-
lion men, for example, have been let out
of the armed services and defense plants
as a result of our success in ending Ameri-
can involvement in Vietnam.
As a result, it has meant that in the
Seattle area, in other parts of the coun-
try, even this part of the country of this
State, there have been problems in terms
of unemployment.
But let me tell you, don't be discouraged
about it because what we are going to
build in this country-and we can do it—
we are going to build a new prosperity—
a new prosperity without war. That is the
kind of prosperity we want: jobs that are
based on production for peace rather than
production for war; a new prosperity
without inflation.
That is why we have a program to stop
the rise in the cost of living. But in build-
ing that new prosperity, let me just tell you
what an enormous stake this State, as a
matter of fact, Washington and Oregon,
all of this great Northwest, has in it.
I mentioned the visit with the Emperor
of Japan. I mentioned the visit that I will
be paying to the People's Republic of
China. Do you realize that the next quar-
If I were a young man and if I were
to choose a place to come where there was
opportunity of the future, I would well
come to this part of the country. I would
come here because, being the gateway to
the Pacific, the opportunities for develop-
ment and progress are enormous.
So, what I am simply saying to you is
that in this time of transition from war to
peace, in this time when you may be some-
what discouraged about the economic
progress: Take heart. Take heart because
the future is going to be, I believe, a peace-
ful future, and the future is going to be
one—in that peaceful future—when be-
cause of this new opening to the Pacific
that we are now developing, that this
Pacific Northwest will enter its greatest
era.
Let me say that I grew up in a rather
large family, five brothers. My youngest
brother was born when I was in college,
and my mother always said he was the
smartest of the lot. You know where he
chose to live and where he is still living--
in the State of Washington. So believe me,
you are in a good State.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:08 p.m. at
Walla Walla Airport.
998
