Richard Nixon, 1971
[33]
Jan. 29
fidence in government that comes
from more "citizen control," and the
hope that, in some States and locali-
ties, taxes may be reduced, or that
the rising cost of government can be
met without raising taxes;
-for State and local governments, it
will not only help meet the current
financial crisis, but will also wipe
out rigidities and delays in Federal
aid and permit them to build their
capacity to respond to local needs;
-for our federal system, it will provide
new strength by assigning services to
the level of government best
equipped to perform them; and
-for all our people, it will provide a
means of encouraging local diversity
and experimentation within the
framework of our great national
purposes.
Of course, these revenue sharing pro-
posals will not be the vehicle for any
retreat from the Federal Government's
responsibility to ensure equal treatment
and opportunity for all. The proposals I
send to the Congress will include the safe-
guards against discrimination that now
accompany all other Federal funds allo-
cated to the States.
This massive revenue sharing proposal
is central to my philosophy of giving
people the opportunity to become more
involved in the decisions that affect their
lives. The magnitude of the problem calls
for this kind of bold move; by acting
decisively and without delay, we will
strengthen our federal system and respond
better to the needs of our people.
WELFARE REFORM.-One of the first
steps in our review of the federal system
was to sort out those activities that are
appropriate for the Federal Government
from those that are best performed at the
State and local level or in the private
sector. We decided early on one primary
Federal responsibility-providing, with a
combination of work incentives and work
requirements, an income floor for every
American family.
We knew beforehand that the existing
welfare system was in desperate need of
reform. We also knew that the existing
system imposes a crushing and growing
financial burden on States.
My welfare reform proposals, described
later in this message, are an integral part
of our effort to give people the ability to
make their own decisions, to build the
capacity of State and local government,
and to encourage more orderly national
growth.
By building a floor under the income of
every family everywhere in America with
Federal funds, we provide each depend-
ent family a new dignity, we help State
and local governments finance what is
now their fastest growing expenditure,
and we remove one magnet that has
already drawn too many persons to our
congested cities.
In government operations, form should
follow function. Just as revenue sharing
decentralizes power to meet one need,
welfare reform sets a basic national
standard to meet a different need. The
decision to centralize or decentralize
should be based on which method best
serves the larger purposes of 206 million
Americans.
Revenue sharing and welfare reform
are of a piece: the level of government
best equipped to respond should respond
in a way that raises standards and con-
tributes to the sum of personal freedom
and human dignity.
71-234-72-9
85
