[405] Dec. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
the world situation in all its aspects. They
agreed that the period which lies ahead is
likely to be one of rapid change, which will
offer the free world both opportunity and
challenge on an unprecedented scale. This
will call for the maintenance of the closest
possible degree of understanding and
unity of purpose not only between their
two countries but also between themselves
and their allies and partners. In view of
the significance of the natural relationship
between the United Kingdom and the
United States they resolved to maintain
their close and continuing consultation at
all levels in their approach to world
problems.
They recognized that the fulfillment of
their objectives will be promoted by the
United Kingdom's forthcoming accession
to the European Economic Communities,
which will reinforce the strength of the
Atlantic Alliance. This Alliance is, and
must remain, the cornerstone of the de-
fence of the free world. The President and
the Prime Minister agreed that there is
no inconsistency between a resolute and
determined adherence to the principles
which inspire the Alliance and the pursuit
of that relaxation of international tension
which is necessary to satisfy the natural
aspirations of mankind to live in peace and
prosperity.
Not the least of the problems confront-
ing the free world is the need to promote
conditions for more liberal commercial
exchanges. The President and the Prime
Minister welcomed the realignment of
exchange rates and accompanying meas-
ures agreed in Washington on 17 and 18
December and agreed upon the necessity
for their two countries, in consultation
with their international partners, to in-
tensify their efforts to promote a re-
formed international monetary system.
They noted the importance of reviewing
international commercial relations in
order to reduce barriers to trade between
the major trading countries of the world.
In the same spirit they agreed that one
of the most essential tasks of statesmanship
today is to lift the sights beyond the prob-
lems of immediate urgency to those major
political and economic issues, which in
the longer term will determine the shape
of the world in which we all live. They
agreed that they would direct all their
consultations to this end.
NOTE: The joint statement was released at
Hamilton, Bermuda.
406 Statement on Signing the Economic Stabilization Act
Amendments of 1971. December 22, 1971
TWO WEEKS ago I signed into law the
Revenue Act of 1971-providing tax cuts
of some $15 billion over the next 3 years
to stimulate the economy and provide
hundreds of thousands of new jobs. Last
weekend, at the meeting of finance min-
isters in Washington, new ground rules
were completed for the international eco-
nomic order—a step which will also do
much to strengthen our domestic econ-
omy. Today, I have taken the third major
step this month to put our economy on
a sound footing by signing into law the
Economic Stabilization Act Amendments
of 1971.
I am grateful for the timely response of
the Congress to the request I made for
this legislation just 2 months ago. This
1202
