[145] Apr. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the mayors of this country, and most of
them are Democratic rather than Repub-
lican-particularly where the larger cities
are concerned-they are for revenue
sharing.
An overwhelming majority of the
county officials of this country, and most
of them are Democrats rather than
Republicans, are for revenue sharing. And
when you look at the polls, an overwhelm-
ing majority of the people of this country
are for revenue sharing.
Now, when a majority of the Governors
and a majority of the mayors and a
majority of the county officials and the
majority of the people are for something,
the Congress eventually will reflect what
the people want. That is why we are
going to get revenue sharing. But we need
your continued support.
We do not suggest that our plan is the
completely perfect plan, but we do say
that there needs to be action on this
front, and that until someone else in the
Congress has a better plan then they
should support ours. And with your con-
tinued support, we believe we can get
the action.
Today I am not going to talk about
revenue sharing because we covered it so
completely in that other appearance. I am
going to talk about another subject that is
related to it. I want to begin by a state-
ment that all of you as Governors who
labor with this problem in your own
budgets will agree is an accurate appraisal
of the situation.
It is hardly enough to make great efforts
to solve the problems on the one hand,
while on the other, we pursue policies
which compound the problem. In other
words, where we have the problems of
deficits and the rest and we say we are
going to have revenue sharing to solve
those problems, we must get at the heart
of the problem.
Now there are several reasons why gov-
ernment at the State level has grown more
and more expensive. There are reasons
why property taxes in the States of this
Union on an average have gone up two
and a half times over the past 10 years;
why debt at the State and local level, par-
ticularly the local level as far as bonds are
concerned, has increased by a percentage
of five times.
And when we look at the situation, I
think that we find one of the major
causes—and I say this based on conversa-
tions with many of the people around this
table-is the present disastrous system of
public welfare. I want to talk about that
system today. You have heard me talk
about it before, but I have had an oppor-
tunity since I first presented our program
for welfare reform almost 2 years ago-
I have talked to a number of you around
this table.
We have, as a result of that, amended
our own proposals to make them more, it
seems to me, responsive to the needs and
to the problem. Rising welfare costs are
not only placing heavier and heavier bur-
dens on the Federal budget-what they
are doing is crushing our States and our
cities, and they will continue to do so until
something is done about it.
What we need is not a tinkering with
the present welfare system which would
merely relocate the financial disaster areas
from the States and the cities to Wash-
ington-what we need is an entirely new
approach that will reach to the reasons for
soaring welfare costs and not simply deal
with the results as we are doing now.
As you know, we have an entirely new
approach in this Administration, a pro-
posal for welfare reform which is before
552
