[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment. The National Security Council is
the apex of the system. It is here that the
final refinement of studies conducted at
lower levels provides a common frame-
work for thorough deliberation. The
Council's discussions assist me by illumi-
nating the issues and focusing the range
of realistic choice before I make my
decision.
The supporting interagency groups of
the system do the preparatory work before
consideration of major issues by the
Council:
-The Interdepartmental Groups, each
chaired by an Assistant Secretary of
State, are the system's basic sub-
groups for policy analysis. They are
organized on a geographic or func-
tional basis, and include membership
from all appropriate agencies. They
do the basic studies and develop the
range of choices. In some instances
ad hoc groups, each chaired by a rep-
resentative of the appropriate agency
at the Assistant Secretary level, are
established to deal with specific policy
issues.
-The Vietnam Special Studies Work-
ing Group is a specialized group for
assembling and analyzing factual
data on the Vietnam countryside, the
economic situation, and other factors
affecting Vietnamization. It has in-
vestigated specific topics which bear
on our negotiating efforts, such as the
security implications of alternative
ceasefire proposals.
-The Verification Panel, a senior
group at the Under Secretary level,
performs the basic technical analysis
to help develop choices and proposals
for strategic arms limitation, ap-
proaches to mutual and balanced
force reductions in Europe, and other
major arms control subjects.
-The Defense Program Review Com-
mittee, also at the Under Secretary
level, deals with the major issues of
defense policy, posture, and budget-
ary support. It integrates our
consideration of the strategic, inter-
national political, and economic im-
plications of defense programs. And
it relates our defense programs and
resource requirements to overall
national priorities and the federal
budget.
We made changes in the NSC system
this past year in the light of experience,
primarily to provide a higher-level focus
and integration below the National Secu-
rity Council itself. Two principal groups
were raised from the Assistant Secretary
to the Under Secretary level. Because the
responsibilities of officials at the Under
Secretary level transcend specific geo-
graphic or functional areas, they are able
to view issues in broad perspective; they
can draw more fully upon the complete
resources of their respective agencies to
assure that the entire spectrum of argu-
ments and alternatives is exposed.
-The Senior Review Group directs
and reviews the policy studies pre-
pared by the Interdepartmental
Groups and Working Groups. It sees
to it that these studies present the
facts, the issues, the arguments, and
the range of choice, before the studies
are considered by the President and
the National Security Council.
-The Washington Special Actions
Group develops options for imple-
mentation of decisions during crises.
In 1970, the WSAG had to deal with
such situations as Cambodia, the
342
