[199] June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
one-, two-, three- or four-family, on scat-
tered sites, so that they can blend in with
the community without detracting from
nearby properties. Under the newer Fed-
eral programs of financial assistance to
low- and moderate-income housing of
other sorts, the pattern has been one of
variety, enabling the community to fit the
development to its own needs.
By approaching local questions of land-
use planning in a creative and sophisti-
cated manner, local authorities should in
most cases be able to work out site-selec-
tion problems in ways that provide ade-
quate housing opportunities for those who
need them without disrupting the
community.
In other ways as well, we are and will be
working to promote better and more open
housing opportunities. For example:
-By Executive Order 11512, issued in
February 1970, I ordered that in the
selection of sites for Federal facili-
ties consideration should be given to
the availability of adequate low- and
moderate-income housing-and I
have ordered that all agencies take
specifically into account whether this
housing is in fact available on a non-
discriminatory basis.
-Guidelines have recently been issued
by the Office of Management and
Budget under the provisions of the
Uniform Relocation Assistance Act
of 1970, to assure that adequate hous-
ing is provided on a nondiscrimina-
tory basis and within the financial
means of persons displaced by fed-
erally financed projects.
-The Department of Housing and
Urban Development has been ac-
tively pressing the major Federal
agencies regulating lending institu-
tions to establish effective, affirma-
tive measures against racial dis-
crimination in home mortgage fi-
nancing. The Federal Home Loan
Bank Board, which regulates savings
and loan institutions, has been the
first to undertake the development of
new rules and procedural safeguards.
The Board is also working closely
with industry leaders to improve fi-
nancial services offered to members
of minority groups.
-HUD also engages in a number of
other Title VIII activities intended
to eliminate racial discrimination in
housing. It publishes advisory guide-
lines to aid those subject to the juris-
diction of the law in understanding
their responsibilities; it undertakes
studies of housing practices and col-
lects racial data on all of its housing
programs in order to determine areas
of noncompliance; it conducts con-
tinuing community education pro-
grams to inform individuals of their
rights under law; it encourages na-
tional, State, and local private or-
ganizations in undertaking programs
designed to expand housing options
for minority group and low-income
individuals; it works closely with
State and local agencies having fair
housing laws substantially equivalent
to Title VIII and refers complaints
to these agencies.
A FREE AND OPEN SOCIETY
On March 24, 1970, I issued a state-
ment setting forth in detail the Admin-
istration's policies on school desegregation.
In a portion of that statement that applies
equally to housing, I said the goal of this
Administration is “a free and open soci-
ety" and I added:
732
