[78] Mar. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
78 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report on the Availability of Government Services
to Rural Areas. March 1, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the first annual
report on government services to rural
America, as required by the Agricultural
Act of 1970.
Much of the information is about fiscal
year 1970, since we do not have all the
information in yet on the 1971 fiscal year.
However, even the changes over our first
full fiscal year in office showed important
gains in the Federal Government's con-
cern for the well-being of rural areas.
As examples, in fiscal 1970, we in-
creased Federal support for waste treat-
ment grants in rural areas by 174% over
the previous year, and increased man-
power development grants in such areas
more than 50%.
We have long recognized that much of
the housing in rural America is substand-
ard-in fact about half of all substandard
housing is in rural America. We have
made real gains in this area. While our
1970 rural housing loan efforts increased
56% over 1969, in 1971 we will have
increased these loans another 88%, to an
annual amount of over one and a quarter
billion dollars.
The report documents other major
strides toward improving services to those
millions of our people who live outside
metropolitan areas.
It is my hope that our next report will
show far greater progress. This is because
I earnestly hope it will follow passage of
some of the initiatives I urged in my State
of the Union Message. These new ini-
tiatives include:
-Revenue sharing which, in the up-
coming budget, can provide $16.1 billion
in funds to flow from Washington in such
a way that much real decision-making
would be moved back to the States, cities
and rural communities of America.
I have proposed not only $5 billion in
unrestricted, general revenue sharing, but
over $11 billion in various "special reve-
nue sharing" grants. Among these is spe-
cial revenue sharing for "rural community
development." Originally budgeted at a
level of $1 billion, I can announce today
that we have found it possible to make
available $100 million more for this im-
portant purpose. Furthermore, nearly all
the other special revenue sharing funds,
for manpower development, for educa-
tion, for transportation, for law enforce-
ment, and even in some cases for urban
community development, will have sig-
nificant benefits for rural America.
-A major reorganization of the civilian
agencies of the Federal Government. The
purpose is to make Federal program op-
erations work better for the individual
citizen and his community. The com-
plaints most frequently heard about Gov-
ernment are that it is too costly; that it
fails to match performance to promise;
that it is too far from people; that there
is nothing the individual person can do
about it. We intend to reduce the cost of
Government in Washington; to organize
it for performance; to return government
to the people; to give the people the
opportunity to do something about it, by
bringing government back to where the
people are.
Under our reorganization, economic
and community development would be
accorded high priority-the objective
354
