[12] Jan. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
day in a new and exciting and dramati-
cally promising way, you, each of you 18 or
over has a voice in the future of America.
The whole history of democracy in this
country is a chronicle of the constant
broadening of the power to participate.
Each new group receiving the franchise
has had a beneficial effect on the course of
America. Each new group has given fresh-
ness and vitality to the purposes of govern-
ment. And now it is your turn to do the
same.
So much is in your hands now. To those
who have believed the system would not
be moved, I say try it. To those who have
thought that the system was impenetrable,
I
say there is no longer a need to penetrate;
that door is open. For each of you, as for
each of the rest of us, there are going to
be some disappointments. There will be
defeat. In the hard logic of life, for anyone
to win, someone else has to lose. For some
to know victory, others have to know de-
feat. This is part of democracy.
For it is in the very nature of a free
society that no one can win all the time,
no one can have his own way all the time,
and no one is right all the time. If we suf-
fer a setback or if we lose on an issue, the
answer is not to blame the system but to
look within ourselves to see how we can
strengthen our resolve and intensify our
effort or perhaps to see whether the other
fellow just might have been right all the
time.
Defeat, therefore, can be an occasion
for learning, for weighing the wisdom of
our own purposes, examining the strength
of our own resources.
I have seen two of Bob Devaney's teams
play in the Orange Bowl when they lost.
But defeat, instead of disheartening them,
brought that experience which later led to
victory.
I know that there are those who reject
politics, who scorn the political life, and I
can assure you that politics attracts its
share of bad people, but so do all the other
professions. This does not reflect on the
political system, for politics is a process,
not an end in itself, and the process can
be as good or as bad as the people that
are part of it.
It may
be tempting to suppose, like the
ostrich, that what we choose not to be in-
volved in will, therefore, not involve us.
But we cannot make a separate peace, not
one of us can. We are all committed,
whether we choose to be or not. You can
reject this, you can come to the task of
being an American like Nietzsche's rope-
makers, who "pull their threads in length
and themselves, they are always going
backward." Or you can accept the com-
mitment. You can accept the challenge.
You can accept the high adventure of
being an American citizen.
In the end, the history of this time will
reflect your choice, and it will record that
you were the first generation of young
Americans to be given this chance. And
therefore, I urge you to choose well and to
choose carefully.
There is an old excuse: This is a world
that I never made. That won't do any
longer. You have now the opportunity,
the obligation, to mold the world that
you live in, and you cannot escape this
obligation.
There is a story of an old and very
wise teacher in early Athens. There was
no question the teacher could not an-
swer. There seemed to be nothing in life
the old man did not understand. And
finally, one of his students hit upon a way
to defeat the old man's wisdom.
The student determined that he would
catch a bird and hold it concealed in his
34
