Richard Nixon, 1971
June 4 [195]
that Federal licenses and permits are han-
dled as expeditiously as possible.
8. THE ROLE OF THE SULFUR OXIDES
EMISSIONS CHARGE
In my environmental message last Feb-
ruary I also proposed the establishment of
a sulfur oxides emissions charge. The
emissions charge would have the effect of
building the cost of sulfur oxide pollu-
tion into the price of energy. It would
also provide a strong economic incentive
for achieving the necessary performance
to meet sulfur oxide standards.
The funds generated by the emissions
charge would be used by the Federal Gov-
ernment to expand its programs to im-
prove environmental quality, with special
emphasis on the development of adequate
supplies of clean energy.
9. GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION-AN
ENERGY ADMINISTRATION
But new programs alone will not be
enough. We must also consider how we
can make these programs do what we in-
tend them to do. One important way of
fostering effective performance is to place
responsibility for energy questions in a sin-
gle agency which can execute and modify
policies in a comprehensive and unified
manner.
The Nation has been without an in-
tegrated energy policy in the past. One
reason for this situation is that energy
responsibilities are fragmented among
several agencies. Often authority is di-
vided according to types and uses of
energy. Coal, for example, is handled in
one place, nuclear energy in another-but
responsibility for considering the impact
of one on the other is not assigned to any
single authority. Nor is there any single
agency responsible for developing new
energy sources such as solar energy or new
conversion systems such as the fuel cell.
New concerns-such as conserving our
fossil fuels for non-fuel uses-cannot re-
ceive the thorough and thoughtful atten-
tion they deserve under present
arrangements.
The reason for all these deficiencies is
that each existing program was set up to
meet a specific problem of the past. As a
result, our present structure is not
equipped to handle the relationships be-
tween these problems and the emergence
of new concerns.
The need to remedy these problems be-
comes more pressing every day. For exam-
ple, the energy industries presently
account for some 20 percent of our invest-
ment in new plant and equipment. This
means that inefficiencies resulting from
uncoordinated government programs can
be very costly to our economy. It is also
true that energy sources are becoming in-
creasingly interchangeable. Coal can be
converted to gas, for example, and even
to synthetic crude oil. If the Government
is to perform adequately in the energy
field, then it must act through an agency
which has sufficient strength and breadth
of responsibility.
Accordingly, I have proposed that all
of our important Federal energy resource
development programs be consolidated
within the new Department of Natural
Resources.
The single energy authority which
would thus be created would be better
able to clarify, express, and execute Fed-
eral energy policy than any unit in our
present structure. The establishment of
this new entity would provide a focal
point where energy policy in the executive
branch could be harmonized
rationalized.
and
713
