Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 19 [147]
tradition of greatness, and I do not believe
that the flame of the American spirit can
be extinguished even by so dark a night-
mare as the Vietnam war has been for all
of us.
The killing in Asia, the war in Asia,
must stop, and it is being stopped. All of
us want that desperately. That fervent
desire unites this Nation, whatever else
may divide us. But the verdict of history
will hinge upon how we stop it. Ending a
war is not the problem. We have ended
wars in the past. Ending a war in which
we have a chance to build a lasting
peace-that is our responsibility.
And shall we move now in a way that
ends the death toll only for Americans and
then only for a brief time? Or shall we
act in a more difficult but a wiser way, to
leave behind South Vietnam able to de-
fend itself against Communist aggression
and a Southeast Asia and a Pacific where
peace is possible over the long term?
I believe that Americans will support
the wiser course, and I will tell you why
I believe it: because we want our grand-
children to remember the 1970's just as
we remember the 1770's, as a decade of
honor, of hope, of new birth for America.
And so the question we ask ourselves
tonight: Can we arise to the challenge of
these times which seem so difficult? Can
we make a new revolution at home? Can
we build a full generation of peace for
America and the world? I believe we can.
Night after night on your television,
and day after day in your newspapers you
see and you read and you hear those things
so often that are wrong about America.
We should hear about those things. But
we should recognize that the greatness of
this country is that we have a system which
allows us to correct what is wrong. And I
would also remind us all that as we hear
and as we read of what is wrong about
America, let's not overlook-as a matter
of fact, let's put more emphasis on—what
is right about America.
I have many visitors in the White
House, and to see anyone is a very special
experience. I particularly remember-as
a matter of fact, I don't think I will ever
forget a lady from Virginia who came
to see me at the White House last Septem-
ber. She brought a gift to me. It was a
3- by 5-foot American flag which she had
made by herself. As I thanked her for it,
and as I looked at it, I remarked what a
lot of work it must have been, because I
remember when my daughter Julie made
a very small Presidential seal-crewel
work-how much work it was for her.
And she said, "Yes, Mr. President, it
was a lot of work." She said, "There are
78,000 stitches in that flag." And then she
added, "But it was all worthwhile, be-
cause to me every one of those stitches
just stands for something that is right
about America."
And so this evening, I would only say
that I am deeply thankful that such a
spirit of love for this country is still alive
in America today. It was in that lady's
heart, it is in all of yours, and it is in mil-
lions of hearts across this land.
With that kind of patriotism, that kind
of love of country, we shall never lose
sight of the American dream. And with
that spirit, we shall make that dream come
true.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. in
Constitution Hall.
Dr. Edward L. R. Elson, Chaplain of the
Senate, gave the convocation.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
The hand-knit flag was presented to the
President by Mrs. Paul W. Heatwole of Har-
risonburg, Va., on September 11, 1970.
563
