[366] Nov. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
know sometimes you may think it must be
a terrible time to be alive now. We are in
a war. Of course, you all know it is com-
ing to an end. But you look to the future,
you see the awesome threat of nuclear war
hanging over the world, and you consider
the other problems we have in our society;
the problem of drugs, the problems that
you hear about and read about, either on
television or in your newspapers, and you
say, well, I guess our generation probably
has the worst of times.
Whenever you start to think that way-
and I don't think you are going to be
thinking that way-just remember that
Class of '30. Our generation saw three
wars, went through a very great depres-
sion. Your generation is going to see an
end to a war, and, if we are able to suc-
ceed, partly as a result of great new
initiatives in foreign policy-my trips to
Peking and to Moscow, they will con-
tribute—you may see what we have not
had in this whole century: a full genera-
tion of peace. It is going to be a great
period for you. I think the next 30 years,
the 30 years of the Class of '71, can be
wonderful years.
Here in this office, as long as I am here,
I am going to work for that. Because as I
look at you, I remember when I was your
age, and I remember what a wonderful
time it was. I remember how idealistic I
and the members of my class were-our
teachers, we gave them great credit for
that. And I know your teachers implant
those same ideals in you.
Just keep your faith in America, keep
your faith in God. Keep your faith in the
future. This is a good time to be alive.
It isn't the worst. It is the best. Remember
that never has a generation in the whole
history of the world had a chance to play
a role that yours plays. You are going to
have the vote, the vote at 18. You can do
something about the future. You can build
a world of peace, help to build it, but
more, you can build a nation at home, a
nation in which we can have the kind of
prosperity we all want, not based on
war, not based on inflation, but based on
those kinds of hopes that all young people
really have in their hearts for themselves,
and particularly for their friends and their
neighbors.
Now, having said these very serious
things, let me say a word about where you
are standing. How many of you are mar-
ried? The teacher? These are the steps,
when we have a state visit, for example,
when we had Mrs. Gandhi here, the Prime
Minister of India, and President Tito and
the prime ministers of other countries, we
receive them out here on the lawn, and
then after we review the troops and the
rest, then we walk up these steps and then
stand on that balcony and get a picture
taken for television. So, you are standing
on the steps where prime ministers and
presidents and kings and emperors stand.
But even more important, when I asked
how many of you are married, these are
the steps where I went through perhaps
the most difficult experience since I have
been President. This is where I had Tricia
on my arm when I walked down the steps,
where she was married over in the Rose
Garden. So, you are standing on the mar-
riage steps at the White House. I just
wanted you to know that.
Finally, with regard to your trip
through the White House today, you are
going to get a special tour. Just pick up
anything that is not nailed down. That is
not much.
But I recommend all the rooms. There
are very famous rooms here, of course, but
particularly, take a look at the Red Room.
1130
