[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
were going to campaign for the peace
candidates in the November elections.
They didn't.
That doesn't mean that they are for
war, but they were-or some way had
become convinced that we were sincerely
trying to end the war. We are ending it.
Second, we have got to quiet this coun-
try down at home. We made some progress
in that respect-not enough.
Third, we have to make that delicate
transition from a wartime to a peacetime
economy. The fact that 1,700,000 Ameri-
cans have been let out of defense plants
and out of the armed services, that has
contributed to this unemployment to
which we referred. But I think most
Americans want this Administration to
succeed in achieving not only the end of
a war but a peace that will last, some-
thing we haven't had a peace for a gen-
eration—and not only the ending of a
war, and a peace that will last, but a new
kind of prosperity, an era of opportunity
for all Americans.
This is why I believe that we are now
right at the breakpoint. The war is begin-
ning to end. We are seeing the economy
moving through the difficult period of
transition. We see the unemployment, I
believe, will move down over the period
of 1971-not as fast as we would like, but
it is going to go down. Inflation is going to
be checked. And then we can move for-
ward in the field of welfare reform, in the
field of returning decisionmaking power
to the people of this country, and we can
move forward on great programs in the
environment.
For example, did you happen to see the
cover story in Life this week on youth in
America? Three-fourths of them, I
noticed, said that they would not work for
a plant that was guilty of polluting the
environment. That shows you that this is
an issue.
And incidentally, I will give credit—
our Democrat friends are just as interested
in it as we are-but we are in and we are
pushing it.
But if we can get this country thinking
not of how to fight a war, but how to win
a peace-if we can get this country think-
ing of clean air, clean water, open spaces,
of a welfare reform program that will
provide a floor under the income of every
family with children in America, a new
form-a new approach to government, re-
form of education, reform of health-if
those things begin to happen, people can
think of these positive things, and then we
will have the lift of a driving dream. But
it takes some time to get rid of the night-
mares. You can't be having a driving
dream when you are in the midst of a
nightmare.
THE YOUNG VOTER
[23.] MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President,
speaking of the young, we are now going
to have the 18-, 19-, 20-year-olds voting
for Federal elections. What political party
or philosophy of government do you think
this may on balance benefit?
THE PRESIDENT. At the present time it
would benefit, referring to this Life
piece-because it was based on a poll, I
understand-it would benefit the Demo-
cratic Party more than the Republican
Party. But the significant thing about the
poll-and I quote this poll only because it
was taken by someone else, because I don't
quote any if I have taken them-but the
significant thing about this poll is that it
showed that 40 percent of the 18- to 21-
year-old voters had no opinion. They had
no party.
22
