Richard Nixon, 1971
[26]
Jan. 22
And I particularly want to join with
all of the Members of the House and the
Senate as well in congratulating the new
Speaker of the United States Congress.
To those new Members of this House
who may have some doubts about the pos-
sibilities for advancement in the years
ahead, I would remind you that the
Speaker and I met just 24 years ago in this
Chamber as freshmen Members of the
80th Congress. As you see, we both have
come up
in the world a bit since then.
Mr. Speaker, this 92d Congress has a
chance to be recorded as the greatest Con-
gress
in America's history.
In these troubled years just past, Amer-
ica has been going through a long night-
mare of war and division, of crime and in-
flation. Even more deeply, we have gone
through a long, dark night of the Ameri-
can spirit. But now that night is ending.
Now we must let our spirits soar again.
Now we are ready for the lift of a driving
dream.
The people of this Nation are eager to
get on with the quest for new greatness.
They see challenges, and they are pre-
pared to meet those challenges. It is for us
here to open the doors that will set free
again the real greatness of this Nation-
the genius of the American people.
How shall we meet this challenge? How
can we truly open the doors, and set free
the full genius of our people?
way
The in which the 92d Congress an-
swers these questions will determine its
place in history. More importantly, it can
determine this Nation's place in history
as we enter the third century of our
independence.
Tonight I shall present to the Congress
six great goals. I shall ask not simply for
more new programs in the old framework.
I shall ask to change the framework of
government itself-to reform the entire
structure of American government so we
can make it again fully responsive to the
needs and the wishes of the American
people.
If we act boldly-if we seize this mo-
ment and achieve these goals-we can
close the gap between promise and per-
formance in American government. We
can bring together the resources of this
Nation and the spirit of the American
people.
In discussing these great goals, I shall
deal tonight only with matters on the
domestic side of the Nation's agenda. I
shall make a separate report to the Con-
gress and the Nation next month on de-
velopments in foreign policy.
The first of these great goals is already
before the Congress.
I urge that the unfinished business of
the 91st Congress be made the first priority
business of the 92d Congress.
Over the next 2 weeks, I will call upon
Congress to take action on more than 35
pieces of proposed legislation on which
action was not completed last year.
The most important is welfare reform.
The present welfare system has become
a monstrous, consuming outrage—an out-
rage against the community, against the
taxpayer, and particularly against the
children it is supposed to help.
We may honestly disagree, as we do, on
what to do about it. But we can all
agree
that we must meet the challenge, not by
pouring more money into a bad program,
but by abolishing the present welfare sys-
tem and adopting a new one.
So let us place a floor under the income
of every family with children in Amer-
ica--and without those demeaning, soul-
stifling affronts to human dignity that so
blight the lives of welfare children today.
51
