[355] Nov. II
Public Papers of the Presidents
the hope that we will see you often in the
years ahead; and I look forward to what
I am sure will be many opportunities to
continue drawing on your rich storehouse
of wisdom and experience.
With warm personal regards,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Clifford M. Hardin, Secretary of
Agriculture]
NOTE: Secretary Hardin's letter of resignation,
dated October 25, 1971, and released with the
President's letter, read as follows:
My dear Mr. President:
My request to leave the Cabinet soon is
prompted by an unusual business opportunity.
From our conversation, I know that you un-
derstand why Martha and I feel we must
accept it.
I want to thank you for your strong support
of the programs of the Department of Agricul-
ture. Your public announcement early in the
Administration that you wanted me to speak
for the farmers of the nation and to be the
champion for rural development gave me a role
that I have enjoyed playing.
The accomplishments of your Administration
on behalf of agriculture have been solid ones:
(1) The Agricultural Act of 1970 passed
the Congress with the support of the leader-
ship of both parties. It is constructive legisla-
tion and will help farmers to improve their
economic position. Unfortunately it could not
deal adequately with one serious problem-
the cost-price squeeze brought on by inflation;
however, that is now being corrected by your
new economic program.
(2) Export sales of farm commodities are
at the highest level in all history.
(3) Following eleven years of no change in
funding levels, farmers, and especially young
farmers, need no longer be turned down for
loans from the Farmers Home Administra-
tion because the agency has run out of money.
The new insured loan programs combined with
our new policy of making joint loans with
local lending institutions represent a vast
improvement.
(4) You have recognized the unique role of
the Soil Conservation Service in preventing
pollution and improving the environment. You
have increased the staffing level of that agency
and you have expanded the highly useful small
watershed development program.
(5) In May, 1969, you announced that the
time had come to eliminate poverty related
hunger and malnutrition. We are now very,
very close to making good on that challenge.
Accomplishments since early 1969 amount to
the largest and most comprehensive nutritional
undertaking in all history. Never before has a
nation come so close to providing adequate food
for all its citizens.
(6) For the first time the development of
rural America has been placed in a top-priority
position by the President. As a result, strong
efforts are being made to bring about a redis-
tribution of the population and economic
growth of the nation. As you said to me one
day in the Cabinet Room, "It is essential that
growth be in the heart of the country, if the
country's heart is to survive.”
(7) You have recognized on many occasions
the growing productivity of the American
farmers and you have repeatedly expressed
your desire that ways be found for farmers to
share equitably in the fruits of a rich economy
to which they are contributing so much. As I
leave office I am confident that the lot of
farmers will continue to improve significantly
throughout calendar year 1972.
There are many more initiatives that have
been taken, and all are contributing to your
overall goal of "prosperity with peace."
I wish that All Americans could have the op-
portunity we have had to observe at close hand
the sincerity, skill and dedication with which
you have proceeded to lead the nation into
what should and can be the most satisfying
era yet in the life of the American people.
Even though we will soon be outside of gov-
ernment, we hope that we will be able to find
some way to be useful to you and your Admin-
istration. Finally, Martha and I wish to thank
you and Mrs. Nixon for your thoughtfulness on
so many occasions and for your personal inter-
est in our family.
Respectfully,
CLIFFORD M. HARDIN
[The President, The White House]
I 100
