Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [88]
negotiate seriously in Paris, there will be
serious problems left in Laos and Cam-
bodia, and that on the battlefield there
would be some hard options to be made
about deploying allied troops. Could you
clarify those statements, because it sug-
gests that we are going to be there a much
longer time than your earlier answer did?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lisagor, our goal
is a complete American withdrawal from
Cambodia, Laos, and South Vietnam. As
you know, that is the proposal I made on
October 7 [1970]. I made it, however, on
a mutual basis, that we would withdraw,
but that the North Vietnamese would
withdraw at the same time.
Now, as to what happens after we with-
draw, we cannot guarantee that North
and South Vietnam will not continue to
be enemies. We cannot guarantee that
there will not continue to be some kind of
guerrilla activities in Laos or even in Cam-
bodia. As far as our own goal is concerned,
our proposal is clear, and we ask the
enemy to consider it: a mutual withdrawal
of forces, our forces and theirs. If that hap-
pens, we will be glad to withdraw, and
then these other nations will have to see
whether or not they can handle their own
affairs.
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
[10.] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Do you see any limit on the exer-
cise of executive privilege?
THE PRESIDENT. The matter of execu-
tive privilege is one that-it always de-
pends on which side you are on. I well
recall-and, Mr. Theis, you were cover-
ing me at the time when I was a Member
of the House-that I raised serious ques-
tions as a member of an investigating
committee about the executive privilege
that was at that time, looking back in ret-
rospect, properly insisted upon by Presi-
dent Truman. And, as President, I believe
that executive privilege is essential for the
orderly processes of government.
Now, let me just point out, however,
what it does not cover. I was very sur-
prised to note the suggestion the Secretary
of State was not available enough for
testimony. I checked it out. Over the past
2 years, State Department officials have
testified 499 times before the House and
the Senate. The Secretary of State him-
self has testified personally 14 times in
1969 and 15 times in 1970. He has had
167 private meetings in addition to all that
with individual Senators or in groups of
Senators at the State Department or at
his home. As a matter of fact, I don't
know how he has had time to talk to me
with all the time he is talking to the
Congress.
U.S. ACTION AND THE OUTLOOK FOR
THE FUTURE
[11.] Q. Mr. President, you said ear-
lier that there will have to be a residual
force staying in South Vietnam as long as
the North Vietnamese continue to hold
prisoners.
You have also said on previous occa-
sions that you will not hesitate to take any
strong action in order to protect whatever
troops remain in South Vietnam, what-
ever of our troops remain in South
Vietnam.
Does this, in effect, mean that despite
your Vietnamization plan that you will
have to have, in a sense, an indefinite com-
mitment to South Vietnam with troops
there indefinitely, determined only by
Hanoi and their actions?
391
