Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 23 [70]
1972 in programs administered by
the U.S. Office of Education, the Na-
tional Science Foundation, and the
Department of Agriculture.
CONCLUSION
These are but some of the new ap-
proaches to higher education which need
to be pursued. A theme common to all of
them is a new kind of engagement be-
tween all the citizens of our society and
our system of higher education. All of us
can make a contribution to bringing about
such an engagement by taking part in a
thoughtful national discussion about our
priorities for higher education. Students
and faculties can make a contribution by
70
reexamining their goals and the means
they choose to achieve them. The Federal
Government can do its part by supporting
access to higher education for all of our
people and by providing the resources
needed to help develop new forms of
higher education which would be respon-
sive to all of their needs.
The White House
February 22, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the President's proposals on
higher education by Dr. Sidney P. Marland,
Jr., Commissioner of Education, and Dr. Peter
P. Muirhead, Executive Deputy Commissioner,
Office of Education, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare.
Statement on Suspending Davis-Bacon Act Provisions for
Federal Construction Projects.
I AM today suspending the provisions of
the Davis-Bacon Act which require con-
tractors working on Federal construction
projects to pay certain prescribed wage
rates to their workers. In my judgment,
the operation of this law at a time when
construction wages and prices are sky-
rocketing only gives Federal endorsement
and encouragement to severe inflationary
pressures.
The action I have taken today is based
on the principle that Government pro-
grams which contribute to excessive wage
and price increases must be modified or re-
scinded in periods of inflation. This was
the principle I applied to industry in the
case of recent excessive increases in steel
and oil prices. This is the principle I am
applying to organized labor in the con-
struction emergency.
February 23, 1971
This decision suspends a special provi-
sion of law which has applied uniquely to
the construction industry since 1931. It
puts the construction industry on the same
footing with other industries that now sell
products to the Government. For under
the Davis-Bacon Act, wage rates on Fed-
eral projects have been artificially set by
this law rather than by customary market
forces. Frequently, they have been set to
match the highest wages paid on private
projects. This means that many of the
most inflationary local wage settlements
in the construction industry have auto-
matically been sanctioned and spread
through Government contracts.
The Davis-Bacon Act was originally
passed in 1931 to ease extremely severe
downward pressures on wages in the con-
struction industry. I believe, however, that
199
