[206] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
is this: The Government agencies, the
nine of them in this field, are going to
quit fighting each other and start fight-
ing the problem a little more.
Now, the offensive that I have men-
tioned in drug abuse places new emphasis
on education because that, of course, is
the most important of all. We can stop the
source of supply in one country; it moves
to another. We can have stronger enforce-
ment and people will go around it if the
demand is great enough and if people
are willing to pay. We can have re-
habilitation but then that is probably too
late if the problem goes that far.
So we need education-education as to
the dangers of drug abuse. And this is an
area where human resources are going
to make the difference. But the effective-
ness of education depends ultimately on
communication, on the trust that grows
up between one human being and an-
other. What is a good educator? Well, he
must combine compassion with firmness, a
sense of authority with a sense of sym-
pathy, a capacity for discipline, a capacity
for involvement.
I just described you. That is what doc-
tors are. These are virtues you possess.
They are values that you and your pro-
fession prize. And that is why I look to the
medical profession, and all America looks
to the medical profession, for leadership
in this field of education in drug abuse.
Let me treat two aspects of the prob-
lem, one that is somewhat in your field.
And if I step over the bounds of my own
competence, I, of course, will expect you
to correct me in any resolutions that you
adopt.
First of all, let me point out the link,
and I believe there is a link, which exists
between the inappropriate use of drugs
within the medical context and the abuse
4
of drugs outside that context. Consider
these facts for a moment: In the last
years alone, the production and distribu-
tion of tranquilizers in our country has
doubled. During 1970, 5 billion doses of
tranquilizers, 3 billion doses of ampheta-
mines, 5 billion doses of barbiturates were
produced in this country. Listen to this:
The estimate is that 50 percent of the am-
phetamines and barbiturates were di-
verted into illegal sales. So there is the
problem in terms of education as well as
enforcement.
Tranquilizers, amphetamines, and bar-
biturates, as you know, are known as
psychotropic or mind-altering drugs. It is
estimated that one-third of all Americans
between the ages of 18 and 74 used a
psychotropic drug of some type last year.
And little wonder-for there were enough
drugs of this type available last year to
medicate every adult in the United States
at very high dosage rates for more than II
days.
Now, what does all this mean? What it
means is that we have created in America
a culture of drugs. We have produced an
environment in which people come nat-
urally to expect that they can take a pill
for every problem-that they can find sat-
isfaction and health and happiness in a
handful of tablets or a few grains of
powder.
We have got to face up to the fact that
within this climate it is altogether too easy
for the abuse of drugs-not the prescrip-
tion, now, and the use, but the abuse of
drugs will flourish in that kind of a cli-
mate, in a climate where individuals be-
lieve, because of inadequate education,
that they can take a pill for every problem.
The medical profession was among the
first to recognize this problem, to iden-
tify as one of its causes-the fact that
766
