Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 4 [250]
I would also like to restate my position
as it relates to busing. I am against busing
as that term is commonly used in school
desegregation cases. I have consistently
opposed the busing of our Nation's school-
children to achieve a racial balance, and
I am opposed to the busing of children
simply for the sake of busing. Further,
while the executive branch will continue
to enforce the orders of the court, includ-
ing court-ordered busing, I have in-
structed the Attorney General and the
250
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare that they are to work with individual
school districts to hold busing to the mini-
mum required by law.
Finally, I have today instructed the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to draft and submit today to the Con-
gress an amendment to the proposed
Emergency School Assistance Act that will
expressly prohibit the expenditure of any
of those funds for busing.
The President's News Conference of
August 4, 1971
PAKISTANI REFUGEES
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and gentle-
men, I would begin this with a brief
résumé of the conversation I have just had
with the Secretary of State, because I
know the subject will probably come up
in any event.
This is with regard to the Pakistan
refugee situation. To recap what we have
done: As far as the refugees who are in
India are concerned, we have provided
$70 million in aid to date, being adminis-
tered through the U.N. High Commis-
sioner for Refugees. And we are prepared
to provide more. That, incidentally, is
more than all the rest of the nations of the
world put together, so it is a substantial
amount.
As far as those in East Pakistan them-
selves are concerned, whereas you know
there are prospects of famine in the event
that the crop reports are as bad as they
seem to be, at this point we have 360,000
tons of grain ready for shipment there. We
have also allotted $3 million for the pur-
pose of chartering ships for the purpose
of getting the grain into the overcrowded
ports.
As a further step, the Secretary of State
has worked out with my very strong ap-
proval a plan to go to the United Nations
next week to talk to the responsible and
appropriate members of the United Na-
tions, including the U.N. High Commis-
sioner in that office, to see what additional
steps can be taken on both fronts to help
the refugees in India from East Pakistan
and also to help those who are in East
Pakistan and are presently confronting
famine situations.
With regard to a problem that was ad-
dressed by the House yesterday, we do not
favor the idea that the United States
should cut off economic assistance to
Pakistan. To do so would simply aggra-
vate the refugee problem because it would
mean that the ability of the Government
of Pakistan to work with the U.N., as it
presently has indicated it is willing to do
849
