Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 27 [311]
Those words express the hope which
unites our peoples-and people every-
where. I know your journey will provide
an eloquent expression of that hope. As
you continue that journey, our best wishes
will
go
with you.
NOTE: The statement was released at Anchor-
age, Alaska.
311 Remarks at a 75th Birthday Celebration Dinner
Honoring Mamie Doud Eisenhower.
September 27, 1971
I KNOW that at this particular moment
that everybody is rather waiting for some-
body to leave. And since I understand
nobody can leave apparently until we
leave, I didn't want this opportunity to
pass without speaking for all of this audi-
ence to thank those who have entertained
us tonight so wonderfully.
I was trying, of course, to get my
speech ready, but Julie wrote it, and the
alphabet just was too difficult. And so,
I will ad lib this one or "wing it" as they
say.
First, to the women in radio and tele-
vision, this is a great night for all of you.
We are, all of us, I think, appreciative of
the fact that you have honored Mrs.
Eisenhower in a way that I know the
General would particularly appreciate.
And I think all of us who are your guests
want to congratulate those who have built
a great profession in the field of radio and
television, the women in radio and tele-
vision. To all of you our congratulations
and our thanks.
Second, to those who have participated
in the program, they are all here on the
stage, but let me say that I came with Mrs.
Nixon farther than anybody else, 5,000
miles. I just love to come and see some
celebrities, believe me. [Laughter]
I think all of us collectively want to
recognize Ray Bolger, Ethel Merman,
"Private" [Red] Skelton, and, of course,
Lawrence Welk. Let's give them all a
hand now.
And the great Cadet chorus [West Point
Glee Club].
And as soon as they are released from
the service, Lawrence Welk's orchestra.ยน
And then just one thought for Mrs.
Eisenhower. I think, first, on a serious note
that the General perhaps would have
most deeply appreciated the fact that she
was honored in this way with the scholar-
ship fund for Eisenhower College to go to
all of the 50 States and that this will play
a great part in providing that.
And second, to think of something that
would be appropriate to say about her.
It was said so eloquently in the presenta-
tion of the Military Wife of the Century,2
I think perhaps I could put it in some-
what of a different context, and even an
almost personal one in this sense.
We often think of men in battle-
whether it is in the battle of war or the
battles of peace, in the battles of politics,
1
ยน The President was referring to the Marine
Band, under the direction of Lawrence Welk.
2 The Military Wife of the Century Award
was presented to Mrs. Eisenhower at the dinner
by Alfred J. Stokely, president, Stokely-Van
Camp, Inc., as part of the annual Military Wife
of the Year awards program, a worldwide ef-
fort to honor wives of servicemen who are
active in volunteer work.
1007
