[37] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
back Federal spending, when the economy
is weak because such actions would have
weakened economic conditions further.
To say that deficits are appropriate in
certain conditions is not to say that defi-
cits are always appropriate or that the
size of the deficit is ever a matter of in-
difference. Such a policy of free-for-all
deficit financing would be an invitation
to inflation and to wasteful spending.
As I stated last June, we need to abide
by a principle of budget policy which per-
mits flexibility in the budget and yet lim-
its the inevitable tendency to wasteful and
inflationary action. The useful and real-
istic principle of the full employment
budget is that, except in emergencies, ex-
penditures should not exceed the revenues
that the tax system would yield when the
economy is operating at full employment.
The budget for fiscal 1972 follows this
principle.
Balancing the budget at full employ-
ment does not deny or conceal the deficit
that will exist this year and almost cer-
tainly next year. It does, however, avoid
large deficits when they would be infla-
tionary, like the swing to a big deficit in
fiscal 1968. It means that even when the
economy is low we must not allow our ex-
penditures to outrun the revenue-produc-
ing capacity of the tax system, piling up
the prospect of dangerous deficits in the
future when the economy is operating at
a high level. Moreover, to say that expen-
ditures must not exceed the full employ-
ment revenues draws a clear line beyond
which we must not raise the budget unless
we are willing to pay more taxes. This is
an irreplaceable test of the justification
for spending. It keeps fiscal discipline at
the center of budget decisions.
Fiscal policy should do its share in
promoting economic expansion, and our
proposed budget would do that. But fiscal
policy cannot undertake the responsibil-
ity of doing by itself everything needed
for economic expansion in the near fu-
ture. To try to do that would drive taxes
and expenditures off the course that is
needed for the longer run. The task of
economic stabilization must be accom-
plished by a concert of economic policies.
The combined use of these policies, start-
ing near the beginning of 1969, finally
checked the accelerating inflation that
had kept the economy overheated for
years. A turn of fiscal and monetary poli-
cies in a more expansive direction at the
beginning of 1970 limited the economic
decline and initiated an upturn. Con-
certed policies of expansion are needed
now to lift the economy fast enough to
make rapid progress toward full employ-
ment, and these needs will be fully met.
PRICE STABILITY AND FULL PROSPERITY
In a fundamental sense, as I have al-
ways emphasized, the control of inflation
and the achievement of full employment
are mutually supporting, not conflicting,
goals. Nothing would contribute more to
the new expansion than confidence that
the threat of inflation is fading. As part of
my program of expansion I propose to
justify that confidence.
The basic conditions to bring about a
simultaneous reduction of unemployment
and inflation are coming into being. We
are going to continue to slow down the
rate of inflation in the middle of an or-
derly expansion. And we are going to do
it by relying upon free markets and
strengthening them, not by suppressing
them. Free prices and wages are the heart
100
