Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 1 [79]
I have offered have special meaning to
rural America is that one of their chief
purposes is to give each State in this coun-
try and each community greater freedom
to decide for itself those questions that
directly affect its own future. If the les-
sons of the past decades mean anything to
us, they mean that as power has been con-
centrated more and more in Washington,
D.C., as decisions have been increasingly
made by remote control, the special needs
of our rural communities and of the great
heartland of America more and more
have either been neglected or even gone
unrecognized.
I want those decisions that affect rural
America made by people who know rural
America. And the people who know a
place best are the people who live here.
To put it bluntly, I believe that legislators
in Iowa in this capitol know better than
bureaucrats in Washington, D.C., what
is best for Iowa.
Now, it is fashionable in a lot of quar-
ters these days to scoff at State and local
government, to speak of its corruption and
its inefficiency and all of the other prob-
lems that seem to confront it at this time.
But to those who sneer at State legis-
latures, at city councils, at any level of
government other than that in Washing-
ton, I say that they do not know the
American people or the American system.
I reject completely the contention that
you cannot trust State and local govern-
ment. The patronizing notion that a bu-
reaucratic elite in Washington knows best
what is best for people everywhere is com-
pletely alien to the American experience.
The honesty and efficiency of govern-
ment depends on people. Government at
all levels--at the Federal level, the State
level, the local level-has good people
and bad people. And the way to get more
good people into government is to give
them more opportunity to do good things,
not just at the Federal level but at the
State level and at the local level as well.
You know and I know how much dedi-
cation there is in State capitals, how much
of a desire to do the right thing-and
how much frustration there is with re-
strictions and the redtape that Washington
so often imposes, also with the tightening
squeeze upon needs and resources.
Like other State legislatures, you con-
front here in Iowa enormous problems.
As in the case of most of our States, I
know that you are wrestling now with
ways of avoiding the prospect of a deficit
this year. And that is true of a majority of
the States in this Nation this year. I know
how heavy the burden of State and local
taxes has become.
I was thinking of that in retrospect as I
was preparing my remarks for this occa-
sion. I entered public life as a freshman
Congressman from California almost 25
years ago. And since then I have been in
and out of government all of that time, a
little more in than out.
But in that 25 years, I have noted what
has happened. Listen to these compari-
sons: Today, we find that State and local
expenditures are 12 times as high as they
were just 25 years ago; property taxes are
six times as high as they were 25 years
ago; and State and local debt is nine
times as high as it was just 25 years ago.
Now, against that background, let's look
at the double mismatch we have here: As
the Nation grows, as the economy ex-
pands, needs grow fastest at the State and
local level, while revenues grow fastest
at the Federal level. And at the same time,
experience shows that the Federal Gov-
ernment, as all of you know if you have
had anything to do with the income tax
357
