Richard Nixon, 1971
June 2 [193]
the generation from 14 to 21, has the best
chance of any generation in this century
to enjoy what we have not had in this
century in America-a full generation of
peace.
That may seem far away, but we are
ending the American involvement in the
war in Vietnam in a way that will con-
tribute to a lasting peace, and you are
going to be the beneficiaries of that.
More than that, we find very significant
new developments in the field of foreign
policy. You have been hearing about
them; you have been reading about them.
The kind of a world that you will grow
up in, that you will take positions in, in
your professions and your lives, can be a
very different world.
Oh, it isn't going to be a world without
challenges; it isn't going to be a world
without dangers. But it could be a world of
peace, and it could be-and I trust that
this may be the case-a world where ex-
plorers, capital "E" or small "e," can go
any place in the world.
What we are trying to do through our
new initiatives in foreign policy is not only
to bring peace to America and to the
world but to open up the world, to open
up the world so that your generation can
not only know America and Europe and
South America and Africa, but you can
know Asia and the great legion of people
who now live in Mainland China.
I believe this is going to come. And I
believe for that reason, the world here
is going to be a more exciting one, a more
interesting one, a more peaceful one for
all of you.
Now, having painted that prospect for
the future, let me just say one word with
regard to what we need and what we
know and what I am sure we will get from
you:
You are going to be required, as a
younger generation, to help America
maintain this strong national defense that
is needed so that we can play a peaceful
role. Some of you are going to be re-
quired, in addition to that, to make a
contribution to America's economic
strength. As a matter of fact, all of you, in
one way or another, are going to contrib-
ute to that, and all of you-and this I
consider more important than either of
the first two, either our military or eco-
nomic strength-all of you are going to
be needed to contribute to the character
of this country.
In a few minutes you are going to take
a tour of this house. For 180 years, Presi-
dents of the United States have lived in
this house. It isn't really called officially
the White House; it is the President's
House. John Adams first lived there, and
all the Presidents since have lived in the
White House.
As you look at that house, and as you go
through it, you will think of the history,
of the great trials this country has gone
through, of the men who lived there, the
challenges this Nation faced, and how we
got where we are.
What you
will be reminded of is that
when America was very young, as you
were very young, America was weak eco-
nomically, it was also weak militarily; but
it was the hope of the world because we
had a moral and a spiritual strength and
an idealism that caught the imagination
of the world.
America stood for something, stood for
something among peoples far away that
were never to know this land. That was
true 180 years ago. I can tell you that
it is still true today; that there are millions
of people in the 70 countries I have visited
all over this world who look at America
71-234-72-48
701
