Richard Nixon, 1971
June 4 [195]
sumer prices as a whole. Energy has been
an attractive bargain in this country-
and demand has responded accordingly.
In the years ahead, the needs of a grow-
ing economy will further stimulate this de-
mand. And the new emphasis on environ-
mental protection means that the demand
for cleaner fuels will be especially acute.
The primary cause of air pollution, for ex-
ample, is the burning of fossil fuels in
homes, in cars, in factories and in power
plants. If we are to meet our new national
air quality standards, it will be essential
for us to use stack gas cleaning systems in
our large power and other industrial
plants and to use cleaner fuels in virtually
all of our new residential, commercial
and industrial facilities, and in some of
our older facilities as well.
Together, these two factors-growing
demand for energy and growing emphasis
on cleaner fuels-will create an extraor-
dinary pressure on our fuel supplies.
The task of providing sufficient clean
energy is made especially difficult by the
long lead times required to increase energy
supply. To move from geological explora-
tion to oil and gas well production now
takes from 3 to 7 years. New coal mines
typically require 3 to 5 years to reach the
production stage and it takes 5 to 7 years
to complete a large steam power plant.
The development of the new technology
required to minimize environmental dam-
age can further delay the provision of ad-
ditional energy. If we are to take full
advantage of our enormous coal resources,
for example, we will need mining systems
that do not impair the health and safety
of miners or degrade the landscape and
combustion systems that do not emit
harmful quantities of sulfur oxides, other
noxious gases, and particulates into the
atmosphere. But such systems may take
several years to reach satisfactory per-
formance. That is why our efforts to ex-
pand the supply of clean energy in Amer-
ica must immediately be stepped up.
I. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GOALS
FOR CLEAN ENERGY
Our past research in this critical field
has produced many promising leads. Now
we must move quickly to demonstrate the
best of these new concepts on a commer-
cial scale. Industry should play the major
role in this area, but government can help
by providing technical leadership and by
sharing a portion of the risk for costly
demonstration plants. The time has now
come for government and industry to
commit themselves to a joint effort to
achieve commercial scale demonstrations
in the most crucial and most promising
clean energy development areas—the fast
breeder reactor, sulfur oxide control tech-
nology and coal gasification.
a. Sulfur Oxide Control Technology
A major bottleneck in our clean energy
program is the fact that we cannot now
burn coal or oil without discharging its
sulfur content into the air. We need new
technology which will make it possible to
remove the sulfur before it is emitted to
the air.
govern-
Working together, industry and
ment have developed a variety of ap-
proaches to this problem. However, the
new air quality standards promulgated
under the Clean Air Amendments of 1970
require an even more rapid development
of a suitable range of stack gas cleaning
techniques for removing sulfur oxides. I
have therefore requested funds in my
I
705
