Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [86]
local funds, scarce at best, must be set
aside to match-in effect, to buy into-
the Federal money, if the money is not to
be lost.
In one respect only do all States and
cities fare equally under a system of nar-
row categorical grants: officials of all
must, as a matter of survival, learn their
way through a bureaucratic jungle.
For example:
-Merely to describe one State's Fed-
eral manpower programs in 1970 re-
quired a jargon-heavy tome 1185
pages long.
-Last fall a businessmen's group at-
tempting to list all the public man-
power programs in New York City
gave up after 44 entries, commenting
that "attempting to unravel the intri-
cate mass of detailed data on the in-
dividual programs has been an
exhausting undertaking."
-Harried vocational school adminis-
trators must cope with a 930-page
Labor Department manual and hun-
dreds of pages more of Federal stand-
ards and conditions, to meet the
requirements of a single program—
MDTA institutional training.
In light of all this, Americans' discontent
with government is no mystery. The Fed-
eral money put to low-priority uses, the
captive local matching money, the waste
of time by local officials in threading their
way through Byzantine administrative
tangles-all are unfair: to a Nation that
deserves a healthy employment market,
to people out of work who deserve effec-
tive job assistance, and to taxpayers who
deserve a hundred cents worth of public
benefits on every
dollar government takes
from them.
TO MAKE GOOD ON A GOOD IDEA
The active Federal commitment to
manpower training and development was
a good idea in 1962, when Congress in
enacting MDTA expressed concern that
"the problem of assuring sufficient em-
ployment opportunities will be com-
pounded by the extraordinarily rapid
growth of the labor force in the next
decade." It is an even better idea today,
with the labor force already enlarged by
19 percent in the nine years since, and with
technological change still rapid. But one
of the great lessons of the dramatic Fed-
eral Government growth in the 1960s is
that even a good idea like this can fall
short of its promise if the way in which it
is carried out runs against the grain of the
Federal system. By converting the Na-
tion's manpower programs from cate-
gorical grants to Special Revenue Shar-
ing, we can play to the strengths of the
Federal partnership, teaming Federal dol-
lars with State and local decisionmaking.
This is the purpose of the Manpower
Revenue Sharing Act of 1971 which I am
proposing today.
WHERE THE MONEY GOES
I have proposed that $2 billion be pro-
vided for the first full year of the Man-
power Revenue Sharing Act, which would
replace the Manpower Development and
Training Act and manpower provisions
of the Economic Opportunity Act on
January 1, 1972. This represents an in-
crease of almost one-third over current
levels of funding for the affected cate-
gorical grants. Since the need for job
training and other
and other manpower assist-
71-234-72-28
381
