[227] July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
227 Remarks on
Act of 1971.
Signing the Emergency Employment
July 12, 1971
I THINK it is particularly significant
that I am able to sign this bill and have
the opportunity to comment upon it in
California.
As you know, this is the Emergency Em-
ployment Act of 1971. It meets the objec-
tions to the bill that I vetoed last year.
This bill is transitional, providing for
150,000 jobs over the next 2 years. It also
provides for job training to move people
from public service jobs into jobs in the
private sector. It will be particularly help-
ful in areas like California, which have
higher than the national average of un-
employment due to layoffs in aerospace
and related defense industries.
In signing the bill, I am also asking
Congress to move as expeditiously as pos-
sible on the appropriation bill. I have been
228
assured by the leaders that they will have
the appropriation bill out within a matter
of a few days, and once the appropriation
bill is on my desk and is signed, we already
have, under the Department of Labor,
a number of areas selected where men
will be put to work immediately. So this
will have an immediate effect in areas of
high unemployment like California, par-
ticularly southern California, in alleviat-
ing that situation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. at
the Western White House, San Clemente, Calif.
As enacted, the bill (S. 31) is Public Law
92-54 (85 Stat. 146).
On July 23, 1971, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the emer-
gency employment program by James D. Hodg-
son, Secretary, and Malcolm R. Lovell, Jr.,
Assistant Secretary for Manpower, Depart-
ment of Labor.
Statement About the Emergency Employment
Act of 1971. July 12, 1971
TODAY I have signed into law the Emer-
gency Employment Act of 1971, and I
shall shortly urge the Congress to appro-
priate the full $1 billion authorized by the
act for this fiscal year.
As I noted last week in affirming my
support of this act, "The job of the admin-
istration, indeed of any administration, is
to search out the best ways to deal with the
problems and needs of the Nation."
America needs more jobs, and it needs
them now. This Administration is working
to meet this need. The Emergency Em-
ployment Act of 1971 will mean more
than 150,000 additional new jobs for our
unemployed and our underemployed. I
am especially pleased that our returning
veterans will be favored by the act, and
that those with little or no job training,
such as unskilled youth, will also have a
chance to get jobs through this measure.
The jobs provided by the act will be in
the field of public service-in such areas
as environment, health, education, public
safety, crime prevention, prisons, trans-
portation, park maintenance, recreation,
rural development, and sanitation.
The Emergency Employment Act of
1971 will be speedy in its relief: The kind
of community service activities supported
816
