Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
reductions in offensive forces in order to
maintain stability even in the face of qual-
itative improvements.
The Soviet Union, for its part, sub-
mitted a general proposal which diverged
from ours in many respects, including a
major difference on the definition of
strategic systems.
When it proved difficult to make prog-
ress on the basis of the initial approaches
and proposals, our preparatory work en-
abled us to move rapidly to a modified
approach taking account of Soviet objec-
tions. Our approach incorporated alter-
native provisions for either limitation or a
total ban of ABM. Modified proposals
were put forward by the Soviet Union as
well. On some issues, our views coincided
or were quite close; on others there re-
mained important differences. In many
respects, Soviet suggestions on various
aspects of offensive and defensive limita-
tions lacked the specificity and detail to
permit firm conclusions about their over-
all impact.
SALT Issues For the Future. We have
been able to move from preliminary ex-
ploration of substantive issues to concrete
negotiations in a fairly short period. The
dialogue has been serious and businesslike.
The rate of progress, however, has been
influenced by differing perspectives.
This Administration has established
and enunciated a concept of strategic
sufficiency. We have reflected this con-
cept in the nature and number of our
strategic forces and the doctrines for their
employment. All these aspects of our pos-
ture are fully aired in each year's budget-
ary process. As I have pointed out in the
section on Strategic Forces, Soviet deploy-
ments make us uncertain whether the
USSR has made a similar national com-
mitment to strategic equilibrium.
There also remain specific differences
that have gradually emerged in our ex-
change of proposals. These involve what
an agreement should cover and how it
should be verified.
-We have approached the question
on what armaments to include in an
initial agreement with different def-
initions. While recognizing that a
variety of offensive systems could be
construed as strategic, we believe that
priority should go to those that form
the core of offensive threats, ICBM's,
SLBM's, and heavy
heavy strategic
bombers.
-The USSR has broadly defined "stra-
tegic" offensive weapons as those that
can reach the other side's territory.
These terms include our theater nu-
clear delivery systems including those
on aircraft carriers. But our carrier
and land-based air forces abroad are
essential components of integrated
theater defenses created under alli-
ance commitments in response to
common threats. On the other hand,
the Soviet approach would not in-
clude limitations on its own theater
nuclear forces, including their own
medium or intermediate range mis-
siles. During the course of the nego-
tiations we have been making efforts,
in consultation with our allies, to take
account of this difference
perspective.
-There has also been a difference over
in
whether a separate agreement lim-
iting ABM's alone would be in our
mutual interest. The U.S. believes
that to be stable and satisfactory, an
agreement should include limitations
on both offensive and defensive
systems.
-As I said last year, the requirement
323
