[151] Apr. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
back into the bad habits of the past. For
one thing, government must keep its house
in order with a budget that does not ex-
ceed full employment revenues. For
another, labor and management must
keep their houses in order with wage in-
creases based primarily on increases in
productivity and price increases kept to
the absolute minimum.
We saw what happened in 1966, 1967,
1968, 1969. It seemed that everything
was going up, that everybody was doing
better. But when productivity increases
in that period—and all of those years were
abnormally low-prices went up, but the
worker got little real benefit from his wage
increases. But in the past year, the in-
crease in productivity made a comeback,
and this year the increase will be stronger
still, based particularly on the very good
first quarter figures.
Steadily rising productivity is one of the
secrets to the success of the American sys-
tem, and there is nothing more important
for labor and management to do for them-
selves and for their country than to keep
raising productivity.
Because there are times when economic
freedom must be protected from its own
excesses, I intend to continue to use the
power of my office to persuade business
and labor to act responsibly in making
further progress against inflation, because
fighting inflation is not just government's
business—it is everybody's business.
And that brings me to a fourth point
you can be confident about. You can be
sure that the road to full employment with
price stability and without war, the
new prosperity, the new prosperity that we
want, will be the road of free markets, free
competition, free bargaining, and free
men.
I will always be amazed at those who
cry repression of freedom at the drop of a
hat, but who in the next breath advocate
total repression of the economic freedom
of businessmen and workingmen. I have
been to countries whose leaders thought
they could legislate economic growth.
They drew up their plans, they passed the
laws, they pushed the button, and nothing
happened. They discovered in time that
no law that they passed could repeal the
law of supply and demand, and no social
motive, no matter how high-sounding,
could replace the impetus of the profit
motive.
Everyone in this audience today has
heard some young person, perhaps even
his own son, say something like this: "I
don't want to go into business. That 9-to-5
rat race is not for me. I want to do some-
thing to help people."
Let's look at America over the past 2
years. The Congress of the United States,
acting on the recommendations of this
Administration, was able to enact legisla-
tion to deal with the problem of poverty in
this country, and the number of people
receiving help through food stamps was
raised from three million to nine million.
Look at what we have done abroad.
When Mrs. Nixon went to Peru, a country
that had been antagonistic to us in its
foreign policy, when they had a terrible,
devastating earthquake, she was able not
only to present to them a check from the
Government in terms of millions of dol-
lars, but checks from private donors also
in terms of millions of dollars to help these
people in distress, because even though
we disagreed with their government, we
shared the compassion and concern for
people in distress. And then in Romania, a
Communist country with which we have
very significant differences in foreign pol-
icy-a devastating flood. The Govern-
584
