[180] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
II, Korea, and now the war in Vietnam.
We are bringing that war to an end-
bringing it to an end in a way that we can
contribute to a lasting peace for all.
But I am sure that when Woodrow Wil-
son spoke in this city on that historic oc-
casion 58 years ago, he thought, as I think,
and as every President of the United
States and every citizen of America, Re-
publican and Democrat, must think, of
how this Nation could contribute to peace
for not only America but for the whole
world.
He had high hopes and high dreams,
and he died virtually of a broken heart
because at the conclusion of World War I
the nations of the world would not join
him as he thought they might join him, or
in the spirit that he thought they might
join him.
There were difficulties also with the
Senate of the United States, some of those
you have all read about and heard about,
but now here we are 58 years later, and I,
like all the Presidents in this century and
the ones in the previous century, speak to
you about peace for America, peace for
the world.
As I came through the streets of Mo-
bile, I saw lots of people. There were a lot
of older people, there were many people
who were wage earners, and I am sure
people who were taking off from their jobs
during the noon hour, but there were also
thousands and thousands of children, and
I thought of them as you must think of
them. We want them to grow up in a
world of peace. We don't want them to
have to fight in any war, anytime. We
have always had that as a goal.
I simply want to say on this occasion
that I believe as a result of developments
that have occurred and that are occurring
at this time, that we have a better chance
to achieve what we have not had in this
century for our children, and that is a
full generation without war, a full gen-
eration of peace.
But if we are to have that we must re-
member that the United States must not
withdraw from the world. If we are to
have that we must remember that the
strength of the United States, its military
strength, its economic strength has been,
in this century, and will always be used
for peace; never to bring on war, but to
bring peace if we can; never to destroy
freedom, but to save freedom around the
world. And, therefore, a strong United
States, as long as there are other nations
in the world who might threaten the
peace, is essential if we are going to
have it.
And so, therefore, it is important to
note-and I can speak of all of the Mem-
bers of the Senate and the House that are
on this platform, they differ as far as
partisan affiliations are concerned, but
when the national security of this coun-
try is concerned, the national defense of
this country is concerned, these men, you
can be proud, have voted for strong na-
tional defense, and we need that if we are
to have peace in the world.
But with defense that is only part of the
picture. From that base of strength we
then negotiate the mutual reduction of
forces around the world, a limitation of
armaments, so that we can have a safer,
more peaceful world. But we need another
kind of strength. America must continue
to be economically strong, and this project
will contribute to that. But America also
must have a kind of strength that it had
160 years ago in 1808. It perhaps had it
more then than it has it today.
660
