Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 30 [419]
ment benefits for an additional 13 weeks
for workers whose existing benefits have
been exhausted and who live in States
where the unemployment rate is high.
I have signed this legislation because
it will help to ease the transition of workers
adjusting from the wartime to a peace-
time economy, and because I recognize
that during the winter months employ-
ment prospects are often limited. Approxi-
mately 750,000 workers will have their
incomes maintained for up to 52 weeks
under the provisions of this law.
In signing this act, however, I would
emphasize that I endorse it only as a tem-
porary expedient and not as the best or
soundest method of helping the unem-
ployed nor as a precedent for future
legislation.
The Congress has also indicated a con-
cern about the desirability of continuing
this program. The bill requires the Secre-
tary of Labor to conduct a comprehensive
review of the program and to submit a
report to the Congress by May 1, 1972,
commenting on the desirability of
continuation.
The major reason for my misgiving is
that this legislation undermines the in-
surance concept of the unemployment
compensation program. Under the pres-
ent system, employers contribute to a trust
fund which is used to provide income
assistance to those who are temporarily out
of work. H.R. 6065 would, in effect, draw
the estimated $454 million needed to fund
this program from the general treasury.
To require the general taxpayer to bear
the costs of this program means a sharp
departure from the previous practice
under which employer taxes have been
used to finance such aid. In essence, this
legislation does not set up a program of
unemployment insurance in which fund-
ing is related to employer experience with
unemployment; instead, it sets up another
program of public welfare.
In addition, by limiting the program to
selected States, the present legislation dis-
criminates against those similarly situated
workers in other States and inhibits the
labor mobility which could also ease long-
term unemployment.
I have asked the Secretary of Labor to
prepare promptly alternatives to this pro-
gram, in the event one is needed, which
would be properly financed and would
distinguish between short- and long-term
problems and their effective solution.
The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
As enacted, H.R. 6065, approved Decem-
ber 29, 1971, is Public Law 92-224 (85 Stat.
810).
1217
