[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
solved in one year. However, on all there
was encouraging progress during 1970:
-The enemy, partly because of strat-
egy, but in great measure due to lim-
ited capability, did not mount sus-
tained large-scale operations. This
was partly the result of the Cam-
bodian operations.
-A marked improvement in South
Vietnamese performance was shown
repeatedly in large-scale operations
both in Vietnam and in Cambodia,
and in their increasing tactical and
logistic skills.
-The enemy chose a protracted war-
fare strategy. We still face the ques-
tion of whether he might regain the
initiative once the bulk of our forces
have left, but the growing capabili-
ties of the South Vietnamese must
give Hanoi pause.
-The attitude of the Vietnamese peo-
ple remains crucial and difficult to
judge, but rural security grew and
pacification gains were sustained.
During 1970, concrete results of Viet-
namization punctuated these trends. Our
withdrawal program proceeded on sched-
ule with the April 20 announcement of
the withdrawal of another 150,000 Amer-
icans below the authorized ceiling, bring-
ing total reductions since the start of Viet-
namization to 265,500 by May 1, 1971.
The very fact that we could project our
withdrawals a year in advance was a sign
of major progress.
As we have moved ahead with this pro-
gram we have continued to confer not
only with the South Vietnamese but also
the other allies who have sent troops to
help South Vietnam-Australia, Korea,
New Zealand, and Thailand.
South Vietnamese forces showed them-
selves increasingly capable of providing
security for their country. There are now
1.1 million men bearing arms for the Gov-
ernment-200,000 more than in 1968.
The continued strengthening of local and
territorial forces freed more and more
South Vietnamese regular units for com-
bat against regular North Vietnamese
Army units. The South Vietnamese ac-
counted for a growing bulk of combat en-
gagements. They took over more of our
bases. They completely assumed naval op-
erational responsibilities inside the coun-
try. And they substantially stepped up the
role of their air forces, flying almost half
the sorties in South Vietnam. More in-
tangible, but equally significant, were
their greatly increased self-confidence and
initiative.
The level of fighting dropped greatly,
especially in the southern portions of
South Vietnam. And American casualties
continued their steady decline, a result of
lesser enemy activity, fewer Americans,
and the increased share of the combat
burden picked up by the South
Vietnamese.
Pacification
American withdrawal is the primary
reflection of Vietnamization while paci-
fication is its primary goal.
Our withdrawal program poses two
fundamental issues. First, at what pace
can we take out our forces? We base our
decisions on the above considerations
backed up by various studies, such as a
recently completed analysis of the large
unit war situation in each of South Viet-
nam's four military regions.
Then, how do we protect those forces
who remain? We are confident that the
steadily growing strength of the South
Vietnamese and the impact of the sanctu-
ary sweeps are sufficient to handle possible
256
