Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 16 [292]
Q. Yes, before you unveil Phase 2-
there is a timing factor here.
way.
THE PRESIDENT. I think they are mov-
ing along fairly well. It may be pretty
close to a dead heat but I would hope
that they would move in that
Let me
say one thing on that point: We are
working very closely with the Ways and
Means Committee, and when Secretary
Connally returns he will begin consulta-
tions also with the Senate Finance Com-
mittee, with Senator Long and Senator
Bennett and their counterparts, because
we do not want to have as extended dis-
cussion in the Senate of our tax proposals
as we have had of the draft.
INTERNATIONAL ASPECTS OF ECONOMIC
PROGRAM
[11.] Q. Mr. President, the interna-
tional aspects of your economic program
seem to have shaken up our friends more
than our enemies. I am thinking of Eu-
rope particularly, and Japan. What is your
feeling about that? Isn't this going to be a
worry for us; aren't we hurting some very
good and important friends in the
process?
THE PRESIDENT. It is inevitable that
those policies would shake up our friends
rather than our potential enemies-I
should say, rather than our opponents—
because it is our friends with whom we
primarily have trade and monetary deal-
ings. And, of course, our international
policies dealt with trade and monetary
policy. On the other hand, what we have
to realize is that the structure of interna-
tional monetary affairs that had been built
25 years ago and then patched up from
time to time over the years had simply
become obsolete. It was essential that the
United States move as it did to protect
its interests and also to get a solution to
that problem.
Now, one question that I know is often
asked by our friends, by the Japanese, for
example, in Asia, and by the Europeans
in Europe, is: How long is "temporary”-
the temporary surcharge? My answer to
that is that if all we were seeking was a
temporary solution, "temporary" would
be very brief, but we are not seeking a
temporary solution. A temporary solution
is one that I would say would be going
back to the old system and patching it up
a bit.
What we are seeking is a permanent so-
lution and that is why the length of the
temporary surcharge will be somewhat
longer, because we need to address our-
selves not only to the matter of monetary
policy and exchange rates, we have to
address ourselves to burden-sharing, we
have to address ourselves also to trade
restraints, including nontariff barriers.
This is a time for our friends around
the world-and we are all competitors-
to build a new system with which we can
live so that we don't have another crisis
in a year. With regard to the Japanese,
incidentally, I think I can best summarize
our dilemma in this way: After the Japa-
nese were here I found that, both from the
information they gave and the informa-
tion we had ourselves, that Japan is our
biggest customer in the world and we are
their biggest customer in the world.
Also I found that Japan at the present
time produces more than all of the rest of
East Asia combined, including the Peo-
ple's Republic of China. Now that shows
you the problem.
It means that the United States and
Japan inevitably are going to be com-
petitors because we are both strong econ-
omies. On the other hand, it means that
71-234-72- -64
957
