Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 26 [29]
stage of complete arrest. The Congress
has enacted legislation prohibiting future
awards of compensation for arrested
tuberculosis, recognizing that such
awards no longer reflect medical reality.
However, those on the rolls before that
law was enacted continue to receive
monthly payments, although their disease
has been cured. This preferential treat-
ment of a relatively few veterans should
be terminated.
MEDICAL INSURANCE
My third proposal deals with the cost
of caring in VA hospitals for veterans who
have non-service connected ailments and
who have private health insurance.
Generally, veterans who are over 65 or
have war-time service, and who state that
they cannot afford hospitalization, are en-
titled to VA care on a bed-available basis.
In many cases, the private insurance
could pay part or all of the cost of hos-
pitalization. But the insurance contracts
often bar reimbursement to a veteran hos-
pitalized in a VA hospital. This represents
both an unwarranted windfall to the in-
surance company, and an unnecessary
burden on the Federal Treasury.
Veterans should not be barred from
receiving care in a VA hospital. But there
is no reason why insurance companies
should not reimburse the Federal Gov-
ernment in the same manner in which
they pay a non-Federal private hospital.
The proposed legislation will correct this
discriminatory situation.
SALE OF VA DIRECT LOANS
Under present law, the Veterans Ad-
ministration can sell direct loans from its
portfolio only if the price received is at
least 98 percent of par. Recent market
conditions have resulted in prices below
that level and this proposal would remove
the statutory price limitation, allowing
the Veterans Administration, when neces-
sary, to sell loans if "reasonable prices"
prevail.
USER TAXES
Two of my proposals deal with a more
equitable allocation of user costs of trans-
portation services. Under one proposal,
the cost of providing security against air-
craft hijackers would be borne by the
passengers themselves and not by the gen-
eral public. Under the other, the large
trucks which use our national highway
system would be made to bear a more
appropriate share of the cost of highway
construction.
AIRLINE USER TAXES
The number of airline hijackings that
seemed to be taking place almost daily
months ago has been reduced. Partly, this
is due to the civil air and ground security
program, particularly the sky marshals,
established by the Federal Government.
This program should be continued and
strengthened-but its cost should be
borne, not by the entire tax-paying pub-
lic, but by the airline users themselves.
For that reason I urge approval of legisla-
tion the administration is resubmitting to
provide for an increase of one-half of one
percent in the eight percent airline pas-
senger ticket tax, and for an additional
charge of $2 to be added to the present $3
departure tax on all international flights.
Those who use our airlines are the prin-
cipal beneficiaries of this new security
71
