Richard Nixon, 1971
[37]
Feb. 1 I
New World will seem almost inconsequen-
tial alongside the explorations of our own
time.
In a way, we are like the people who
must have stood on the dock at Palos,
Spain, and watched Columbus' ships dis-
appear, believing they were watching the
end of a great event, when they were
watching the beginning. But where they
watched the world being opened, and did
37
not know it, we are watching the heavens
being opened, and we do know it.
While those men went under the
patronage of individual monarchs, our
men go for the American people and, in a
larger sense, for all mankind.
I wish them Godspeed, as do all
Americans, and all of us here on earth.
NOTE: The statement was released at Caneel
Bay, St. John, Virgin Islands.
Annual Message to the Congress: The Economic Report
of the President. February 1, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
1970 was the year in which we paid for
the excesses of 1966, 1967, and 1968,
when Federal spending went $40 billion
beyond full employment revenues. But
we are nearing the end of these payments,
and 1971 will be a better year, leading to a
good year in 1972-and to a new steadi-
ness of expansion in the years beyond.
We are facing the greatest economic
test of the postwar era. It is a test of our
ability to root out inflation without con-
signing our free economy to the stagna-
tion of unemployment. We will pass that
test. But it is a real test and we shall pass
it only by doing all we are capable of
doing.
The key to economic policy in 1971 is
orderly expansion. While continuing to
reduce the rate of inflation, total spend-
ing and total output should rise as rapidly
as possible to lift the economy to full
employment and full production. Fiscal
policy must play its full and responsible
role, and the economy's course in the year
ahead will also reflect the extent to which
the monetary and credit needs of eco-
nomic expansion are met. With the stimu-
lus and discipline from the budget that I
have put forward, and with the Federal
Reserve System providing fully for the
monetary needs of the economy, we can
look forward confidently to vigorous and
orderly expansion during 1971.
At the same time we must be relentless
in our efforts toward the greater stability
of costs and prices that is the foundation
for an enduring and full prosperity. Much
has already been accomplished. Prices in
the market place have been rising less
rapidly, and some that usually change
early have actually declined, responding
to changing pressures in the market.
In some cases the response of costs and
prices has been slow, as the result of in-
sulation from market forces. Often these
market problems have been created by the
Government itself. Accordingly, the Gov-
ernment has a responsibility to prevent
misuses and imbalances of market power
which impede orderly operation of our
free economic system. This Administra-
tion intends to carry out that responsibility
fully and fairly.
To get the economy rising at the right
rate, neither too rapidly nor too slowly, is
never an easy task. Economic policy does
not operate with the precision needed to
97
