[46] Feb. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
islation I will be proposing. It is particu-
larly important that the rationale sup-
porting the basic departmental structure
will recommend be well understood.
I am in basic agreement with the prin-
ciples of government organization ex-
pressed in these memoranda. They reflect
both the need to organize structures on
the basis of purposes and the desirability
of decentralizing decision-making at the
operating level to the Federal regions and
to States and localities wherever possible.
With these thoughts, I commend the
memoranda to your attention. I believe
that you will find them a useful and in-
formative guide as we prepare for the
task of governmental reorganization
which remains before us.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The statement, dated February 5, 1971,
was made available to the press on February 6
as part of a 160-page pamphlet entitled
"Memoranda for the President of the United
States: Establishment of a Department of
Natural Resources; Organization for Social and
Economic Programs, Submitted by the Presi-
dent's Advisory Council on Executive Orga-
nization."
On February 5, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the two
memorandums by John D. Ehrlichman, Assist-
ant to the President for Domestic Affairs, and
George P. Shultz, Director, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
47 Statement About National Crime Prevention Week, 1971.
February 6, 1971
THIS YEAR, National Crime Prevention
Week has a solid ring. Our nationwide
campaign against crime is far from won,
but the tide is beginning to turn.
New laws have given the Department
of Justice better weapons against orga-
nized crime and against the narcotics traf-
fic that is a significant cause of crime. Co-
operation with state and local agencies is
the order of the day. A National Council
on Organized Crime, comprising the
heads of all appropriate Federal depart-
ments and agencies, is directing a major
assault on racketeering. The Council has
given new support to the interdepart-
mental strike forces against organized
crime that have now been established in
most major American cities. All the neces-
sary Federal agencies are working to-
gether in a redoubled drive against il-
legal drugs-at home, at our borders, and
at overseas sources.
In the past decade, Washington, D.C.—
although the supposed model city for the
nation--won shameful distinction as a
leader in crime statistics. Today, new leg-
islation and increases in manpower are
fostering the reorganization of the whole
structure of criminal justice in our Na-
tion's Capital. Large increases have been
made in Federal grants to state, city and
county police forces for improvements in
standards, training and methods. The re-
sults of these efforts have begun to show.
A positive decline in the number of seri-
ous crimes has occurred in twenty-three
cities of more than 100,000 population.
And our Nation's Capital also has shown
a significant downward trend in crime.
I applaud the sponsors of National
Crime Prevention Week, and urge all
Americans to respond to the challenges
it offers. For only the widest civic partic-
ipation and support can translate the pub-
124
