[154] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
But now when we move from the field
of travel and trade to the field of recogni-
tion of the Government, to its admission
to the United Nations, I am not going to
discuss those matters, because it is pre-
mature to speculate about that.
We are considering all those problems.
When I have an announcement to make,
when a decision is made—and I have not
made it yet I will make it.
But up until that time we will consider
all of the proposals that are being made.
We will proceed on the path that we have
been proceeding on. And that is the way
to make progress. Progress is not helped
in this very sensitive area by speculation
that goes beyond what the progress might
achieve.
I would just summarize it this way:
What we have done has broken the ice;
now we have to test the water to see how
deep it is.
I would finally suggest that I know
this question may come up if I don't
answer it now-I hope, and, as a matter of
fact, I expect to visit Mainland China
sometime in some capacity—I don't know
what capacity. But that indicates what I
hope for the long term. And I hope to con-
tribute to a policy in which we can have a
new relationship with Mainland China.
THE VICE PRESIDENT'S VIEWS ON POLICY
[3.] Mr. Healy [Paul F. Healy, New
York Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, following up on that,
your Vice President recently held an off-
the-record, midnight session with selected
newsmen in which he reportedly differed
with your policy on China.
Now, you have said in the past that
there are always those who are trying to
drive a wedge between the President and
the Vice President. So do you think in this
case he qualifies as a wedge driver?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is very hard
for the Vice President to be off the record.
And as far as this particular conference
was concerned, the Vice President, in his.
usual very candid way, expressed some
views with regard to our policy that he
had expressed previously in meetings that
we had in which he participates, the Na-
tional Security Council and other forums.
However, now that the decision has
been made with regard to what our policy
is, the Vice President supports that deci-
sion. He has so stated since he was quoted
on his off-the-record conference, and I
think you will find the Vice President in
all areas where he may disagree-as he
should disagree when he has strong con-
victions-with policies, once a decision is
made will publicly support those policies.
I expect him to and he always has.
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE VIETNAM WAR
[4] Q. Mr. President, sir, I wonder,
since you have always said that
you in-
herited this war, I wonder what you
would think about naming a court of
inquiry to look in to see just exactly who
got us into this war.
THE PRESIDENT. When I say I in-
herited this war, I want to point out that
I am actually quoting what others say. I
am not going to cast the blame for the
war in Vietnam on either of my
predecessors.
The first 16,000 combat men, we know,
went there in 1963.3 The murder of Diem,
the opening of the Ho Chi Minh Trail, as
a result of the settlement of Laos that
3 In 1963 there were some 16,000 American
advisers and helicopter support units in
Vietnam.
594
