[145] Apr. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
the great and good country that it is.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:26 a.m. in
the Williamsburg Conference Center.
Gov. Louie B. Nunn of Kentucky was chair-
146 Annual Message to the
of Columbia Budget.
man of the Republican Governors Association.
Gov. A. Linwood Holton of Virginia was host
Governor for the Conference.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
Congress on the District
April 19, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting to the Congress the
budget for the District of Columbia for
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1971.
This budget presents the District gov-
ernment's plans and programs to meet the
highest priority needs of the city. Con-
sistent with the objectives of the Reor-
ganization Plan #3 of 1967, this budget
is the product of full, intensive deliber-
ations by both the Mayor and the City
Council.
My review of the proposed fiscal year
1972 District budget approved by the Dis-
trict of Columbia Council indicates that
its appropriation requests do not provide
for the full year costs of programs which
have been approved by the Council for
partial year funding in fiscal year 1971.
These costs were included in the Mayor's
budget proposals submitted to the City
Council, but were eliminated during
Council review.
Under the District budget approved by
the Council, such important programs as
implementation of the new court reform
legislation and expansion of the Washing-
ton Technical Institute and Federal City
College are not funded after June 30,
1971. Furthermore, the budget requests
do not provide for the fiscal year 1972
costs of the pay raises granted during fiscal
year 1971 and which are currently in
effect.
In view of these omissions, the District
budget approved by the City Council does
not present to the Congress a complete
statement of the budget requirements of
the District for fiscal year 1972. I have
therefore modified the fiscal year 1972
District budget request to include the full
year costs totalling approximately $31
million-of programs and pay raises
which have been or will be initiated in
fiscal year 1971 by supplemental appro-
priation requests. I feel this is clearly the
only fiscally responsible course of action
and is in accord with the budgetary prac-
tices and standards which have been estab-
lished for Federal agencies.
The proposed fiscal year 1972 District
expenditure requests I am transmitting to-
day will require over $90 million from
revenue sources which are not now au-
thorized. To help balance these D.C.
budget requests, I have requested a $27
million increase in the Federal contribu-
tion to the city, and the Mayor has pro-
posed over $53 million in new local taxes.
which require Congressional approval. If
these revenue proposals prove to be un-
acceptable to the Congress, I do not be-
lieve that the District's budget should be
balanced solely by a slash in expenditure
requests. I am sure that a more suitable
resolution of issues can be arrived at
through minor expenditure adjustments
and consideration of other revenue
sources.
Last year the Congress completed ap-
558
