Richard Nixon, 1971
May 7 [161]
contrary, it will require us to make even
greater efforts to forge the agreements and
mechanisms needed to improve mainte-
nance and use of the roads and to develop
further this magnificent transportation
system.
161 Remarks to Farm Leaders Participating in the
"Salute to Agriculture." May 7, 1971
Secretary Hardin, Attorney General
Mitchell, and all of the distinguished
guests on this very significant and historic
day, the Salute to American Agriculture:
The Secretary of Agriculture has in-
formed me that this is the most repre-
sentative group of farm leaders ever
gathered in Washington, D.C., for a
single meeting. And it is quite appropriate,
it seems to me, that this should be so.
My problem is to find the remarks to
begin this day that would be appropriate
for the occasion, worthy of this occasion.
During the period of the day, you will
be briefed on a number of very important
matters by the Attorney General, by Gen-
eral Haig,¹ by Governor Romney, and
others; matters that involve, of course,
every family in America and matters, of
course, that farm families and people who
live in rural America have a particular
concern with.
What I would like to do in my opening
remarks is perhaps to put this day in
perspective, to tell you why I asked the
Secretary of Agriculture to work with us
and the White House staff in having a
salute to Agriculture, a special day for
America's farms and America's farm
families alone: First, because we thought
it was appropriate to express our appre-
ciation to American agriculture for what
you have done for America. And my re-
¹Brig. Gen. Alexander Meigs Haig, Jr.,
Deputy Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs.
marks today will particularly be directed
toward that subject.
Second, because we thought it might
be an occasion when we could develop a
better method of communication between
farm leaders of America, government
leaders, leaders of Congress, in developing
the programs to carry out and reach the
objective that I enunciated when I ap-
peared in this room about 2 years ago:
to see that America's farmers and farm
families received their fair share; and that
means a more fair share than they pres-
ently are receiving of America's increasing
prosperity and particularly agriculture's
productivity.
Then, finally, of course, this day is one
in which, as is always the case, those in
agriculture, those who live in rural Amer-
ica, want to talk not only about their own
problems, but they want to consider the
problems of the world in which they live.
I have always found when I have
spoken--and I have spoken in many
counties and cities across this country-
to agricultural audiences, farm families,
farm audiences, and the rest, that their
interests are, of course, very, very close
to the soil and the problems that they
have. But they also have enormous interest
in terms of the whole Nation, the families
of this Nation, the families of the world,
and, consequently, my remarks today in
opening this conference will, to a certain
extent, touch upon that theme.
May I first turn to what America owes
623
