Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 25 [116]
manner. The challenges in the natural
resource field have become too pressing.
Some forecasts say that we will double our
usage of energy in the next 10 years, of
water in the next 18 years, and of metals
in the next 22 years. In fact, it is predicted
that the United States will use more en-
ergy and more critical resources in the
remaining years of this century than in
all of our history up until now. Govern-
ment must perform at its very best if it is
to help the Nation meet these challenges.
I propose that a new Department of
Natural Resources be created that would
bring together the many natural resource
responsibilities now scattered throughout
the Federal Government. This Depart-
ment would work to conserve, manage
and utilize our resources in a way that
would protect the quality of the environ-
ment and achieve a true harmony be-
tween man and nature. The major ac-
tivities of the new Department would be
organized under its five subdivisions:
Land and Recreation Resources, Water
Resources, Energy and Minerals Re-
sources, Oceanic, Atmospheric and Earth
Sciences, and Indian and Territorial
Affairs.
The new Department of Natural Re-
sources would absorb the present Depart-
ment of the Interior. Other major pro-
grams which would be joined to it would
include: The Forest Service and the soil
and water conservation programs from
the Department of Agriculture, planning
and funding for the civil functions of the
Army Corps of Engineers and for the ci-
vilian power functions of the Atomic En-
ergy Commission, the interagency Water
Resources Council, the oil and gas pipe-
line safety functions of the Department
of Transportation, and the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion from the Department of Commerce.
Because of their historical association with
the Department of the Interior, the pro-
grams of the Bureau of Indian Affairs
would be administered by the new De-
partment until such time as an acceptable
alternative arrangement could be worked
out with Indian leaders and other con-
cerned parties.
THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
A restless and highly mobile people,
Americans are constantly creating new
communities and renewing old ones
throughout our land. In an era of rapid
change, this process-which once took
generations—can now be repeated in just
a few years.
At the same time, the process of com-
munity development is becoming even
more complex, particularly as the prob-
lems of urban and rural communities
begin to merge. The elements of commu-
nity life are many and the mark of a co-
hesive community is the harmonious way
in which they interrelate. That is why
we hear so much these days about the
importance of community planning. And
that is why it is essential that Federal aid
for community development be designed
to meet a wide range of related needs in
a highly coordinated manner.
Often this does not happen under the
present system. The reason is that the ba-
sic community development programs of
the Federal Government are presently di-
vided among at least eight separate au-
thorities—including four executive de-
partments and four independent agencies.
A community that seeks development
assistance thus finds that it has to search
out aid from a variety of Federal agen-
481
