Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 16 [358]
able alternative. And the President has
made this clear to us. He has made it clear
to each of you and your respective boards,
so I would hope that after the initial few
days that you are going to have some
difficulty, obviously, getting all of your
af-
fairs in order, but with Don Rumsfeld
assisting, there is no reason why we can't
proceed from one phase into the next
with dispatch, with understanding, with
support which I think the program merits.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the Sec-
retary has very well put the case in its
suggested relation of the problem of cer-
tainty and uncertainty. Let's all under-
stand we can have certainty very easily,
with no freedom. And that was the choice
we had to make.
A program of total control, wage and
price controls across the board with a
huge bureaucracy, would have been one
answer. And many well-intentioned peo-
ple in the Congress and outside have ad-
vised that.
We rejected that because we believe
that we need to maintain the dynamism
of a free economy in this country. We be-
lieve we can have freedom and have that
freedom without the irresponsibility of
inflation. And what we have here is, there-
fore, enough control to control the infla-
tion, but not so much as to destroy
freedom.
Now, within that we do have a degree
of uncertainty; that is inevitable in any
society that has any element of freedom in
it, because when a person is free, we are
not quite sure what is going to happen.
But it is to the credit of both the Pay
Board and the Price Commission and, I
must say, too, the Committee on Interest
and Dividends, that in this very delicate
area of having enough control over our
future without destroying the freedom, I
think we have ended up on exactly the
right course, at least as close to that course
as we can end with reasonable men and
women working toward that end.
So we thank you all for
your participa-
tion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
On November 10, 1971, the White House
released announcements of the appointment of
the members of the Committee on State and
Local Government Cooperation and the Com-
mittee on the Health Services Industry, which
were established as advisory panels to the Cost
of Living Council, the Price Commission, and
the Pay Board for the post-freeze economic
stabilization program. The two announcements
are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 7, pp. 1504 and
1505). On the same day, the White House also
released the transcript of a news briefing on the
functions of the two Committees by Donald
Rumsfeld, Director, Cost of Living Council.
On November 12, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Mr. Rums-
feld on the transition from the wage-price
freeze to the post-freeze economic stabilization
program.
358 Statement About Mental Retardation.
November 16, 1971
THE CRUEL bane of mental retarda-
tion-which now afflicts more than 6 mil-
lion Americans, which weighs heavily on
the other millions engaged in helping the
retarded as family members, health pro-
fessionals, and volunteer workers, and
which diminishes us all by the toll it takes
on human potential in our society-can
IIII
