Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
threats. Nevertheless, North Vietnam
might try to take advantage of our rede-
ployments by building up its strength in
the South and launching new attacks. In
this case, I have made clear on a dozen
occasions that I would take strong and
effective measures to prevent the enemy
from jeopardizing our remaining forces.
The other important aspect of Viet-
namization is pacification, which in
broadest terms concerns the situation in
the countryside-physical security, popu-
lar allegiance, and the military, admin-
istrative, and political effectiveness of both
sides. As the enemy's main force units
have been pushed farther away from
population centers, the task of extending
governmental presence has become pro-
gressively easier.
In order to assess the progress in the
countryside we developed a new indi-
cator to measure the portions of popula-
tion under Government control, under
the influence of both sides, and under the
control of the other side. The basic criteria
are whether a hamlet has adequate de-
fense and a fully functioning Government
official resident both at day and at night.
We devised tough and realistic measures
of these two criteria.
In mid-1969 the indicator showed
roughly 40% of the rural population un-
der South Vietnamese control, 50% un-
der the influence of both sides, and 10%
under the control of the other side. Re-
cently these proportions were respectively
65%, 30%, and 5%. When South Viet-
nam's urban population of six million, all
under government control, is added to the
over seven million rural population in
that category, roughly 80% of the total
population of South Vietnam is controlled
by the Government.
This indicator cannot tell us precisely
what is going on in the countryside. It
does give us a good grasp of trends-and
the trends have been favorable. We are
confident that real and substantial prog-
ress has been made.
Honest observers can differ on quanti-
tative measures of success in pacification;
it is even more difficult to appraise such
intangible factors as rural attitudes to-
ward the central government and con-
fidence in its ability to guide the country's
affairs. But today more South Vietnamese
receive governmental protection and serv-
ices than at any time in the past six years.
Pacification progress has been slower,
however, in certain key provinces in the
northern half of South Vietnam, closer
to the enemy's staging areas in North
Vietnam and Laos. The supply bases in
southern Laos perform the function of
the destroyed sanctuaries in Cambodia.
In these northern provinces the ravages
of war have been more severe and the
Communist infrastructure has been
deeply rooted for over 20 years. Here
especially the South Vietnamese Govern-
ment must increase its efforts to develop
capable forces and implement programs
to gain the support of the rural popula-
tion.
Cambodian Sanctuary Operations
Much of this accelerated progress in
Vietnamization was due to the now in-
disputable military success of the allied
operations against the enemy sanctuaries
in Cambodia last spring.
The March 18 deposition of Prince
Sihanouk caught us, as well as everyone
else, completely by surprise. The situation
that had existed in Cambodia, with the
North Vietnamese and Viet Cong occupy-
ing a series of enclaves along the border,
represented a troublesome but not in-
257
