Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 17 [268]
issue to what he knows in his own experi-
ence. I myself did not have a Catholic
education. My secretary did. I was telling
Cardinal Cooke and Mr. McDevitt on the
way in, that in my travels to over 70 coun-
tries with Mrs. Nixon, my secretary, of
course, Rose Mary Woods, has always
gone. There has never been a Sunday in
all of those travels, and some of them
have taken weeks and months, when she
did not go to Mass.
Something else: She is a very fine sec-
retary, but she also has very great char-
acter. She grew up in a family of modest
income, a large family. She went to a
Catholic school, a Catholic grammar
school, a Catholic high school. Just look-
ing at my secretary, and I think John
Mitchell and John Volpe will bear me
out, if that is what Catholic education
does, I am for more of it.
Speaking of character, may I put it in
another context? The other day, as a foot-
ball fan, I had one of the greatest experi-
ences of my life. I visited the Hall of
Fame in Canton, Ohio. As I went through
that Hall of Fame, I relived all of the
great stories of the football heroes of the
past. Ernie Nevers and Bronko Nagurski
and Mel Hein and the others who were
enshrined in the Hall of Fame, and, of
course, Vince Lombardi. I thought of
Vince Lombardi, along with the others
that were there. He was enshrined that
day I was there.
There were others that were as good a
coach as he was. There were others who
could play as well as he did, although he
was a fine player and a very great coach.
But the Lombardi legacy, in my view, is
something beyond being a great coach and
a great player.
The Lombardi legacy was character.
He was a deeply religious man. He was
a man who was a fine family man, and he
was a man who instilled in all of those who
came in contact with him a competitive
spirit, a will to win, a will to keep fighting
no matter how high or difficult the odds.
were.
I talked to him on the phone just a
few days before he died. I said, "Coach,
you have had millions of people rooting
for your teams, but there have never been
so many rooting for you as there are
tonight."
He said, "Well, Mr. President, it's a
tough battle, but you can be sure of one
thing, I'll never quit fighting."
I can say to this great organization that
what America needs today is that kind of
character, that kind of competitive spirit,
so that this Nation can realize its destiny.
Our success is not going to mean failure
for others. We, in our foreign policy, do
not want to exploit anybody else. We want
them to go forward with us.
But the United States of America, at
this time in history, must maintain the
strength in the free world to provide the
help the others aren't able to provide for
themselves. That means that we must be
strong economically; we must be strong
militarily. But a nation can be strong in
arms and rich in goods and if it is poor in
spirit, it will die.
This organization, because you con-
tribute so much to the spirit of America,
that is why you, it seems to me, are render-
ing a service that is so enormously
important.
More than 300 years ago, in 1630, Gov-
ernor John Winthrop told the colonists of
the Massachusetts Bay Colony, as a little
boat was looking at Massachusetts, that
"the eyes of all people" were on them. He
quoted to them the words of the Bible:
"You are the light of the world. A city set
897
