[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
We must begin immediately to cut down
on the 14,000 deaths and more than two
million disabling injuries which result
each year from occupational illnesses and
accidents.
The conditions which affect health are
almost unlimited. A man's income, his
daily diet, the place he lives, the quality of
his air and water-all of these factors have
a greater impact on his physical well being
than does the family doctor. When we
talk about our health program, therefore,
we should not forget our efforts to protect
the nation's food and drug supply, to con-
trol narcotics, to restore and renew the
environment, to build better housing and
transportation systems, to end hunger in
America, and—above all-to place a floor
under the income of every family with
children. In a sense this special message on
health is one of many health messages
which this administration is sending to the
Congress.
F. A NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
PARTNERSHIP
In my State of the Union Message, I
pledged to present a program "to ensure
that no American family will be pre-
vented from obtaining basic medical care
by inability to pay." I am announcing
that program today. It is a comprehensive
national health insurance program, one
in which the public and the private sectors
would join in a new partnership to pro-
vide adequate health insurance for the
American people.
In the last twenty years, the segment of
our population owning health insurance
has grown from 50 percent to 87 percent
and the portion of medical bills paid for
by insurance has gone from 35 percent
to 60 percent. But despite this impressive
growth, there are still serious gaps in pres-
ent health insurance coverage. Four such
gaps deserve particular attention.
First-too many health insurance pol-
icies focus on hospital and surgical costs
and leave critical outpatient services un-
covered. While some 80 percent of our
people have some hospitalization insur-
ance, for example, only about half are
covered for outpatient and laboratory
services and less than half are in-
sured for treatment in the physician's
office or the home. Because demand goes
where the dollars are, the result is an
unnecessary and expensive-overutili-
zation of acute care facilities. The aver-
age hospital stay today is a full day
longer than it was eight years ago. Studies
show that over one-fourth of hospital beds
in some areas are occupied by patients
who do not really need them and could
have received equivalent or better care
outside the hospital.
A second problem is the failure of most
private insurance policies to protect
against the catastrophic costs of major
illnesses and accidents. Only 40 percent
of our people have catastrophic cost in-
surance of any sort and most of that in-
surance has upper limits of $10,000 or
$15,000. This means that insurance often
runs out while expenses are still mount-
ing. For many of our families, the anguish
of a serious illness is thus compounded
by acute financial anxiety. Even the joy
of recovery can often be clouded by the
burden of debt-and even by the threat
of bankruptcy.
A third problem with much of our in-
surance at the present time is that it
cannot be applied to membership in a
Health Maintenance Organization-and
thus effectively precludes such member-
ship. No employee will pay to join such
182
