Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 14 [12]
and to bring to justice those who perpe-
trate them.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
The text of a telegram from 73 Jewish
leaders, released with the President's message,
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
We are outraged by the bomb explosion out-
I2
side the Soviet cultural building in Washington.
Such irresponsible and criminal actions must
be stopped. While we are united in our con-
viction that those Jews in the Soviet Union,
who wish to emigrate should be allowed to do
so, and those who wish to remain should be
permitted religious and cultural freedom, we
are equally united in our abhorrence of these
acts of violence. American Jews strongly con-
demn such criminal acts for they are morally
wrong and injure the cause of Soviet Jews and
undermine the cause of democracy in America.
Remarks to a Student-Faculty Convocation at the
University of Nebraska. January 14, 1971
Mr. President, Mr. Chancellor, Governor
Exon, Senator Curtis, Senator Hruska, all
of the distinguished guests on the plat-
form, and students, members of the
faculty of the University of Nebraska, and
I also understand that we have guests
here from Nebraska Wesleyan and from
Union College, and friends of the Uni-
versity of Nebraska:
I appreciate the honor that has been
extended to me to visit this campus, and
the opportunity to pick up a raincheck in
effect, because Secretary Hardin, 2 years
ago on the 100th anniversary of this great
university, invited me to come to the uni-
versity at the request of the university
officials,ยน and because I had another en-
gagement at that time I was unable to do
so. I told him then that sometime while I
was in office I would come. I wasn't quite
sure I could make it. I am glad I could
make it this year in view of what has
happened.
And that allows me, before making this
award, to tell a little story. You will recall
that from time to time, because I am
ยน Secretary of Agriculture Clifford M. Hardin
was chancellor of the University of Nebraska
at Lincoln from 1954 to 1969.
somewhat of a football fan, that I have
called football coaches or captains after a
great victory in a significant game. I read
a story in one of the Nebraska papers to
the effect that immediately after the
Orange Bowl game some of the team were
gathered around the phone waiting for
the call from the White House. It never
got through. As a matter of fact, I was not
able to make the call because while I had
seen the last quarter of the game, which
was very exciting-wasn't that some-
thing, that last quarter?-in any event-it
shows what the defense means-but in
any event, when we came to the end of
the long day of football that day, I had to
go on to another engagement. I checked
with the White House operator and asked
if it might be possible to get through to
the dressing room down in Miami.
Usually the President can get through on
the telephone. This time the operator said,
"Well, it will be just a moment, Mr. Presi-
dent. All the circuits are busy." She said,
"Everybody from Nebraska is calling."
I knew that was the case, and I knew
that this great team and the University
of Nebraska have pride for the whole
State, for all the institutions of this State,
71-234-726
29
