[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
should be permitted to dictate to the world
the terms of its participation. For a num-
ber of years attempts have been made to
deprive the Republic of China of its place
as a member of the United Nations and its
Specialized Agencies. We have opposed
these attempts. We will continue to oppose
them.
The past four years have been a period
of internal turmoil and upheaval in Main-
land China. A calmer mood now seems to
be developing. There could be new op-
portunities for the People's Republic of
China to explore the path of normaliza-
tion of its relations with its neighbors
and with the world, including our own
country.
For the United States the development
of a relationship with Peking embodies
precisely the challenges of this decade: to
deal with, and resolve, the vestiges of the
post-war period that continue to influence
our relationship, and to create a balanced
international structure in which all na-
tions will have a stake. We believe that
such a structure should provide full scope
for the influence to which China's achieve-
ments entitle it.
We continue to believe that practical
measures on our part will, over time, make
evident to the leaders in Peking that we
are prepared for a serious dialogue. In
the past year we took several such steps:
-In January and February of 1970,
two meetings were held between our
representatives in Warsaw, thus re-
storing an important channel of
communication. The subsequent
cancelling of the scheduled May
meeting was at Chinese initiative.
-In April, we authorized the selective
licensing of goods for export to the
People's Republic of China.
-In August, certain restrictions were
lifted on American oil companies op-
erating abroad, so that most foreign
ships could use American-owned
bunkering facilities on voyages to and
from mainland Chinese ports.
-During 1970, the passports of 270
Americans were validated for travel
to the People's Republic of China.
This brought to nearly 1,000 the
number so validated. Regrettably,
only three holders of such passports
were permitted entry to China.
In the coming year, I will carefully ex-
amine what further steps we might take
to create broader opportunities for con-
tacts between the Chinese and American
peoples, and how we might remove need-
less obstacles to the realization of these
opportunities. We hope for, but will not
be deterred by a lack of, reciprocity.
We should, however, be totally realistic
about the prospects. The People's Repub-
lic of China continues to convey to its
own people and to the world its determi-
nation to cast us in the devil's role. Our
modest efforts to prove otherwise have not
reduced Peking's doctrinaire enmity to-
ward us. So long as this is true, so long as
Peking continues to be adamant for
hostility, there is little we can do by our-
selves to improve the relationship. What
we can do, we will.
THE SOVIET UNION
The Soviet Union is also a Pacific
power. Like the others, it faces difficult
adjustments in its Asian policy of great
importance for the future stability of the
area. The USSR's attitude toward Asia is
dominated by two concerns. There is a
tactical desire to limit our influence, and
increase her own, among the non-Com-
munist states of Asia. Of much greater
278
