Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
evitably are going to acquire some credi-
bility gap. This was true of Woodrow Wil-
son. I remember my mother voted for him
because it was thought that if that was the
case,
if he became President, that he kept
us out of war.
And you remember Franklin D. Roose-
velt once made the statement in a speech
before World War II: I will not send
your
sons to fight on foreign shores. I think
both Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt
meant exactly what they said. They were
not lying to the American people.
On the other hand, the great events
made it necessary for them each to take
the Nation into war.
Now, in my case, I found the Nation
in war. I found it with 550,000 Americans
abroad, with our casualties running at
over 300 a week, with no plans to bring
them home, with no plans to end the war
or end America's involvement in it in a
way that would allow South Vietnam to
survive as an independent entity.
And I have taken the Nation quite a
way since then. When I say I have, I
shouldn't use that in such an, shall we
say, arrogant fashion. I mean we have
done that. We have done it with the as-
sistance of many Democrats, as well as
Republicans, in the House and Senate
and, of course, of our fighting men
abroad.
Now we are reaching the key point—
the key point when we see that we are
ending America's involvement in a war
that has been the longest, the most bitter,
the most difficult war in our Nation's
history.
And once we go over that hump, once
the American people are convinced that
the plans that have taken so long to im-
plement have come into effect, then I
think the credibility gap will rapidly
disappear.
It is the events that cause the credi-
bility gap, not the fact that a President
deliberately lies or misleads the people.
That is my opinion.
[3.] MR. SMITH. May I cite some cases
to you that are cited in the press of credi-
bility gap and ask for your comments on
them?
First of all, in a speech you made on
television after the Cambodian affair, you
said American airpower would not be
used in support of combat operations in
Cambodia henceforth, and, in fact, they
were, in the battle for Highway 4 to Kom-
pong Som.
THE PRESIDENT. I also said, however,
at that time, that I would use American
airpower anyplace in North Vietnam, or
in the Southeast Asian area, where I
found that it would be necessary for the
purpose of protecting American forces in
South Vietnam.
Now, my decision with regard to the
use of American airpower, whether it is
against North Vietnam-there was
strike there yesterday, as you know,
against some SAM sites which had been
shooting at some of our reconnaissance
planes--whether that airpower is used,
as it has been used, in Laos, for the pur-
pose of supporting the South Vietnamese
in their efforts to blunt the North Viet-
namese attack, which would be, thereby,
launched against the South, and against
Americans eventually, or whether it was
used in Cambodia, the primary purpose
was not for the assistance, for the purpose
of assisting the South Vietnamese, not for
the purpose of assisting the Cambodians,
but the purpose was and the justification
was, and must always be, the defense of
449
