[330] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
precedented between the great powers of
the earth, as being the end of a period in
which the United States needed to be
concerned about its strength. That, of
course, is not the case.
We are now in a period of negotiation,
as I have often said, but we are in a period,
also, when we must never substitute the
fact that a meeting is to take place, the
fact that negotiations are going on, for the
reality of an agreement. Certainly that
would be the attitude of the leaders of
the Soviet Union. That would also be the
attitude of the leaders of the People's
Republic of China, Mainland China, and
it must be our own.
We want peace in the world. We want
a reduction of tensions in the world. We
would like to have some limitation, if we
can safely have it, on the burden of arms
that we bear. But unless and until we
have a mutual agreement, a mutual agree-
ment among the great powers in which we
both limit what we do in terms of our
defense, the United States must maintain
its defense at adequate levels. And in that
respect, I want to say that over these past
22 years that I have served in this office,
that the fact that in this committee, and
its counterpart in the United States Sen-
ate, and in both bodies-the fact that
clearly apart from partisanship, the Pres-
ident of the United States could count on
the House and the Senate voting for a
strong national defense-that fact, I can
assure you, has made it possible for us to
reach the position where we could nego-
tiate from strength, not from weakness.
I would simply add this word: Let us
be sure that anyone who represents this
country as President of the United States
will be able to negotiate from strength, not
from weakness. That does not mean that
he negotiates with belligerence; it does
not mean that he negotiates unreasonably;
but it does mean that the road to any
mutual agreement, any successful agree-
ment, will be when both parties recognize
that there must be mutuality, and that
neither is coming to that conference table
in a position of weakness.
So I express appreciation to you, Mr.
Chairman, to all the Members of this com-
mittee, to your counterparts in the Senate,
to the Members of the House and the
Senate, Democrat and Republican, who
have had disagreements-as you should
have, and as we always will have in this
country-on some other issues, but when
the great issue of national defense is con-
cerned, you have voted for strong national
defense so that we could build what we
all want in the world, build a lasting
peace.
I think one of my favorite quotes from
Eddie Hébert's many gems, and he has
many-I would love to sit in this com-
mittee and hear what he says sometimes-
but one of them, as I recall, went some-
thing like this: He said, "I am a Hawk,
but no Dove could want peace more than
I do."
I think that is what all America needs
to hear. Strength, reasonable strength, a
willingness to negotiate, that is the road
to peace, not weakness. And that is what
Eddie Hébert stands for. He is for strong
defense. He describes it, "I am a Hawk.”
But he means by that, I am a Hawk not
in terms of wanting war, but I am a Hawk
because I want a strong national defense,
because only through a strong national
defense are we going to have a lasting
peace. That is Eddie Hébert's legacy.
Now a word about the portrait. I know
very little about art, but it seems to me to
be an excellent likeness, and I would sim-
ply suggest that as I look at this portrait
1040
