[356] Nov. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Vietnam. What assurance can you give
the American people that we are not slid-
ing into another Vietnam in Cambodia?
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't slide into
Vietnam. That is the difference. In Viet-
nam, conscious decisions were made to
send Americans there, to become involved
in combat. I am not criticizing those deci-
sions; I am simply reflecting what the
situation was.
It was not a question of sliding in, but
was a question of decisions being made,
first, to send American combat troops in.
Those were first made, you know, by
President Kennedy, the first troops that
went in; and then the decisions to bomb
in the North, those were made by Presi-
dent Johnson, and the increases in forces.
Now let's look at Cambodia. We have
made a conscious decision not to send
American troops in. There are no Ameri-
can combat troops in Cambodia. There
are no American combat advisers in Cam-
bodia. There will be no American combat
troops or advisers in Cambodia.
We will aid Cambodia. Cambodia is the
Nixon Doctrine in its purest form; Viet-
nam was in violation of the Nixon Doc-
trine. Because in Cambodia what we are
doing is helping the Cambodians to help
themselves, and we are doing that rather
than to go in and do the fighting our-
selves, as we did in Korea and as we did
in Vietnam. We hope not to make that
mistake again if we can avoid it.
THE STOCK MARKET
[21.] Q. Mr. President, in May of
1970, when stocks hit their biggest low of
the year, you gave counsel to buy. Now
we have reached the biggest low in 1971,
what is your counsel today to the Ameri-
can investor?
THE PRESIDENT. Don't sell. [Laughter]
I would like to comment on that par-
ticular matter, because if my advice had
been taken, you would have done rea-
sonably well then, as you know. As I said
in Detroit, whether it is an investment in
stocks or bonds or, for that matter, in real
property, which is my only source of in-
vestment, if I may paraphrase what one
of the television commercials I have heard
often enough-I am bullish on America.
However, I would strongly advise any-
body who invests to invest on the long
term, not the short term.
On the long term, 1972 is going to be a
good year. When we see, for example, in-
flation cut in half, which is our goal, when
we see employment beginning to rise-it
rose over a million during the period of the
freeze-and when we see something else,
when we see our economy now being built
on the basis of peace rather than war, this
is a time when people looking to the fu-
ture, planning to hang on, could, it seems
to me, well invest in America with the
hope that their investments will prove
well.
Nineteen hundred and sixty-eight, for
example, was a very bad time to buy, and
yet it appeared to be like the best of times.
Stocks were high. Unemployment was
low. Everybody thought that we had high
prosperity. But prosperity was based on
300 American casualties a week, 500,000
Americans in Vietnam, $25 to $30 billion
being spent on a war in Vietnam and on
a burgeoning rate of inflation.
At that time, therefore, I would not
have advised, and I trust many brokers
did not advise their clients to buy, because
when prosperity is based on war and in-
flation, you are eventually going to have
a setback.
1108
