Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
play that kind of a game with the
prisoners.
We have some cards to play, too, and
we are going to play them right to the
hilt where the prisoners are concerned.
MR. CHANDLER. Does this mean that if
you are unsuccessful in negotiating at
Paris on the POW question, that we will
have to leave troops in there until you are
successful?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Chandler,
it means that, first, we haven't given up
on the Paris talks. I would suggest that the
moment of truth is arriving with regard
to the Paris talks because time will soon
run out. As the number of our forces
goes
down, our stroke at the negotiating table
recedes and the South Vietnamese's
greatly increases.
So, if they want to negotiate with the
United States, the time for negotiation,
except for the prisoner issue, of course, is
rapidly drawing to a close. But I would
say that as far as our presence in South
Vietnam is concerned-I am speaking of
an American force, of a residual force,
and of an air presence-that as long as
they do retain prisoners, no American
President could simply remove our forces
and remove the threat to them.
We have the responsibility, as long as
there is one American being held prisoner
by North Vietnam, to have some incentive
on our side to get that man released, and
that is why we are going to retain that
force until we get it, and I think it will
work in the end.
U.S. AIRBASES IN THAILAND
[9.] Mr. Risher.
MR. RISHER. Mr. President, I would
like to follow up on this. Does this mean
that if Hanoi agreed to release the Amer-
ican prisoners, that we would close down
the five airbases that we have in Thailand?
Would this be part of the withdrawal?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Mr. Risher, the
airbases that we have in the area around
Vietnam, of course, are there for reasons
other than Vietnam. Vietnam is part of
the reason. As you know, we have a treaty
with Thailand, and those air forces are
maintained there, in part, in order to sus-
tain that treaty.
What it does mean, though, is that in
terms of the use of airpower, the use of
airpower against North Vietnam and its
forces, that if at an appropriate time two
things have been accomplished-one, the
return of our prisoners, and the capability
of the South Vietnamese to defend them-
selves once those two things are
achieved, then the use of that airpower as
against North Vietnam would no longer
be contemplated and, therefore, our air-
power in that respect could be reduced.
I should also point out, incidentally,
that we have had a great deal of atten-
tion, naturally, paid to the fact that we
have withdrawn now almost half of the
Americans that were there when we came
into office, and that we will be down to
184,000 by November [December] 1 of
this year.
Our airstrikes, as you know from hav-
ing covered this closely from the White
House, have also been reduced; our attack
air sorties since we came into office have
been reduced by 45 percent. They will
continue to go down.
But, on the other hand, we must retain
that airpower, as well as residual forces,
as long as we have the prisoner problem
71-234-72-38
541
