Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 22 [406]
prompt action means that our battle
against inflation-which has been making
significant progress in recent months-
can be continued and completed in the
coming year.
The legislation I have signed today ex-
tends and amends the Economic Stabili-
zation Act of 1970 under which both the
first and second phases of our anti-
inflation program were launched. It pro-
vides authority for continuing these efforts
through April 30, 1973. I hope and ex-
pect, however, that before that date we
will see the end of the inflationary psy-
chology that developed in the 1960's,
achieve lasting price stability, end con-
trols, and return to reliance on free mar-
ket forces.
The enactment of the Economic Sta-
bilization Act Amendments means that
the Cost of Living Council, the Price
Commission, the Pay Board, the Commit-
tee on Interest and Dividends, and the
advisory committees on rent,ยน on State and
local governments, and on the health serv-
ices industry, can continue to play very
important roles in stabilizing the cost of
living for all Americans. Already their
work has produced heartening results.
The Consumer Price Index was increasing
at an annual rate of a little more than 4
percent during the 6 months prior to
August, but since August it has been cut
dramatically to an annual rate of less than
2 percent. Industrial commodity prices,
which were climbing at an annual rate
ยน On November 22, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11632 establishing the Rent
Advisory Board. White House announcements
of the appointment of the members of the Board
were released on November 23 and December
23 and are printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, pp. 1557
and 1708).
of 52 percent during the 6 months prior
to August, have since August actually de-
creased at an annual rate of more than
I percent.
Interest rates have also generally de-
clined since August, increasing the attrac-
tiveness of job-creating investment.
Much work still remains to be done.
That is why this legislation is so im-
portant. Our objective of reducing price
increases to 2 to 3 percent during 1972 is
within reach. Most importantly, this pro-
gram continues to have wide support from
labor, business, and from the general
public.
Because voluntary public cooperation
remains the keystone of success of these
efforts, we continue to be most heartened
by the determination so widely evident
among the American people to make this
program work. The strong bipartisan sup-
port which the Congress has given to the
Economic Stabilization Act is further evi-
dence of the cooperative and unified spirit
in which this country is facing its economic
challenges.
In a number of ways, the Congress has
gone beyond my recommendations and
included provisions in this legislation
which could complicate its operations in
the future. One such section provides for
pay increases for Federal employees, ef-
fective for calendar year 1972. I am today
signing two Executive orders implement-
ing this section and I am also issuing a
separate statement describing my position
on this matter.
The major elements of our new eco-
nomic program are now in place. The
program of personal and business tax cuts
which I called for in August and which I
signed into law on December 10 promises
to expand purchasing power, increase
sales, and provide hundreds of thousands
1203
