[114] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
pointing. It represents a severe blow not
only to the tens of thousands of workers
affected, and to their families, but also
to the United States continued leadership
position in the aerospace industry. More
deeply, it could be taken as a reversal of
America's tradition of staying in the van-
guard of scientific and technological
advance.
I am determined that this vote on the
SST will not be a shift in basic direction.
It is a setback, but we will remain on a
continuing course of exploration and de-
velopment in those areas in which Amer-
ica traditionally has taken the leading role,
and from which so much has flowed to the
benefit of mankind.
It has always been America's pride, and
the source of much of our strength, that
we have constantly reached out toward
new horizons in the search for knowl-
edge--not from a chauvinistic desire to be
number one, but from the conviction that
we must continue to develop the countless
new benefits that flow from exploration
of the unknown. Development of the SST
has been a part of that proud, creative,
and deeply humanistic tradition. Though
the Congress has declined to continue
helping fund this development, I shall
strive to ensure that the tradition is
maintained.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
SST program by William M. Magruder, Direc-
tor, Supersonic Transport Development, De-
partment of Transportation.
On March 23, 1971, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by
Senator Hugh Scott and Representative Gerald
R. Ford on a discussion of the SST program
during the Republican leadership meeting with
the President.
115 Remarks to Reporters at a Briefing on a Special Message
to the Congress on Executive Branch Reorganization.
March 25, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have selected this particular message
to come to the press room to present the
briefers because of its historic significance.
This message on Government reorganiza-
tion is the result of 2 years of study within
the Administration. Without the persua-
sive arguments that were made for this
plan by Secretary of the Treasury Con-
nally when he was a member of the Ash
Council, this message would not be going
to the Congress today.
He feels very strongly that this not
only has historical significance but that
it is imperative in terms of making our
Government work better in this last third
of this century. Consequently, I have
asked him, not just in his capacity as
Secretary of the Treasury but primarily
as a member of the Council that was re-
sponsible for making these recommenda-
tions which I have now endorsed, to lead
off on the briefing team, and then Mr.
Weber of the OMB will go into any of
the details.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:32 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the pro-
posed reorganization by Secretary Connally and
Arnold R. Weber, Associate Director, Office of
Management and Budget.
472
