[222] July 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
people have not only for people here but
for people in other places.
When we presented the program on
July 3, some of you who may have heard
say
it will note that it was in the Archives
Building. I am often asked, as I am sure
many of you are who are in Washington,
what is your favorite building? My usual
answer is the Lincoln Memorial, par-
ticularly at night with the light shining
on the statue of Lincoln, But I would
that in terms of the most impressive build-
ing, impressive because it has the appear-
ance of the ages there, it has to be the
Archives-more impressive than the Capi-
tol or the Lincoln Memorial or the Jeffer-
'son or the Washington or the White
House itself.
These great marble columns give you
the feeling of the past and also of what the
Nation stands for, and you know that all
the building is, is simply one that holds
the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, the
Declaration of Independence, the great
documents that started the Nation at the
beginning.
Sometimes when I see those pillars I
think of seeing them on the Acropolis in
Greece. I think of seeing them also in the
Forum in Rome, great, stark pillars—and
I have walked in both at night, as I have
walked down by the Archives at night
from time to time.
I think of what happened to Greece and
to Rome and, as you see, what is left-
only the pillars. What has happened, of
course, is that great civilizations of the
past, as they have become wealthy, as
they have lost their will to live, to improve,
they then have become subject to the
decadence which eventually destroys a
civilization.
The United States is now reaching that
period. I am convinced, however, that we
have the vitality, I believe we have the
courage, I believe we have the strength
out through this heartland and across this
Nation that will see to it that America
not only is rich and strong, but that it
is healthy in terms of moral strength
and spiritual strength. I am convinced it is
there. I am convinced as I talk to crowds
of people. I am convinced as I see a group
of young people, 500 of them, going off to
Europe, as I saw them yesterday, from
50 States.
But I also know that people need to be
reassured. The people that can reassure
them are opinion leaders, editors, televi-
sion, radio commentators, teachers, even
perhaps Presidents and politicians. At the
present time, I will simply say in raising
these problems, I don't raise them in any
sense of defeatism; I don't raise them in
the usual sense of pointing out that the
United States is a country torn by division,
alienation, that this is truly an ugly coun-
try, because I don't believe that.
I honestly believe that the United
States, in its preeminent position of world
leadership, has in its hands the future of
peace in the world this last third of the
century. I honestly believe that the United
States has the destiny to play a great role,
but I also know we cannot play it unless
this is a healthy land, with a healthy gov-
ernment, a healthy citizenry, a healthy
economy, and above all, the moral and
spiritual health that can only come from
the hearts of people and their minds,
and that will only come as people are re-
assured from time to time, as we discuss
our faults and as we correct our faults,
reassured.
Keep them in balance. Don't let the
problem of the moment obscure the great
things that are going on in this country
and the goodness of this country. It is
812
