Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 2 [379]
to abolish it and get something else.
So our new program provides for work
incentives and work requirements. It also
provides for needy children and provides
for those needy children without the effect
of the present welfare program, which is
so degrading on those children and mars
them for life.
Most of us have only heard of H.R. 1
in terms of welfare. But what is in it for
older people? I think we have forgotten
many of those things. Let me tell you how
much is at stake for older citizens in
H.R. I, and why it must be top priority.
For the first time in our history, it would
put a national floor under the annual
income of every older American. Now,
some may say it ought to be higher, some
may say it ought to be earlier; but the
point is, it will be done. We need a na-
tional floor under the income of every
older American. H.R. I does that.
Second, for the first time in our history,
it would make social security benefits
inflation-proof. This is something that I
have always believed in. It does not make
sense to have social security benefits con-
stantly behind inflation. If we have infla-
tion, the benefits should go up with it,
and H.R. I provides for that.
It would allow social security recipients
to earn more money from their own work.
It would raise benefit levels, especially for
widows. I have also asked the Congress
to include in H.R. 1 a proposal for elimi-
nating the $5.60 monthly fee now charged
for Part B of Medicare.
Now let me get into the numbers. These
numbers are so big that they may not, of
course, be very impressive when we think
of $200 billion budgets, and I am going
to be working on that budget over this
next weekend. But H.R. 1, as it now
stands, would provide $52 billion in addi-
tional Federal benefits for older Ameri-
cans-$52 billion more.
Let me point out something: If they
had passed it 2 years ago, we would have
had it then. You can see why the Congress
needs to quit talking and start acting on
H.R. I just as quickly as possible. This
would be $3 billion in increased social
security benefits and, when it is fully effec-
tive, another $22 billion in new benefits
to persons with lower incomes. And a pro-
posal to eliminate the monthly Medicare
fee would enrich the $52 billion package
by an additional $114 billion, so that is the
equivalent of an additional 5-percent in-
crease in social security.
So
you can see how much is at stake in
this one proposal, which has been there for
over 2 years, which has not been acted
upon, and which needs to be acted upon.
I have made a commitment to you. We
need your help. Let your Congressman, let
your Senator, know that before the next
election you want action on H.R. 1. I
think we ought to have it.
Now I would like to go to a second sub-
ject which is related to income. It is the
other side of the coin. That is the subject
of taxes. We are supporting a series of tax
reform proposals which would enable a
single person aged 65 or older to receive
up to $5,100 of tax-free income. A mar-
ried couple, both of whom are 65 or older,
would receive over $8,000 in tax-free
income.
However and now I come to one that
will be very close, I am sure, to the hearts
of most of the people here, because when
I met with representatives of this group
before this Conference was convened, this
subject was raised by every one of those
present. That is the property tax. It is not
related to income, but it is a tax which
keeps going up and up and up; whereas,
1155
