Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 26 [29]
See also Item 30.
The Prince responded in Spanish. A transla-
tion of his remarks follows:
Mr. President:
This is my fourth visit to the United States.
For a Spaniard it is always an emotional ex-
perience to arrive on this continent to which
my country has given the best of its culture,
faith, blood, and ideals, all of which—reshaped
and revitalized by the distinct personality of
each of its nations-has contributed to form
what is today the American reality.
On previous trips we acquired a direct and
personal acquaintance with the people of the
United States. We felt their kindness and
generosity, their steadfast faith in their coun-
try's institutions, their organizational capac-
ity-all of those ingredients and characteristics
that make up your great Nation.
But the visit that Princess Sophia and I begin
today has a new and deeper significance. As suc-
cessor to the throne and future King of Spain,
this is the first official trip taken on your per-
sonal invitation, Mr. President.
Spain is bound historically and by our com-
monly shared ideals of progress to the United
States and all of America.
Today, nations cannot live in isolation. Our
world must cope with problems often of a
universal nature. Spain wishes to live in close
harmony with all nations, respecting their na-
tional characteristics, but we must come to
know one another better in order to better our
mutual understanding. This desire of coopera-
tion toward the progress of our two countries is
attested to by the signatures on our recently
negotiated treaties.
Many corners of the world cry out for the
solution of their serious material needs, but in
today's world there are also other urgent needs
that must be satisfied. Freedom, to be authentic,
must be responsible and based upon peace and
culture; it also requires that we attend to new
problems posed by an era of constant evolution.
Spain appreciates the efforts of the American
people in serving the cause of peace. You may
be sure that we share these same ideals and
strive toward economic development, to achieve
ever greater social well-being and political ad-
vancements, in accordance with our past experi-
ence and history.
Mr. President, Generalissimo Franco has re-
quested me to convey his sincerest regards and
profound esteem, and he has asked me to be the
bearer of a letter. It is with great pleasure that
I now fulfill both of these duties.
This trip, as your visit to Madrid several
months ago, which we hold in fond memory,
as well as our meetings and visits planned here,
will contribute toward our increased mutual
understanding, which is the cornerstone of the
development of all nations.
Princess Sophia and I, Mr. President, thank
you for your invitation and for this cordial wel-
come extended by you and your wife.
29 Special Message to the Congress Resubmitting Legislative
Proposals. January 26, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
This first special message to the Ninety-
second Congress concerns itself not with
the new, but with the familiar. As indi-
cated in my State of the Union Message,
this first request is that the unfinished
business of the Ninety-first Congress be
made the first business of the Ninety-
second.
With this message, I am proposing to
the Ninety-second Congress more than
three dozen items of legislation which
were previously submitted to the Ninety-
first Congress. Some were acted on favor-
ably by either the Senate or the House
of Representatives. Some are being re-
submitted in their original form. Others
have been modified to meet legitimate
concerns expressed by members of the
Congress. Most will be in the hands of
Congress today. All are bills which I con-
sider to be in the national interest.
71-234-72-S
61
