Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 29 [316]
not to say that there is a growing and
disturbing isolationism developing in our
country because of the burden that
America has carried, because of two wars
that we have fought since World War II,
because of other developments in world
affairs. But whatever you may read about
what the attitudes of people may be with
regard to the desire to build new barriers
for trade, with regard to the desire for the
United States to lay down the burden or
lay down at least a great part of the bur-
den that we bear militarily and in terms
of foreign assistance around the world,
with regard to the idea that the United
States should turn its attention almost ex-
clusively to the problems within and for-
get the problems without, those are not
views that I share. They are not views that
are shared by the Secretary. They are
not views that are shared, I trust, by the
leaders of both major parties in this
country.
We believe in the international role. We
believe that one of the reasons we have
come so far in the world in the past 25
years is because the United States has
been willing to play a role. We trust that
we can continue to play it.
Now, of course, we come to the present
situation. You wonder, after these words,
how was it possible that we have taken the
action that we have on the international
front. The reason that we have taken those
actions I do not and should not try to
go into in detail before such a sophisti-
cated group, except very simply to say
that we have taken those actions because
if the United States is to play a world role
and not turn inward, the United States
must be strong and sound economically.
A weak United States will be isolationist
without question. A strong United States
will continue to play a role that is respon-
sible in the world. That is the reason that
I had to take some of these actions, actions
that I know were distressing to some of
you, but actions that we felt were essential
to strengthen the position of the United
States so that we could continue to be as
forthcoming in world affairs in the future
as we have in the past.
Looking to the future, you can be as-
sured of our cooperation in reducing bar-
riers of trade, rather than raising them;
our cooperation in sharing the burden, and
sharing it fairly with others, of free world
defense; our cooperation, also, in the area
in which you, of course, are so expert, in
the area of international monetary affairs.
On that score, I can only add one, per-
haps, interesting anecdote. Perhaps most
Americans' favorite humorist, at least that
was as far as the 19th century was con-
cerned, was Mark Twain. And he had
something, usually, to say about virtually
everybody in our society, something that
was quite appropriate about lawyers, poli-
ticians, and also about bankers. This was
his description of a banker:
He said, "A banker is someone who will
loan you his umbrella when the sun is
shining and ask for it back when it's
raining."
Now, let me say, we understand that at
this particular period there will be hard
bargaining between bankers representing
other countries and our own. And that is
all to the good. I think a banker does no
favor to a borrower by making a bad loan.
appears that it is a favor, but in the end
the banker is right in insisting on respon-
sibility and the ability to pay.
It
It certainly does not mean that we are
going to have a sound structure for the
future if it is based on simply going back
1015
