Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 15 [357]
The new prosperity that we are working
toward—and we have some rocky times;
we have had some, we may have some
more-but looking toward the year 1972,
as I appraise the situation, the new pros-
perity, based on jobs in peacetime, on
peace production primarily, and based on
a checked rate of inflation, will be a much
sounder prosperity and, therefore, a better
time to invest in America.
you, Mr. President.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press).
Thank
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-first news con-
ference was held at 4 p.m. in the Briefing Room
at the White House on Friday, November 12,
1971.
357 Remarks at a Meeting of the Cost of Living Council.
November 15, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. This is the first oppor-
tunity that I have had to meet with the
Cost of Living Council for several weeks
and, of course, the first opportunity since
we have completed Phase I and have em-
barked on Phase 2.
The Chairman of the Council, Secre-
tary Connally, has just returned from
Asia. During that period there have been
some very significant developments, as we
know, developments that have occurred
outside of the Council, on the Pay Board
and the Price Commission.
I simply want to say that I think I
speak for a great majority of Americans
in expressing appreciation to the members
of the Pay Board and the Price Commis-
sion for taking a potentially explosive issue
and a very difficult issue and bringing it
to a conclusion in a way that is fair, that
is equitable, and that we believe will work.
I say we believe that. I base that on
checking with various groups that have
been involved in the decisionmaking on
all sides in our economy. As we look to
the future, I think that we can say now
that with the decision of the Pay Board
with regard to a 52 percent increase in
wages during the next year, with the
decision of the Price Commission, which
aimed to the goal of between 2 and 3 per-
cent on the price side, that with the mas-
sive public support that we had which
made Phase I such a success in stopping
inflation, that that public support contin-
uing in Phase 2 will mean that the year
1972 will see a year in which we cut infla-
tion in half in this country. And by cutting
it in half it means that we can build for
the future on a sound basis without an
overheated economy and build strongly.
So we owe a great deal to the members
of the Pay Board and the Price Commis-
sion. They were on "Face the Nation"
yesterday, but how about facing the Cost
of Living Council today. [Laughter] Talk
to the Chairman over here. [Laughter]
JUDGE GEORGE H. BOLDT (Chairman,
Pay Board). The faces look a little more
friendly. [Laughter]
Mr. President, I am very happy to re-
port to you that Phase 2, as far as the
Pay Board is concerned, is fully launched,
and we are on our way toward the objec-
tive that you have set for us of controlling
inflation in the United States. And I have
not the least doubt in my mind that we
are going to accomplish it.
THE PRESIDENT. Dean Grayson.
DEAN C. JACKSON GRAYSON, JR.
(Chairman, Price Commission). You said
it was going to be a tough and a thank-
less job, and it was tough. It was very
demanding and challenging, but it was
71-234-72---73
1109
