Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 4 [348]
Members of the House would have the
effect of providing for the payment of in-
creases embodied in existing employment
contracts executed before August 15, and
to require the retroactive payment of in-
creases required by these contracts. That
question is one of the many related prob-
lems now being considered by the Pay
Board and Price Commission. It is not my
intention to prejudge how these particular
issues should be decided. These are mat-
ters for the Pay Board and Price Commis-
sion to decide.
The committee's action is clearly incon-
sistent with the purposes of the economic
stabilization program. It would provide
for a piecemeal approach to the develop-
ment of the program and ignore the effect
of these actions on other aspects of the
problems being considered by the Pay
Board and the Price Commission. The
amendment would provide for special
treatment to one segment of the American
economy.
Most importantly this action would
limit the flexibility of the Pay Board and
Price Commission to consider the widest
possible range of actions and options and
limit their ability to develop a course
which is the most equitable to all
Americans.
If the Congress enacts this amendment
to the Economic Stabilization Act, I be-
lieve that it would seriously jeopardize the
ability of the Pay Board and Price Com-
mission to reach the goals we all expect of
the post-freeze program. I am confident
that the majority of the Members of the
Congress share my view, and that this and
similar piecemeal amendments, which
would preclude the Pay Board and the
Price Commission from having an op-
portunity to develop a balanced approach
to the many related problems, will not be
enacted.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's statement by Donald Rumsfeld,
Counsellor to the President and Director, Cost
of Living Council.
348 Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi of India. November 4, 1971
Madam Prime Minister, our very dis-
tinguished guests from India and from
the United States of America:
On the many occasions when heads of
government and heads of state have been
welcomed at the White House, many very
famous leaders have appeared here. Our
distinguished guest today has the unique
distinction, through the parliamentary
system of India, that more people have
voted for her leadership than for any
leader in the whole history of the world.
Madam Prime Minister, we welcome
you because you represent the world's
largest free nation, the world's largest
democracy. We welcome you also for
another reason. We are not bound to-
gether by a treaty commitment in the
technical sense, but India and the United
States are bound together by a higher
morality, a more profound morality that
does not need a legal document to make
it live.
I speak of the common devotion that
the people of India and the people of the
United States have to the cause of free-
dom, to the cause of representative gov-
ernment, to the right of every country in
1079
