[255] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
pretty well. And whether you run for
office or not, certainly in the capacity that
you have in the homes you build, you will
have an influence that will mean that the
young people in the next generation, that
you will help to raise, will be a genera-
tion that will be proud of America and be
very worthy of America.
That is what Girls Nation can do for
you, and it is what you can do for this
country.
NOTE: The President met at 10 a.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House with
the representatives from Girls Nation, an
organization sponsored by the American Legion
Auxiliary.
He spoke to them informally on a number
of subjects. Those of his remarks which dealt
with the role of women in our society were
later issued as being of general interest.
256 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Report of the Council on Environmental
Quality. August 6, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
The First Annual Report of the Council
on Environmental Quality, which I sub-
mitted to the Congress one year ago,
described our principal environmental
problems and set out in broad outline the
directions in which I felt we should be
moving. Now, as I submit to the Congress
this second annual report, I am pleased
to be able to say that we have made con-
siderable progress towards achieving our
environmental objectives during the past
12 months.
During the past year we have launched
many initiatives to implement the broad
recommendations contained in the first
annual report. At the Federal level we
have proposed sweeping legislative pro-
grams to the Congress, we have taken
vigorous actions within the executive
branch, and we have achieved increas-
ingly effective cooperation with other na-
tions. The States have likewise moved to
meet environmental challenges with wide-
ranging institutional changes and more
effective laws.
While we still have a long way to go
before we meet our ultimate objectives,
it is important to emphasize that we are
making substantial progress. For example,
there is evidence that the air in many of
our cities is becoming less polluted, al-
though the data is still incomplete. Total
emissions from automobiles and the use
of persistent pesticides are going down.
On the other hand, there is no basis for
complacency, as the level of total pollut-
ants in our environment is still rising.
We will continue to face difficult ob-
stacles as we work to make our surround-
ing more liveable and more enriching. But
even now we are demonstrating that our
institutions can be made responsive to the
need for environmental reform and that
the quality of our environment can be
substantially improved, if only we go
about that task with sufficient will and
sufficient energy.
1. REFORMING INSTITUTIONS-THE
FIRST STEP
The barriers to long-range progress in
the field of environmental improvement
are serious and complex and varied. Some
are technological, some are economic,
868
