[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
recycled content in as many other paper
products as possible. The regulations will
be reviewed continually to increase the
percentage of recycled paper required in
each.
I have directed that the Chairman of
the Council on Environmental Quality
suggest to the Governors that they re-
view State purchasing policies and where
possible revise them to require recycled
paper. To assist them, I have directed the
Administrator of GSA to set up a tech-
nical liaison to provide States with the
federally revised specifications as well as
other important information on this new
Federal program, which represents a sig-
nificant first step toward a much broader
use of Federal procurement policies to
encourage recycling.
II. CONTROLLING EMERGING PROBLEMS
Environmental control efforts too often
have been limited to cleaning up problems
that have accumulated in the past. We
must concentrate more on preventing the
creation of new environmental problems
and on dealing with emerging problems.
We must, for example, prevent the harm-
ful dumping of wastes into the ocean and
the buildup of toxic materials throughout
our environment. We must roll back in-
creasingly annoying and
and hazardous
levels of noise in our environment, par-
ticularly in the urban environment. Our
goal in dealing with emerging environ-
mental problems must be to ward them
off before they become acute, not merely
to undo the damage after it is done.
TOXIC SUBSTANCES
As we have become increasingly de-
pendent on many chemicals and metals,
we have become acutely aware of the
potential toxicity of the materials enter-
ing our environment. Each year hundreds
of new chemicals are commercially mar-
keted and some of these chemicals may
pose serious potential threats. Many ex-
isting chemicals and metals, such as PCB's
(polychlorinated biphenyls) and mer-
cury, also represent a hazard.
It is essential that we take steps to pre-
vent chemical substances from becoming
environmental hazards. Unless we de-
velop better methods to assure adequate
testing of chemicals, we will be inviting
the environmental crises of the future.
-I propose that the Administrator of
EPA be empowered to restrict the
use or distribution of any substance
which he finds is a hazard to human
health or the environment.
-I propose that the Administrator be
authorized to stop the sale or use of
any substance that violates the pro-
visions of the legislation and to seek
immediate injunctive relief when use
or distribution of a substance presents
an imminent hazard to health or the
environment.
-I propose that the Administrator be
authorized to prescribe minimum
standard tests to be performed on
substances.
This legislation, coupled with the pro-
posal on pesticides and other existing
laws, will provide greater protection to
humans and wildlife from introduction
of toxic substances into the environment.
What I propose is not to ban beneficial
uses of chemicals, but rather to control the
use of those that may be harmful.
OCEAN DUMPING
Last year, at my direction, the Coun-
132
