[169] May 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
on a Republican leadership meeting with the
President during which the need for Congres-
sional action to halt the strike was discussed.
On March 4, the President signed Executive
Order 11585 creating an emergency board to
investigate the railway labor dispute. The
White House released the report of Emergency
Board No. 179 on April 14.
170 Statement About Approval of the Welfare Reform
and Social Security Bill by the House Committee on
Ways and Means. May 18, 1971
THE House Ways and Means Com-
mittee has taken a momentous step in
approving H.R. 1. This bill, with its im-
portant symbolic designation as the first
order of business of the 92d Congress, rep-
resents an important landmark in the his-
tory of both social security and public
welfare reform. As reported by the com-
mittee, under the responsible leadership of
Chairman Wilbur Mills and Congressman
John Byrnes, this bill represents the finest
kind of cooperation between this Admin-
istration and the Congress.
H.R. I embodies the essential princi-
ples advanced in my welfare reform pro-
posals of August 1969. It provides:
-A requirement that assistance recipi-
ents who are employable must regis-
ter for work or training as a condi-
tion to receiving benefits.
-A basic payment of $130 per month
for the adult assistance programs
which go to the needy aged, to the
blind, and to the disabled, increasing
to $150 per month after 2 years.
These programs would be adminis-
tered by the National Government
through the Social Security Admin-
istration, but would be funded sepa-
rately from the OASDI [Old-Age,
Survivors, and Disability Insurance]
social insurance program.
-A financing plan which eases the
pressure of mounting welfare costs
on State budgets and the pressure for
higher local taxes.
-Coverage of the working poor to end
the penalties for work in the present
welfare system.
-A substantial program to provide in-
creased child care and job training
opportunities in a way which ensures
that work and training opportunities
are related to the recipients' needs.
-A basic floor of dignity for every low-
income family with children. It es-
tablishes a payment standard of
$2,400 for a family of four, while
eliminating the cumbersome and re-
strictive food stamp program, replac-
ing it with cash payments.
-A new, unified administrative struc-
ture, under the Labor Department,
for dealing more effectively with the
problems of those family assistance
recipients who are employable. Simi-
larly the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare would ad-
minister programs for those not
employable, in a manner best suited
to their needs.
-A
I believe very strongly that work-for
those who are able to perform it is essen-
tial to a person's dignity and self-respect.
H.R. 1 builds on this principle. In addi-
tion to the work and registration require-
ment for employable recipients, H.R. 1
provides strong encouragements for wel-
638
