Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
from 650% in 1966 to less than 9% in
1970.
Reflecting this improved internal situ-
ation, Indonesia has now reached a stage
where it can look to matters of broader
concern. With her population of 120 mil-
lion and her wealth of resources, Indo-
nesia's full participation in the regional
groupings of the non-Communist states
of Asia invests them with new weight and
greater potential.
Thailand, with its central geographic
position and the vigor of its diplomacy,
has from the beginning played an essen-
tial role in the development of regional
organizations. It has also manifested a
spirit of cooperation in pursuit of com-
mon interests by providing significant
support for the effort to repel North
Vietnamese aggression in South Vietnam.
At home, the Thai have sustained their
steady economic progress while coping
with the additional burden of check-
ing pockets of externally supported
insurgency.
The Philippines has made a notable
contribution to the "Green Revolution,"
especially in the development of miracle
rice. It has also provided medical help to
the people of other countries.
The scope
and effectiveness of regional-
ism in Asia have now reached significant
levels.
-The creation, with the United King-
dom, of the Five Power Arrangement
for the defense of Malaysia and
Singapore is an impressive example
of Asians looking to their own secu-
rity needs with their own resources.
It also illustrates dramatically how
important a vigorous Australian and
New Zealand role will be to the
future stability of the region.
-SEATO is a regional security organi-
zation which has been in existence
for many years and which has con-
tributed significantly to the mainte-
nance of a peaceful environment. It
provides a framework in which na-
tions both inside and outside the
region can work together effectively
for a common purpose. SEATO also
is increasingly engaged in making a
non-military contribution to regional
stability through fostering economic
and technical cooperation.
-Similarly, the ANZUS Pact has
played a useful part in helping to
preserve security in the Pacific
region.
-In May of 1970, the Foreign Minis-
ters of eleven Asian states, represent-
ing 350 million people, convened in
Djakarta to work out a joint policy
toward the Cambodian crisis, clearly
showing their determination and
their ability to act in common in the
interest of peace in Southeast Asia.
-The Asian Development Bank, to
which the U.S. has contributed only
20% of the capital, has become an
established and major source of capi-
tal and technical assistance to meet
Asian needs. In 1970, the Bank had
its most active year to date, approv-
ing fifty-three projects and increasing
its lending by 150%. I hope that the
Congress will give early approval to
the proposal for an additional $100
million U.S. contribution to a Spe-
cial Fund permitting the Bank to
finance projects which, while merito-
rious, require more generous terms
than those now extended.
-Political differences notwithstand-
ing, the effort continues to develop
within a regional framework South-
east Asia's single major resource-
273
