[311] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
whatever the case might be, the competi-
tion--as being the ones that have the
difficult time, those that are the strong
men, and so forth. As
many of
you who
have heard me discuss this on occasion
know, I do not feel that way. The man is
in the arena and he is in there fighting
and he is battling and so forth, and the
one that really has to be strong is his wife,
the woman, who sometimes has to suffer
when he is having reverses or stand by
him when he is going through difficulties.
Let me say in that respect: All of us
know we have enormous respect for those
women in our country who enter the pro-
fessions, these excellent, these certainly
superb examples here of women in radio
and television, who can compete with any-
body. There isn't any question about that.
I see the Attorney General here. Let me
say a woman can compete with anybody
on the Court, too, but let him decide that.
[Laughter]
very
But, let us also recognize that in the
highest sense, the wife, the role of a
woman as a wife, as a mother, is also a
very great profession. And I think Mrs.
Eisenhower, in the over 50 years that she
was the wife of General Eisenhower, so
well illustrated that.
And then in this personal note. I did
not know her well-until the year '55-
and then I knew her very well. I flew to
312
Denver then. The General had a heart at-
tack. I talked to her, and I saw her stand
by him, stand with him, comfort him,
bring his spirit up. I saw her again when
he had a stroke. It was a difficult time for
him, but she was strong. She gave him the
strength that he needed and, of course,
added to the great strength that he al-
ready had. And then I saw her, too, in
those last days, when there was never a
time she was not by his side.
A woman, of course, is always proud
when she can stand by her husband when
he is on top, when he is winning, when
things are going well. But when it really
matters, when a woman really demon-
strates that she is a great lady is when, like
Mamie Eisenhower, she stands by her
husband when he is going through those
difficult days.
And so tonight, I am very honored on
behalf of all of you, to wish her "Happy
Birthday" and to congratulate her for be-
ing the great lady she has been through
all these years.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 p.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
The dinner was sponsored by American
Women in Radio and Television for the benefit
of establishing the Mamie Doud Eisenhower
Scholarship Fund at Eisenhower College,
Seneca Falls, N.Y.
Statement on Signing Bill Authorizing Extension
of the Draft and Increases in Military Pay.
September 28, 1971
TODAY I am signing into law H.R. 6531.
This legislation achieves two objectives of
major significance:
-It is a significant step toward an all-
volunteer armed force, as it remedies
the longstanding inequities in mili-
tary pay for the lower grades.
-It introduces important, additional
1008
