Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
As far as Chile is concerned, we don't par-
ticularly approve of that type of govern-
ment. We wouldn't want it here. On the
other hand, the Chilean people voted for
it. So, as far as our attitude toward Chile
is concerned, it will be affected by what
Chile's attitude is toward us.
If the Chilean Government does some
things internally, that is their business and
and the business of the Chilean people.
They voted the government in, and they
will have to live with it. If, however, they
do things in Chile or outside of Chile in
their foreign policy that is detrimental to
us, then that is our business, and we will
react accordingly. We are waiting to see
what they will do. As long as they treat
us properly we will treat them properly.
Now, let's look at Cuba. As far as Castro
is concerned, he has already drawn the
line. He is exporting revolution all over
the hemisphere, still exporting it. His line
is against the United States, not only
within Cuba but outside of Cuba.
As long as Castro is adopting an antag-
onistic, anti-American line, we are cer-
tainly not going to normalize our relations
with Castro. As soon as he changes his line
toward us, we might consider it. But it is
his move.
FBI DIRECTOR HOOVER
[14.] MR. CORMIER. Mr. President,
J. Edgar Hoover very recently seems to
have become one of the favorite "whip-
ping boys" of a number of prominent
Americans.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am glad to
have somebody else there for a change.
MR. CORMIER. Is there the slightest
chance that the criticisms would hasten
his retirement?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think the criti-
cisms, particularly when they are unfair,
as many of them have been, and mali-
cious, as many of them have been-and
I haven't discussed Mr. Hoover's retire-
ment with him; he has not brought it up
with me--but if I know Mr. Hoover, such
unfair and malicious criticisms would tend
to have exactly the opposite effect: not
to hasten his retirement, but to have him
dig in.
I can only say this: that with regard to
Mr. Hoover, I would ask the editors of
the Nation's papers to be fair about the
situation. He, like any man who is a strong
man and an able man, who has led this
Bureau for so many years, has made many
enemies. But we can also be thankful that
in the FBI he has developed an organiza-
tion which is recognized throughout the
world as the best law enforcement agency
in the world.
He has been nonpolitical. He has been
nonpartisan. And despite all of the talk
about surveillance and bugging and the
rest, let me say I have been in police states
and the idea that this is a police state is
just pure nonsense. And every editorial
paper in the country ought to say that.
MR. CORMIER. Well, Mr. President,
earlier this week, I think speaking in
Detroit, the Vice President said that he
felt the Director should remain on the
job as long as he is physically and mentally
sound.
Is that more or less your attitude?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Cormier, I
am not going to discuss the situation with
regard to Mr. Hoover's tenure in office
when the matter has not been raised with
me, either by me or by him.
I will only say at this time that I believe
it would be most unfortunate to allow a
man who have given over 50 years of
dedicated service to this country to go out
545
