[308] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
systematically and analytically toward an
accommodation between these resources.
Our efforts have been painstaking and
innovative. They have taken us nearly 2
years, because we have to satisfy not only
the high standards I demand within the
executive branch of Government but also
the stern and impartial scrutiny of the
judicial branch. Only this comprehensive
analysis can truly fulfill the intent of the
law and avoid long periods of reexami-
nation and delay in the future.
Secretary Morton informed me just be-
fore my departure from Washington that
the Department of the Interior is in the
final stages of preparing the legally man-
dated environmental statement on the
pipeline proposal. That statement will
examine not only the environmental im-
pact of the pipeline and marine transport
systems but also their economic impact on
the State of Alaska, their effect on Alaskan
Natives, and alternative means for the
movement of Arctic oil.
Significant portions of the impact
analysis have been prepared with the as-
sistance and active collaboration of the
State of Alaska and the University of
Alaska. We are deeply grateful to all those
who have contributed to this complex
study.
Based on the information now at hand,
I do not believe that the apparent conflict
between oil and the environment repre-
sents a permanent impasse. Instead it
presents a challenge-a challenge to our
engineering skills and a challenge to our
environmental conscience. I believe we
can meet that challenge, proving that
natural resources-in the Arctic or else-
where can be developed and transported
in a responsible manner which respects
environmental values.
Governor Hickel, with whom I am
meeting today, put it this way last Feb-
ruary: "God gave to America an abun-
dance of resources not to use with abuse
but to use without abuse, and this is the
issue."
When the Federal task force on Alaskan
development was established in 1969, I
directed that "we consider the ways in
which we can explore and develop without
destruction and with minimum disturb-
ance, the oil resources of Northern
Alaska." The Department of the Interior
has been rigorously observing that difficult
charge.
In the safe development of our natural
resources, the marketing of Arctic oil is of
high priority. The development of the
Prudhoe Bay reserves is of great impor-
tance both to the State of Alaska and to
the oil reserve posture of this Nation. Dr.
Paul McCracken, the Chairman of my
Council of Economic Advisers, has esti-
mated that utilization of the Prudhoe Bay
field would save this Nation $15 to $17
billion which we would otherwise have to
spend if we imported a like quantity of
foreign oil. But the manner and pace of
its development will depend on the en-
vironmental analysis that is required by
the National Environmental Policy Act.
This Administration is committed to
the development of our Arctic resources
in a way that will stress environmental
compatibility and technological safety.
Secretary Morton is well on the way to-
ward balancing this difficult equation
which has many complex engineering,
economic, and environmental variables. I
1004
