Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 15 [264]
except in amounts and conditions deter-
mined to be in the interest of monetary
stability and in the best interests of the
United States.
Now, what is this action-which is
very
technical-what does it mean for you?
Let me lay to rest the bugaboo of what
is called devaluation.
If you want to buy a foreign car or take
a trip abroad, market conditions may
cause your dollar to buy slightly less. But
if you are among the overwhelming
majority of Americans who buy Ameri-
can-made products in America, your dol-
lar will be worth just as much tomorrow
as it is today.
The effect of this action, in other words,
will be to stabilize the dollar.
Now, this action will not win us any
friends among the international money
traders. But our primary concern is with
the American workers, and with fair com-
petition around the world.
To our friends abroad, including the
many responsible members of the inter-
national banking community who are
dedicated to stability and the flow of
trade, I give this assurance: The United
States has always been, and will continue
to be, a forward-looking and trustworthy
trading partner. In full cooperation with
the International Monetary Fund and
those who trade with us, we will press for
the necessary reforms to set up an urgently
needed new international monetary sys-
tem. Stability and equal treatment is in
everybody's best interest. I am determined
that the American dollar must never
again be a hostage in the hands of inter-
national speculators.
I am taking one further step to protect
the dollar, to improve our balance of pay-
ments, and to increase jobs for Americans.
As a temporary measure, I am today im-
posing an additional tax of 10 percent on
goods imported into the United States.2
This is a better solution for international
trade than direct controls on the amount
of imports.
This import tax is a temporary action.
It isn't directed against any other coun-
try. It is an action to make certain that
American products will not be at a disad-
vantage because of unfair exchange rates.
When the unfair treatment is ended, the
import tax will end as well.
As a result of these actions, the product
of American labor will be more competi-
tive, and the unfair edge that some of our
foreign competition has will be removed.
This is a major reason why our trade bal-
ance has eroded over the past 15 years.
At the end of World War II the econo-
mies of the major industrial nations of
Europe and Asia were shattered. To help
them get on their feet and to protect their
freedom, the United States has provided
over the past 25 years $143 billion in for-
eign aid. That was the right thing for us
to do.
Today, largely with our help, they have
regained their vitality. They have become
our strong competitors, and we welcome
their success. But now that other nations.
are economically strong, the time has
come for them to bear their fair share of
the burden of defending freedom around
the world. The time has come for ex-
change rates to be set straight and for
the major nations to compete as equals.
There is no longer any need for the
United States to compete with one hand
tied behind her back.
The range of actions I have taken and
2 Proclamation 4074.
889
