Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mrs. Dicker-
son, evaluating what a President is behind,
of course that is fair game. It is done
with all Presidents and I have no com-
plaints about members of the press and
others who do this, or members of my own
staff.
But there is nothing that I feel more
strongly about than the proposal for wel-
fare reform and the proposal for revenue
sharing, the new one that I will be sub-
mitting to the Congress.
One of the reasons is that if we do not
have it we are going to have States, cities,
and counties going bankrupt over these
next 2 to 3 years and we are going to have
massive problems in those areas. And I
believe as the Congress sees that crisis they
will act on it.
Let me give you an example with re-
gard to welfare reform. In 1967 there
were 660,000 people on welfare in New
York City. In 1971 there were 1,200,000
people on welfare in New York City. It
just goes up and up and up.
Now, if anybody wants to defend the
present welfare program let them be
against ours. We are going to propose it
again. We have a commitment from the
Congress to act on it or at least get a vote
on it early in the next session. And if we
can get revenue sharing with it, this crisis
of the cities, local government-we at
least will have a start on an answer to it.
CONGRESSIONAL RELATIONS
[19.] MR. SMITH. A great deal depends
on your getting Congress to act. Now a
liberal Republican Senator has recently
said to me that he has rarely been called
to confer with you. A liberal Congress-
man said he has trouble seeing you. I
compare this with your predecessor's hav-
ing Congressmen and Senators in droves
and in small groups here every week of
his Administration.
Do you think that you have nursed
your Congressional relations well enough?
THE PRESIDENT. Well now, Mr. Smith,
in regard to how many droves of Con-
gressmen and Senators have been down
there, I think you will find-and the
record, I think, is going to be put out in
the next 2 or 3 days because, you know, at
the end of 2 years people ask for these
statistics-I have seen more Congressmen
and Senators than any of my predecessors
saw, for a good reason. I didn't have a
majority.
You see, in the case, for example, of
President Johnson he could call the lead-
ers down and they could get the program
through. In the case of President Kennedy
he could do the same thing. In the case of
President Eisenhower, whereas he had a
Republican Congress only in his first 2
years, in the last 6 years he had Vice Presi-
dent-he was then the Majority Leader-
Johnson and Sam Rayburn and they
could deliver the Democratic vote. I do
not have that situation.
You do not have that kind of leader-
ship on the Democratic side or, for that
matter, on the Republican side in the
United States Senate. No fault of the
leaders, but because they are a group of
individualists.
But to come more precisely to your ques-
tion, there is nothing that I am going to
devote more of my time to than in this
field of revenue sharing and this field of
welfare reform which will be in the Ways
and Means Committee of the House and
in the Finance Committee of the Senate-
nothing that the new Secretary of the
19
