Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 11 [10]
ΙΟ
Statement Announcing Changes in Administration
of the Depreciation Provisions of the Tax Laws.
January 11, 1971
TODAY I have approved three impor-
tant changes in the administration of the
depreciation provisions of the tax laws
which will
-help create jobs for the unemployed
as well as young people joining the
labor force;
-promote the economic growth which
is essential if this Nation is to
meet its domestic and international
responsibilities;
-increase the competitiveness of U.S.
goods abroad, thus strengthening our
balance of payments; and
-reduce significantly the complexity
and uncertainty of the application of
an important section of the Internal
Revenue Code.
Briefly summarized, these highly tech-
nical changes will:
I. Authorize the Internal Revenue
Service to accept depreciation based on
lives for business equipment acquired
after
1970 that are not more than 20 per-
cent shorter nor 20 percent longer than
the present "guideline lives" fixed by
Treasury in July 1962.
2. Terminate the complex "reserve
ratio test" for determining limits on de-
preciation allowances.
3. Provide an alternative to the pres-
ent "convention" which permits deduc-
tion of half the annual depreciation in
the year in which equipment is placed
in service. Under the modified "conven-
tion," a full year's depreciation for assets
acquired after 1970 will be accepted for
assets placed in service in the first half of
a year; one-half year's for those in the
second half of a year.
These actions will reduce business tax
payments by $2.6 billion in this calendar
year, rising to a peak of about $4 billion in
1976, and thereafter gradually declining.
In evaluating the impact of these tax ac-
tions on economic activity, it should be
remembered that as of January 1, 1971,
almost $7 billion in individual income tax
cuts had already occurred as a result of the
Tax Reform Act of 1969.
I want to emphasize that these short-
run revenue reductions announced today
are not so large as to prevent us from
maintaining balance, now and in fiscal
year 1972, between budget spending and
the revenues that would be generated in
a full employment economy. Most impor-
tantly, they can be expected to have a sub-
stantial "feedback" effect. Past experience
demonstrates that depreciation liberaliza-
tion will stimulate the pace of spending on
new plant and equipment, which has been
leveling off, and thus create jobs. As a
result, Federal tax collections in the long
run will increase. The estimates of reve-
nue loss may, therefore, be regarded as
maximum estimates.
Sound depreciation reform to create
jobs and growth has a long history of bi-
partisan support. In 1961, the first year
of the Kennedy Administration, Under
Secretary of the Treasury Henry H.
Fowler supported the impending program
for major depreciation reform as a stimu-
lant to economic recovery (unemploy-
ment was then about 62 percent of the
27
