[67] Feb. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
be champions, like to watch.
But now we come to the key point. With
television and those marvelous closeups
they have and the reruns and everything
else, with television these days the ten-
dency is for people just to sit there, feet up,
eating pretzels and drinking-well, drink-
ing, in any event—and that is their par-
ticipation in sports. I do not think that is
bad. As a matter of fact, that can do
something for the spirit, as well-in both
ways.
But what I am suggesting is this: that
we need to alert the people of this country,
and particularly the young people of this
country, that they can do something about
their future to make them develop the
health patterns which will avoid physical
illness and very serious physical illness in
the years ahead.
I am not the best one to speak on this
subject. As a matter of fact, as I have said,
I really hate exercise for exercise's sake.
Bud Wilkinson has constantly told me I
must jog every day. I do a little, but about
a minute is enough.
But the point is that I feel that the
emphasis on exercise, the fact that some
exercise-call it what you will, jogging,
walking, participation in competitive
sports-some of this is so essential for the
physical well-being of the people of this
country.
It is also essential for the spirit of the
people of this country. When a person
feels better, he thinks better. This we all
know. And, therefore, the work that you
do on this advisory committee, of inspir-
ing young people around the country to
develop now the health patterns, the exer-
cise patterns, the participation, not just
watching on television, this serves America
and serves it well. And I express appreci-
ation for your doing so.
I want to say, finally, just one thing with
regard to the people that are here in this
room and the contribution you have made
to this country. You are all successful in
your various fields.
When I read the list of people, the
champions in baseball and football and
tennis and golf and all the other areas, I
must say it was-being a sports buff-it
was really an impressive list. I have seen
many diplomatic dinners and all the rest.
But this is the most impressive crowd I
have seen in this place for a long time,
I can assure you.
I believe in competitive sports, as a
spectator or as a participant. I believe in
the spirit that an individual develops,
either as he watches or as he participates
in competition.
I don't go along with the idea that all
that really matters is jogging in place and
having a good physical appearance. What
really matters, of course, is the spirit as
well as the body.
And if the individual is thinking in an
optimistic and, in the best sense, competi-
tive way, he will be a more healthy indi-
vidual in every way. I believe in that.
And I am glad, therefore, that here in
this room filled with champions that you
are inspiring all Americans, young and
old, with the fact that this is a country
that likes competition, friendly, clean
competition in all areas of life, that en-
courages it not only in the school years but
in all the years after that. I believe that
what you do in that field really renders a
great service to this country.
And, finally, I want to say I appreciate
the example that the people in sports give
to the young people of America. You can't
really understand or realize, I am sure,
how a champion has-one who appears
on the television screen or down on a field
194
