Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 27 [375]
peace. And so this institution will be here
to preserve life, not to destroy it, and that
is what he would have liked and that is
the way that we, very appropriately, honor
him on this occasion and in the years
ahead.
As we dedicate this building, I would
finally suggest that we dedicate ourselves
to the great challenges that lie ahead. We
enter what we hope may be a period in
which the United States can be at peace,
not just for a few years, but perhaps for a
generation; perhaps longer.
Building a generation of peace or a
century of peace is, of course, a great task.
But how we use that peace, what we do
with it, is equally a very great challenge.
We must see that America is physically
healthy. This building and the men and
women who will work in it will con-
tribute to that goal.
We must see that America is eco-
nomically healthy, and that means build-
ing a kind of prosperity that depends on
peace and not on war; the kind of pros-
perity that we last had in 1955 and '56,
when President Eisenhower was President.
And finally, building a people and a
nation that is morally and spiritually
healthy. The Eisenhower legacy speaks to
that great challenge as it does to the
others.
And so on this occasion, we as Ameri-
cans, thinking of one of our great men,
thinking of this institution that honors
him, dedicate ourselves to the tasks ahead:
of building a strong, healthy, vigorous
America; meeting the challenge of build-
ing a world of peace for us, and for all
people in the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:44 a.m. at
the hospital building.
Land for the Medical Center was donated
by Mr. and Mrs. Hope, and funds for the non-
profit hospital were given by trustees and
friends of the hospital. The hospital was the
initial stage of a medical complex that will
include research and teaching facilities.
On November 26, 1971, the White House
released a fact sheet on the hospital.
375 Statement
Statement in Connection With the Dedication of the
Eisenhower Memorial Hospital. November 27, 1971
IN THE COURSE of future history, it
will become increasingly difficult to sep-
arate the legacy of Dwight Eisenhower
from his legend. The dividing line will be
marked, for the most part, by such con-
crete examples of what he sought for
America and what he inspired men to cre-
ate for America as the Eisenhower Med-
ical Center rising on the sands at Palm
Desert, California.
The first part of this great Center, the
Eisenhower Hospital, now stands com-
pleted. It is the cornerstone of a facility
where research and training will go on
in the constant effort to insure that the
health of our people reflects the wealth of
our Nation.
This is the purpose of this Center as it
is the larger purpose of the health pro-
gram proposed by this Administration.
This program is based on the belief that
our Government and our people, business
and labor, the health insurance industry,
and the health profession can work to-
gether in a national partnership to achieve
our health objectives.
Last February, I proposed to the Con-
gress a comprehensive health program
71-234-72-75
1141
