[195] June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
To help meet one manifestation of this
problem, I am directing the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to issue
revised standards for insulation applied in
new federally insured homes. The new
Federal Housing Administration stand-
ards will require sufficient insulation to
reduce the maximum permissible heat loss
by about one-third for a typical 1200
square foot home-and by even more for
larger homes. It is estimated that the fuel
savings which will result each year from
the application of these new standards
will, in an average climate, equal the cost
of the additional insulation required.
While the Federal Government can
take some actions to conserve energy
through such regulations, the consumer
who seeks the most for his energy dollar
in the marketplace is the one who can
have the most profound influence. I am
therefore asking my Special Assistant for
Consumer Affairs-in cooperation with
industry and appropriate Government
agencies to gather and publish addi-
tional information in this field to help
consumers focus on the operating costs
as well as the initial cost of energy inten-
sive equipment.
In addition, I would note that the Joint
Board on Fuel Supply and Fuel Transport
chaired by the Director of the Office of
Emergency Preparedness is developing
energy conservation measures for industry,
government, and the general public to
help reduce energy use in times of par-
ticular shortage and during pollution
crises.
7. POWER PLANT SITING
If we are to meet growing demands for
electricity in the years ahead, we cannot
ignore the need for many new power
plants. These plants and their associated
transmission lines must be located and
built so as to avoid major damage to the
environment, but they must also be com-
pleted on time so as to avoid power short-
ages. These demands are difficult to
reconcile-and often they are not recon-
ciled well. In my judgment the lesson of
the recent power shortages and of the
continuing disputes over power plant
siting and transmission line routes is that
the existing institutions for making de-
cisions in this area are not adequate for
the job. In my Special Message to the
Congress on the Environment last Febru-
ary, I proposed legislation which would
help to alleviate these problems through
longer range planning by the utilities and
through the establishment of State or re-
gional agencies to license new bulk
facilities prior to their construction.
power
Hearings are now being held by the In-
terstate and Foreign Commerce Commit-
tee of the House of Representatives
concerning these proposals and other
measures which would provide an open
planning and decision-making capacity
for dealing with these matters. Under the
administration bill, long-range expansion
plans would be presented by the utilities
ten years before construction was sched-
uled to begin, individual alternative
power plant sites would be identified five
years ahead, and detailed design and lo-
cation of specific plants and transmission
lines would be considered two years in
advance of construction. Public hearings
would be held far enough ahead of con-
struction so that they could influence the
siting decision, helping to avoid environ-
mental problems without causing undue
construction delays. I urge the Congress
to take prompt and favorable action on
this important legislative proposal. At the
same time steps will be taken to ensure
712
