Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 26 [29]
JOINT FUNDING
Often when States, communities or even
individuals apply for Federal grants, the
funds must be drawn from more than a
single agency. To answer these requests
more quickly, more simply and more effi-
ciently, I recommend that the Congress
authorize Federal agencies to pool certain
related funds and to adopt common ad-
ministrative procedures, to be carried out
by a lead agency. The House passed this
joint funding measure last year. I again
urge both Houses to act favorably upon
it early in the Ninety-second Congress.
AEC AMENDMENTS
This proposal would authorize the
Atomic Energy Commission to collect
license fees from any other government
agency engaged in generating electric
power on the same basis it now charges
other electric utility systems for licensing
nuclear powerplants. The cost of a license
for a nuclear powerplant is part of the cost
of doing business. Thus, it is appropriate
that Federal power agencies should be
placed on the same footing.
CLARIFYING CERTAIN PRESIDENTIAL
AUTHORITY
Under Reorganization Plan No. 9 of
1950, the President was given authority
to designate the Chairman of the Federal
Power Commission. However, because the
basic statute has not been amended to
accord precisely with that plan, the Presi-
dent's authority is not crystal clear. This
resulted, some time ago, in certain am-
biguities when one of my predecessors
sought to designate a new FPC Chairman.
The Ninety-first Congress was urged to
clarify this situation, and I now request
that the Ninety-second Congress enact
the necessary clarifying legislation.
NATURAL GAS ACT AMENDMENT
The Federal Power Commission has
asked the Congress for broader authority
to gather and publish information on the
natural gas industry. This would benefit
the industry, its consumers and investors,
government agencies and the Congress
itself, as well as enable the FPC to exer-
cise more effectively its own regulatory
powers. The proposal is comparable to
existing provisions of the Federal Power
Act concerning the electric indus-
power
try--and in no way would it expand the
regulatory responsibilities of the FPC. I
urge the Congress to act favorably upon
this request.
COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD
Last year, in extending the Defense
Production Act, the Congress established
a Cost Accounting Standards Board-
and then placed that Board under the
authority of the Legislative Branch.
This Board is responsible for establish-
ing cost accounting standards, rules and
regulations for use by defense contractors
and subcontractors. Since these standards
necessarily affect the negotiation and ad-
ministration of government contracts, and
since government contracts are the re-
sponsibility of the Executive Branch under
the Constitution, placing this board under
the Legislative Branch violates the funda-
mental principle of the separation of
powers.
On August 17, 1970, we asked Con-
gress to remedy this situation. With this
message I am reissuing that request.
69
