Appendix B
October
21 Mrs. Ruth Voss, editor of The Teenager, a
supplement to the Cincinnati Enquirer, met
with the President at the White House to
discuss her volunteer work with young
people.
21 Ambassadors Joseph Attard Kingswell of
Malta, André Jean Coulbary of Senegal,
Edmundo Valencia-Ibañez of Bolivia,
Toma Granfil of Yugoslavia, and Carlos
Manuel Muñiz of Argentina presented their
credentials to the President in a ceremony
at the White House.
22 Mrs. Ferdinand Marcos, wife of the Philip-
pine President, called on the President at the
White House.
22 Ambassador George H. Bush, United States
Representative to the United Nations, and
Secretary of State William P. Rogers met
with the President to discuss Chinese rep-
resentation in the United Nations.
22 Former Prime Minister Nobosuke Kishi of
Japan met with the President and was guest
at a working dinner at the White House.
23 Six Governors met with the President to
report on their trip to the Soviet Union and
Romania. They were Governors Marvin
Mandel of Maryland, Warren E. Hearnes of
Missouri, Dale Bumpers of Arkansas, Wil-
liam G. Milliken of Michigan, Stanley K.
Hathaway of Wyoming, and David Hall of
Oklahoma. Governors John A. Love of
Colorado and Luis A. Ferre of Puerto Rico
traveled with the group but were still in
Europe.
26 Vice President Agnew met with the Presi-
dent to report on his trip to Turkey, Iran,
and Greece. The Vice President visited Tur-
key and Greece en route to and from Iran
where he represented the United States at
the celebration of the 2500th anniversary
of the founding of the Persian Empire by
Cyrus the Great, at Persepolis.
26 Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah met
with the President at the White House to
discuss matters relating to the Senate
Finance Committee.
October
26 The President met at the White House with
a group of Vietnam veterans who returned
to South Vietnam as civilian volunteers to
work on a housing project for disabled Viet-
namese veterans.
28 The President met with the Quadriad at the
White House.
29 Representatives of the Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica met with the President to present their
Silver Buffalo Award for distinguished serv-
ice to boyhood and to discuss Operation
Reach, the Boy Scouts new drug education.
program.
29 Marjorie Sharp, Miss Wool of America,
called on the President at the White House.
She was accompanied by Representative
Sherman P. Lloyd of Utah.
November
2 The President today announced that Secre-
tary of Commerce Maurice H. Stans will
visit the Soviet Union in mid-November in
response to an invitation from the Soviet
Minister of Foreign Trade Nicolai Patoli-
chev. The visit is for exploratory talks on the
potential for expanded commercial relation-
ships between the United States and the
Soviet Union.
4 Dr. Kofi A. Busia, Prime Minister of Ghana,
met with the President at the White House.
5 Congressman-elect John Heinz III of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., met with the President at the
White House.
7 The President expressed sorrow in a state-
ment issued on the death of former Senator
Spessard Holland of Florida.
10 During his visit in Chicago, the President
met with 5-year-old Katherine Donnelly in
connection with the Illinois Lions Club
campaign to help the blind.
15 George E. Allen, author of the book
"Presidents Who Have Known Me," met
with the President at the White House.
1266
