[187] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
soldiers as no period in our history has ever
done. And now looking back we can see
how right he was. Through a long and bit-
ter struggle in Vietnam, American fight-
ing men have served the cause of freedom
magnificently. American military leader-
ship, much of it from here at West Point,
has been superb, and the American people
have stood behind our commitment to the
people of South Vietnam in the face of
great temptations to turn aside.
But now at last, we have the end of the
American role in this war clearly in sight.
And we are ending our involvement with
honor, in a way that will discourage new
aggression and contribute to a lasting
peace in the Pacific and in the world.
I am grateful that only a small number
of this Class of 1971 has orders for Viet-
nam, that only a few of the more than
3,700 cadets here today will ever be called
to serve there. And beyond this, it is my
highest hope that the great majority of
you standing before me today will never
be called on to serve in any war at all.
More and more, we have good grounds
to believe that this hope for a new era of
world peace will come true. America and
the Soviet Union, the two super powers,
are committed more seriously than ever
before to working out an agreement that
will limit strategic arms. America and
Mainland China, after more than 20 years
of hostility and isolation, are beginning
to move toward a new and more normal
relationship. The nations of Europe are
taking important steps toward greater
unity. The truce in the Mideast will soon
be a year old.
Now, none of this is a cause for eupho-
ria. The harvesttime of peace is not yet.
What we can say, though, is that the seeds
of
peace are planted, that they are germi-
nating in a way that seems to hold great
promise, and certainly that chances for
a full generation of peace in America and
the world are stronger today than at any
period in our lifetime, or your lifetime.
We stand at what could well be a turn-
ing point in modern history. But this
momentous opportunity will slip away if
America is lulled into wishful thinking
and passive policies. Events offer us not
a gift of ease, but a summons to action. We
must be more resourceful than ever in the
pursuit of peace, and at the same time
more determined than ever in the mainte-
nance of our defenses.
For even as many things are changing
in the world of the seventies, one fact re-
mains: American strength is the keystone
in the structure of peace. There still are
those in the world who would strike out at
freedom because freedom makes them
afraid. There are still those who would
resort to violence to work their will be-
cause they have not learned that to live
by the sword is to die by it as well. As long
as these threats persist, peace cannot be
self-sustaining. It will continue to depend
heavily on the vigilance and power of
those who love it.
We all pray for a time when military
strength will be unnecessary, but as long
as strength is essential, we shall maintain
the preparedness which is essential to pro-
tect the peace.
The record speaks plainly. The United
States has fought four wars in this cen-
tury-none of them at our own instiga-
tion, none of them for conquest, territory,
or selfish aims, all of them in defense of
freedom and self-determination for other
people. The United States, for all its
power, is not feared, but trusted among
the nations of the world. I have visited
684
