Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [132]
I reaffirm my strong support for a Con-
stitutional amendment granting to the
District at least one full voting representa-
tive in the House of Representatives, plus
such additional representation in one or
both houses as the Congress may approve.
There is a wide range of other fronts
on which local government in the Nation's
Capital could be strengthened and its re-
sponsiveness to the people increased. Elec-
toral reform is one, and there are many
others. This administration will continue
to work receptively and cooperatively in
this area with the Congress and with all
interested groups in the District of
Columbia.
TAKING THE LEAD IN CRIME
REDUCTION
Forms of government are important—
yet they can mean little in a city whose
people are ruled by fear for their personal
safety and the security of their property.
One of my administration's first priorities
in the District of Columbia has been to
move the city from its place near the top
of the list in the incidence and increase
of crime, into a position of leadership in
crime reduction. Only when this is done
can we move toward healthy development
for Washington and a fuller life for its
people. And now, it is being done.
The District's crime rate declined 5.2
percent from 1969 to 1970, reversing the
rapid increases of the late 1960s. Thus
people who live in the District, people
who work here, and our millions of vis-
itors from around the world, are safer on
the city's streets. Equally important, the
decline in the District's crime rate, to-
gether with crime decreases in 21 other
major cities last year, demonstrates that
urban crime throughout the Nation can
be successfully challenged through de-
cisive action.
Action taken to combat crime in Wash-
ington has included:
-An increase in the Metropolitan Po-
lice Force from 4,100 to 5,100 of-
ficers, with a greater percentage of
the force moved into the law enforce-
ment front lines by using civilian per-
sonnel to perform many routine
functions.
-Landmark legislation which modern-
ized the D.C. court system and pro-
vided law enforcement officers with
new criminal procedures.
--A substantial narcotics treatment and
enforcement program, to rehabilitate
narcotics victims and to reduce the
criminal activity which supports drug
addiction.
-A program of experimental, high-
intensity street lighting in selected
areas of the city.
-An increase in minority representa-
tion on the police force from 28 per-
cent to 37 percent-the highest in
the Nation-through a determined
community recruiting program.
--A language training program to im-
prove police service in Spanish-
speaking neighborhoods.
-Creation of the Executive Protective
Service to enhance protection of for-
eign embassies and free D.C. police
for regular civil assignments.
In addition, an increasingly metropol-
itan perspective is developing among law
enforcement agencies in and around
Washington. The administration will help
to reinforce this trend toward coordinated
action, so that crime reductions within
the District of Columbia are not rendered
hollow by a growing crime problem in the
suburbs. The first logical place to begin
513
