[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
million Americans are investors in the
stock market, either through insurance
companies or funds or directly.
What do we find?
We find that the stock market had the
biggest growth in the last 11 months, 50
percent gain. People do not buy stocks
because they are pessimistic about the
future. What I am saying is this: The
consumers in America now have confi-
dence. I believe we are going to see that
confidence grow in April, May, June. If
that confidence grows, the economy will
grow with it.
And I would say that at this time, with
the movement not being as fast as we had
hoped, but with the movement sharply
up in the last week in March and the first
two weeks of April, that my predictions of
a good year in 1971 and a very good year
in 1972 still stand, and I don't think we
should change the plan now.
We will continue to wage the battle
against inflation by holding spending
within the full employment surplus,
within the full employment revenue, and
we will continue, of course, to do every-
thing that we can with pockets of unem-
ployment, like in southern California and
the Northwest where we have airframe
and other unemployment, but I believe
that at this time we are going to see a
strong second half, particularly, and a
very, very strong 1972.
I am speaking, of course, economically.
THE VICE PRESIDENT'S CRITICISM OF
THE PRESS
[17.] MR. DEDMON. Mr. President,
this is a new question. Inasmuch as this is
an editors convention, I think it would be
inappropriate not to discuss the criticism
which has been made of the press, par-
ticularly by the Vice President, who is
now not only criticizing our viewpoint but
analyzing some of our stories in detail.
I was wondering, quite apart from his
prowess as a golfer, if you would care to
compare his abilities as Vice President and
as editor for the Nation's press.
Do you think that the Vice President is
better as a Vice President or as an editor?
THE PRESIDENT. You mean you are
looking for an editor? [Laughter]
Mr. Dedmon, I am going to make an
offer to these distinguished publishers,
editors, and so forth that are here. I have
had the privilege of being in your offices
and to have been in editorial conferences
with every paper represented here.
I would like for all of you to have the
Vice President in. See what kind of a man
he really is.
The trouble is he only makes news when
he hits the press or a golf ball.
Here is a man, yes, he is controversial.
He says what he thinks, and he says it very
hard.
As a matter of fact, I believe that some
of his criticisms, if you look at them very
objectively, some of the criticisms that he
has made in terms of some network cover-
age and press coverage, you really cannot
quarrel with if you examine the whole
record.
I believe that the Vice President's
national image of simply being a man who
is against a free press, who is against all
the
press, is just not accurate.
The difficulty is that he is not known-
the things that he does, his capability in
the foreign field, his capability in the
domestic field. He is one of the best sales-
men we have for revenue sharing because
he knows what local government is. He
was a Governor and he also was a county
official, and all over this country he goes
548
