Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
respond to this diversity would have
ignored new opportunities for improving
relations. Negotiation with different Com-
munist countries on specific issues carries
more promise.
Finally, in the new era, unprecedented
challenges beckon nations to set aside doc-
trine and focus on a common agenda. A
new global partnership could promote
habits of working for the world's interests
instead of narrow national interests.
We in this generation have before us
an historic opportunity to turn the trans-
formations of the last 25 years into new
avenues for peace, and to realize the crea-
tive possibilities of a pluralistic world. We
must begin with the vision of the world we
seek, to infuse our actions with a sense of
direction. We need a vision so that crises
do not consume our energies, and tactics
do not dominate our policies.
America has always had a belief in a
purpose larger than itself. Two centuries
ago our mission was to be a unique exem-
plar of free government. Two decades ago
it was to take up worldwide burdens of
securing the common defense, economic
recovery, and political stability.
Today we must work with other nations
to build an enduring structure of peace.
We seek a new and stable framework of
international relationships:
-which reflects the contributions and
reconciles the aspirations of nations.
-which is cemented by the shared goal
of coexistence and the shared practice
of accommodation.
-which liberates countries and con-
tinents to realize their destinies free
from the threat of war.
-which promotes social justice and
human dignity.
Our participation remains crucial. Be-
cause of the abundance of our resources
and the stretch of our technology, Ameri-
ca's impact on the world remains enor-
mous, whether by our action or by our
inaction. Our awareness of the world is
too keen, and our concern for peace too
deep, for us to remove the measure of
stability which we have provided for the
past 25 years.
But we need the resources and concepts
of others so that they will build this struc-
ture with us. For it will not endure unless
other nations sense that it is also of their
making. Their growth in the past decades
enables other nations to do more, and
peace in the coming decades will require
all nations to do some.
With others we will strive for something
that America and the world have not ex-
perienced in this century, a full generation
of
peace.
The first step, of course, is to still the
sound of war. We are moving toward that
goal. Beyond that, we are focusing on
something that men alive today can
achieve for themselves and their children,
on a span of peace we can realize here and
now. This will be our ultimate test.
Thus the core of our new foreign policy
is a partnership that reflects the basic
theme of the international structure we
seek. Its necessary adjuncts are strength
to secure our interests and negotiation to
reconcile them with the interests of others.
Its fullest extension encompasses adver-
saries as well as friends.
It will take many years to shape the new
American role. The transition from the
past is underway but far from completed.
During this period the task of maintaining
a balance abroad and at home will test the
capacity of American leadership and the
understanding of the American people.
Adjustments in our policies surely will
be required, but our experience in 1970
71-234-72— -18
221
