[72] Feb. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
there is also a need to make more effective
use of the legislation we already have, and
of the institutions charged with enforc-
ing this legislation.
A principal function of the Federal
Trade Commission has historically been
to serve as the consumers' main line of
resistance to commercial abuse. In the past
year the Commission, under new leader-
ship, has been substantially strengthened.
A major organizational restructuring has
produced within the Commission a Bu-
reau of Consumer Protection, a Bureau of
Competition, and a Bureau of Economics.
An Office of Policy Planning and Evalua-
tion has been created to establish a more
effective ordering of priorities for the
Commission's enforcement efforts.
In order to make FTC procedures more
responsive to the needs of consumers, re-
sponsibilities of the eleven Commission
field offices have been extended to include
trying cases before hearing examiners in
the field, negotiating settlements, conduct-
ing investigations, and referring com-
plaints to the Commission. Six Consumer
Protection Coordinating Committees have
been established in selected metropolitan
areas.
I am submitting today legislation which
would provide the FTC with the authority
to seek preliminary injunctions in Federal
courts against what it deems to be un-
fair or deceptive business practices. The
present inability to obtain injunctions
commonly results in the passage of ex-
tended periods of time before relief can be
obtained. During this time the practices
in question continue, and their effects
multiply.
The proposed bill would expand the
jurisdiction of the Commission to include
those activities "affecting" interstate com-
merce, as well as those activities which are
"in" interstate commerce.
Finally, I recommend that the penalty
schedule for violation of a Commission
cease-and-desist order be adjusted from a
maximum of $5,000 per violation to a
maximum of $10,000 per violation.
GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES
A constant source of misunderstanding
between consumer and businessman is the
question of warranties. Guarantees and
warranties are often found to be unclear
or deceptive.
In 1970, I submitted a proposal for
legislation to meet this problem. I am sub-
mitting new legislation for this purpose.
This proposal would increase the au-
thority of the Federal Trade Commission
to require that guarantees and warranties
on consumer goods convey adequate in-
formation in simple and readily under-
stood terms.
It would further seek to prevent decep-
tive warranties; and it would prohibit
improper use of a written warranty or
guarantee to avoid implied warranty ob-
ligations arising under State law.
CONSUMER FRAUD CLEARINGHOUSE
My Special Assistant for Consumer Af-
fairs is examining the feasibility of a con-
sumer fraud clearinghouse-a prompt
exchange of information between appro-
priate Federal, State and local law en-
forcement officials which can be especially
helpful in identifying those who perpe-
trate fraudulent, unfair and deceptive
practices upon the consumer and deprive
the honest businessman of his legitimate
opportunities in the marketplace.
208
