[328]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Oct. 12
by "peripheral areas," areas that do not
directly involve the Soviet Union and the
United States-would be involved would
depend upon the situation at that time.
For example, Cuba is one possibility.
The question of Southeast Asia is another.
As far as Southeast Asia is concerned, I
would emphasize there, again, however,
that completely without regard to this
meeting and completely without regard to
the meeting that will take place with the
Chinese leaders at an earlier date, we are
proceeding both on the negotiating track
and on the Vietnamization track to end
American involvement in Vietnam. We
trust that we will have accomplished that
goal, or at least have made significant
progress toward accomplishing that goal,
by the time this meeting takes place.
BACKGROUND FOR SOVIET SUMMIT
[5.] Q. Can you tell us the mechanics,
sir? How did the meeting come about?
Did their Ambassador come here? Was it
hotlined? And can you tell us, sir, when
the ball started rolling toward this
meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. The ball started roll-
ing toward this meeting, I think, in my
first press conference when, you recall, the
inevitable question came up, "Are we go-
ing to have a summit with the Soviet
Union?"
I pointed out then that I did not be-
lieve a summit would serve a useful pur-
pose unless something was to come out of
it. I do not believe in having summit
meetings simply for the purpose of having
a meeting. I think that tends to create
euphoria. It raises high hopes that are
then dashed, as was the case with Glass-
boro. We are not making that mistake.
Both in our meeting with the Chinese
which is being very carefully planned, as
evidenced by Dr. Kissinger's visit to help
prepare the agenda and the final arrange-
ments, and in our meeting with the Soviet
Union, we have agreed to summit meet-
ings only on the basis that we would have
an agenda in which there was a possibility
of making significant progress, and also
on which items would be on the agenda
on which progress could best be made,
and in some instances might only be made,
by decisions at the highest level.
Now, I stated that, or at least made that
point, in several press conferences, in-
cluding my first one. In the spring of last
year there was some discussion with the
Soviet Union at lower levels with regard
to the possibility of a summit. There was
further discussion of the possibility of a
summit when I met with Mr. Gromyko in
the fall of last year when he was here
to the United Nations.
Those discussions have continued on
and off, not at my level, but at other levels,
until Mr. Gromkyo arrived for his visit
with me on this occasion. On this occasion
he brought a formal invitation.
Let me say on the Soviet side that they
agreed basically with my principle, which
is also theirs, that a summit meeting should
be held only when both sides are prepared
to discuss matters of substance. And it is
because both of us have been waiting for
the time that we felt there were matters on
which major progress could be made that
the summit meeting is being held at this
time, rather than at an earlier time.
I should also point out the very signifi-
cant areas in which we have made pro-
gress in Soviet-American relations, both
on our part and on their part. We have felt
unless we were able to make progress in
this era of negotiation rather than con-
frontation and other areas, that a meet-
1032
