Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 4 [321]
building on the Congress to reject deferral
of Federal pay increases. If the House or
the Senate should cave under that pres-
sure, the inflationary consequences for the
American housewife and American work-
ingman would be rapid, extensive, and
severe.
If the Congress should veto the deferral,
an unmistakable signal will be sent to
business, to labor, and to skeptical friends
abroad that the legislative branch has
unilaterally withdrawn from the national
alliance of private and public institutions.
determined to halt inflation in the United
States. There must be no political prof-
iteering in the war against inflation.
Like all Americans, Federal employees
will benefit from the new prosperity-a
peacetime prosperity without inflation
and without war. But if Congress rejects
this pay raise deferral, then other Ameri-
cans will have to bear the cost either in
diminished benefits, deferred programs, or
through other stern budgetary measures.
Let the Congress and the executive
branch avoid the inevitable recriminations
that will come if the new economic
policy and the prosperity it is designed
to bring is torpedoed. Rather, let us
work cooperatively together so that all
Americans can share the benefits of the
new prosperity.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
321 Telephone Remarks to Students and Educators
Attending a Drug Education Seminar in
Monroe, Louisiana. October 4, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. I just wish I could be
there with you, because this has to be one
of the greatest meetings held ever, any-
where, anyplace in the country on a sub-
ject of such great interest to the Nation.
CONGRESSMAN OTTO E. PASSMAN. It
certainly is, Mr. President. You are going
to get a very favorable report on the meet-
ing. I want to assure you I speak for all
the citizens of Louisiana when I say to you
that you have honored us greatly by ac-
cepting our invitation to address this drug
seminar. This is the largest gathering ever
assembled in the city of Monroe. We are
very much in your debt, and we are very
appreciative, Mr. President.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is a
high privilege, a distinct honor, and a
great pleasure for me to present to
you the President of the United States.
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Congressman Passman.
I simply want to say to you, to Governor
McKeithen, Governor Noe, District At-
torney Kostelka, Mayor Howard, Mayor
Hatten, to all of the thousands who are
gathered there in Monroe, Louisiana, as I
just told the Congressman a few minutes
ago, this is without question not only the
biggest meeting of its kind ever held in
Monroe, Louisiana, it is the biggest meet-
ing of its kind ever held in the United
States of America.
I congratulate the people of Louisiana
for supporting this great program for deal-
ing with drug abuse and giving an exam-
ple to the rest of the country.
When we look at the vicious, destruc-
tive effects that drugs have on individual
lives, on society as a whole, there is no
question but that drug abuse is public
1019
