Richard Nixon, 1971
[112]
Mar. 24
cannot serve full time. Their contributions
must not be wasted. Volunteers in full-
time service would work with part-time
volunteers and the new agency would de-
velop and provide opportunities for more
people to give part-time service.
Third, Action would bring together in
one place programs which appeal pre-
dominantly to younger Americans with
those that appeal to older Americans, and
would work to bring the energy, the in-
novative spirit, the experience, and the
skills of each to bear on specific problems.
The generations in America share Amer-
ica's problems-they must share in the
search for solutions so that we all may
share in the benefits of our solutions.
Fourth, Action would develop pro-
grams for combining foreign service with
domestic service to accommodate volun-
teers interested in such an opportunity. I
believe that young people in particular
would be interested in the chance for this
experience and would greatly benefit from
it. I know there would be great value, for
example, in permitting those who have
served the needs of the poor abroad to
turn their skills and experience to helping
the poor at home, and vice versa. In addi-
tion, if volunteers are to reap the full
benefit of serving, and if they are to be
able to provide others the full benefit of
their service, then we must open the doors
to a fuller exchange of ideas and experi-
ences between overseas and domestic vol-
unteer efforts. These exchanges would
considerably enhance the value of the ex-
perience gained in these endeavors by
broadening the areas in which that experi-
ence is applied.
Fifth, at the present time valuable pro-
fessional skills offered in voluntary service
are too frequently limited by narrow cate-
gorical programs when their broader
ap-
plication is urgently needed. For example,
the contributions of businessmen made
through SCORE and ACE are provided
only through the Small Business Admin-
istration. We know that the skills of busi-
ness can be used in many areas where they
are not used presently. Action would open
new channels for service and would per-
mit a more extensive utilization of business
and other vocational and professional
abilities.
Finally, by centralizing administrative
functions of the volunteer services, the
new agency would provide a more effec-
tive system of recruitment, training, and
placement of full-time volunteers than the
present circumstances permit. It would
provide a single source of information
and assistance for those who seek to volun-
teer full-time service. And it would
permit more effective management of
services than is currently possible in the
administration of volunteer programs, as
well as the more efficient use of resources.
PRINCIPLES
In restructuring our system of volunteer
services, we can accomplish the goals
which I have set forth. But we must do
more than this. We must restructure our
thinking about volunteer services. We
must determine how to use our volun-
teer resources to accomplish more than
they accomplish now. We need an in-
creased effort to stimulate broader volun-
teer service, to involve more volunteers,
and to involve them not simply as foot-
soldiers in massive enterprises directed
from the top, but in those often small
and local efforts that show immediate
results, that give immediate satisfac-
tion-those efforts that return to citizens
a sense of having a hand in the business
71-234-72-33
469
