Richard Nixon, 1971
June 17 [203]
will then go on to deal with the problem
throughout America.
One final word with regard to Presi-
dential responsibility in this respect. I very
much hesitate always to bring some new
responsibility into the White House, be-
cause there are so many here, and I be-
lieve in delegating those responsibilities
to the departments. But I consider this
problem so urgent-I also found that it
was scattered so much throughout the
Government, with so much conflict, with-
out coordination-that it had to be
brought into the White House.
Consequently, I have brought Dr. Jaffe
into the White House, directly reporting
to me, so that we have not only the respon-
sibility but the authority to see that we
203 Special Message to the
Prevention and Control.
To the Congress of the United States:
In New York City more people between
the ages of fifteen and thirty-five years
die as a result of narcotics than from any
other single cause.
In 1960, less than 200 narcotic deaths
were recorded in New York City. In 1970,
the figure had risen to over 1,000. These
statistics do not reflect a problem indige-
nous to New York City. Although New
York is the one major city in the Nation
which has kept good statistics on drug
addiction, the problem is national and
international. We are moving to deal with
it on both levels.
As part of this administration's ongoing
efforts to stem the tide of drug abuse
which has swept America in the last dec-
ade, we submitted legislation in July of
wage this offensive effectively and in a
coordinated way.
The briefing team will now be ready to
answer any questions on the technical
details of the program.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
A White House announcement of the ap-
pointment of Dr. Jerome H. Jaffe as Special
Consultant to the President for Narcotics and
Dangerous Drugs was released June 17, 1971,
and is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 941).
On the same day, the White House also re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
program by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs, Egil Krogh,
Jr., Deputy Assistant to the President for Do-
mestic Affairs, and Dr. Jaffe.
Congress on Drug Abuse
June 17, 1971
1969 for a comprehensive reform of Fed-
eral drug enforcement laws. Fifteen
months later, in October, 1970, the Con-
gress passed this vitally-needed legislation,
and it is now producing excellent results.
Nevertheless, in the fifteen months be-
tween the submission of that legislation
and its passage, much valuable time was
lost.
We must now candidly recognize that
the deliberate procedures embodied in
present efforts to control drug abuse are
not sufficient in themselves. The problem
has assumed the dimensions of a national
emergency. I intend to take every step
necessary to deal with this emergency, in-
cluding asking the Congress for an amend-
ment to my 1972 budget to provide an
additional $155 million to carry out these
739
