[250] Aug. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
so, in distributing the food supplies, its
ability to create some stability, would be
seriously jeopardized.
We believe that the most constructive
role we can play is to continue our eco-
nomic assistance to West Pakistan [Gov-
ernment of Pakistan] and thereby to be
able to influence the course of events in a
way that will deal with the problem of
hunger in East Pakistan, which would
reduce the refugee flow into India and
which will, we trust, in the future look
toward a viable political settlement.¹
We are not going to engage in public
pressure on the Government of West
Pakistan [Government of Pakistan]. That
would be totally counterproductive. These
are matters that we will discuss only in
private channels.
QUESTIONS
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO CHINA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, can you tell us
any more about your forthcoming trip to
China, when it is likely to occur, and can
you give us your assessment of what effect
1 The flow of refugees and the growth of an
insurgency movement in East Pakistan seeking
secession from Pakistan increased existing ten-
sions in the border area of India and East
Pakistan, and led finally, in late November
1971, to open warfare between the Pakistani
Army and the Indian Army which had crossed
into East Pakistan in aid of the insurgents.
On December 7, the United Nations General
Assembly passed a resolution calling on India
and Pakistan to institute an immediate cease-
fire and to withdraw their troops from each
other's territory. A statement by Press Secretary
Ronald L. Ziegler on the resolution was re-
leased December 12 and is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 7, p. 1656).
you
think this will have on ending the war
in Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as the timing is
concerned, I cannot add to what I said in
the original announcement. It will be be-
fore May 1. The time will be worked out
sometime within the next 2 to 3 months, I
would assume, and a considerable amount
of preparatory activity must take place,
setting up the agenda, setting up the num-
ber in the official party. These are mat-
ters, of course, that must be discussed and
worked out before the time of the visit is
finally announced.
Second, and I know a number of you
are interested in who is going, that is a
matter still to be decided. It was raised by
Dr. Kissinger and by Premier Chou En-
lai in their conversations and will be
worked out by mutual agreement.
As far as our party is concerned, it will
be a small working party. The only ones
that presently are definitely going are, of
course, the Secretary of State and Dr. Kis-
singer and myself. Beyond that, whatever
others will be added will be determined
by mutual agreement between the parties
concerned.
Now, as to the effect the visit will have,
and the conversations will have, on Viet-
nam, I will not speculate on that subject.
I will only say that as the joint announce-
ment indicated, this will be a wide-rang-
ing discussion of issues concerning both
governments. It is not a discussion that is
going to lead to instant détente.
What it really is, is moving—as we have
moved, I believe, in the situation with
regard to the Soviet Union-from an era
of confrontation without communication
to an era of negotiation with discussion. It
does not mean that we go into these meet-
ings on either side with any illusions about
850
