Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 6 [130]
role in national education to both these
realities, and it lays the foundation for a
new and more productive Federal-State
relationship in this area of vital national
concern, just as the previous revenue shar-
ing proposals have afforded similar pos-
sibilities in their areas of specific concern.
I consider each of these proposals
vitally important in and of itself. But in
the aggregate, the importance of revenue
sharing is greater than the sum of the
parts which comprise this series of legis-
lative proposals. For we are seeking noth-
ing less than a new definition of the
relationship between Federal Govern-
ment and State and local governments-
one which answers the needs of the pres-
ent and anticipates the needs of the
future.
The White House
April 6, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the program by Elliot L.
Richardson, Secretary, Sidney P. Marland, Jr.,
Commissioner of Education, and John R.
Ottina, Deputy Commissioner for Manage-
ment, Office of Education, Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
The White House also released the transcript
of a news briefing by Edwin L. Harper, Special
Assistant to the President, on the hold harmless
base line figures for States and localities under
special revenue sharing, and a fact sheet on the
figures for education special revenue sharing.
130 Statement About an Alaska Natives' Claims Bill.
April 6, 1971
RESOLVING the issues concerning the
Alaska Natives' claims will be the last
major original Indian claims settlement
in American history.
In a message to the Congress on Jan-
uary 26, 1971, I promised that an Alaska
Native Claims bill would be submitted, to
resolve equitably the Native claims in that
State.
I have today approved Secretary
Morton's sending to the Congress a new
Administration bill which proposes what
I consider a fair and equitable settle-
ment-and one more generous to the
Alaska Natives than any heretofore put
forward by a President or Congressional
committee. It goes beyond the bill pro-
posed by the Administration in 1969, and
goes beyond the bill passed by the Senate
it
in 1970.
The economic development of all of
Alaska, Native and non-Native communi-
ties alike, depends on the just resolution
of this long-deferred issue.
Natives have asserted claims to
340 million acres of the State of Alaska.
A settlement which the Department of
the Interior proposed in 1967 would have
extinguished those claims in exchange for
giving the Natives the right to sue in the
Court of Claims and to be compensated
in money at the 1867 value of the lands,
while granting trust title to some
10 million acres for village use.
The new bill being submitted by Sec-
retary Morton, developed in close con-
sultation with representatives of the
Alaska Federation of Natives themselves,
provides for a cash payment of $500 mil-
lion and also provides that the Natives
shall have a 2 percent share, up to a
maximum of $500 million, in the oil
revenues generated in Alaska, that they
shall have full title to 40 million acres of
507
