Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 15 [264]
winding down the war in Vietnam. Put-
ting those people back to work is one of
the challenges of peace, and we have be-
gun to make progress. Our unemployment
rate today is below the average of the
peacetime years of the 1960's.
4
But we can and we must do better than
that.
The time has come for American in-
dustry, which has produced more jobs at
higher real wages than any other indus-
trial system in history, to embark on a
bold program of new investment in pro-
duction for peace.
To give that system a powerful new
stimulus, I shall ask the Congress, when
it reconvenes after its summer recess, to
consider as its first priority the enactment
of the Job Development Act of 1971.
I will propose to provide the strongest
short term incentive in our history to in-
vest in new machinery and equipment that
will create new jobs for Americans: a 10
percent Job Development Credit for 1
year, effective as of today, with a 5 per-
cent credit after August 15, 1972. This
tax credit for investment in new equip-
ment will not only generate new jobs; it
will raise productivity; it will make our
goods more competitive in the years
ahead.
Second, I will propose to repeal the 7
percent excise tax on automobiles, effec-
tive today. This will mean a reduction in
price of about $200 per car. I shall insist
that the American auto industry pass this
tax reduction on to the nearly 8 million
customers who are buying automobiles
this year. Lower prices will mean that
more people will be able to afford new
cars, and every additional 100,000 cars
sold means 25,000 new jobs.
Third, I propose to speed up the per-
sonal income tax exemptions scheduled
for January 1, 1973, to January 1, 1972—
so that taxpayers can deduct an extra $50
for each exemption 1 year earlier than
planned. This increase in consumer spend-
ing power will provide a strong boost to
the economy in general and to employ-
ment in particular.
The tax reductions I am recommend-
ing, together with this broad upturn of the
economy which has taken place in the
first half of this year, will move us strongly
forward toward a goal this Nation has not
reached since 1956, 15 years ago: pros-
perity with full employment in peacetime.
Looking to the future, I have directed
the Secretary of the Treasury to recom-
mend to the Congress in January new tax
proposals for stimulating research and de-
velopment of new industries and new
techniques to help provide the 20 million
new jobs that America needs for the
young people who will be coming into the
job market in the next decade.
To offset the loss of revenue from these
tax cuts which directly stimulate new
jobs, I have ordered today a $4.7 billion
cut in Federal spending.
Tax cuts to stimulate employment must
be matched by spending cuts to restrain
inflation. To check the rise in the cost of
Government, I have ordered a postpone-
ment of pay raises and a 5 percent cut in
Government personnel.
I have ordered a 10 percent cut in for-
eign economic aid.
In addition, since the Congress has al-
ready delayed action on two of the great
initiatives of this Administration, I will
ask Congress to amend my proposals to
postpone the implementation of revenue
sharing for 3 months and welfare reform
for 1 year.
In this way,
I am reordering our budget
priorities so as to concentrate more on
887
