Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
is a virtue only within a framework of
clear purpose, I ordered the most com-
prehensive study of weapons systems bear-
ing on the negotiations.
We assigned the analytical tasks to a
special NSC group, the Verification
Panel. It first examined the various
weapons sytems to determine the effect of
conceivable limitations on our current and
projected military programs, their effect
on Soviet programs, and—on the basis of
this analysis—the strategic situation en-
suing from particular weapons limitations.
The Panel looked as well at verification.
Confidence that obligations are being ad-
hered to is a basic requirement for stable
arms control agreements and should be of
equal concern to both sides. We made a
detailed analysis of our ability, and the
measures needed, to verify compliance
with each agreement. We also studied
counteractions if we detected a violation,
and whether we could take them in time
to protect our security.
The result was the development of indi-
vidual "building blocks" for all offensive
and defensive weapons. We can combine
these blocks in various clusters of limita-
tions and reductions to produce alterna-
tive proposals for the negotiations.
This enables us to respond quickly and
meaningfully to any Soviet counter-pro-
posals; at home we are not the prisoner
of bureaucratic jockeying to come up with
an agreed response. The focus in our dia-
logue, either with the USSR or within our
own government, can be on substantive
issues.
Differing Perspectives. We made major
efforts to understand the position of the
Soviet Union. Of all possible areas for
negotiation, limitation of strategic
weapons requires the greatest such efforts,
for no nation will maintain an accord
which it believes jeopardizes its survival.
This task of developing an equitable
agreement is greatly complicated by
our differing strategic positions and
perspectives.
Even within the United States, and no
doubt in the USSR, there are widely di-
vergent views over the key elements of an
effective and credible strategic posture.
The technical issues are highly complex,
and the political and strategic considera-
tions engage our vital interests. It would
be surprising, therefore, if there were not
also large initial differences between the
U.S. and the USSR.
The composition and level of our re-
spective strategic forces reflected differ-
ent geographical factors and historical
development. This posed a major problem
of establishing an equivalence between
weapons systems with dissimilar char-
acteristics and capabilities:
-Our deployments of offensive missile
launchers were completed by 1967;
the USSR continued to build differ-
ent types of land-based ICBM's and
a nuclear-powered missile submarine
force that will equal ours within
three years at current rates. The
USSR has constructed a large ICBM,
the SS-9, for which the U.S. has no
counterpart. Deployed in sufficient
numbers and armed with the multi-
ple independently targetable war-
heads (MIRV's) of sufficient accu-
racy, this missile could threaten our
land-based ICBM forces. Our MIRV
systems, by contrast, do not have the
combination of numbers, accuracy,
and warhead yield to pose a threat
to the Soviet land-based ICBM force.
-The USSR has a large force of inter-
mediate and medium range ballistic
missiles. We do not. On the other
321
