Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 4 [43]
Here the results can be assessed, the fail-
ures repaired, the successes proven and
publicized. Revitalized State and local
governments will be able to tap a variety
of energies and express a variety of values.
Learning from one another and even com-
peting with one another, they will help us
develop better ways of governing.
The ability of every individual to feel a
sense of participation in government will
also increase as State and local power in-
creases. As more decisions are made at the
scene of the action, more of our citizens
can have a piece of the action. As we
multiply the centers of effective power in
this country, we will also multiply the
opportunity for every individual to make
his own mark on the events of his time.
Finally, let us remember this central
point: the purpose of revenue sharing is
not to prevent action but rather to pro-
mote action. It is not a means of fighting
power but a means of focusing power. Our
ultimate goal must always be to locate
power at that place-public or private-
Federal or local-where it can be used
most responsibly and most responsively,
with the greatest efficiency and with the
greatest effectiveness.
"THE CARDINAL QUESTION"
Throughout our history, at one critical
turning point after another, the question
on which the nation's future turned was
the relationship between the States and
the central government. Woodrow Wil-
son properly described it as "the cardinal
question of our constitutional system."
In most cases—in the 1780's and in the
1860's and in the 1930's, for example—
that question was resolved in favor of a
stronger government at the Federal level.
But as President Wilson went on to say,
this question is one which "cannot
be settled by the opinion of any one gen-
eration, because it is a question of growth,
and every successive stage of our political
and economic development gives it a new
aspect, makes it a new question.”
Because America has now reached an-
other new stage of development, we are
asking that "cardinal question" again in
the 1970's. As in the past, this is a mat-
ter beyond party and beyond faction. It is
a matter that summons all of us to join
together in a common quest, considering
not our separate interests but our shared
concerns and values.
To a remarkable degree, Americans are
answering Wilson's cardinal question in
our time by calling on the Federal Gov-
ernment to invest a portion of its tax
revenues in stronger State and local gov-
ernments. A true national consensus is
emerging in support of revenue sharing.
Most other nations with Federal systems
already have it. Most Mayors and Gov-
ernors have endorsed it. So have the cam-
paign platforms of both major political
parties. This is a truly bi-partisan effort.
Revenue sharing is an idea whose time
has clearly come. It provides this Con-
gress with an opportunity to be recorded
as one that met its moment, and answered
the call of history. So let us join together,
and, by putting this idea into action, help
revitalize our Federal system and renew
our nation.
The White House
February 4, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The proposed general revenue sharing
act of 1971 was introduced as H.R. 4187 and
S. 680.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the President's message by Murray L.
121
