Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [255]
influence she must have on her husband
in addition to the influence she had with
us.
I could name many others of the great
leaders. Madame Chiang Kai-shek, who
is one of the great ladies of the world. Or
I think, in another and completely dif-
ferent vein, of Queen Elizabeth, her grace
and poise as she presides as the Queen of
England. I think of the Queen of Thai-
land-people often ask who is the most
beautiful woman whom you have seen as
you have traveled around the world and
here again--I don't want to pick one over
the other, but I have seen none more
beautiful than she is. I was not surprised
that Miss World came from Thailand 3
or 4 years ago. But here is a woman who
has enormous influence on her husband,
the King, who does not have great power
but has great influence because of his posi-
tion and she herself with her grace, her
style, her poise, has an influence on that
country.
Perhaps the strongest leader of our time,
whether we agree with him or not, was
de Gaulle, the last of the great World
War II leaders in Europe. You remember
he died last year, and everybody saw this
great, strong, impressive man, a man who
could talk for an hour without a note and
it would be just as if he had dictated it.
His wife, when you first saw her, was not
impressive. De Gaulle was a huge man,
tall, who walked as a soldier does, and his
wife seemed rather small compared to
him. But his wife, once you talked to her
and knew her, was a woman who came
from the soil of France. She had enormous
spiritual and religious strength and qual-
ities. Anyone who knew de Gaulle knew
that there were very few people who ever
got close to him. He was a man who did
things almost totally alone, but the one
person in all of his life who probably had
the greatest influence on de Gaulle was
Madame de Gaulle, his wife-this quiet
and simple, yet very impressive and intel-
ligent, woman, talking to this great man.
So, I have come full circle, and I come
back to you. You are growing up in a
period when America faces many great
challenges and competition through the
world. America has got to do its best. We
have got to have the best of all of our
people. We cannot afford to have any
group of Americans left out. We cannot
afford to fail to tap the human resources
of this country. We need the men; we need
the women; we need people from all sec-
tions of the country. We can't have the
North fighting the South, the East fight-
ing the West, or the cities fighting the
country.
That is what we need, and above every-
thing else I am convinced that you will
play a role. Some of you may be tempted
to think, "Unless I play a role of spending
my whole time in politics or business, in
other words, unless I become like a
man" and this is what our Women's
Lib people might say "then I really
haven't done my share."
Don't you believe it. There are millions
of women in this country who, without
ever running for office, without ever be-
coming involved in business full time,
have an influence on the country as
homemakers, as wives, and as mothers,
that is perhaps far greater than most of
the men.
Don't ever downgrade that. It is terribly
important, and I just know as I look at
this group that you are going to be fine
Americans in the years ahead. If you run
for office, you are probably going to do
867
