Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 19 [363]
less action on the inflation front, is more,
and that is what we are going to provide.
On that score, let me say, having suc-
ceeded in Phase I, we are now moving to
Phase 2. I have noted that President
Meany has had some things to say about
Phase 2. As a matter of fact, it is a little
hard not to note what he has had to say.
Just to be sure that I didn't misquote him,
I cut it out of the Washington Post. Vice
President Agnew doesn't back this up,
but
nevertheless, this is what it said:
Yesterday, in speaking before your con-
vention, he, as he should do, criticized
Phase 2, criticized the makeup of the Pay
Board and the Price Commission and crit-
icized the Committee on Interest Rates,
and so forth. He has a right to his point of
view. Then he went on to lay down cer-
tain conditions. Then he said, "If the
President of the United States doesn't
want our membership on the Pay Board
on our terms, he knows what he can do."
Well, you know, President Meany is
correct. I know exactly what I can do—
and I am going to do it. I think it is time
that we all understand just where we
stand on this, where we agree and where
we disagree.
I want a program that is fair to all
elements of this society, fair to organized
labor particularly, as I have emphasized,
for the reasons that I have mentioned be-
fore. But as President of all the American
people, it is my duty to do what I think
is best for all the American people. Now
my friends, whatever some of you may
think, a great majority of the American
people, and a majority of union members,
want to stop the rise in the cost of living-
and that's what we are going to do.
In order to stop the rise in the cost of
living, we want the participation of busi-
ness, we want the participation of labor,
we want the participation of consumers,
and all the other areas of the society. We
hope we get it. But whether we get that
participation or not, it is my obligation as
President of the United States to make
this program of stopping the rise in the
cost of living succeed, and, to the extent
that my powers allow it, I shall do exactly
that.
Now my friends, having said that, let
me now point at an area of agreement. It
is a myth that organized labor has no in-
terest and no stake in stopping the rise in
the cost of living. Look at the numbers. I
have read the figures with regard to the
rise in wage increases, the increases from
1965 to 1969. They were significant. In-
cidentally, they were needed.
But do you know that from 1965 to
1969, when American labor was getting
some of its most substantial wage in-
creases, for most American workers in that
period price increases completely ate up
the wage increases?
So, it is in your interest, as well as the
interest of the consumer, to do what we
can to see that when you get a wage in-
crease it is a real increase. That is what I
am trying to do. That is what we are
working for.
Let me say to you: This is not like an
ordinary collective bargaining dispute
when labor wins and management loses.
If we fail in this venture, America will
lose, and all of us will lose.
I say to you, we cannot let that hap-
pen. It means that we must work together.
It means we must speak candidly, as
President Meany has, and I appreciate his
candor and his honesty. But it also means
that what we must try to do is to find a
way that working together within the sys-
tem, fighting it out, we find a way to tem-
per
the rise in the cost of living so that
1123
