[297] Sept 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
nationwide radio and local television.
The president of the Economic Club of De-
troit was Russel A. Swaney.
Members of the panel were:
A. H. AYMOND, chairman of the board, Con-
sumers Power Company
VIRGIL E. BOYD, vice chairman of the board,
Chrysler Corporation; chairman, Auto
Manufacturers Association
H. B. CUNNINGHAM, chairman and chief execu-
tive officer, S. S. Kresge Company
CARL A. GERSTACKER, chairman of the board,
Dow Chemical Company
ROBERT F. HASTINGS, chairman of the board
and chief executive officer, Smith, Hinch-
man, and Grylls Association, Inc.
DWIGHT HAVENS, president, Greater Detroit
Chamber of Commerce
FRANCIS A. KORNEGAY, executive director, De-
troit Urban League
DEAN E. RICHARDSON, president, Manufac-
turer's National Bank of Detroit; chair-
man, Detroit Clearing House Association.
STANLEY J. WINKELMAN, president, Winkel-
man Stores, Inc.
CHARLES G. YOUNGLOVE, director, District 29,
United Steel Workers of America, AFL-
CIO
298 Statement on the Death of Former Associate Justice
Hugo L. Black. September 25, 1971
JUSTICE Hugo L. Black brought to the
Supreme Court a mind that was bril-
liantly lucid and a character that was
earnest and strong.
Justice Black believed that the primary
responsibility of the judiciary was that
"of giving force and effect to Constitu-
tional liberties." In his judicial life he
did exactly that—with such independ-
ence, tenacity, and total integrity of
mind that his imprint on the Constitution
and on our Nation will be indelible.
His faith in the United States Constitu-
tion was absolute, and so his convictions
were rooted absolutely.
Mrs. Nixon and I join the Nation in
mourning at the death of this noble
American.
NOTE: Justice Black, 85, died of complications
following a stroke in Bethesda Naval Hospital.
He had served on the Court from 1937 until
his retirement in 1971.
The statement was released at Kalispell,
Mont.
On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11620 ordering the flag to be
flown at half-staff as a mark of respect to the
memory of Justice Black.
The President attended funeral services for
Justice Black at the Washington Cathedral on
September 28.
299 Remarks on Arrival at Kalispell, Montana.
September 25, 1971
I WANTED to take this opportunity, as
we arrive here, to say just a few words.
of greeting to all of you because it will
not be possible for me to do what both
Mrs. Nixon and I would particularly like
to do, and that is to greet every one of
you personally.
In coming before you, I first want you
to know that because this platform is so
small, we could only get the men on the
platform. Women's Lib, please don't give
us any trouble.
I am very proud to be here in Montana,
and I will introduce these people. You
980
