[182] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
our relations with the Soviet Union. Here,
the announcement that I made last week
deliberately was brief. I will not expand
on it now, because that would not be in
the interest of achieving the goal that the
announcement set forth. Suffice it to say
that now at the highest level of the two
super powers, the Soviet Union and the
United States, the leaders have com-
mitted themselves to taking a first, very
significant step toward limiting both de-
fensive and offensive nuclear weapons.
That commitment, having been taken
publicly, thereby gives us at this period-
since it was committed publicly in terms
of attempting to achieve it and hoping to
achieve it this year-it gives us an idea as
to what could develop from now on out
between the two super powers.
Again, it does not guarantee that be-
cause the two super powers may agree that
their mutual interest will be served by a
limitation, on the one hand, on our part
of defensive weapons and a limitation on
the part of the Soviet Union as far as
offensive weapons are concerned, that the
two powers are not going to have other
differences.
It does not guarantee that they will
agree on everything else, that they will
agree on the Mideast, that they will agree
on East-West relations insofar as Europe
is concerned, et cetera. But the fact that
this step is being taken in the field of
negotiation is enormously significant sim-
ply because it has happened.
The announcement is significant; the
commitment on the part of the leaders is
significant; but even more important, if
that commitment can become a reality-
and it will take hard negotiating on the
part of both sides to bring that reality into
being-but if that can become a reality,
then the two super powers, not by rhetoric,
and we have had cool rhetoric ever since
this Administration came into Washing-
ton, but in deeds the two super powers
will have entered into a new period of
better relations.
You can see what that would mean in
contributing to the peace of the world,
because wherever the two super powers
rub against each other, whether it is in
the Mideast or whether it is in the Carib-
bean or whether it happens to be tan-
gentially in a place like Vietnam, where
it is tangential as far as the Soviet is con-
cerned, but nevertheless real, or whether
it is where the blue chip is involved in
the heart of Europe, all of this, of course,
potentially carries within it the danger of
conflict at the very highest level. And so
making movement toward reducing or
limiting arms, making this kind of step
indicates and gives us at least some hope
that a different relationship between the
two powers will, on a step-by-step basis,
develop in the years ahead.
A few weeks ago you all, of course,
covered in your newspapers, on your tele-
vision and radio programs, the develop-
ments with regard to China, Mainland
China.
In a recent press conference, you may
recall that I said that-when asked about
what this meant-I said we must realize
that what happened was significant; not
simply the visit of the table tennis team,
that had some significance and, of course,
great interest because of its rather bizarre
character as far as we were concerned.
But because in the field of travel and in
the field of trade, in the field of exchange
of persons and in the field of trade, to put
it more precisely, we see a very significant
change occurring for the first time since
the Government which presently is in
power in Mainland China-the People's
666
