[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Preventing the Spread of Nuclear
Weapons. The worldwide reach of scien-
tific knowledge enables virtually any na-
tion in time to acquire nuclear weapons.
Last year, the United States ratified the
treaty to halt further proliferation of
nuclear weapons. More than 100 nations
have either signed or ratified this treaty,
and negotiations to implement its verifi-
cation procedures are in progress. If all
nations act on its principles and abide by
its obligations, the incentive for any addi-
tional nation to acquire nuclear arms will
recede.
Preserving Peace in New Frontiers.
Modern technology has opened up the
vistas of outer space and the ocean depths
for mankind's benefit. But it has created
as well the temptation to exploit these
new environments for military gain. We
and other nations have acted to prohibit
nuclear weapons in outer space. This Ad-
ministration took the initiative to negoti-
ate a treaty banning weapons of mass
destruction from the seabeds. The United
Nations overwhelmingly approved the
treaty this fall, and I will soon submit it
to the Senate.
Curbing Biological and Chemical
Threats. Modern science has spawned the
most deadly means of biological and
chemical warfare. This Administration
has moved on several fronts to reduce this
threat:
-The United States renounced all use
of biological and toxin weapons and
first use of lethal and incapacitating
chemical weapons. Our biological
and toxin research will be confined to
small programs solely for defensive
purposes. I have approved a plan to
destroy stockpiles of these agents and
associated munitions. We announced
the conversion of one major biologi-
cal facility to the investigation of the
health effects of certain chemicals.
On August 19, 1970, I submitted to
the Senate the 1925 Geneva Protocol
banning the use in warfare of chemi-
cal and biological weapons. If rati-
fied, the United States would join 95
other nations, including all the major
powers, in supporting this treaty.
-In the Conference of the Committee
on Disarmament in Geneva, we will
urge further international control
over the biological and chemical
means of war.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION TALKS (SALT)
The most important area in which
progress is yet to be made is the limitation
of strategic arms. Perhaps for the first
time, the evolving strategic balance al-
lows a Soviet-American agreement which
yields no unilateral advantages. The fact
we have begun to discuss strategic arms
with the USSR is in itself important.
Agreement in such a vital area could
create a new commitment to stability, and
influence attitudes toward other issues.
A New Method of Preparation. In pre-
vious arms control negotiations our usual
practice was to develop a single proposal,
based on what would command a con-
sensus among diverse views in the bu-
reaucracy. This frequently led to rigidity
in the negotiations; unless the other side
adopted an almost identical stance, the
talks deadlocked. Time and energies were
then consumed in re-negotiating a posi-
tion within our government.
I concluded that we needed a new
approach to give us a firmer grasp of
the issues, to provide maximum flexibility
in negotiations, and to speed up the over-
all negotiating process. Because flexibility
320
