[394] Dec. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
its stormy, wintry aspects, a feature of this
island is its human climate of goodness and
mutual understanding. It is full of a passionate
wish to help others, of an unbounded yearning
to better life, a yearning nourished by a stub-
born hope and expressed in patient and honest
work.
We have, very close to here, the anti-cyclone
center. I know nothing about meteorology, but
the word does convey to me that, were it not
for the currents which brake the whirlwinds
built up in the same direction as the rotation
of the earth, we would lay open to much more
frequent catastrophes. Nature has created the
normal movement, but it has also foreseen a
remedy to its excesses.
Allow me, Mr. Presidents and gentlemen,
to give now a thought to all the men scattered
throughout the world whose destinies lie in the
hands of those who have been assigned to heavy
responsibilities of governing, and to wish, on
this island of Jesus Christ, that mankind be
still in time to hear the resonances of the
Christian message.
I toast to the health of the President of the
United States of America and of the President
of the French Republic. I toast to the peoples
they represent. And I toast to the success of the
talks which have started today.
Following Prime Minister Caetano's remarks,
President Pompidou spoke in French. A trans-
lation follows:
Mr. President:
Thank you for your kind words and for the
warm welcome extended to us by the Govern-
ment of Portugal and the people of Terceira.
Well do we know your country's hospitality, but
this evening, after a full day's work in the
midst of these natural surroundings that civili-
zation has not destroyed but made even more
beautiful, I sense particularly strongly all that
these islands-the ocean itself-mean for a
European and a Frenchman. Perhaps it is the
invisible presence of three continents which
makes us feel the full pressure of the universe
we live in.
The Azores, which belong to the old conti-
nent because geologically they are this side of
the mid-Atlantic ridge, are really the extreme
tip of Portugal itself. For many years they were
the westernmost outpost of our civilization, at
a time the great Portuguese sailors were ever
carrying further afield the frontiers of Europe.
The ancestors of those who peopled these
islands came from the various nations of
Europe, and even the variety of the scenery
reflects the different lands of our continent.
But we cannot talk of the Europe of the past
without mentioning the Europe which is in the
making and which we know you are ready
to take part in. Once the European Com-
munity felt strong enough to expand, you
saw clearly that you should establish spe-
cial ties with it-which is also our view-
and thus important negotiations have started
in Brussels. It is France's wish, in keep-
ing with her philosophy at the Hague
Conference, that they should succeed and that
an agreement be reached which, while taking
into account the specific features of the Por-
tuguese economy, will bring your country both
immediate benefits and the future prospects
which it is entitled to expect from an arrange-
ment designed to bring its economy gradually
closer to that of the Common Market countries.
May I add that in the Azores, where we are
meeting, traditions still reflect memories of
France. French sailors were at one time at-
tracted to the idea of settling in these beautiful
islands, and although I have not been able to
check this myself, I understand that their in-
fluence lingers on in certain aspects of local
pronunciation. In any case, these island dis-
tricts of Portugal fully contribute to the ties of
all kinds which unite our two countries. First
and foremost I should mention the cultural
exchanges which through the centuries have
never ceased to make the Franco-Portuguese
relationship a particularly intimate one-and
all the stronger because it is based not only on
historical circumstances but even more on the
preestablished harmonies which spring from
the two countries' common Latin origin.
Today, this profound mutual understanding,
which is based on far more than interest, facili-
tates extensive exchanges among people, and in
so doing becomes even stronger. Despite in-
evitable difficulties which we solve together,
the immigration of numbers of your compatriots
to France has contributed, especially in recent
1188
