Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 9 [287]
To be a healthy nation, a strong nation,
we need also to restore the health of our
government institutions.
That is why I again urge the Congress
to act in this session on the sweeping re-
organization of the executive branch
which I proposed, in order to make it more
efficient, more manageable, more respon-
sive to the needs and wishes of the people.
That is why I again urge the Congress
to act in this session on the far-reaching
proposals of revenue sharing which I have
proposed, to help revitalize our State and
local governments and to ease the crush-
ing rise in the burden of property taxes in
this country.
And that is why I again urge the Con-
gress to act in this session on welfare
reform. Let us bring under control a sys-
tem that has become a suffocating burden
on State and local taxpayers and a mas-
sive outrage against the people it was de-
signed to help. Let us get rid of a system
where going on welfare is more profitable
than going to work.
The postponements that I have recom-
mended in the funding of these programs
have been made necessary by past legisla-
tive delays. Let us make sure that there
will be no further delays.
All of these programs-all of our new
economic programs that I have described
today--will mean nothing, however, un-
less the American spirit is strong and
healthy, the spirit of our people across this
land.
In recent weeks I have traveled back
and forth across this country-in Maine
and New Hampshire, New York, Idaho,
Wyoming, California, Texas, Ohio,
Illinois—and I can say with confidence
that on the farms and in the cities, in the
towns and the factories throughout this
Nation the spirit of the American people
is strong. It is healthy.
A strong and healthy spirit means a
willingness to sacrifice, and Americans
are willing to sacrifice, when a short-term
personal sacrifice is needed in the long-
term public interest.
A strong and healthy spirit means a
willingness to work.
Hard work is what made America great.
There could be no more dangerous delu-
sion than the notion that we can maintain
the standard of living that our own people
sometimes complain about, but the rest
of the world envies, without continuing
to work hard. The "good life" is not the
lazy life or the empty life or the life that
consumes without producing. The "good
life" is the active, productive, working
life-the life that gives as well as gets.
No work is demeaning or beneath a
person's dignity if it provides food for his
table and clothes and shelter for his
children. The thing that is demeaning is
for a man to refuse work and then to ask
someone else who works to pay taxes to
keep him on welfare.
Let us recognize once and for all in
America that any work is preferable to
welfare.
A strong and healthy spirit means hav-
ing a sense of destiny.
As we look ahead 5, 10, 20 years, what
do we see?
We could see an America grown old
and weary, past its prime, in its declining
years. Or, we could see an America proud
and strong, as vigorous in its maturity as
it was in its youth.
We hold the future in our hands.
We have consulted our fears too much.
943
