[108] Mar. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
dressing in this message as I outline a new
Special Revenue Sharing Program for
Transportation.
GROWING TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
AND GROWING PROBLEMS
As the demand for mobility has mush-
roomed and as new means of transporta-
tion have been invented in recent years,
the size of our transportation system has
reached staggering proportions. It has
been less than 70 years, for example,
since the Wright brothers flew at Kitty
Hawk. In that time, our aviation system
has grown to the point that last year it
served over 173
million commercial
pas-
sengers and handled more than 4 billion
ton miles of air freight. An open field with
a wind sock was a sufficient airport for
most communities only a few decades
ago.
Today many airports are cities in them-
selves and air traffic is controlled by highly
sophisticated electronic systems.
At the turn of the century there were
only 8,000 automobiles in America. By
1920 nearly 8 million cars traveled our
highways and today we have more than
100 million registered vehicles which tra-
vel over one trillion miles annually. The
people of our Nation are driving more
than twice as many automobiles as they
did just 20 years ago.
These two technological develop-
ments-the airplane and the automo-
bile give dramatic evidence of both the
successes and the failures of American
transportation. The automobile and the
airplane are mechanized masterpieces.
The highways and airports which they use
are often glowing displays of America's
engineering genius. But behind the mys-
tique of jet travel and the convenience
of the family car lie serious problems that
have been growing more acute in recent
years.
The airplane means fast travel over
great distances, to be sure. But it also can
mean harmful noise and air pollution,
congested terminals, misplaced luggage
and airports that are difficult to reach.
Highways that speed motorists between
cities can become long and narrow park-
ing lots where cars are stalled for hours
within urban areas. It often takes longer
to move by "horseless carriage" across
our major cities today than it did by horse-
drawn carriage a century ago. Efforts to
improve this situation by building new
highways often have the effect of destroy-
ing neighborhoods and disrupting lives.
It is estimated, moreover, that automobiles
are responsible for almost half of our air
pollution-a growing problem that is
slowly choking our central cities.
And there is another serious problem,
as well. For with our heavy investment
in automobiles and air transportation has
come a sharp decline in rail passenger
service and in public mass transit systems.
The first electric streetcar lines and the
first subway appeared at about the same
time as the automobile and, like the auto-
mobile, they grew in popularity during
the first quarter of this century. In 1905,
local urban transit systems carried 5 bil-
lion passengers. By 1926, ridership had
more than trebled, but that was the peak
of mass transit's popularity-except for a
brief period during World War II. After
1945, public transit ridership, revenue
and service declined steadily. In 1950,
there were still some 1,400 urban transit
companies operating 87,000 vehicles and
carrying 17.25 billion passengers. By
1970, however, there were 327 fewer com-
panies and 25,500 fewer vehicles carry-
ing only 7.3 billion passengers.
440
