[189] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
do not question the sincerity of the mem-
bers of the Commission. I do not think
they should question the sincerity of the
great majority of the American people
on this issue, particularly in view of the
great progress that has been made.
With regard to the housing question, I
should point out that the Supreme Court
has spoken out on that issue in two recent
cases, the Lackawanna case and the Cali-
fornia case.³ As a result of those two cases,
it is now possible for us to issue a com-
prehensive statement on housing which
will be in compliance with the Supreme
Court cases.
The Attorney General and the Secre-
tary of HUD are completing their mem-
oranda. They will be submitted to me
later this week. The statement will be is-
sued the first of next week. It will set forth
this Administration's position on the hous-
ing question, which will be in complete
compliance with the law, as interpreted
by the Supreme Court.
FURTHER QUESTIONS ON POLICE ACTION
[13] Q. Mr. President, regarding the
mass arrests, I wonder-you seem to have
thought that closing down the Govern-
ment-keeping it running, in other words,
was so important that some methods such
as suspending constitutional rights was
justified.
Was it that important? Do you think
it was?
THE PRESIDENT. I think when you talk
about suspending constitutional rights
that this is really an exaggeration of what
was done. What we were talking about
Kennedy Park Homes Association v. City
of Lackawanna, N.Y. (401 U.S. 1010) and
James v. Valtierra (402 U.S. 137).
here basically was a situation where
masses of individuals did attempt to block
traffic, did attempt to stop the Govern-
ment. They said in advance that is what
they were going to do. They tried it, and
they had to be stopped. They were
stopped without injuries of any signifi-
cance. They were stopped, I think, with a
minimum amount of force and with a
great deal of patience.
And I must say that I think the police
showed a great deal more concern for
their rights than they showed for the rights
of the people of Washington.
Q. Mr. President, as pretty much ex-
pected, if I may follow up, if that is true,
then why are the courts releasing so
many of the cases and so many of the peo-
ple that have been arrested? If they were
lawfully and properly arrested, why are
the courts letting them out?
THE PRESIDENT. Because, of course,
Mr. terHorst [J. F. terHorst, Detroit
News, North American Newspaper Alli-
ance], as you know, that arrest does not
mean that an individual is guilty. The
whole constitutional system is one that
provides that after arrest an individual
has an opportunity for a trial. And in the
event that the evidence is not presented
which will convict him, he is released. I
think that proves the very point that we
have made.
Q. Mr. President, but they are not be-
ing released on the grounds that guilt
hasn't been proved. They are being re-
leased on the grounds that they weren't
properly arrested.
THE PRESIDENT. It seems to me that
when we look at this whole situation that
we have to look at it in terms of what the
police were confronted with when those
who contended they were demonstrators,
694
