[92] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
States and localities to spend scarce rev-
enues on "matching shares," urgent com-
munity priorities aside, or risk the loss of
Federal funds. Once begun, a Federal
project may demand additional local
spending, beyond the matching money,
for support facilities to tie the project
into community usefulness.
Flawed Accountability: The quasi-gov-
ernmental agencies which often exercise
a determining influence on the conduct
of these programs tend to obscure and
fragment responsibility for decisions made
and therefore to subvert the democratic
accountability of elected officials. Re-
gional commissions, comprised of a Fed-
eral Co-chairman and Governors from
member States, take part in many pro-
gram and planning decisions which really
affect only one Governor's State. Too
often the Federal officials responsible for
rural assistance are geographically dis-
tant, and the local, State or multi-State
institutions that have a say are politically
insulated or remote.
THE STATEWIDE Development Plan
Special Revenue Sharing for Rural
Community Development would be ad-
ministered initially by the Secretary of
Agriculture; eventually both this program
and the urban community development
program would come under the direction
of the Department of Community Devel-
opment whose formation I have proposed.
In addition to paying out each year's
rural development funds to the States and
territories, the Secretary of Agriculture
would stay abreast of rural development
aspects of the statewide development
plans which each Governor would file
with him annually.
The statewide planning process which
would help States and localities coordi-
nate activities carried on under both
urban and rural community development
revenue sharing will be established in leg-
islation that I will submit shortly. It would
require annual preparation of a compre-
hensive statewide development plan out-
lining spending intentions for programs in
metropolitan, suburban, smaller city, and
rural areas alike. The $100 million Plan-
ning and Management Assistance pro-
gram which I proposed in my message to
the Congress on Urban Community De-
velopment Revenue Sharing would pro-
vide funds which States and local
jurisdictions could use in this planning
process.
The Governor of each State would be
given the responsibility for drawing up
the statewide development plan. Forma-
tion of the plan would be based on a con-
sultative process which considers plans
submitted by State-established, multi-
jurisdictional planning districts covering
all areas of the State. Planning bodies of
these districts would be composed of local
elected officials. One member from each
of the district planning bodies would sit
on a panel which would assist the Gov-
ernor in the planning process. The Sec-
retaries of Housing and Urban
Development and Agriculture could ac-
cept an alternative consultative process
proposed by the State.
The completed plan would be filed with
the Secretaries of Agriculture and of
Housing and Urban Development-not
for their approval, but as a declaration of
intent; a Governor could amend his plan
by letter during the course of a year.
The process of developing the statewide
plan would focus official concern and
414
