[39] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
provide for needs occasioned by changes
in existing programs. If the Congress did
not make any changes within the 90-day
period, the Commission's proposed au-
thorizations would take effect.
By establishing eminent Qualifications
Boards, composed of highly respected
professionals, to review the qualifications
of all persons proposed for entry into
career positions, this legislation would
ensure the continued high quality of
Federal career executives and enhance
the prestige associated with executive
service in the Federal Government.
By differentiating clearly, for appoint-
ment and retention purposes, between ex-
ecutives who make the Federal service
their career and those appointed for brief
periods, it would preserve the integrity of
the career service.
By providing for renewable, fixed-term
agreements for career executives, it would
give agency heads the flexibility needed to
use their high-level personnel most effec-
tively in meeting the changing demands
made on the Federal Government.
By giving him access to positions of high
responsibility without jeopardizing his
career rights, it would enlarge the hori-
zons of the individual career executive.
One of the many faults of the present sys-
tem is that it results too often in bunching
non-career officials at the top, with career
officials relegated to lower positions. This
new proposal would strengthen executive
development programs and reduce the
present obstacles to executive mobility.
By providing for an annual assessment
of executive manpower requirements in
relation to program activity in each
agency, it would make it possible to re-
spond promptly to changing needs and to
eliminate wasteful overstaffing of low-
priority programs.
In addition, it would give the Congress
annually a comprehensive overview of
Federal executive manpower programs
and policies, an indispensable measure for
ensuring the exercise of Congressional re-
sponsibilities in monitoring the use of this
manpower resource in partnership with
the executive branch.
The Federal Executive Service pro-
posal has been designed to ensure against
an increase in the partisan political com-
ponent of the executive group. It is to this
end that I am recommending retention of
the approximate present ratio of career to
non-career executives-a ratio that has
proved an effective one during several
administrations of both political parties.
I feel that it is imperative that we strength-
en the career service and make Govern-
ment careers more rewarding to individ-
uals of high ability. This proposal will
materially serve that end.
The proposed new Federal Executive
Service would result in simplification of
the existing fragmented system. But its
most important result would be to improve
the capacity of the executive branch to
meet the challenges of our democratic sys-
tem. Freed from unnecessary obstacles
and from much red tape, the career ex-
ecutives of the Federal Government
would be better able to realize their
potential, both personally and in terms
of program accomplishment. At the same
time those responsible for agency per-
formance would be given sufficient au-
thority over the selection and use of their
most able manpower to meet their agen-
cies' goals more fully and more efficiently.
The demands upon Government today
are great and pressing. I am convinced
that the Government has attracted, and
will continue to attract, men and women
of the highest caliber. But too often we
106
