Richard Nixon, 1971
May 11 [163]
young people who grow up in the heart
of a city to go to areas like this that are
natural and have all the wildlife, there
must be some magnet, some enticement.
That means that there must be a proper
balance between maintaining the wild-
life, the environment, and all that, and
still having at the same time those areas
of recreation right there that will bring
the young people to the beaches and to
the wildlife preserves.
The Secretary of Interior will describe
our plans in that respect, whereby we hope
not only to provide the transportation but
also the facilities in these areas that will
bring young children from the hearts of
the cities of New York, Newark, and
others right out here to the beaches. Once
they come there for perhaps the reason
that they feel they are going to find a
recreational area such as they would have
in the city, then they will find the wonder
and the beauty of the beaches and the
wildlife preserves.
I finally want to say that this is a
project that has bipartisan support, it is
one that this Administration is providing
leadership for, and that a great deal of
credit certainly should go to the Secretary
of the Interior, who, while he will be
moving his office to Denver in the far
West as an indication of our interest in
the western part of the United States and
our western recreational areas-that this
Gateway East is an indication of the com-
mitment of this Administration, the com-
mitment of the American people, to bring
to the people of this country the parks, the
recreation areas that otherwise a great
majority would never be able to enjoy.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:33 a.m. in
hangar 14 at Newark Airport, Newark, N.J.
He was accompanied on a helicopter tour of
the recreation area by Gov. Nelson A. Rocke-
feller of New York, Gov. William T. Cahill of
New Jersey, Mayor John V. Lindsay of New
York City, and Mayor Kenneth Gibson of
Newark.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the proposed recreation area by Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary, and George B. Hartzog, Jr.,
Director, National Park Service, Department
of the Interior; Governors Rockefeller and
Cahill; and Mayors Lindsay and Gibson.
163 Remarks About a Proposed National Cancer Program.
May 11, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
You will recall that in the State of the
Union Message, I announced a program
of $100 million to find a cure for cancer.
We have made progress in getting the
Congress to approve that program, and
we have no question at all but that Con-
gressional approval will be forthcoming
shortly.
In order to implement the program, the
Secretary of HEW sent to the Congress
today legislation that will set up a pro-
gram, the cancer cure program, in the
National Institutes of Health.
This, however, will differ from other
programs in a very important respect.
This program I have asked be the one
program within the National Institutes of
Health and within the whole health estab-
lishment of the United States that is in-
dependently budgeted and that is directly
responsible to the President of the United
States.
I have assumed this responsibility, have
71-234-7243
629
