Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 19 [145]
the Congress. I consider it our most
urgent legislative proposal. Now, how can
I say that when everybody around this
table will say, "Well, the most urgent pro-
posal from our standpoint is revenue
sharing"?
Let me tell you why it is related. I con-
sider welfare reform the most urgent pro-
posal because if the present welfare system
is allowed to go on unchecked, it will soon
erode the benefits to be gained from reve-
nue sharing and other reforms in other
areas.
The House of Representatives has
recognized this fact, as Congressman Ford
can well tell you when he addresses you
this afternoon, because it has designated
welfare reform as H.R. 1. It is going to be
White House priority number one until
it is enacted.
We in this Administration have urged
welfare reform for 3 years, actually-not
only since I have been in office, because,
as you recall, I discussed it in the 1968
campaign. The country responded, and I
mean the whole country, not just the tax-
payer who sees his money going down the
drain but also many of the welfare
recipients who see their lives going down
the drain.
While we are trying to bring some order
into this chaos at the Federal level, some
of you-and I could name many around
this table—but I know that some of you
particularly have moved on your own at
the State level with the same purpose. I
want especially to commend Governor
Reagan of California, Governor Rocke-
feller of New York, for their efforts in this
area which I have discussed with both of
them in some detail.
What they have done is to bite a bullet.
They have bitten the bullet that the entire
country is going to have to bite if we are
going to bring the financial and, worse,
the human costs of the present welfare
system under control.
To them, and to others around this
table, from other States, who have tried
to bite the bullet of welfare reform in your
own States, I pledge Federal coopera-
tion-cooperation within the existing law
until we get it reformed, but to the extent
the existing law will allow, we will coop-
erate with any State that wants to bite the
bullet of welfare reform to the full extent
that the law allows.
The abuses in this system are not only
unconscionable, they are contagious as
well, as you know. It is a system which not
only destroys the incentive of those who
are on welfare to get off of it but it attacks
the motivation of those who are not on
welfare, the working poor, to stay off.
It is incredible that we have allowed a
system of law under which one person can
be penalized for doing an honest day's
work and another person can be rewarded
for doing nothing at all. It can happen,
and it does happen under the present sys-
tem. The person on welfare can often
have a higher income than his neighbor
who holds a low-paying job. Every Gov-
ernor around this table knows that that
is the case in his State.
Tragically, these situations often exist
right in the same neighborhood, side by
side in the same apartment houses, and
you can see what the effect is. It is entirely
corrosive. It creates bitterness on the part
of the worker, and, in the end, I would
imagine that it creates resignation, and we
end up
with just another person on wel-
fare. "Give up the job. Go on welfare.
Everybody else is at the trough, why not
me?"
At a time when we see all about us the
problems of the disintegration of the
553
