Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 10 [53]
I have been to nations that are not de-
veloped industrially. They have pollution,
too. I have been to the primitive places
of the world, and they have problems of
the environment. And anyone who sug-
gests that the answer to the fact that we
do have pollution-some of it caused by
industry, some for other reasons-that the
answer to that is to destroy the system or
to weaken the system that produced the
greatest progress that the world has ever
seen; those who suggest that simply are
missing the point.
What we have to understand is that in
correcting what is wrong about America
in all fields we must not destroy what is
right. That is why I welcome the oppor-
tunity-having sent a pollution message
to the Congress of the United States,
which has generally received
received very
strong support from all segments of our
society, indicating what government will
do-it is why I welcome the opportunity
to say to the American people through
this meeting that American industry is also
against pollution, that American industry
is bearing a great share of the cost, not
only in time and in effort but in money,
to wage the battle for clean water, clean
air, more open space.
That is the case now. And without your
cooperation, all that government can do
will not be effective.
I am one who is very appreciative of
the fact that over these past few months
when this Council has been meeting that
on your own, on your own initiative across
this country, you are developing programs
even in advance of what the Government
is doing to deal with the problem of
pollution.
I am also aware of the fact from one
who doesn't see much television, but now
and then I catch a few of the football
contests over the end of the year—I am
also aware of the fact that a number of
companies are making very effective use
in their advertising of what they are
doing with regard to the environment.
And this, of course, has an enormously
good effect on the country, to see that
American industry is not the enemy of
the good life. But actually because of what
American industry does, because of what
it is doing, it not only provides jobs and
better incomes and better housing, better
clothing for the American people, but
also that American industry is concerned,
just as concerned as the man in govern-
ment is, about a better life for our child-
ren, a cleaner America, an America in
which we can have the clean air, the clean
water, and the quality of life that we be-
lieve is the American heritage.
And so it is to that commitment that I
know we are all gathered today to serve,
and for that commitment I express
appreciation.
The Government, this Administration,
I can assure you, is not here to beat in-
dustry over the head. We are not here to
make the industrial leaders of this coun-
try, the leaders in this room, make you the
scapegoats for this problem.
We realize this is a problem we must all
work together to solve. We want to work
with you. We appreciate your cooperation.
And, working together, we are going to
do the job.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:20 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Before the presentation of the reports, the
President went to the South Lawn to observe
two planes, one equipped with pollution control
devices and one without, following their take-
off from nearby National Airport in a demon-
147
