[206] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
not just physical but moral and spiritual
and mental-that health will determine
whether peace and freedom survives in
the world.
We have no choice in the matter. And
if you ask yourself the question: If Amer-
ica does not have the role of world leader-
ship, what other nation do you want to
have it?
I should say the world can be fortunate
that America, with its faults—and we
have made many in foreign policy through
our history-with its faults, let's look at
the strengths. We have been in four wars
in this century-World War I, World
War II, Korea, and now Vietnam. We
have made our mistakes, but, to the great
credit of America-and this can be said
proudly and should be said by any Amer-
ican-Americans have fought and died
not for an acre of territory, not to get
domination over any other people, but for
the right of other people to enjoy the free-
dom and the peace that we want, and this
is something we must demand.
And so to the American Medical As-
sociation, representing brains, represent-
ing tremendous competence, representing
also leadership, the best educations that
America can provide, I ask you today to
join, to give a little more of your time than
you have, not only in working for your
profession-that must come first-but also
in serving your country, providing the
leadership that this country craves for in
every community of the Nation.
The health of America is in your hands,
and by its health, I speak not just of its
physical health-its mental health, its
moral health, its character. Meet that
challenge.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. in
the Pennsylvania Room at the Chalfonte-
Haddon Hall Hotel.
Dr. Walter C. Bornemeier was president of
the American Medical Association.
On the same day, the White House released
an advance text of the President's remarks and
a list of the general officers and board of
trustees of the Association.
207 Statement About House Approval of the Welfare
Reform and Social Security Bill. June 22, 1971
TODAY marks a major legislative mile-
stone in the history of welfare reform.
Not only has the House of Representatives
affirmed the principles of reform put for-
ward by the Administration almost 2 years
ago; in its constructive deliberations on
this subject, it has strengthened and ex-
tended these principles. The Members of
the House who supported H.R. 1, and in
particular those on the Ways and Means
Committee, have my personal and sincere
thanks for their careful and responsible
action.
H.R. 1 offers the Nation, at last, a way
out of the present welfare morass. It es-
tablishes strong work requirements and
work incentives. It provides coverage for
the first time for workers whose earnings
are inadequate to support their families,
thus ending an unconscionable discrimi-
nation against millions of hard-working
citizens throughout the Nation. Strong
linkages are forged at every point under
the new system between benefits and jobs
for all employable recipients.
By establishing a national income stand-
ard for families with children, H.R. 1
represents a heartening step forward in
770
