Richard Nixon, 1971
May 22 [179]
without a profound sense of obligation—
to the country, to the world, and to the
future.
As we look back over all the past Presi-
dencies, we also find something else: that
each one who has been President has
recognized, in his turn, that he is the
one who must speak for all the people of
America. A man of one region must speak
for all regions. A man of one party must
strive to see how problems look from the
other party's point of view. A man who
has crusaded for a cause recognizes that
he has a responsibility to those of the op-
posite view, as well as to those who may
agree with him.
One of the most scholarly men ever to
sit in the Senate of the United States was
Albert Beveridge of Indiana. In a speech
in Boston in 1898, he once discussed par-
tisanship in these terms:
"Partisanship," he said, "should only
be a method of patriotism. He who is a
partisan merely for the sake of spoils is a
buccaneer. He who is a partisan merely
for the sake of a party name is a ghost of
the past among living events. He who is
merely the partisan of an ordinary or-
ganization is only a pebble in the sling of
a boss. But he who is the partisan of prin-
ciple is a prince of citizenship."
A partisan of principle-that is what
our political system is all about; that is
what transforms ordinary disputes into
those great debates that illumine for years
to come the issues confronting the Nation,
in which men of principle test their prin-
ciples and the Nation achieves a deeper
understanding of itself. It also is what
holds us together on those great questions
on which our unity has kept us free.
Every President has to be a leader of
his party-and our party system is essen-
tial to our democratic system. But more
and more in today's world, the times re-
quire that a President, and indeed all of
us who help lead the Nation, go beyond
party to be partisans of principle. For in-
creasingly we confront great concerns that
go beyond partisan considerations and
partisan differences-concerns that reach
to the security of our Nation, to our hopes
for peace in the world, to realizing the
American dream here at home in our lives
and those of our children-on these great
goals we must all be partisans of principle.
It has been my privilege, during a quar-
ter-century of public service, to know
many partisans of principle. I think today
especially of those times during the Eisen-
hower Administration, when I was Vice
President and Lyndon Johnson was the
Majority Leader of the United States
Senate. He was a vigorous leader of his
party. But I knew, and President Eisen-
hower often told me, and he knew, that
whenever the great issues of national secu-
rity were concerned, he would always be a
partisan of principle, not a partisan of
party. That is Lyndon Baines Johnson.
And so it is in that same spirit that we
are gathered here today to dedicate this
library, in doing so, to pay tribute to
President Johnson-and to dedicate our-
selves to the proposition, as Senator Albert
Beveridge so eloquently put it so long ago,
that "the partisan of principle is a prince
of citizenship."
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:50 a.m. at
the University of Texas. The ceremony was
broadcast live on radio and television.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
The White House also announced that the
President and Mrs. Nixon had arranged for the
loan of a Thomas Sully portrait of President
Andrew Jackson to President and Mrs. Johnson
657
