[173] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
to all of the children in the school and
to give them a message. I said to him,
"Tell them that as Vice President of the
United States I bring greetings and best
wishes and the spirit of friendship from
all the people of the United States to all
the Chinese people."
He saw the significance of that state-
ment, because thousands of Americans
had been killed in Korea by Chinese
troops. And then he said, "Mr. Vice Pres-
ident, I am deeply grateful for the visit
that you and your wife have paid to our
school, and I will pass this message on."
I can tell you that despite the differ-
ences that presently exist, and have ex-
isted, between governments, that I am
convinced that the time will come when
our two peoples, the Chinese people,
wherever they are, on the mainland or
elsewhere, and the American people, will
again live together in peace and friend-
ship, because he said, "As the visit that you
and Mrs. Nixon have paid to our school
today demonstrates, we are all brothers in
our hearts."
The year 1981 will come. Another Pres-
ident of the United States will be standing
here, perhaps with this podium or an im-
provement. He will be addressing some of
you-oh, perhaps most of you. I am sure
most of you will perhaps attend that con-
vention, and I think of what I would wish
this Nation would be like and what the
world would be like at that time.
Let me put it very simply in this way:
I want to see, and you want to see, the
United States at peace with all nations
in the world, and we will be at peace with
all nations in the world long before 1981.
Beyond that, when that year comes, and
long before it, I want the United States,
through its leadership, to have broken
down the barriers that divide people from
people in the world.
As I have often said, and I am sure you
will agree with this sentiment: I want the
world then, and as soon before then as we
can bring it about, to be one in which our
children can go to any country in the
world so that they can know the people,
whether they are Chinese or Russian, or
whatever country they may be in.
There will always be differences be-
tween governments. There will always be
rivalries between peoples. We are never
going to have a period, of course, in which
those differences will be totally erased. But
we can have the absence of war in the
world. We can have peace in that sense.
Once having achieved that, then we
must go on to a new understanding, a new
understanding between and among peo-
ple. That understanding cannot come
from government. Government can help
by breaking down the barriers. It will only
come as great organizations like the Red
Cross, as far as the United States is con-
cerned, move through the world and dem-
onstrate that we care about other people,
because we care about them as individ-
uals; not because of their wealth, not be-
cause of their power, not because of what
they can do to us or take away from us,
but because we are concerned about them
as individual human beings.
It is that spirit which built the Red
Cross. And so when the year comes, the
year 1881, I confidently hope-in 1981, I
confidently hope I don't think anybody
was here in 1881 [laughter]—when that
year comes, 1981, I confidently hope and
I confidently believe that not only will we
have the United States at peace with all
646
