Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
But second, we want to build a new
economy and a new prosperity which is
not based on war. And third, we want to
have a revolution in this country, of gov-
ernment, to make it more responsive, to
make government work, to make it cost
less. That is why we have revenue sharing
and government reorganization.
We want to reform our welfare system
and all the rest. Now, I believe that if we
can just make some progress on all these
fronts, that the millions of young, idealistic
Americans will take another look at Amer-
ica, and they will say, "Well, maybe this
system isn't hopeless. Maybe it is possible
that it will work. Maybe the United States
is”—which I firmly believe-"the world's
best hope for peace and for freedom."
That is what we are. And once Ameri-
can youth sees that and once they see that
their idealism can be fulfilled within the
system, I think that this enormous frustra-
tion that has torn down can turn into
creative activity that will build up.
That is what I would like to leave when
I leave office, that kind of feeling in
American youth.
THE ECONOMY
[16.] MR. DICKINSON. Mr. President,
the economic activity in the first quarter,
despite the rise in the GNP, apparently did
not measure up to the expectations of your
Administration.
Do you have new measures in mind in
the battle against unemployment and in-
flation, or are you going to stick to the
present game plan?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Dickinson, I have
analyzed those figures pretty closely.
While, as you do point out, it did not
reach the projections of our own economic
target, it was far above the projections of
people like Otto Eckstein, who said $22
billion. We went to $282 billion. But let
me be quite objective about it.
We all know that when we look at that,
what was the gross largest increase in the
GNP in any one quarter in history, that
part of that is due to inflation, part of it is
due to the comeback, the snapback, from
the auto strike.
But why I am optimistic about the econ-
omy has to do with what went into that
figure. Let's look at the real numbers.
Automobile sales: Automobile sales in
the first 10 days of this year, GM, the high-
est on record, the highest in history, in the
first quarter, the highest in about 20 years.
Housing starts: Housing starts in the
first quarter, the highest in 20 years and
the figure just announced today, 1,900,000
in the month of March.
Retail sales: This may not yet be re-
flected in advertising, but it will come. Re-
tail sales: We find that retail sales went
up a big 92 percent. But look at what
that retail sale was. It wasn't just the
Easter bulge, because Easter was late and
it was a cold spring-but it was in those
things that really build an economy for
the future-appliances, home furnishings,
and the rest.
Then to take another number, the stock
market: The stock market, we all think,
is just something for the rich. But there
are 27 million people in the market apart
from those that are in institutions
[laughter]-I understand about I I
months ago a few went into institutions
too!-but when we look at those that are
affected by the market, approximately 60
4 Professor of economics at Harvard
University
547
