Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
rate is costly-in political as well as eco-
nomic terms."
U.S. Foreign Policy For The 1970's
Report to the Congress
February 18, 1970
Material well-being is not the only goal
of men and nations. But it is one of the
bases of a decent life. The tragedy of our
time is that there is not enough of it. For
many members of the human race it is a
matter of survival; for most nations, eco-
nomic advancement and prosperity are
the means of liberating men and societies
from the weight of deprivation and al-
lowing them to realize their full dignity
and destiny.
Economic advancement will never ap-
proach its full potential if pursued solely
within national boundaries. The interde-
pendence of national economies in the
1970's gives all people a major stake in
the effective functioning of the world
economy. Economic relations have thus
become centrally important in interna-
tional affairs. An American policy which
retreated from cooperation, or which
moved toward increasing the barriers to
fair and equitable economic intercourse
among nations, would threaten the foun-
dations of the partnerships which are our
central foreign policy objective.
The United States remains the largest
single national factor in the world econ-
omy. We thus have a strong interest in
minimizing the impediments to interna-
tional economic transactions for domestic
economic reasons as well as for the foreign
policy reasons which are highlighted in
this report.
The year 1970 saw significant develop-
ments in each of the three major areas of
international economic policy-monetary
policy, foreign assistance, and trade:
-It was one of the most tranquil years
for the international monetary sys-
tem in a decade.
-We unveiled a whole new blueprint
for our foreign assistance programs.
-But it also became clear that we and
the rest of the trading world face the
most serious challenge to our trade
relations in the postwar period.
In a world of more than one hundred
nations, and in a field embracing so many
activities and so intimately connected to
both our domestic well-being and our
overall foreign policy, foreign economic
policymaking is extraordinarily complex.
Last month, therefore, I established a
Council on International Economic Pol-
icy which I will chair personally, with the
Secretary of State as vice-chairman, and
which will have a new Assistant to the
President for International Economic
Affairs, Mr. Peter Peterson, as its Execu-
tive Director. This Council will provide
a clear single focus for the full range of
international economic issues at the high-
est level. It will ensure timely considera-
tion of issues, help achieve consistency
between international and domestic eco-
nomic policy and maintain close coordi-
nation with our basic foreign policy
objectives. We have upgraded and stream-
lined our governmental machinery to re-
flect the great importance we attach to
foreign economic policy in the 1970's.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY POLICY
An effective world economy requires an
effective monetary system, for monetary
relations affect all international trans-
actions. The basic objective of our inter-
national monetary policy parallels that of
our overall foreign policy-to work with
293
