Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 21 [149]
Grande and off both coasts, and would
establish new procedures for handling the
river movements that have occasioned dif-
ferences and uncertainties in the past.
Under it there would be assigned to the
United States approximately 2,079 acres
of land about which there has been ques-
tion as to national sovereignty, and to
Mexico about 3,326 acres about which
there has been similar doubt.
The treaty would establish a permanent
maritime boundary in the Gulf of Mex-
ico where, due to migration of the mouth
of the Rio Grande, it has been indefinite
and moving for more than a century, as
well as in the Pacific Ocean. Henceforth,
mariners and potential lessors and lessees
of the seabed would be able to ascertain
precisely the extent of the jurisdiction of
each nation.
The treaty would also provide measures
to avert in the future significant loss of
territory to either country because of the
inevitable movements of the boundary
rivers. The importance of these provisions
is indicated by the fact that in a century
more than 240 tracts have been cut from
one country to the other, effecting a trans-
fer of about 20,800 acres from Mexico to
the United States and about 15,300 acres
from the United States to Mexico, with
the attendant uncertainty about the lo-
cation of the boundary, and the incon-
venience and personal loss to some of
the owners of the land.
The settlement unfortunately will en-
tail loss to the Presidio Valley of Texas
of a considerable part of its irrigable land.
While this land belonged to Mexico in
1852, it has long been occupied and much
of it farmed by American citizens. With
only a limited amount of irrigable land
available, the economic base of the valley
will be adversely affected. Following the
precedent of the Chamizal settlement of
1963, when lands also had to be trans-
ferred to Mexico, I intend to recommend
inclusion in enabling legislation of specific
measures to relieve the people of the valley
of financial loss and assist them in adjust-
ing to the requirements of the settle
ment. This assistance should alleviate the
burden of the settlement which the valley
and its residents are ill-prepared to bear,
and for which they have had no
responsibility.
In the absence of the detailed investi-
gations that can be undertaken only after
ratification of the treaty, the U.S. Section
of the International Boundary and Water
Commission has been able to prepare only
preliminary estimates of the cost of the
works required for implementation of the
treaty. In his report the Secretary of State
presents preliminary estimates totaling
$10,368,000 for the United States share
of the work that should be performed over
the next two years. In addition to nor-
mal maintenance, the treaty would com-
mit the United States to a continuing pro-
gram to restrain the boundary rivers in
their courses and avert loss of territory
through the shifting of sizeable tracts from
one country to the other. This program is
expected to require an average expendi-
ture of not more than $400,000 per year.
The Government of Mexico would, of
course, perform its share of this work, and
the total continuing obligation for both
countries would diminish as the Commis-
sion succeeds in stabilizing the course of
the rivers where shifting seems most
likely.
I believe that the proposed comprehen-
sive boundary settlement admirably re-
flects the mutual respect and understand-
579
