Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 2 [84]
84
Special Message to the Congress on Special Revenue
Sharing for Law Enforcement. March 2, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Many of our State and local govern-
ments today are in serious financial diffi-
culty. This has not diminished the
grow-
ing demands on their financial resources,
however: their needs continue, their
populations increase and their social prob-
lems multiply. All these circumstances
point to the need for outside assistance,
and the Federal Government has tried to
provide such assistance. But in doing so,
it has frequently added to, rather than
reduced, State burdens.
In the past decade, the Federal
Government has turned increasingly to a
complex system of grants for providing
financial assistance to State and local
governments. Today Federal aid pro-
grams account for one-fifth of State and
local revenues. In theory this income.
should reduce the pressure on State and
local budgets and it should free financial
resources at those levels for use at those
levels. In practice the reverse is commonly
the case.
To qualify for Federal grants, States
and local government units are frequently
required to match Federal funding, often
seriously restricting flexibility in the use
of State and local resources. Recipients
are placed in the position of having to ac-
cept Federal money with its concomitant
restrictions on State funds, or receive no
Federal money at all. Thus, we may find
States and local governing units pursuing
projects which may be of low priority to
them simply because money for these
projects is available, but the matching re-
quirements for such grants may have to
be met at the expense of programs of
higher priority to the community.
In other cases, State and local agencies
are required to maintain their financial
commitment to a project in order to
qualify for Federal grants to that project.
The result, again, is diminished flexibility
in the use of financial resources at the
State and local levels.
Equally burdensome are project-by-
project requirements for prior Federal
approval of grants. These requirements
often delay the availability of much
needed funds, generate Federal, as well
as State and local, bureaucratic delay, and
inject needless confusion into the Federal,
State and local relationship. Rigidity in
adhering to exact requirements is re-
warded, and new or imaginative ideas are
frequently lost because they fail to fit
exact bureaucratic guidelines.
Finally, Federal grants have prolif-
erated to such a degree that simply
discovering their availability is a bureau-
cratic chore all in itself. The processes of
application frequently contribute to the
difficulty, and delay the process, of ob-
taining grants to a degree which further
aggravates the problem the money is
designed to assuage. And, because the
Federal Government, with all the best
intentions, cannot really know the needs
of the States and local governing units as
well as the people who govern at those
levels, these grants frequently cannot be
aimed with real precision at the needs
which exist at those levels.
Certain of these difficulties are most
prevalent in the narrowly defined “cate-
gorical grants," and therefore I have long
supported the concept of block grants
which permit State and local governing
units to receive financial assistance on the
375
