Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 19 [145]
145
Remarks at the Republican Governors Conference
April 19, 1971
in Williamsburg, Virginia.
Mr. Vice President, Governor Nunn, Gov-
ernor Holton, all of the other distinguished
Governors, and all of the distinguished
guests who are gathered here in this his-
toric room and this historic city today:
I said to Governor Holton, as we were
riding in from the heliport, that this is the
only State in the Union that I visited twice
in 1 month. I am glad that historic Wil-
liamsburg, here in Virginia, attracts such
distinguished convocations as this one, and
also the one which I addressed previously
on law enforcement and the reform of our
procedures with regard to the enforcement
of law, when I addressed the Judicial Con-
ference here.
Also, the Governor told me that in this
room were, naturally, the Republican
Governors who are gathered around this
U-shaped table. He said that there were
some others who were
were distinguished
guests, including a number of Democrats
from the State legislature.
I want all of you to know today—you
who are Governors, Republicans, and you
who are our guests-that my remarks will
not be partisan, because I happen to be-
lieve that when we talk about such great
problems as reforming government, when
we talk about problems of better govern-
ment, good government, making govern-
ment work, making it cost less, making it
more responsive to the people, that the
problem of good government is not one
that is a Republican problem or a Demo-
cratic problem, and you don't have a Re-
publican solution or a Democratic
solution. The business of good government
is everybody's business. That is what I
want to talk about today.
As I talk about it today, I want to re-
mind those who are the Governors here
that you will recall when we last met in
Washington, in February, the whole Re-
publican Governors Conference was
there, joined, of course, with all from the
Democratic Governors' Conference. In
other words, the National Governors'
Conference was meeting.
I spoke then about revenue sharing, and
I found that after that particular Con-
ference that we had very strong support
for those proposals.
Since that time, there has been some
progress. Every one of the six legisla-
tive proposals for special revenue sharing
have now been submitted to the Congress.
Of course, the general revenue sharing
proposal has also been submitted to the
Congress. And now, of course, you
course, you wonder
how is it coming? What is going to hap-
pen? Are we going to get some action?
I know you have been reading reports,
pessimistic reports in some instances, and
perhaps ones not quite so pessimistic,
about what the Congress may do with
regard to these historic reforms of govern-
ment in the field of revenue sharing, both
general and special.
I expressed optimism in February with
regard to what the Congress would do. I
am more optimistic now. I want to tell
you why. I am more optimistic because I
have found, since February, in meeting
with Governors, with mayors, with county
officials, and people from all walks of life,
that an overwhelming majority of the
Governors of this country, whether they
are Democrat or Republican, are for reve-
nue sharing. An overwhelming majority
551
