Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 11 [93]
America than Virginia. And it is appro-
priate that we meet in Virginia,
Governor Holton.
Also, I would like to express my ap-
preciation to Mr. Justice Clark for his
very generous comments.
I remember him during the period
when I served as Vice President and prior
to that time as a Congressman and Sena-
tor, when he was first Attorney General
and then served as a member of the
Supreme Court of the United States.
This Nation owes him a very great debt
of gratitude for his splendid work in both
of those positions.
And I think, too, that he has set an
example, an example that he referred
rather facetiously to when he pointed out
that he had been introduced as the late
Mr. Justice Clark. Let me say that if all
men who retire could do as much as he is
now doing for his profession, this country
would be a much better place in which to
live.
Just so I am not misinterpreted, I am
not suggesting that anybody else retire
from the Supreme Court.
My remarks today will be to this
sophisticated group, I am sure, somewhat
routine, routine in the sense that you have
thought of most of the things that I will
refer to.
But I do want you to know that I had
some consultation, consultation not this
time with the Senate, although I greatly
respect the Senate, particularly when
Senators are present, but consultation with
the Chief Justice and the Attorney Gen-
eral. I hold them not responsible for any-
thing that I say, but I did let them read
my remarks, and they made some very
good suggestions.
And I would begin simply by saying
that as one who has practiced law, as one
who deeply believes in the rule of law,
as one who now holds the responsibility
for faithful execution of the laws of the
United States, I am honored to give the
opening address to this National Confer-
ence on the Judiciary.
It is fitting, as I have already indicated,
that we should meet here at Williamsburg.
Like this place, your meeting is historic.
Never in the history of this Nation has
there been such a gathering of distin-
guished men of the judicial systems of our
States. And I salute you all for your will-
ingness to come to grips with the need for
court reform and for modernization. And
I would like to salute especially the man
who has been the driving force for court
reform; he is a man whose zeal for reshap-
ing the judicial system to the need of the
times carries on the great tradition begun
by Chief Justice John Marshall-the
Chief Justice of the United States, Warren
Burger.
I recall that when I took my second bar
examination incidentally, I passed the
first time in California, but my second one
was in New York when I moved there a
few years ago—I had to write an essay on
our system of government, and I dwelt on
the wisdom of the separation of powers.
My presence here today indicates in no
way an erosion of that concept; as a mat-
ter of fact, I have come under precedents
established by George Washington and
John Adams, who both spoke out on the
need for judicial reform. And President
Lincoln, just 100 years ago, a little over
100 years ago, in his first annual message
to the Congress, made an observation that
is strikingly current-listen to what he
said: "the country generally has outgrown
our present judiciary system."
There is also a Lincoln story-an au-
thentic one-that illustrates the relation-
417
