Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
a plan, no matter how attractive it might
seem to him, when deductions from his
paycheck-along with contributions from
his employer-are being used to purchase
another health insurance policy.
The fourth deficiency we must correct
in present insurance coverage is its failure
to help the poor gain sufficient access to
our medical system. Just one index of this
failure is the fact that fifty percent of poor
children are not even immunized against
common childhood diseases. The disabil-
ity rate for families below the poverty line
is at least 50 percent higher than for fam-
ilies with incomes above $10,000.
Those who need care most often get
care least. And even when the
poor do
get service, it is often second rate. A
vicious cycle is thus reinforced-poverty
breeds illness and illness breeds greater
poverty. This situation will be corrected.
only when the poor have sufficient pur-
chasing power to enter the medical mar-
ketplace on equal terms with those who
are more affluent.
Our National Health Insurance Part-
nership is designed to correct these
inadequacies-not by destroying
present insurance system but by improv-
ing it. Rather than giving up on a system
which has been developing impressively,
we should work to bring about further
growth which will fill in the gaps we have
identified. To this end, I am recommend-
ing the following combination of public
and private efforts.
1. I am proposing that a National
Health Insurance Standards Act be
adopted which will require employers to
provide basic health insurance coverage
for their employees.
In the past, we have taken similar ac-
tions to assure workers a minimum wage,
to provide them with disability and re-
tirement benefits, and to set occupational
health and safety standards. Now we
should go one step further and guarantee
that all workers will receive adequate
health insurance protection.
The minimum program we would re-
quire under this law would pay for hos-
pital services, for physicians' services-
both in the hospital and outside of it, for
full maternity care, well-baby care (in-
cluding immunizations), laboratory serv-
ices and certain other medical expenses.
To protect against catastrophic costs, ben-
efits would have to include not less than
$50,000 in coverage for each family mem-
ber during the life of the policy contract.
The minimum package would include
certain deductible and coinsurance fea-
tures. As an alternative to paying sepa-
rate fees for separate services, workers
could use this program to purchase mem-
bership in a Health Maintenance
Organization.
The Federal Government would pay
nothing for this program; the costs would
be shared by employers and employees,
much as they are today under most collec-
tive bargaining agreements. A ceiling on
how much employees could be asked to
contribute would be set at 35 percent dur-
ing the first two and one-half years of
operation and 25 percent thereafter. To
give each employer time to plan for this
additional cost of doing business-a cost
which would be shared, of course, by all
of his competitors-this program would
not go into effect until July 1, 1973. This
schedule would also allow time for ex-
panding and reorganizing our health sys-
tem to handle the new requirements.
As the number of enrollees rises under
this plan, the costs per enrollee can be
expected to fall. The fact that employers
and unions will have an even higher stake
183
