Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 3 [282]
think of the brave men, and we also think
of brave women. I speak particularly of
the wives and the mothers of some of our
prisoners of war and those missing in ac-
tion in Vietnam, who are here today.
Let me say that we should all dedicate
ourselves to secure the release of their
husbands and of their sons, and then to
build a lasting peace so that their sons will
not have to fight in a war in the future.
This is the goal that we have.
But at this moment, let us be proud
that America could produce such brave
men, and let us be proud, also, that
America could produce such brave
women-the wives and mothers of these
men who are represented here today in
this audience.
On such an occasion as this, we nat-
urally tend to think more of the past than
of the future. But I think it is well that we
look to the future as we examine the past.
As we examine the past, what we find is
that America has been first in aviation,
first in the exploration of space, and the
exploration of the air. That has been true
since the year 1903.
What we must recognize as we look
to the future is that that position of world
leadership is now being challenged. It is
being challenged in the air. It is being
challenged also in many other areas.
I would like to address myself, for a
moment, to that challenge and what it
means; and to address myself to that chal-
lenge not in terms of fear, but in terms of
opportunity and in terms of hope, as all
Americans should respond to a challenge.
Immediately after World War II, the
United States, in an economic sense, was
the unchallenged leader of the world.
Seven percent of the world's people pro-
duced over 50 percent of the world's
goods, and not one nation in the world.
could even attempt to challenge us in any
significant field, including aviation.
In the 25 years since that time, largely
as a result of the generosity of the United
States and we should be proud of that
record those who were our allies, and
even those who were our enemies in that
war, have gotten on their feet econom-
ically, and now they are our competitors.
They challenge us in all areas. They chal-
lenge us in aviation. I was, for example,
interested to note accounts of the recent
air show in Paris and stories to the effect
that there were other nations that could
well be ahead of the United States at this
time in terms of the development of
manned aircraft.
So now the question arises, what should
be the reaction of the United States? This
is the reaction I believe we should have:
We should welcome competition, welcome
competition from those who are willing to
make the sacrifice and who have the drive
and the ambition, as we have the drive
and the ambition, to develop in any area
the excellence which we want to achieve.
But we must insist that that competition
be fair. The time when the United States
had to, in the interest of building a more
peaceful world, help other nations so that
they could compete is now past. They are
our competitors, and consequently, as I
pointed out in my speech to the Nation
on August 15, the United States, from now
is not going to compete with one hand
tied behind its back.
on,
But there is another side to that coin.
There are some among us, I suppose, who
would say, "What difference does it make
whether the United States is number one
or tries to be number one?" And there is
an answer to that. We cannot expect to be
number one in all areas, but we must try
in every area, because we must never for-
71-234-72- -62
925
