[346] Nov. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
world, and for the country that he repre-
sents. I could speak tonight of the fact
that the United States and Australia are
joined together in a number of commit-
ments and particularly the ANZUS com-
mitment, a treaty which was made shortly
after World War II and one which was
reiterated on our part and on their part
just a year ago.
But a treaty can have different mean-
ings. All treaties must be honored, as the
United States will always honor its treat-
ies. But this treaty with Australia goes far
beyond simply that piece of paper, that
contractual agreement which nations must
honor if they are to keep their interna-
tional commitments.
I think it could truly be said that there
are no two great nations in the world that
are further apart geographically than
Australia and the United States. It also
could truly be said that there are no two
nations in the world that are closer to-
gether in the values they share and in the
spirit with which they will defend those
values than Australia and the United
States.
We know this. We know it from World
War I and World War II and Korea and
now in Vietnam. We know it not only in
war but as we work together for peace.
And as we think of those values, so many
of us in this room-and the guest list,
Mr. Prime Minister, as you might imagine,
was selected because so many know your
country, have been there, and love your
country and your people, as all who have
been there do love it--as we think of your
country, we think in personal terms. I re-
member the first Australian I ever met.
It was in World War II. I arrived at Hen-
derson Field, Guadalcanal. I was in the
Navy. The Marine Corps was there ahead
of us. The Navy brought them in.
[Laughter]
I remember that evening, my first day
in Henderson Field, talking to a Marine
sergeant and what a strong and brave man
he was and what he had been through.
And I said to him with some awe, "You
fellows must be the bravest men in the
world."
He said, "No. Do you know who are?"
I said, "Who?" He said, "The coast
watchers." "Who are they?" I asked.
"Wait and you will meet them.”
My next stop up the line in the Solo-
mons was Bougainville, and I met, for the
first time, a coast watcher. He was an
Australian. This remarkable
group of
men-I don't know how many there were,
perhaps no more than 100-who operated
throughout those Pacific islands as coast
watchers in the most hazardous duty of
perhaps any war, won the admiration and
respect of all Americans who were there
and all people who had the opportunity
to know what they were doing. That was
typical of Australian valor in World War
I and World War II and in all those oc-
casions where we have been associated
with them.
I only mention this in a personal sense
because I think each one of us who knows
Australia and its people has that enormous
respect for their courage, for their ideal-
ism, for their loyalty, for their friendship.
We feel especially close to Australians
though they are so far away from us
geographically.
And tonight, Mr. Prime Minister, I
want you to know that this company of
100 really speaks for 200 million Ameri-
cans when we say that we cherish the
friendship and alliance we have had in
the past; that our policies in the future
1074
