[210] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
210 Remarks at the Convention of the National Retired
Teachers Association and the American Association
of Retired Persons in Chicago, Illinois. June 25, 1971
much for my dancing, if you
Mr. Faassen, Mrs. Pearce, Mr. Nash, Sen-
ator Percy, and all of the distinguished
delegates to these conventions:
I well recall that occasion in the Oval
Office of the President of the United
States when I welcomed the two millionth
member of the American Association of
Retired Persons. I only hope that your
membership continues to grow and that
the organization will deserve to have it
continue to grow, and I am sure that will
be the case.
I was thinking, too, as I looked over the
backgrounds of those who are the leaders
of these organizations, that I have some-
thing in common with them which I
would like to refer to briefly, and that is,
their association with music. I notice, for
example, that Mr. Faassen played in
Sousa's Band, and anybody who has heard
this great Navy Band-aren't they good,
though, our Navy Band here we think
of John Philip Sousa and the tradition
that he left. And, of course, through the
years Mr. Faassen has also made a con-
tribution in many other ways, but particu-
larly in the field of music, I noted it.
Mrs. Pearce taught music for 42 years.
And I think of what a legacy she must
have left. I don't mean that all those she
taught became musicians. I speak with
experience; I learned from a music
teacher, too, and I am not a musician. I
am a piano player, but I don't play it
much in the White House now. I studied
the violin when I was in high school. As
you can see, though, despite the fact that
I studied both the piano and the violin
when I was in high school, it didn't do
follow that.
One little boy down in Indiana, though,
yesterday paid me a very great compli-
ment about that. I had remarked in my
speech in my mother's hometown about
the fact that my dancing was not particu-
larly something I was proud of. He said,
"You know, Mr. President, you did keep
time." That is because of my musical back-
ground; I can keep time, but I don't know
the steps.
But I am privileged to join with this
organization. I know this is a regional
organization in the heartland of America,
but in speaking to you, I want to speak
to the entire organization. I want to speak
to all the people who could be members
of this organization-retired teachers, re-
tired persons all over America. So, though
this is a representative group, a very im-
portant group, let me now speak to all
Americans who are 65 or older, and those
who will be 65 or over, and that, of course,
is all of us, we hope. We hope to live that
long.
There is an old story about a man who
went to his doctor one day and asked what
he should do so that he could live to be
100. The doctor's response was that the
man should give up everything. He should
give up his work, give up his play, and
give up his friends, and he should do ab-
solutely nothing that would cause him to
exert himself.
Then the man asked, "And then you
can promise me I will live to be 100?"
"No," said the doctor, "but it sure will
seem like it."
Well, you know, the doctor had a point.
776
