[208] June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the snow, and the summer, a warm
day like this.
But most of all she remembered the
people. She used to tell me what good
people they were here in Indiana, the
people that she had known in church and
in school.
I could tell from what she said that
she was very proud of where she came
from, and particularly proud—not be-
cause of the geographical location or be-
cause of the State, all these other things
that we are proud of-but proud because
these, her people, were good people. I,
therefore, am very proud to be part of
this people. My roots are here.
I would like to tell you very briefly
what my mother brought from Indiana
and what she left with me and her other
sons. I think perhaps this would be true
of most of the children here who are grow-
ing up in Jennings County and in the
surrounding counties in the State of
Indiana.
First of all, she had a very deep religious
faith, a faith that she communicated to
us in her quiet, Quaker way.
Second, she had, also, a very great in-
terest in politics. After all, anybody from
Indiana has got to be interested in pol-
itics, as you can be sure.
Third, she had a very great dedication
to peace, because coming from this quiet,
beautiful Indiana countryside and with
her Quaker background, peace was upper-
most in her mind.
So one who comes from that back-
ground, and one who hears his mother
talk about those things all of his life, nat-
urally reflects it in what he does; he tries
to, at least, although no one can ever
quite do as well as his mother would really
want him to do. But I can tell you that
coming back here, to be here and feel this
place where she walked and where she
went to school so many years ago, re-
dedicates me to those propositions to
which she was so deeply devoted.
I want you also to know that she always
told me that people in Indiana were hos-
pitable. I know that. I asked Janet how
long you had been here, and she said,
"Hours." When I think of you in this
crowd, in this rather warm sun, sitting
here being so generous, you are a most
hospitable people.
Also, as we came along the road, I
noticed the American flags and a lot of
signs saying "God bless you," "Good
luck," and that sort of thing. But one that
really went further than all the rest, that
proved hospitality beyond anything else,
was a little sign that a boy carried which
said, "You dance good, Mr. President.”
I hope he doesn't try to follow me in
dancing, that's all.
Now a word about the future. The Jun-
ior Historical Society has reminded us all
of the past, my past and yours, the roots
that we have in this good ground, in this
good land. I think what my mother would
want me to say today would be something
like this:
First, be very proud of your country.
We hear so much these days about what
is wrong with America-and there are
things wrong. But remember, I have seen
most of the countries of the world, and
every day I am thankful that we live in
the United States of America. This is a
good land and it is a great country.
That pride in America, she would say,
however, does not mean not doing every-
thing we possibly can to correct the things
that are wrong, to give everybody a better
chance, an equal chance. She would want
me to say that. She would also want me
to say to this group: Keep your religious
772
