Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 2 [3]
provide adequate probation and parole
services in this country. I will ask that ad-
ditional funds be appropriated to provide
assistance in these areas.
In the first 2 years of the LEAA program
we have taken basic and essential steps
toward our goal of reducing crime in
America. The bill I have signed today
will enable us to do more.
Crime inflicts an unacceptable degree
of anguish upon law-abiding Americans.
The criminal, too, is an individual who
must be rehabilitated and given the op-
portunity for a truly constructive life.
Because the prevalence of crime affects
each and every person in very human
terms, I am determined to ensure that
our efforts succeed.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (H.R. 17825) is
Public Law 91-644 (84 Stat. 1880).
3 Statement on Signing the Uniform Relocation Assistance
and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970.
January 2, 1971
I HAVE today signed S. 1, the uniform
relocation assistance and land acquisition
policies act of 1970. This bill provides for
the uniform and equitable treatment of
persons displaced from their homes, bus-
inesses, or farms by Federal and federally
assisted programs, and it establishes uni-
form and equitable land acquisition pol-
icies for these programs. This legislation is
the culmination of lengthy and extensive
efforts by both the executive and legisla-
tive branches of Government to assure that
all persons displaced by programs financed
by the Federal Government would be
treated alike and fairly.
This legislation is necessary to eliminate
the serious inconsistencies that exist be-
tween Federal and federally assisted pro-
grams with respect to the amount and
scope of payments, other assistance pro-
vided, and assurances of housing offered.
It provides for a fair program for reloca-
tion payments, advisory assistance, assur-
ance that comparable, decent, safe, and
sanitary replacement housing will be
available for displaced persons prior to
displacement, economic adjustments, and
other assistance to owners and tenants dis-
placed from their homes, businesses, or
farms. It establishes a uniform policy on
real property acquisition practices for all
Federal and federally assisted programs.
To assure that all Federal programs ad-
minister this law uniformly and equitably,
I am taking steps through the new
coordinating capability of the Office of
Management and Budget to have imple-
menting guidelines developed by an inter-
agency task force. I am also directing the
Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment to develop criteria and pro-
cedures whereby all Federal and federally
assisted programs can use authority pro-
vided in this legislation to construct re-
placement housing.
I am asking the heads of Federal agen-
cies administering mortgage guarantee
programs to determine how guarantees
can be given to individuals who are dis-
placed, who normally would be ineligible
because of age or physical condition. I
am directing the Office of Management
and Budget to form a permanent reloca-
tion advisory group to review all problems
encountered and to make recommenda-
tions to improve the relocation assistance
3
