[43] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Weidenbaum, Assistant Secretary for Economic
Policy, Department of the Treasury.
On January 25, 1971, the White House re-
leased a table on the estimated allocations to
States under the general revenue sharing plan
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
plan by Mr. Weidenbaum.
On February 26, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on revenue
sharing by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs, and Edwin
L. Harper, Special Assistant to the President.
44 Statement Following Successful Landing of Apollo 14
Astronauts on the Moon. February 5, 1971
APOLLO 14's successful landing on the
moon was a thrilling event for humanity.
I congratulate the astronauts and also the
thousands of other dedicated people who
helped make this awesome achievement
possible.
I join with all Americans in wishing the
astronauts well as they carry out their mis-
sion on the moon and wish them God-
speed for a safe and successful return to
earth.
NOTE: The statement was read by Press Sec-
retary Ronald L. Ziegler during his regular
news briefing at the White House on Febru-
ary 5, 1971.
Mr. Ziegler also reported that at 10:20 a.m.
the President telephoned Donald "Deke" Slay-
ton, Director of Flight Crew Operations, at
the Houston Control Center and asked him
to send the President's congratulations to the
Apollo 14 astronauts and ground crew at the
appropriate time.
45 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the National Endowment for the Humanities.
February 5, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In transmitting this Fifth Annual Re-
port of the National Endowment for the
Humanities, I commend to your attention
the work supported by the Endowment
during fiscal year 1970 in increasing the
cultural resources of our nation and in
providing insight into and understanding
of the complexities of contemporary
problems.
The National Endowment for the Hu-
manities, which is one of the two Endow-
ments comprising the National Founda-
tion on the Arts and the Humanities, has
been able in its short existence to imple-
ment a wide variety of programs designed
to promote progress and scholarship in
the humanities through studies in history,
language, literature, jurisprudence, phi-
losophy, and related fields. In addition a
major emphasis has been a heightened
concern with human values as they bear
on social conditions underlying the most
difficult and far-reaching of the nation's
domestic problems, such as divisions be-
tween races and generations.
With its positive response to my pro-
posal of last year to increase funding for
the National Foundation on the Arts and
the Humanities, the Congress enabled the
Endowment to make a significantly
greater contribution to the quality of life
122
