[13] Jan. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the armed services with regard to our
defense budget. And the General was
reminiscing about some of the great days
of the victory in Europe and about some
of the men who served under him and
with him.
And I asked him that if he had to select
one quality in an individual for an or-
ganization, above everything else what
would it be? And he thought a moment
and he answered, "Selflessness." He said,
"Of course, other things matter. You want
brains and dedication and hard work."
But he said the most important quality
that you can have in an army, whether it
is an army in war or an army in a political
campaign or an organization in a great
national administration, is "selflessness,"
the willingness to go out and do hard and
tough jobs in a completely unselfish man-
ner; the willingness to sacrifice one's self
for a greater cause than himself.
I think Jim Auchincloss 2 was a selfless
man. I remember 20 years ago when I was
in the House and later in the Senate and
then as Vice President and when I was
out of office, I could always expect a call
from Jim Auchincloss about the Eisen-
hower Center.
And he spoke about his dream, the
necessity to get support for it, ideas that
didn't seem to have any chance of suc-
ceeding. But he drove on and on and
others then joined him and eventually this
great building, the center for all of the
Republican National Committee's activ-
ities finally came into being.
And a selfless man, Jim Auchincloss,
and all the other selfless people with him,
'James C. Auchincloss, United States Rep-
resentative from New Jersey 1943-64.
and many of them are right here in this
audience, I think General Eisenhower
would want me especially to pay tribute
to this morning.
The other thing I think the General
would say today is something about the
party of which he was a member, and the
party to which he had such dedication,
and what he would like for it in the future.
And perhaps he would speak of this party
the
way he used to speak about the party
and its organization to the members of the
Cabinet and to me during those occasions
when we were in political campaigns in
'54, '56, '58, and then again in 1960. He
often used to emphasize the necessity for
the party to expand, to get more people,
more troops to join with us. And he
pointed out, which was actually a very
great truth, that by itself neither political
party in this country could win an election.
In order to win, it is necessary to pick up
enough Independents and enough mem-
bers of the other party to get the majority.
And President Eisenhower, for that
reason, would emphasize the necessity in
speaking to a party organization—and all
of us, you, our party organization people
here today to say organize the party well,
but be sure that you organize it in a way
that you can bring others into the party
and allow others to have allegiance to it
and to our cause even though they may
not be members of the party.
And I think on that score one thing
that General Eisenhower used to say in
talking about the party, on those occa-
sions when he saw in it a tendency that
might be too introverted, was that, he
said, the tendency of most organizations is
to organize fewer and fewer better and
better.
36
