[89] Mar. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
sources is only one of the deficiencies from
which State and local governments now
suffer. They also lack the opportunity to
exercise sufficient responsibility in meet-
ing social needs. As a further step in re-
vitalizing State and local governments, I
am therefore recommending a series of six
Special Revenue Sharing programs under
which the National Government would
set certain general goals while program-
matic decisions would be made at the
State and local level. I have already sent
two such proposals to the Congress-in
the fields of law enforcement and man-
power training.
My third Special Revenue Sharing pro-
posal is for urban community develop-
ment. I recommend that four categorical
grant programs now administered by the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment be consolidated into a single
fund. The size of this fund in the first full
year of operation would be $2 billion.
Cities would be able to spend their money
as they see fit, provided only that they
used it for community development
purposes.
The four elements which would be
combined to form this new fund would be
the current programs for urban renewal,
Model Cities, water and sewer grants, and
loans for the rehabilitation of existing
structures. The urban renewal program,
in turn, now contains several sub-
categories which money will become part
of the new fund, including so-called "con-
ventional" urban renewal, the Neighbor-
hood Development Program, assistance
for concentrated local code enforcement,
interim assistance for blighted neighbor-
hoods, demolition grants and rehabili-
tation grants. I am proposing that this
new program begin on January 1, 1972.
In its second year of operation, I would
add to this fund by including the money
which the Office of Economic Oppor-
tunity now spends on some of the elements
of its Community Action Programs.
DISTRIBUTING THE FUNDS
How would the money be distributed?
Because these funds are designed to
achieve the specific purpose of urban de-
velopment, most of the money would be
sent to the metropolitan areas of our na-
tion where the vast majority of Americans
live and work. Eighty percent of this Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing fund would be as-
signed for use in Standard Metropolitan
Statistical Areas. The Office of Manage-
ment and Budget defines a Standard Met-
ropolitan Statistical Area as an area
which contains a central city or cities with
an aggregate population of 50,000 or more
and those surrounding counties which
have a metropolitan character and are
socially and economically integrated with
the central city. There are 247 such areas
in the United States at the present time.
The money assigned to Standard Met-
ropolitan Statistical Areas-eighty per-
cent of the total fund-would be allocated
among the SMSA's according to a strict
formula which would be written into the
law so that each SMSA would be assured
in advance of its fair share. The central
cities and other cities in each SMSA with
a population of more than 50,000 would,
in turn, automatically receive a stable an-
nual share of the SMSA's funds-again,
according to the same objective formula.
In each Standard Metropolitan Statis-
tical Area, some balance would remain
after the major communities had received
their formula share. In the initial years,
this balance would be used by the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
400
