Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
tion control legislation, which I signed on
the last day of 1970, embodies all of my
recommendations and reflects strong bi-
partisan teamwork between the admin-
istration and the Congress-teamwork
which will be needed again this year to
permit action on the urgent environ-
mental problems discussed in this message.
We must have action to meet the needs
of today if we would have the kind of
environment the nation demands for
tomorrow.
I. STRENGTHENING POLLUTION
CONTROL PROGRAMS
The Clean Air Amendments of 1970
have greatly strengthened the Federal-
State air quality program. We shall vigor-
ously administer the new program, but
propose to supplement it with measures
designed to provide a strong economic
stimulus to achieve the pollution reduc-
tion sought by the program.
AIR POLLUTION
Sulfur Oxides Emissions Charge
Sulfur oxides are among the most dam-
aging air pollutants. High levels of sulfur
oxides have been linked to increased in-
cidence of diseases such as bronchitis and
lung cancer. In terms of damage to
human health, vegetation and property,
sulfur oxide emissions cost society billions
of dollars annually.
Last year in my State of the Union
message I urged that the price of goods.
"should be made to include the cost of
producing and disposing of them without
damage to the environment." A charge
on sulfur emitted into the atmosphere
would be a major step in applying the
principle that the costs of pollution should
be included in the price of the product.
A staff study underway indicates the fea-
sibility of such a charge system.
--Accordingly, I have asked the
Chairman of the Council on Envi-
ronmental Quality and the Secretary
of the Treasury to develop a Clean
Air Emissions Charge on emissions
of sulfur oxides. Legislation will be
submitted to the Congress upon com-
pletion of the studies currently
underway.
The funds generated by this charge
would enable the Federal Government to
expand programs to improve the quality
of the environment. Special emphasis
would be given to developing and dem-
onstrating technology to reduce sulfur
oxides emissions and programs to develop
adequate clean energy supplies. My 1972
budget provides increased funds for these
activities. They will continue to be em-
phasized in subsequent years.
These two measures-the sulfur oxides
emissions charge and expanded environ-
mental programs-provide both the in-
centive for improving the quality of our
environment and the means of doing so.
Leaded Gasoline
Leaded gasolines interfere with effec-
tive emission control. Moreover, the lead
particles are, themselves, a source of po-
tentially harmful lead concentrations in
the environment. The new air quality
legislation provides authority, which I
requested, to regulate fuel additives, and
I have recently initiated a policy of using
unleaded or low-lead gasoline in Federal
vehicles whenever possible. But further
incentives are needed. In 1970, I recom-
mended a tax on lead used in gasoline to
bring about a gradual transition to the
use of unleaded gasoline. This transition
127
