Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 29 [154]
you and them and others who disagree
with my policies. But as I looked at those
demonstrators on television--and I saw so
many who were teenagers-this is the
thought that passed through my mind:
My responsibility is to bring peace, but
not just peace in our time, but peace in
their time. I want peace not just for us,
but peace for our children, their children.
I am convinced that if we were to do
what they were advocating, a precipitate
withdrawal before the South Vietnamese
had a chance to prevent a Communist
takeover, that that would lead to a very
dangerous situation in the Pacific and
would increase the dangers of war in the
future.
On the other hand, I believe that if we
continue on the path that I have set forth,
one in which we are withdrawing our
forces, in which we will be down to 184,-
ooo by December 1-and I will make
another announcement on October [No-
vember] 15-I believe that on that path
we will end the war, we will bring a peace
in Vietnam which will contribute to peace
not just in our time but in their time.
I think they will judge me very harshly
for the position that I take now. But I
think what is important is how they judge
the consequences of the decisions that I
make now, which I think are in their best
interests and in the best interests of our
children.
CHINA POLICY
[2] Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, As-
sociated Press].
Q. Mr. President, the commission on
the United Nations that you appointed,
headed by your 1960 vice presidential run-
ning mate,² has come out rather strongly
for a two-China policy. The last time
we saw you, you weren't prepared to talk
about that. I wonder if tonight you could
say how you feel about those proposals?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Cormier,
that recommendation by that very dis-
tinguished committee, of course, is being
given consideration in the high councils
of this Government, and I am, of course,
considering it along with recommenda-
tions which move in the other direction.
I think, however, that your question
requires that I put, perhaps, in perspective
much of this discussion about our new
China policy. I think that some of the
speculation that has occurred in recent
weeks since the visit of the table tennis
team to Peking has not been useful.
I want to set forth exactly what it is and
what it is not.
First, as I stated at, I think, one of my
first press conferences in this room, the
long-range goal of this Administration is
a normalization of our relationships with
Mainland China, the People's Republic
of China, and the ending of its isolation
from the other nations of the world. That
is a long-range goal.
Second, we have made some progress
toward that goal. We have moved in the
field of travel; we have moved in the field
of trade. There will be more progress
made. For example, at the present time I
am circulating among the departments the
items which may be released as possible
trade items in the future, and I will be
making an announcement on that in a
very few weeks.
2 The President's Commission for the Ob-
servance of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the
United Nations, chaired by Henry Cabot
Lodge.
593
