Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 10 [92]
public attention upon the inter-relation-
ship of urban and rural community devel-
opment within the State. The plan could
identify potential growth areas, potential
new community development sites, and
environmentally important
important areas. It
should seek to integrate all important
community development factors, includ-
ing land use.
All the money a State receives under
Special Revenue Sharing for Rural Com-
munity Development would have to be
spent for the benefit of persons in rural
areas as outlined in the statewide plan. A
State could of course also supplement its
own rural development activities with
money received under General Revenue
Sharing and under other Special Revenue
Sharing programs within program defini-
tions. The Secretary of Agriculture would
conduct an annual post-audit of State
rural development activities, with pay-
ment of the next year's rural revenue
sharing funds conditional upon State
compliance with rural development
spending plans for the year past.
THE LOGIC OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
REVENUE SHARING
To review briefly:
The major challenge facing rural
America is to diversify its economy and
to provide full opportunity for its people
to enjoy the benefits of American life.
Meeting this challenge will enhance the
quality of life for those who remain to
operate the nation's family farms and for
all their neighbors in the small towns and
countryside of America. As a secondary
effect-like upstream watershed manage-
ment for downstream flood control-
meeting the rural challenge will also help
to relieve the overburdened urban struc-
ture by stemming rural outmigration and
attracting a share of future growth to
rural communities.
The key to a rural development strategy
is my proposal for $1.1 billion in Special
Revenue Sharing for Rural Community
Development-money which all States
and territories would share and which
they could spend in their rural areas as
they deem wisest. Other proposed Federal
assistance for rural America includes part
of the $5 billion General Revenue Shar-
ing program and part of five Special Rev-
enue Sharing programs, as well as the
benefits of a reformed welfare system
and an improved health care system.
At the core of rural development
revenue sharing would be eight agricul-
tural grant programs and three broad de-
velopment assistance programs now in
being. Consolidating them, the revenue
sharing approach would build on decen-
tralizing trends in the agricultural pro-
grams and on the multi-State, State, and
multi-county development planning ex-
perience accumulated under EDA and the
regional commissions. It would do away
with narrow aid categories, spending re-
strictions, duplication, and red tape now
surrounding these programs. It would
make the money now devoted to them go
further and would provide more money.
Existing programs and development
projects could continue or not at the dis-
cretion of each State, and the right of
choice would rest close to the rural people
at whom the aid is directed. A statewide
planning requirement with a broadly
representative input would promote co-
ordinated development of a sort not now
approached and would insure that all
areas of the State have a voice in the plan-
415
