[129] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
coming in American education today
is the lag in essential learning skills
among large numbers of children of
poor families. The largest Federal
program in education-Title I of the
Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion Act-was designed to meet the
special educational needs of these
children. The Education Revenue
Sharing Act would provide that over
one-half of the $3.0 billion proposed
for the first year be used for provid-
ing compensatory education for dis-
advantaged children. These funds
would be passed through directly to
local school districts which enroll
large concentrations of these chil-
dren.
-The specific needs of handicapped
children are and would continue to
be a matter of concern to the Fed-
eral Government. When time is so
critical to the training and social de-
velopment of these youngsters, any
delay in the funding of their educa-
tion can have irreparable conse-
quences. Nevertheless, in the present
circumstances, delay is common. I
propose to change this. Funds would
be allocated directly to the States and
the procedures for obtaining these
funds would be simplified.
-For many years, the Federal Gov-
ernment has provided assistance for
training in industry, agriculture and
the crafts in our Nation's schools.
This training is vital to the Nation's
economy. But the needs in these areas
are constantly changing. Vocational
education of tomorrow may bear lit-
tle resemblance to today's form, but
its task will be the same: to demon-
strate to American youth the worth
and dignity of work, and to help them
to obtain the specific skills that other
forms of education cannot supply. As
with my proposal for Manpower
Revenue Sharing, States and local
educational authorities would be au-
thorized to determine how best to
use Federal funds for vocational edu-
cation in order to meet the needs of
particular communities and indi-
vidual workers.
-An ongoing responsibility of local
public schools is to provide educa-
tion for Federally connected chil-
dren. The Federal Government
rightly provides aid to help meet the
financial burden of children who live
on Federal property-hence prop-
erty which provides no taxes for edu-
cation. To offset the loss of local
school taxes, Education Revenue
Sharing would provide a direct pass-
through to local school districts en-
rolling such children. For those stu-
dents whose parents only work on
Federal property, and live on locally
taxable land, funds would also be
provided. In this case, however, the
funds would be distributed to the
States which would determine the
degree of financial need created by
those circumstances and allocate
funds accordingly.
-The Federal Government currently
offers an array of programs designed
to purchase specific educational ma-
terials or services. These programs
range from the provision of text-
books and other library resources to
the support of guidance and counsel-
ing services. Education Revenue
Sharing would continue this aid but
would pull together programs from
504
