[292] Sept. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
million people there were only 150,000
people eligible to vote. And so as we look
at our own history, we find that it took
us time to come where we are.
You cannot expect that American-style
democracy, meeting our standards, will
apply in other parts of the world. We can-
not expect that it will come in a country
like South Vietnam which has no tradi-
tion whatever, without great difficulty. But
we have made progress.
ATTICA PRISON
[7] Q. Mr. President, on the Attica
prison deaths ³-in November of 1969,
you made a statement saying that most
American prisons and correctional facili-
ties presented a convincing picture of
failure.
What happened at Attica-has that
made you
reconsider plans that you
offered to Attorney General Mitchell to
call a conference to speed up the proposal,
and what do you think the Attica incident
will do to penal reform?
THE PRESIDENT. Like all tragic events,
it has its affirmative aspects. And in this
case it is, I think, very helpful to note that
Governor Rockefeller has already moved
in that direction of prison reform, prison
reform with regard to the problems of
prisoners and their proper treatment, and
prison reform which will deal with the
problem of guards in prisons and their
protection.
3
From September 9 to 13, 1971, a group
of prisoners in the Attica State Correctional
Facility staged a rebellion, holding 38 prison
guards hostage.
On September 13, New York State troopers
and police stormed the facility, an action which
resulted in the deaths of more than 40 inmates
and prison guards.
As far as I am concerned, I still believe
that the problem of prisons in the United
States which, incidentally, is primarily
not a Federal problem so much as it is a
State and local problem, but the problem
of prisons in the United States is one that
very much needs attention.
I have been particularly impressed in
that respect, incidentally, by articles that
have been written by Al Otten of the Wall
Street Journal. And as a result of having
read his articles, I talked to the Attorney
General, and we are working on this
project. Perhaps this will give it addi-
tional impetus.
With regard to Governor Rockefeller's
action, I know some of you ladies and
gentlemen of the press were surprised that
I would, with all of the problems I have,
step in to support him on a problem that
was not mine. That just happens to be the
way I react.
You may recall that when Prime
Minister Trudeau had a somewhat similar
situation with hostages, I called him and
said that I backed what he had to do
under very difficult circumstances.
I can imagine that this is the most
painful, excruciating experience that Gov-
ernor Rockefeller, a very good man and
a very progressive man, has had in his
term of public service. I knew that he
would never have gone this far when he
called that morning, when I was in the
Cabinet, unless he had felt that it was the
only thing that he could possibly do to try
to save some of the guards that were held
hostage.
Now when a man in a hard place makes
a hard decision and steps up to it, I back
him up, and I don't try to second-guess
him the next day when some of the other
returns come in. I still back him.
I believe that people in public positions,
954
