[289] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
best indication that we could possibly
have of the intention of both governments
to have friendly and peaceful relations.
This does not mean that our two coun-
tries, being countries made up of strong
competitive people, will not be competi-
tors, but as we look at the situation, we
find that we are competing in the produc-
tion of products for peace. And that kind
of competition and peaceful challenges in
peaceful areas is good for both countries
and good for the world.
And so, Mr. Foreign Minister, I can
that speaking for the members of our
say
Cabinet who have met with you and your
colleagues that we appreciate the time
that you have taken to journey here to
meet with us, as we have journeyed to
meet with you on occasion, members of
our Cabinet last year and over the past 10
years. And we also want you to know that
as time goes on we realize that these close
and friendly contacts, at all levels in our
government, are the key to that friendly
relationship which will mean friendship
between Japan and the United States and
which can also mean, and will mean,
peace in the Pacific and peace in the
world.
In looking into the history of our two
countries, I found a letter that was writ-
ten by Abraham Lincoln, whose picture
is in this room, 110 years ago, at the very
beginning of our Civil War. He wrote to
the Emperor of Japan and his letter read
in part that he wished many years of
abundant prosperity to the great country
over which Your Majesty presides.
It is in that spirit that today I know all
of us would want to join in raising our
glasses to the Emperor of Japan.
The Emperor of Japan.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:01 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
The Japanese Cabinet members were in the
United States for a meeting of the Joint U.S.-
Japan Committee on Trade and Economic
Affairs. The Committee met in Washington,
D.C., on September 9 and 10, 1971, under the
chairmanship of Secretary of State William P.
Rogers.
Mr. Fukuda responded in Japanese. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Mr. Vice President,
Mrs. Agnew, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
On behalf of my delegation, Mr. President,
I wish to express a deep appreciation for the
great honor you have extended to us at this
charming dinner in the White House.
Mr. President, I believe that you have
always had a deep interest in Asia and you
have many personal Japanese friends and pos-
sibly a greater knowledge of Japan than any
other President in the history of the United
States. Although this is a bit belated, but I'd
like to say that upon your assumption of office
of the President of the United States, the
Japanese people felt a strong sense of expecta-
tion about your great future.
And we realize, Mr. President, that the
demanding responsibilities that you have with
such external, as well as domestic issues as the
Vietnam war, unemployment, inflation, and
others, the solution of which will depend
heavily on what is to be done at this present
time.
And we are deeply grateful, Mr. President,
with your great extensive duties and your busy
time, for a person such as yourself in those cir-
cumstances to have been gracious enough to
have extended this invitation and to hold this
dinner for my delegation.
I am also honored, Mr. President, to express
the heartfelt appreciation of all the Japanese
people for your very warm consideration in
traveling many thousands of miles to Anchor-
age to welcome Their Majesties, the Emperor
and Empress of Japan, to American soil.
Although there are some people who raise
questions about the state of the Japanese-
946
