[282] Sept. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
282 Remarks at the Dedication of the Air Force Museum,
Dayton, Ohio. September 3, 1971
Mr. Chairman, all of the distinguished
guests on the platform, and all of the dis-
tinguished guests in the audience:
I am honored, on behalf of the Ameri-
can people, to accept the Air Force Mu-
seum for this generation and generations
to come. And as I do so, I wish to put this
event in the perspective which I think it
deserves.
First, I was reminded by Governor Gil-
ligan, as we drove from the airport, that
it was just a month ago that I was in
Canton, Ohio, at the birthplace of Ameri-
can professional football. I have very
pleasant memories of that visit. Inciden-
tally, I saw a sign over here saying “Nixon
Country." I simply want you to know that
I understand this is Bengal country.¹
Today, here in Dayton, Ohio, I am
honored again to be in a place that has
historic significance not only for America
but for the whole world, because this is
truly the birthplace of aviation, of
manned flight, for America and for the
world.
It is a proud moment for the United
States, and it should be particularly a
proud moment for the people of Dayton,
for those who participated—the thou-
sands, as the chairman indicated-and
contributed to make it possible for this
museum to be erected.
Let me pay a tribute to some of those
who are represented here. First, to the
Kettering family, and to Mrs. Gene Ket-
tering who is here on the platform. How
much they have given, how much they
have contributed to America, only history
1
¹ Cincinnati Bengals professional football
team.
will adequately record. But certainly no
greater monument to that family, no
greater monument to its creative abilities,
could be erected than this one that is
being dedicated today and accepted for
the United States.
Second, to the people of Dayton, the
thousands who contributed, the ones who
conceived the idea, the people who made
it possible for now, I understand, even a
million Americans a year to visit this
museum to see the past, and also to think
about what it means to the future.
When Senator Taft and Congressman
Brown came in to talk to me about coming
here to Dayton, they said that this would
be one of the finest meetings that I would
ever have the opportunity to address.
They were right. I am proud to be here in
Dayton on such an occasion.
On the ramps around the museum and
in this building and behind me are the
great airplanes that have been built
through the years. And as we look at
those planes, we can think of the tre-
mendous developments that have oc-
curred. But more important than those
planes, I know we all realize, are the men
who have flown them and what they have
given to America, what they have sacri-
ficed for America, how much we owe to
them.
I think, for example, of so many in this
room who should be recognized. When I
think of Eddie Rickenbacker being here
today, he certainly symbolizes what we
think of when we think of the American
Air Force and the men who have manned
its planes. We think of their service in war
and in peace in World War I, in World
War II, in Korea, and in Vietnam. We
924
