[216] June 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
cult decision. These circumstances accen-
tuate the vision and wisdom of this very
important step. We know well the im-
portance of the agricultural sector of Tur-
key's economy, and we are prepared to
put at the disposal of the Turkish Gov-
ernment our best technical brains to as-
sist Turkey's program to bring about a
better life for the Turkish farmer.ยน We
are proud to assist in a program from
which we all will benefit.
Secretary of State Rogers told me about
ยนA White House announcement of the Sec-
retary of Agriculture's mission to Turkey to
assist in an agricultural development program
was released on September 28, 1971, and is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 7, p. 1354).
his discussions in April with Prime Min-
ister Erim and senior Turkish officials.
Secretary Rogers understood fully the
range of problems confronting the Turk-
ish Government and its people, and he
was impressed by the efforts being made
to solve them. We in the United States
are obligated to a friend and ally whose
firm military and political commitment
to the welfare and defense of the Atlantic
community is well known. My Adminis-
tration is committed to aid nations and
peoples prepared to help eliminate the
narcotics menace. I pledge continued co-
operation with Turkey in its efforts to
increase the well-being of its people and
to maintain its independence and security.
217 Message to Nikolai V. Podgorny, Chairman of
the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, on the
Death of Three Soviet Cosmonauts. June 30, 1971
Dear Mr. Chairman:
The American people join me in ex-
pressing to you and the Soviet people
our deepest sympathy on the tragic death
of the three Soviet cosmonauts. The whole
world followed the exploits of these cou-
rageous explorers of the unknown and
shares the anguish of their tragedy. But
the achievement of cosmonauts Dobrovol-
sky, Volkov and Patsayev remains. It will,
I am sure, prove to have contributed
greatly to the future achievements of the
Soviet program for the exploration of
space and thus to the widening of man's
horizons.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Lt. Col. Georgiy T. Dobrovolsky, 43,
Commander of the Soyuz 11 mission, Vladislav
N. Volkov, 35, flight engineer, and Viktor I.
Patsayev, 38, test pilot engineer, died as a
result of the sudden depressurization of their
spacecraft while returning to earth, after dock-
ing with and then entering the first space sta-
tion and setting a new record for man's en-
durance in space.
218 Remarks at Graduation Exercises of the FBI
National Academy. June 30, 1971
Mr. Attorney General, Director Hoover,
members of the graduating class, and all
of our guests here today:
I am very honored to be here. And re-
sponding to the personal note which Mr.
Hoover introduced me on, may I say that
790
