[184] May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
to coordinate responses on this, and I
would appreciate your letting her know
by September 20, what ideas and sugges-
tions you may have, and also what new
actions your agency may already be taking
toward this same objective.
RICHARD NIXON
185 Statement Urging Congressional Action To Implement
a National Cancer Program. May 26, 1971
THE SECOND supplemental appropria-
tions bill¹ which I signed yesterday in-
cluded an extra $100 million to launch
an intensive campaign to find a cure for
cancer. I had called for this appropria-
tion in both my State of the Union Mes-
sage and in my special message to the
Congress on a national health strategy,
and I strongly commend the Congress for
acting favorably on this request.
But money alone will not be enough.
The way we organize our work in this
field is also extremely important. For this
The bill (H.R. 8190), approved May 25,
1971, is Public Law 92-18 (85 Stat. 40).
186
reason I proposed to the Congress on
May 11 legislation to establish a new
cancer cure program, one that is in-
dependently budgeted with its Director
responsible directly to the President of
the United States.
I now urge the Congress to match its
prompt action in appropriating funds with
further prompt action to implement this
new program.
As I have said before, the time has
come in America when the same kind of
concentrated effort that split the atom
and took man to the moon should be
turned toward conquering this dread
disease.
Remarks of Welcome to King Faisal ibn Abd al-Aziz
al-Saud of Saudi Arabia.
Arabia.
Your Majesty:
You have visited our country many
times, but it is a very great honor for me
to welcome you on this occasion officially
as the head of state and the head of gov-
ernment of the great nation you represent.
I know that the talks that we shall have
and the talks that your advisers will have
with members of our Administration will
contribute to the already excellent rela-
tions we have between our two countries.
And I am particularly looking forward
to the opportunity of having the benefit
of your wise counsel as one of the senior
May 27, 1971
statesmen of the world on how our two
nations can work together for a just and
secure peace in the Mideast and in all
parts of the world.
I know that this visit will be of great
benefit to the representatives of our Gov-
ernment, and we hope that you and all
the members of your royal party will en-
joy your stay in our Nation's Capital.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:18 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
King Faisal was given a formal welcome with
full military honors.
Later the same day, King Faisal was hon-
682
