[195] June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
One of the major advantages of con-
solidating energy responsibilities would be
the broader scope and greater balance this
would give to research and development
work in the energy field. The Atomic
Energy Commission, for instance, has
been successful in its mission of advancing
civilian nuclear power, but this field is
now intimately interrelated with coal, oil
and gas, and Federal electric power pro-
grams with which the Atomic Energy
Commission now has very little to do. We
believe that the planning and funding of
civilian nuclear energy activities should
now be consolidated with other energy ef-
forts in an agency charged with the mis-
sion of insuring that the total energy
resources of the nation are effectively uti-
lized. The Atomic Energy Commission
would still remain intact, in order to exe-
cute the nuclear programs and any related
energy research which may be appropriate
as part of the overall energy program of
the Department of Natural Resources.
Until such time as this new Depart-
ment comes into being, I will continue to
look to the Energy Subcommittee of the
Domestic Council for leadership in ana-
lyzing and coordinating overall energy
policy questions for the executive branch.
CONCLUSION
The program I have set forth today
provides the basic ingredients for a new
effort to meet our clean energy needs in
the years ahead.
The success of this effort will require
the cooperation of the Congress and of
the State and local governments. It will
also depend on the willingness of industry
to meet its responsibilities in serving cus-
tomers and in making necessary capital in-
vestments to meet anticipated growth.
Consumers, too, will have a key role to
play as they learn to conserve energy and
as they come to understand that the cost
of environmental protection must, to a
major extent, be reflected in consumer
prices.
I am confident that the various ele-
ments of our society will be able to work
together to meet our clean energy needs.
And I am confident that we can therefore
continue to know the blessings of both a
high-energy civilization and a beautiful
and healthy environment.
The White House
June 4, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the message.
196 Remarks at the Dedication of the McClellan-Kerr
Arkansas River Navigation System.
June 5, 1971
Mr. Speaker, Governor Hall, Governor
Bumpers, Members of the United States
Senate, Members of the Congress, all of
the distinguished guests who are here on
this platform, and all of the distinguished
members of this great audience:
May I express first my appreciation for
your wonderfully warm welcome. I am
not speaking of the weather; I am speak-
ing of the way you applauded a moment
ago. And may I pass on a message to you
that I bring directly from the White
House. Mrs. Nixon said that of her many
travels around this country, she has never
714
