Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 12 [96]
leagues met with me and most of my Cab-
inet here in the White House.
This was not a meeting of pleasantries
or a pro forma occasion. Whitney Young
came here to tell me and the Cabinet of
his deep concern for the condition of black
people in America, especially of young
black people. He was eloquent, tough, and
convincing: a great leader among his
peers.
From that meeting, I sent out instruc-
tions to all of my Cabinet to find ways to
enlist the unique capabilities of the Urban
League and other private social service
agencies in advancing and evaluating the
Nation's human resources programs. The
last time I talked to Whitney Young was
when he called me to report on the rapid
progress the Urban League is making in
mounting such a joint effort with the sev-
eral departments.
This effort launched so ably by Whitney
Young will go forward, as will all of the
96
enterprises which have benefited from his
vision and energies-and which are now
his legacy. That the great work of equal
justice and human dignity must now con-
tinue without him is a tragedy that weighs
heavily upon the Nation-but continue it
will, stronger than ever because of the
example he set.
Nothing Mrs. Nixon and I could say to
voice our deep admiration for this man
and our grief at his passing would so
nearly console his wife and family as
would the full achievement of the goals
to which he devoted his life. That they will
see it and thereby be consoled is my most
earnest hope.
NOTE: Whitney M. Young, Jr., 49, died while
swimming in the surf at Lighthouse Beach,
Lagos, Nigeria.
Mr. Young had been executive director of
the National Urban League, Inc., since 1961.
At the President's direction a special aircraft
from Andrews Air Force Base returned the body
of Mr. Young to the United States.
Remarks on Arrival at Quonset Point Naval Air
Station, Rhode Island.
March 12, 1971
I REMEMBER as I stand here and look
at Quonset Point that it was 29 years ago
that I left this base. Then I was a lieuten-
ant, junior grade. And, incidentally, that
was a very low form of life in the Navy in
those days. Don't have any ideas-I see
a lot of enlisted men around here-that
lieutenant, junior grades, or ensigns or, for
that matter, lieutenants run the Navy-
the chiefs run the Navy. They did then,
and I think they do now.
But whatever the case may be, I want
you to know that looking back on those
years I remember the 2 months—and it
was a 2 months' course that we took just
before World War II-that I spent here at
Quonset Point.
I remember, too, how very friendly the
people in this area were, the people of
Providence, on those few times that we
got into town.
I recall, too, that that service, while
at the time it appeared to be rather time
taken out of life, that I made friends then,
I perhaps learned things that have meant
something to me all the rest of my life.
I know that when you are young and
when you find that your career seems to
425
