Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 9 [352]
And that is why we cannot afford inef-
ficient government. That is why we have
proposed reforms in the field of govern-
ment, more historic, more revolutionary
than any in the whole history of this
country.
The United States must move into this
new era with a government which is as effi-
cient and able to deal with the problems of
the world as any kind of a government
in the world with which we may be com-
peting. And that is why government reor-
ganization, revenue sharing, in which this
State has such a great interest, welfare
reform, all the other programs, reform
in education, reform in health, are so
vitally important if the United States is
to meet the challenge of peace in this last
third of a century.
Then, finally, there is one other area
in which everyone in this audience and
everyone in all the other audiences who
are listening to this closed-circuit broad-
cast can participate. I have mentioned
your great contribution. I am aware of
it. And certainly it is a very great one-the
fact that you have been willing to con-
tribute your money so generously so that
a campaign could be waged by our Re-
publican State committees and county
committees and national committees in
the year 1972. But even more than your
money, we need something else. We need
your leadership.
You are leaders. You would not be able
to afford this dinner unless you were
leaders. You have the potential of speak-
ing out and being listened to. And what
America needs now is for those who are
the leaders in their communities to speak
up for America, to have faith in America,
and to stand up for America in this pe-
riod when America is under attack from
so many sources at home and abroad.
When we look at the history of great
civilizations of the past, we find that the
pages of history are strewn with the
wreckage of civilizations who, at the very
height of their wealth and the height of
their power, slipped into oblivion. Why
did it happen? A close study of the his-
tory of those times will show that it hap-
pened not because of weaknesses among
the masses of the people, but because the
leaders in those civilizations, at a time
that they were wealthy, at a time that
they were powerful, became soft and
weak and lost the will to greatness that
a great nation must have.
Here in America we are now entering
an historic period, the Bicentennial Era.
In 5 years we will celebrate the 200th
anniversary of American independence.
And the great question which all of us
have to answer very simply is this:
How will history record this period?
Was it the beginning of the end of the
great American experiment? Some think
it
may be. If that is the case it will not
be because of the failure of our economy,
because of our lack of military strength.
It will be because of the failure of our
will, of our determination, of the char-
acter of Americans and, particularly, of
those who are to lead America.
But it could be written another way.
Rather than the beginning of the end, it
could be the end of the beginning, the end
of the beginning of America as a world
power with world responsibilities in which
we met the challenge, the new challenges
of peace, and we met it with a people who
were strong and vigorous and determined
and young-young in their attitudes and
in their attitudes toward responsibility—
as this Nation was young and strong and
1095
