Richard Nixon, 1971
July 6 [222]
ice in 1942-you cannot have wage and
price controls without rationing.
It would help us on the unemployment
problem. I just checked and I found that
we had 47,000 in the OPA at the end of
World War II enforcing all the regula-
tions of wage and price controls across
this country. And it wasn't working be-
cause it will not and it cannot work in
peacetime.
That is why, despite the fact that even
a majority of the American people, when
they are asked, "Do you believe there
should be wage and price controls?" say,
"Yes." If they had them for a while they
would say no with a vengeance, because
one, they would not work in peacetime in
controlling the problem; and two, because
the cost in terms of snuffing out the
dynamism and strength of the American
economy would be a cost much too high
to pay.
What I am simply suggesting is this:
I am suggesting that as we talk about our
system, that we must take the necessary
steps to correct the problems that are
wrong about it, but we must recognize
that it is a system that has nevertheless
produced today more jobs, higher wages,
greater opportunity than any system in
the world. And before lightly changing it
or reforming it in a way that changes its
character, let us also have this in mind.
I looked, for example, at the Soviet
Union, and those of you who have
traveled in the Soviet Union several times,
as I have my first trip in '59, my last in
1967-have noted the significant change
that has occurred there. There we find
that they have moved more and more to a
system of rewards rather than every man
according to his ability and receiving ac-
cording to his needs, because the other
will not work.
At a time that we find them moving-
and, may I say, others who are trying the
total socialist approach-moving our
way, we could make no greater mistake
than to move their way.
What are the economic miracles in the
world today? Japan: a different system
from ours in terms of government, but
relying very, very heavily on private en-
terprise, private incentives. Germany: a
different system from ours in terms of
government, but again, private enterprise
oriented, private incentives.
And here is the United States of Amer-
ica. At this particular time, as we look
around the world, we should not turn
away from what is really the great source
of our strength.
Now, I have mentioned the personal
health that is very important, the health
of our environment, the health of our
economy; I should also touch upon the
health of government. Government in this
country needs some major surgery; it is
too fat. It has in many cases too many
useless limbs; some need to be chopped
off. Certainly it needs to be reduced in
size. And most of all, of course, it needs
an infusion of leadership and responsibility
at local and State levels which is going
to be essential if you are going to have
improvement of government in this
country.
That is why revenue sharing, that is
why government reorganization are very
high on our agenda. There is not much
sex appeal in these programs unless you
talk to mayors or Governors or county
officials who say, "Please give us the
money or we cannot pay our payrolls."
But on the other hand, they are enor-
mously important because the United
States cannot go into this last third of a
century of competition, when we are going
809
