Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
acts of force against North Vietnam. We
agreed to NLF participation in the Paris
talks. We agreed to the principle of with-
drawal and made initial withdrawals of
American troops. We made substantial
withdrawals, soon to total 265,000. We
agreed in principle to remove all our
troops. We took a series of de-escalatory
steps, such as cutting back our B-52 and
tactical air sorties. And we appointed a
new senior negotiator in Paris.
These steps, except for the bombing
halt, were unilateral measures, designed
not only to reduce our involvement, but
also to open the door to negotiations.
Each of them was urged by the other side
as a constructive contribution. None of
them has generated movement by the
other side.
In an effort to make progress in Paris,
we have offered broad proposals for a
negotiated solution to the
the war. On
May 14, 1969, I proposed a plan which
would remove all outside forces from
South Vietnam and allow the people
freely to decide their political future
through internationally supervised elec-
tions. On July 11, 1969, President Thieu
invited the other side to participate in
the political life of South Vietnam.
These proposals laid out the frame-
work for what we believed would be a
resolution of the conflict equitable to all
parties. We recognized, however, that a
political settlement was the heart of the
matter; it is what the fighting has been
all about. And we knew that the other
side suspected the electoral process and
doubted that it would have a fair chance
at political power.
We thus moved to define more pre-
cisely the political solution we envisaged.
On April 20, 1970, I set forth the prin-
ciples that we think should govern a fair
political settlement in South Vietnam:
-A political solution must reflect the
will of the South Vietnamese people
and allow them to determine their
future without outside interference.
-A fair political solution should re-
flect the existing relationship of polit-
ical forces within South Vietnam.
-We will abide by the outcome of the
political process agreed upon.
Having defined our principles on the
central political issue, we looked for a
comprehensive approach that might pro-
vide both the structure and stimulus for
genuine negotiations. During the Cam-
bodian operations I ordered a thorough
review within the government of all pos-
sible initiatives that might engage the
other side in meaningful dialogue. After
summer-long studies and meetings, on
October 7, 1970, I presented a broad five-
point peace plan with the concurrence
of the governments of South Vietnam,
Laos and Cambodia:
-An internationally supervised cease-
fire-in-place throughout Indochina,
governed by principles which would
make it acceptable and credible to
both sides. This was designed to stop
the fighting at once and hopefully
create new conditions and avenues
for a negotiated settlement.
-An Indochina Peace Conference.
This reflected the facts that North
Vietnamese forces were in Laos and
Cambodia as well as Vietnam and
that a stable peace in one required
a stable
peace in all.
-The withdrawal of all American
forces from South Vietnam on a
timetable to be negotiated as part of
an overall settlement. This was to
make clear that we were prepared to
remove all American troops.
71-234-72—20
253
