[222] July 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
to have to be at our best, with an un-
healthy government structure. We have
got to thin it down; we have got to get it
ready for the race. It is not ready for the
race. That is why at the present time we
are strongly advocating these changes.
There is one other kind of health that
the Nation needs. I don't want to sound
here like a moralist or a preacher, al-
though I have great respect for preachers
and moralists. This Nation needs moral
health. By moral health, I use the term
in a very broad sense.
Don Rumsfeld, I know, has addressed
himself to the problem of drugs and, I as-
sume, law enforcement. I have stated
categorically, and I state it again here
today, that in this Administration the era
of permissiveness in law enforcement has
come to an end. We are going to continue
to support strong laws dealing with crim-
inal elements; we are going to continue
to support law enforcement officials up
and down this land; and we are going to
continue to have a program that will re-
duce the rise in crime and eventually
reverse it.
One of our most substantial achieve-
ments has been that in cities over 100,000,
that in 61 of them the crime rate went
down in the last quarter, and in the city
of Washington it went down for the first
time in almost 20 years. Now this kind of
progress is, of course, significant-more
needs to be made.
Let me now address myself to the nar-
row, but in a sense, decisive issue of drug
control. I will not elaborate on what Don
Rumsfeld said, except to say that we are
dealing very effectively with the prob-
lem at its source. Our arrangement with
the Government of Turkey: to the great
credit of the Turkish Prime Minister and
his Government, we have, of course,
stopped that source, and it will be totally
stopped by June of next year. We are deal-
ing with it through a better law enforce-
ment; we are dealing with it also in terms
of rehabilitation.
But the fundamental problem in terms
of drugs goes far beyond that. You can
stop the source of supply in one country,
and if there is enough demand they will
grow it someplace else. You can have the
strongest laws possible, and if there is
enough demand and enough use, you are
just going to have to add more officials.
So what we really need here in this
instance is to get at the fundamental
cause, and the fundamental cause has to
do, as all of you know, has to do with
basically a problem in our society. This
we must recognize: The problem is no
longer a black problem, it is no longer
a ghetto problem; it never was, as a
matter of fact, although it was predomi-
nant in many of these areas. It is one that
has moved now to the suburbs; it has
moved to the upper middle class and the
upper class as well. It is particularly a
problem among younger people. It is not
limited to veterans. It is one which goes
far beyond that. All these things we know.
The real problem, fundamentally, gets
down to why; why do people take them?
And there we find the fundamental chal-
lenge of our time, a challenge that opinion
leaders have to meet. If individuals have
something to live for, if individuals have
something to believe in, then the tendency
to throw up their hands, to retreat, to give
up on life, is substantially reduced.
But as a society comes to the point
where there is negativism, defeatism, a
sense of alienation, it is inevitable that
younger people will give up. They will
turn to drugs, to any other kind of activity
that is, of course, disruptive of the society.
810
