Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 8 [384]
private plans and these benefits total about
$7 billion annually. More than $140 bil-
lion has been accumulated by these plans
to pay retirement benefits in the future.
But there is still much room for expand-
ing and strengthening our private pension
system.
Three groups in our society have a tre-
mendous direct stake in the growth and
improvement of private pensions. The first
is made up of that 50 percent of American
wage earners who are not in private group
plans at the present time and who have
no tax incentive for investing in retire-
ment savings as individuals. The second
group includes those who are enrolled in
group plans which provide benefits for
their retirement needs which they regard
as insufficient or which do not ensure that
the benefits which are accumulating while
they work will actually be made available
when they retire. If we meet the problems
of these two groups today, we will also be
taking a giant stride toward improving
the quality of life tomorrow for an im-
portant third segment of our population
to which they will eventually belong: the
retired Americans whose independence
and dignity depend in large measure on
an adequate post-retirement income.
Older persons have spoken eloquently
about the need for pension reform, espe-
cially at the White House Conference on
Aging, which was recently held in Wash-
ington. It is clear that our efforts to re-
form and expand our income maintenance
systems must now be complemented by an
effort to reform and expand private re-
tirement programs.
The five-point program I present today
includes three new legislative proposals, a
renewed endorsement of an earlier pro-
posal, and a major study project which
could lead to further legislation.
1. Employees who wish to save inde-
pendently for their retirement or to sup-
plement employer-financed pensions
should be allowed to deduct on their in-
come tax returns amounts set aside for
these purposes.
Today only 30 million employees
are covered by private retirement plans.
This fact alone demonstrates the need
to encourage greater private saving for
retirement.
Under present law, both the contribu-
tions which an employer makes to a quali-
fied private retirement plan on behalf of
his employees and the investment earnings
on those contributions are generally not
subject to taxes until they are paid to the
employee or to his beneficiaries. The tax
liability on investment earnings is also
deferred when an employee contributes to
a group plan, though in this case the con-
tribution itself is taxable. But when an
employee saves independently for his own
retirement, both his contribution and the
investment earnings on such savings are
currently subject to taxes.
This inequity discourages individual
self-reliance and slows the growth of pri-
vate retirement savings. It places an unfair
burden on those employees (especially
older workers) who want to establish a
pension plan or augment an employer-
financed plan. To provide such persons
with the same opportunities now available
to others, I therefore ask the Congress to
make contributions to retirement savings
programs by individuals deductible up to
the level of $1500 per year or 20% of
income, whichever is less. Individuals
would retain the power to control the in-
vestment of these funds, channeling them
into bank accounts, mutual funds, annuity
or insurance programs, government bonds,
or into other investments as they desire.
1169
