Appendix B
November
15 The chairmen and ranking Republicans on
the Senate and House Appropriations Com-
mittees and representatives of the biparti-
san leadership met with the President at
the White House to discuss the status of
continuing resolutions for the Office of
Economic Opportunity, the District of
Columbia, the Agency for International
Development, and certain elements of the
Defense budget.
16 Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
met with the President at the White House
to discuss the problems of East Pakistan
refugees and the administration of the in-
ternational efforts to relieve their suffering.
24 The President met with Peter Wilson,
mayor-elect of San Diego.
25 From the Western White House, the Presi-
dent spoke by telephone with Prime Min-
ister Edward Heath of the United Kingdom.
Their discussions included the India-Pakis-
tan situation, negotiations taking place
between Great Britain and Rhodesia, and
the President's upcoming trips to Peking
and Moscow.
26 The President today announced the trans-
fer of additional Federal lands to local
jurisdiction as part of his "Legacy of Parks"
program. Included are lands in Puerto Rico,
Maine, New Jersey, California, Michigan,
Tennessee, Massachusetts, Iowa, and
North Carolina.
30 Counsellor to the President Robert H.
Finch met with the President at the White
House to present a preliminary report on
his recent trip to Latin America.
30 The President has sent a letter to the Pres-
ident of the Senate and the Speaker of the
House of Representatives informing them
as required by law that he has signed a
determination that it is in the national
interest for the Export-Import Bank of the
United States to guarantee, insure, extend
credit, and participate in the extension of
credit in connection with the purchase or
lease of any product or service by, for use
in, or for sale or lease to the Socialist
Republic of Romania.
December
1 During his visit to Chicago, the President
met with a group of editors of farm
publications.
2 Gordon Metcalf, chairman of Sears Roe-
buck and Company, and William Batten,
chairman of J. C. Penney Company, met
with the President at the White House.
2 Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel met
with the President at the White House.
2 The President telephoned former Speaker of
the House John W. McCormack to express
condolences on the death of Mrs.
McCormack, and designated Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare Elliot L.
Richardson to represent him at the funeral
services.
6 The President breakfasted with Senators
Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott and Rep-
resentatives Carl Albert, Gerald Ford, and
Hale Boggs to discuss legislative schedules
prior to the expected adjournment of the
Congress.
6 Ambassadors Sharif Thajeb of Indonesia,
Badreddine Senoussi of Morocco, Nawab-
zada Agha Mohammad Raza of Pakistan,
and João Hall Themido of Portugal pre-
sented their credentials to the President in
ceremonies at the White House.
6 The President attended a meeting of the
Domestic Council for a discussion of rev-
enue sharing and the role of State and local
governments in policy development and
planning. Present for the meeting were
representatives of the U.S. Conference of
Mayors, the National League of Cities, the
International City Management Associa-
tion, the National Association of Counties,
the National Governors' Conference, and
the Council of State Governments.
6 The President met with the Quadriad at
the White House. Donald Rumsfeld, Coun-
sellor to the President and Director of the
Cost of Living Council, attended the meet-
ing to brief the Quadriad on the economic
stabilization program.
1267
