[183] May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
period when we have so many other pri-
orities do we spend $30 million on the
arts?"
I asked him, “How do you answer this
question when you talk to somebody who
is in a deprived area of a city or of rural
America? How do you answer it to those
who live in a ghetto?"
He
gave me an answer, an answer that
I share with you, one that you probably
already know. He said, "Let me tell you
what we have used the major portion of
the funds for, that have been allocated to
southern California. We have used them
for the purpose of bringing the arts to
those areas of Los Angeles and other parts
of southern California where not simply
those children who are in schools from
upper-income families live, but particu-
larly emphasizing those children who
come from the lower-income families."
He told me and I am sure I am not
exaggerating what he said-that as a re-
sult of the program in southern California
which we support as a government, which
you support individually, that there were
literally thousands of schoolchildren from
Watts who had been brought to musical
entertainments, to other kinds of activi-
ties in the field of painting, et cetera, as far
as the arts are concerned, who otherwise
would never have an opportunity to have
this kind of experience.
This doesn't mean that all of them will
become artists. It doesn't mean that all
of them will become wealthy enough to
support the arts. But it does mean that
some of them, some who otherwise might
never be taken on this mountain top, get
a new view of life, a life they can never
get living in that ghetto, a life that they
could never get through the other things
that we want to provide.
We can provide the housing. We can
provide the education. We can provide
the medical care. We can provide mass
transit for transportation. But unless we
reach the quality of life through activities
like this, we have not met our responsi-
bility to all the people of this country.
That, to me, was one of the most
dramatic stories that I have heard.
Now, I hope I can get that kind of a
response when I try to sell it to some re-
calcitrant Congressmen and Senators on
the Appropriations Committee.
I can assure you, however, that when
I fail to make a sale, Nancy Hanks al-
ways makes the sale.
One of the most promising develop-
ments during these first years of the arts
Endowment has been the extent to which
Federal funds, far from replacing local
and private funds, which as you know
many thought would be the case, have
actually stimulated a greater flow from
other sources.
It is essential that this pattern be con-
tinued, that we maintain and strengthen
the working partnership among the gov-
ernmental and private efforts in support
of the arts.
I would also stress one other point,
which I know has been of concern to
many of you here at this conference, and
that is: In its relation to the arts, the role
of government should not be simply that
of patron. Government uses the arts, and
I think we can learn to use them more
creatively; government supports the arts,
and we are moving to support them more
broadly.
But government also needs the ideas
of artists, not only the special perceptions
they so often bring but also the artistic
and aesthetic values for which they speak.
Concerned as we constantly are with
the economic and social development of
678
