[25] Jan. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
realignment of the field operations of the
principal Federal agencies concerned with
social programs into ten standard regions,
and relocation of the regional headquar-
ters for these agencies in the same city in
each region. Thus, you and your staff
will now be able, for the first time, to deal
with the most senior field officials of the
Departments of HEW, HUD, and Labor
and the OEO and Small Business Admin-
istration, all in Kansas City.
Furthermore, I have directed that the
regional directors of HEW, HUD, the
Manpower Administration, OEO, and the
regional representatives of the Secretary
of Transportation in each of these head-
quarters cities, convene themselves as a
Federal Regional Council. These Coun-
cils are to develop and maintain close
working relationships with State and lo-
cal governments, to coordinate their grant
programs in a manner responsive to other
levels of government, and when neces-
sary, to convene their counterparts from
other Federal departments and agencies
to develop means to react better to specific
regional, State and local problems.
I expect Council members to be espe-
cially attentive to the needs of the chief
executives of State and local govern-
ments. The Kansas City Regional Coun-
cil will welcome your views regarding the
relationship of Federal grant programs to
your State, and also on ways to increase
the effectiveness of the Federal-State
partnership in the solution of our do-
mestic problems.
If you have not already done so, I hope
you will take the opportunity to meet with
the Kansas City Regional Council, and
to discuss with its members our efforts to
restore a better balance between the State
capitals and the National capital. I am
sure you will find them both interested
and cooperative.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Robert D. Ray, Governor of Iowa,
Des Moines, Iowa]
NOTE: A similar letter was sent to each of the
Governors of the States and Territories.
For statements about the standardizing of
regional boundaries, see 1969 volume, Items
134 and 208.
26 Annual Message to the Congress on the State of the
Union. January 22, 1971
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, my colleagues
in the Congress, our distinguished guests,
my fellow Americans:
As this 92d Congress begins its session,
America has lost a great Senator, and all
of us who had the privilege to know him
have lost a loyal friend. I had the privilege
of visiting Senator Russell in the hospital
just a few days before he died. He never
spoke about himself. He only spoke elo-
quently about the need for a strong na-
tional defense.
In tribute to one of the most magnificent
Americans of all time, I respectfully ask
that all those here will rise in silent prayer
for Senator Russell.
[Moment of silence]
Thank you.
Mr. Speaker, before I begin my formal
address, I want to use this opportunity to
congratulate all of those who were win-
ners in the rather spirited contest for
leadership positions in the House and the
Senate and, also, to express my condo-
lences to the losers. I know how both of
you feel.
50
