Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 25 [303]
the primary subject of interest, as I went
down the fence and shook hands with
peo-
ple, among the farmers there--"What can
do about the dock strike?"
you
I indicated that the national interest
was very deeply involved, that many peo-
ple were being hurt, not just big business
but small farmers as well as large farmers,
and that I considered it imperative that
management and labor work with a new
sense of urgency toward a settlement.
After the meeting was concluded, the
two agreed that they would begin again
their discussions on Monday morning at
9 o'clock, that they would have in mind
the sense of urgency that I had tried to
communicate to them, and that they
would set, as a goal, reaching a settle-
ment by the end of next week.
I say they said they would set that as a
goal. They also pointed out that they were
still far apart on some issues. I will simply
close my comments with regard to the
dock strike by saying that in this par-
ticular area, as you have already been
informed in the media briefing this morn-
ing, I understand, we have made recom-
mendations to the Congress for new
legislation dealing with transportation
generally.
I think what has happened in this dis-
pute, coupled with what happened in the
railroad dispute, indicates the urgency for
consideration of that legislation, because
the country cannot continue to afford
stoppages in these key areas which do not
reach, in the case of the dock strike, at
times, the requirements for imposition of
Taft-Hartley-although Taft-Hartley is a
possibility here if the situation goes on—
but which nevertheless cause very great
injury to many people in our society.
Now, having said all these things, I can
only add that I am convinced that the two
men that I met with recognize the sense
of urgency; that they are going to nego-
tiate as well as they possibly can; that they
have to, of course, represent their prin-
cipals and convince them in the process.
I trust that the Presidential interven-
tion at least will help them in conveying
to their principals, the ones that they
represent, the need to reach a hasty settle-
ment for the strike.
Now, I understand that during the
course of the day you have had rather long
sessions on domestic policy, and have
asked a great number of questions. Nor-
mally on these media briefings I have
wound them up by talking on the same
subject and trying to summarize the views
that I understand have been touched
upon by various speakers earlier.
Today, since you have had such a long
session, it has occurred to me that in view
of the fact that I am on my way, as you
know, for a meeting with the Emperor of
Japan in Alaska, the first meeting in his-
tory with the President of the United
States and the Emperor of Japan partici-
pating, that it might be of greater interest
and value to the members of the press
that are here if I would have questions
from you on any subject that you like.
You can cover, of course, the subjects
that have been touched upon in the brief-
ing. I will be glad to respond to those in
the event you would like additional infor-
mation on those subjects, but I will be
glad to also take questions in the foreign
policy field or other areas of interest to
the extent that our time permits.
So with that we will go to the questions.
And if each of you-while we are not on
987
