Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 18 [272]
squeeze that has dogged our economy
since the early Vietnam years. Again and
again as I have talked with farm families
across this country, they have emphasized
one overriding need-the need to put a
lid on prices: prices of equipment, of seed,
and of fertilizer for the farmer, and prices
of every item in the household budget for
his wife. Inflation has penalized the
farmer coming and going. We mean to
lift that penalty, and to replace it with a
new prosperity that will reward him com-
ing and going.
In both an economic and a spiritual
sense, the pride and the energy of rural
America have provided a firm foundation
for our national strength since our coun-
try's earliest days. Now, as we enter a new
era of testing, we will again be relying
heavily on the skill and the resourceful-
ness of America's farmers.
No other segment of America's econ-
omy can match the rise in productivity of
American agriculture during recent years.
I am confident that American farmers and
American agriculture will continue their
remarkable performance in the months
and
years ahead-and will continue to set
an example for our Nation. That is one
important reason why I am confident that
our country will continue to hold its place
as the economic leader of the world.
NOTE: The statement was released at Spring-
field, Ill.
272 Remarks on Arrival at Idaho Falls, Idaho.
August 18, 1971
THANK you very much. I want to tell
you how very grateful I am for this won-
derful welcome you have given my
daughter Julie and me to Idaho Falls.
I think it would be of very great in-
terest to all of you, even though you are
from Idaho, for you to have the oppor-
tunity to meet some of the distinguished
leaders from your State who are here, be-
cause I would like to have them stand
up here in this beautiful Idaho day, and
also to show just what a bipartisan trip
this is.
Governor Andrus, step up here for a
bow. Glad to see you. Now, I checked
all the places-he is from Boise, so treat
him real nice.
Senator Frank Church. Boise, also.
Here is another Boise man.
And the former Governor and now the
Senator, Len Jordan. Boise, also. Len.
Now we have a man from Idaho Falls,
a Congressman, Orval Hansen.
And the mayor, I know, is from Boise,
Eddie Pedersen. Where is he? Oh, I am
sorry-Idaho Falls.
MAYOR PEDERSEN. That is really some-
thing that they have to go to Boise to get
a mayor. How about that? It proves that
you are human.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. I know
what town I am in-I am in Idaho Falls.
MAYOR PEDERSEN. That is right. Thank
Mr. President.
you,
THE PRESIDENT. And then another
very distinguished guest we have today,
the Secretary of the Interior. Now actu-
ally, he comes from the Eastern Shore of
Maryland-which is considered to be
East, but people in Maryland consider it
kind of South-but as far as the Secretary
of the Interior is concerned, he really loves
903
