Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 12 [328]
Q. Both?
THE PRESIDENT. Both.
Q. Sir, you are going to have a woman
on there, aren't you? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I would simply add
that I don't rule out Senator Byrd, and I
certainly don't rule out a woman for
consideration.
Incidentally, the speculation with re-
gard to the Court, I know, is naturally a
subject of very great interest, but I can
assure you that the dope stories that a
man is certain to get it and then a dope
story this morning, he is out of the run-
ning—both are wrong.
Senator Byrd, as a result of several of
his colleagues recommending him, is one
that is being considered. And I will also
say in answer to Mrs. McClendon's [Sarah
McClendon, Sarah McClendon News
Service] question that at least two women
are under consideration at this time.
EXPECTATIONS FOR THE VISITS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, to clarify your
expectations on the Moscow visit, it would
be equally your expectation to have sig-
nificant talks with Chairman Mao in
Peking rather than meetings with Chou
En-lai or ceremonial meetings with the
Chairman?
THE PRESIDENT. The question as to
what kind of meetings will take place in
Peking will be worked out by Dr.
Kissinger when he is there. There will, of
course, be meetings with Chou En-lai. I
would assume that there would be meet-
ings with the Chairman. However, in each
system, the Soviet system and the Chinese
system, the question as to which individual
should cover which subject varies, and, of
course, I will be prepared to meet with
whatever leader in the Soviet Union or
whatever leader in the People's Republic
of China has the responsibility for the
particular subjects that we have in mind.
For example, take the Soviet. It may
well be that Chairman Brezhnev may have
the responsibility in certain political or
foreign policy areas. It might be that
Prime Minister Kosygin would have re-
sponsibility in trade areas. I am not trying
to say what they have decided, but we
are prepared, and both governments
know that we are prepared, for me to
meet with the head of government or the
Chairman of the party, or any other that
they designate who has responsibility.
I should also point out that the Secre-
tary of State will accompany me to both
Moscow and Peking; Dr. Kissinger will
accompany me, and it will be a small
working group. And meetings will take
place not only between the President and
various leaders on their side but between
the Secretary of State and their people
designated by them on their side.
We expect to have a very busy, working
visit, not a ceremonial visit. Ceremony, I
should indicate, will be at an absolute
minimum in both the Soviet Union and in
the People's Republic.
I emphasize again, the purpose of both
visits is not simply cosmetics. We are not
taking a trip for the sake of taking a trip.
The purpose of these visits is, at the very
highest level, to attempt to make progress
in negotiating in areas where there are
very significant differences differences
between us and the People's Republic,
differences between us and the Soviet
Union.
I should emphasize, too, that in point-
ing out the progress we have made with
the Soviet Union, that Mr. Gromyko and
I agreed that we still have very great dif-
ferences. We do not expect all those dif-
1035
