Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [260]
260 Remarks to Patients and Staff at Greenbriar
Nursing Home, Nashua, New Hampshire.
August 6, 1971
Governor Peterson, Senator Cotton, Sena-
tor McIntyre, Congressman Cleveland,
Congressman Wyman, and ladies and
gentlemen:
I have just had the opportunity to visit
a number of the patients in this nursing
home, and also, just as important, to meet
a great many members of the staff. You
see representatives of both groups here,
with the members of the staff behind.
In my brief remarks I would like to
tell you why, first, we came to this, of all
of the thousands of institutions of this
type around the country that we could
have selected. This institution has been
selected as among the top 10 percent in all
of America in terms of quality, in terms,
also, of the services that are provided for
the funds that are provided by those who
are the patients.
We selected one of the best to come to
because, by selecting the best, we want it
to be an example for others throughout
the Nation. Some of you may recall that
in Chicago, in speaking to the American
Association of Retired Persons a few
weeks ago,
I referred to the fact that there
were many institutions of this type for
older people and disabled people that
were a disgrace, and that it was absolutely
essential that the Federal Government do
everything that it could through its pro-
grams to upgrade them, upgrade them
so that people in the last years of their
lives who live in places like this, institu-
tions like this, could have a good life and
not a life of hopelessness and desperation.
We have that program now initiated. I
have issued a major statement here today
in Nashua concerning the new initiatives
that the Administration is taking to use
the power of the Federal Government,
through inspection and through the pro-
grams where we provide financial assist-
ance, to see to it that these institutions
throughout the country have a higher
standard than they presently have.
So we have come to one of the best to
show what can be done, not only with
money but also, particularly, what can
be done with regard to the personnel.
As I went through this building, and
as Mrs. Nixon went through it, we were
very inspired to meet those who are the
patients here. Here are some of them
back here. They are in wheelchairs. You
would think that they would have a hope-
less, despairing attitude about life, but as
a matter of fact, I went in to cheer them
up; they cheered me up, because they feel
that they have good care, and also they
have an optimistic attitude about life.
Now, there is a reason for that. One,
because of their own character, which
comes from this New England soil in
which most of them have grown up, but
also, the other reason is because the nurses
and all the others who work in this in-
stitution are proud to work here, and
because they do not treat these patients as
a burden. As they go from one to the other,
they try to make each day a happier day
for them.
Accompanying me on this trip today in
addition to the distinguished Members of
the Senate and the House of Represent-
atives, and the Governor who is here, is
the wife of one of the most powerful men
881
