[81] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
to, as I was going down the line at the
airport, with a couple who said they were
from California. They had lived there for
approximately 10 years, and they said,
"We moved back to North Dakota." And
I said, "Why did you leave in the first
place?" They said, "There was nothing to
do here." I said, "Why did you move
back?" He says, "Because the company
we were with, they had a branch plant
here. We wanted to live here. We liked to
live here. We would prefer to live here if
there was something to do."
Now, some would prefer to live perhaps
in California; some in some other city, or
however the case might be. But what we
must at least provide is the opportunity
in rural America for a person to make a
decent living, to have adequate education,
to have adequate health facilities, to have
the infrastructure which will allow the
attraction of business opportunities and
so forth; what we need to do is to have
that kind of program or we are going to
continue to have this growing problem of
urban America becoming less and less
governable, and rural America emptying,
as I have already indicated, without hav-
ing any of the hope that it should have
and without all of what it could thereby
contribute to the country.
I would just close on one personal note.
I speak with some feeling on this subject
because I believe that out here in what is
called the heartland of the country there
is something more than simply the rich-
est agricultural land in the world or at
least the most productive. I think there
are certain values, values that we also see
in our great cities, but values that are par-
ticularly evident here, that are worth
preserving.
I somewhat come from the heartland,
my mother from Indiana, my father from
Ohio. And I remember after their family
was raised that both my mother and father
decided to go back to a farm. And they
went to Pennsylvania and lived there dur-
ing many of their last years while I was
serving in the House and Senate and later
as Vice President.
I do not mean to suggest by that that
everybody should return to the farm when
he gets older. I do not mean to suggest
by that that life in the city is necessarily
corrupt and less admirable than life in the
country.
But I do know this: That there is a
quality of life, a quality out through this
great heartland of the Nation, that is
worth preserving, if we are to have a bal-
anced, strong, healthy country.
I do not want to see America lose that
quality of life. I think we can do some-
thing about it. I think we have got to start,
first of all, with the farmer. Without a
healthy, strong agricultural economy, we
cannot have any rural program that will
stand up.
But, then, we have to supplement that
with some new initiatives, as I have indi-
cated, initiatives that you will now hear,
initiatives that are truly new, new in the
sense that for the first time we focus on
the problem of rural America, we put
more money on those problems, and we
focus in a way that this area of the country
gets at least equal attention, and, because
in the past it has been somewhat behind,
somewhat more attention than even urban
America.
This is good for urban America. We
trust it will be good for rural America.
But you will have to be the judges.
I will now have my panel of experts try
to convince you that what I have said has
some element of truth in it.
Thank you.
366
