[295] Sept. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
nations signed the convention on that day.
The United Nations also took significant
action to deal with other world concerns
such as population control, the protection
of our environment, and the use of the
seas and seabed. We expect much more to
be done.
In its peacekeeping role during 1970,
the United Nations played a major part
in encouraging better relations among the
states of the Middle East, including an
agreement to a new cease-fire which has
been vital to maintaining the peace in
that critical area of the world. UN forces
and observers also continued to help keep
the peace in the troubled areas of Cyprus
and Kashmir. As the search continued for
better methods of preserving the peace,
the General Assembly on the last day of
the 25th anniversary commemorative ses-
sion, approved by acclamation a Declara-
tion on Friendly Relations among States.
These were only a part of the broad
spectrum of developments and accom-
plishments during 1970. It is gratifying,
therefore, to add this volume to the record
of U.S. participation in the United
Nations.
The White House
September 20, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "U.S. Participation in the UN, Report
by the President to the Congress for the Year
1970" (Government Printing Office, 235 pp.).
On July 9, 1971, the President signed
Proclamation 4066 proclaiming October 24 as
United Nations Day, 1971.
296 Message to the Senate Transmitting Agreement
Between the United States and Japan Concerning the
Ryukyu and the Daito Islands.
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting for the Senate's ad-
vice and consent to ratification the Agree-
ment between the United States of
America and Japan concerning the Ryu-
kyu Islands and the Daito Islands, signed
at Washington and Tokyo on June 17,
1971. The Agreement was negotiated in
accordance with the understandings I
reached with Prime Minister Sato during
my meetings with him in November 1969.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the following related
documents:
Agreed Minutes,
Memorandum of Understanding con-
cerning Article III,
Exchange of notes concerning the
September 21, 1971
Voice of America facility in
Okinawa,
Exchange of notes concerning sub-
merged lands,
Letter from Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs Kiichi Aichi to Ambassador
Meyer concerning treatment of for-
eign nationals and firms,
Memorandum of Understanding on air
services to and through Okinawa;
and
The Arrangement concerning Assump-
tion by Japan of the Responsibil-
ity for the Immediate Defense of
Okinawa.
The enclosed report from the Secretary
of State describes the Agreement and the
related documents.
When Prime Minister Sato arrived in
962
