Richard Nixon, 1971
July 3 [220]
So with that, I am honored to be here,
to break into your graduation ceremony
to reassure you and all of the men in law
enforcement throughout the country of
the support you have at the very highest
levels in government for your work-
your work which is sometimes dangerous,
sometimes underpaid but, believe me,
deeply appreciated.
The Nation is in your debt for what
you are willing to do, and I am honored
to speak for the entire Nation in saying
to you congratulations, wishing you well,
and seeing that this Nation is one in which
we will have respect for law, in which
the American people can have freedom
from fear.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:42 a.m. in
the Departmental Auditorium at the Depart-
ment of Labor to graduates of the 87th session
of the Academy.
219 Statement About Ratification of the 26th Amendment
to the Constitution. June 30, 1971
TONIGHT Ohio's Legislature ratified
the 26th Amendment to the Constitution.
This Amendment guarantees the right of
18-year-old persons to vote in State and
local, as well as Federal, elections. It ap-
pears that 38 States have now ratified the
Amendment that will now become a part
of the law of the land.
Some 11 million young men and women
who have participated in the life of our
Nation through their work, their studies,
and their sacrifices for its defense, are now
to be fully included in the electoral process
of our country.
For more than 20 years, I have advo-
220
cated the 18-year-old vote. I heartily con-
gratulate our young citizens on having
gained this right.
The ratification of this Amendment has
been accomplished in the shortest time
of any amendment in American history.
This fact affirms our Nation's confidence
in its youth and its trust in their responsi-
bility. It also reinforces our young people's
dedication to a system of government
whose Constitution permits ordered
change.
I urge them to honor this right by exer-
cising it by registering and voting in each
election.
Remarks of the President, Chief Justice Warren E.
Burger, and Speaker of the House Carl Albert at
a Ceremony Opening the American Revolution
Bicentennial Era. July 3, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief
Justice, and our very distinguished guests:
We are, in this room, in the presence
of some immortal phrases: All men are
created equal; government derives its
powers from the consent of the governed;
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
These are familiar words-perhaps too
familiar. Because the real meaning of the
words of independence is the meaning we
793
