[380] Dec. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
agriculture well, but that he will serve
America well.
For those who are here from the Senate,
and who did participate in the debate, let
me say that we realize that the advice and
consent of the Senate serves a very useful
purpose because it really proves what a
man has. A man like Earl Butz, who could
take the shots that he has and then come
out stronger than ever, will be a better
Secretary of Agriculture for the fight he
has been through. I think he is going to
do a great job.
Now, as the dean of agriculture in the
Senate and the country, George, would
you say a word for the new Secretary. Do
you think I made a good choice?
SENATOR AIKEN. I think you made a
good choice and I think that the Senate
decided rightly. The one thing that is
bothering me standing here in front of all
the cameras, is the Cranston amendment
to the wage-hour law, which has exempted
the Eastman Kodak and other camera-
men. [Laughter]
No, I think that Earl is going to do all
right, and I was worried over the Depart-
ment if you didn't get a Secretary who
could help you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. And now
I would like to ask the senior member of
the Cabinet, the Secretary of State, if you
would say a word, too, for your new
colleague.
Bill.
SECRETARY ROGERS. I am very pleased,
of course, to welcome the new Secretary
of Agriculture. I had a very close rela-
tionship with the last one.¹
SECRETARY BUTZ. I have no daughters.
¹ Secretary Rogers' son, Douglas, was married
to former Secretary of Agriculture Hardin's
daughter, Nancy, on January 31, 1970.
SECRETARY ROGERS. Well, it is good I
have no sons left.
THE PRESIDENT. What about grand-
children?
SECRETARY ROGERS. But I know that we
all share the expressions which the Presi-
dent has just given, and those of us who
had the privilege of serving President
Eisenhower and working with you, sub-
scribe very heartily to the things the
President has just said.
There is no doubt in our minds that you
will do an outstanding job, and on behalf
of all the members of the Cabinet, let me
say to you and Mrs. Butz how delighted
we are that you are with us.
SECRETARY BUTZ. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. And now, Mr. Sec-
retary, you are recognized.
SECRETARY BUTZ. Mr. President, Mrs.
Nixon, and Mrs. Butz-who got here just
about 5 minutes before we came in the
room, on a late flight from Lafayette. I
phoned her at 11:00 in Lafayette; she
lives 65 miles from the airport at Indian-
apolis.
THE PRESIDENT. But the vote wasn't
until 1:00. Were you that confident?
[Laughter] She knew more than I did.
[Laughter]
SECRETARY BUTZ. I said a car will be
there at 12:00 to pick you up to take you
to Indianapolis. She said, "What day?” I
said, "Today."
It is a real pleasure being here, Mr.
President. Three weeks ago on Novem-
ber 11, when you said this was the tough-
est job in Washington, I didn't realize
what a master of understatement you
were.
The experience I have had in the last 2
weeks leads me to believe that the United
States Senate took you too seriously on this
1162
