[342] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
In your last year's message on the foreign
policy of your country, you stated so eloquently
and rightly that the edifice of peace could not
stand if all nations did not take part in its con-
struction and if, in all this, they failed to discern
their own interests as well. This is precisely the
demand put forward by the largest number of
countries which support negotiations, while
insisting, at the same time, on their own par-
ticipation in the solving of acute problems. I
feel that we can all agree, Mr. President, that
in a world of indivisible peace and freedom,
peace and freedom for all can only be the work
of all.
The strengthening of the United Nations is,
in our opinion, the best way to achieve this.
That is why we consider that we all should
jointly exert efforts in order to insure that the
world organization should become the actual ex-
pression of the interests and will of the entire
international community. The recently adopted
important decision on the inclusion of almost
one-third of mankind into the United Nations
is a decisive contribution to its universality, and
it is in accord with current significant actions
aimed at establishing contacts and dialogue be-
tween all, conducive to peace and stability in
the world.
Yugoslavia is particularly interested in
détente and security in Europe and in the de-
343
velopment of the broadest cooperation among
all European states. Positive processes and
achievements have already taken place-as I
have just mentioned-in certain parts of Eu-
rope. It is our desire, however, that this should
also come to pass on the continent as a whole,
including the regions directly linked to Europe,
such as the Mediterranean and the Middle
East.
Dear friend, we can state, therefore, that
there exist good reasons for and mutual needs
in developing relations between our two coun-
tries. Our relations are traditionally good; we
were allies in great wars against the common
enemy; generations of our emigrants have taken
part in the great construction of the United
States. I am confident that we can go much
further in expanding our cooperation.
We shall be gratified if this visit and our
talks, too, will contribute to the further de-
velopment of friendly relations and ties be-
tween our Governments, countries, and peoples.
I propose this toast, Mr. President, to your
and Mrs. Nixon's personal health and hap-
piness, to lasting friendship between Yugoslavia
and the United States, and to the well-being
and prosperity of the American people.
I propose to rise in toast to the President
of America and Mrs. Nixon for long life,
happiness, and health.
Joint Statement Following Discussions With President
Tito of Yugoslavia. October 30, 1971
AT THE invitation of the President of
the United States of America, Richard
Nixon, the President of the Socialist Fed-
eral Republic of Yugoslavia, Josip Broz
Tito, accompanied by Mrs. Broz and their
party, is paying a State visit to the United
States. Following their Washington stay
from October 28 to October 30, 1971,
President Tito and Mrs. Broz and their
party are to visit several points of in-
terest in other parts of the country, re-
maining in the United States until
November 2, 1971.
The meetings between the two Presi-
dents, which took place in a cordial, frank
and friendly atmosphere, provided the
opportunity for comprehensive discus-
sion of the principal issues on the current
international scene. Full and mutual re-
spect was accorded the views expressed
by both sides in the talks, which covered
areas of agreement and areas where dif-
ferences existed. Each side presented its
full and candid views on a broad range
of topics which included, in addition to
Yugoslav-US relations, European secu-
rity, the Middle East, South and Southeast
Asia, Africa, the developing countries, the
1070
