Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 6 [131]
a year after we were married, due to the
fact that my wife at that time was very
affluent-I was just a poor lawyer-but
my wife being a teacher had acquired
enough money that we were able to get
the cheapest berth on the last of the old
banana boats, the Ulúa, that took the
Caribbean cruise. Some of you may re-
member the Ulúa. You have to go back
that far to remember it because it was sunk
by the Germans in 1942. But in 1941, we
shall never forget the trip that we took. It
took us to Panama and it took us to San
José. It took us to the countries of Central
America.1
And, again, at that time we acquired a
personal feeling for those countries-
many years before we thought we might
be in this place or even considered that
there would be a possibility of our being
here as a guest, let alone as a host.
And then all the other times are too
numerous to mention. The inaugurations
that we have been honored to attend in
Mexico and other countries in South
America, the trips that we have taken,
1955, 1958, and then personally in 1964,
1967.
I would imagine perhaps that I am
the first President of the United States
who has visited every country of North
and South America personally before I
became President.
Now, let me tell you what it means. I
could put it in quite concrete terms to-
night. When my very fine staff and Sec-
retary Rogers and Assistant Secretary
¹ The S.S. Ulúa, named for a river in Hon-
duras, was operated by the United Fruit Com-
pany in the Caribbean between 1919 and 1942.
She served with the U.S. Navy during World
War II and in 1946 was retired to the James
River Fleet and scrapped.
2 Charles A. Meyer, Assistant Secretary of
State for Inter-American Affairs.
Meyer 2 and Dr. Kissinger prepared the
talking notes, they said these are good
things that you could mention: the fact,
first, that I am devoted to the proposition
that we must complete the links in the
Pan American Highway. We are doing
so. It will be done, not as fast as I would
like. Nothing ever happens as fast as a
President would like, no matter how
much power you think he has. But it will
be done.
And the fact that we plan to submit to
the Congress, as soon as we can get the
proper climate, the proposal that I made
that some of you will remember at a din-
ner where all the press covering Latin
America were present, the Inter Ameri-
can Press Association, for a general tariff
preference. It will happen. It will hap-
pen while I am in this office.
And these things I could mention.
But all of that I could mention to any
group of visitors, because, whether it is
Europe or Asia or Africa or the Mideast,
there are these individual, very pragmatic,
materialistic things that we could do. And
they do matter. They matter a great deal.
How much will the loan be or the aid or
the cooperation or the assistance, what-
ever the case might be. I do not mean for
one moment to say that we do not have an
enormous interest in that and that you
do not have our total commitment to the
programs on which we are working
together.
And the Secretary of State will expand
on that commitment when he meets with
you all in the beautiful city of San José
just starting almost a week from today.
But let me put it in more personal
terms. I could tell you about sugar quotas,
I could speak about Pan American high-
ways. I could speak about tariff prefer-
3
See 1969 volume, Item 424.
71-234-7236
509
