[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
to support our interests over the long run
with a sound foreign policy. The more
that policy is based on a realistic assess-
ment of our and others' interests, the more
effective our role in the world can be. We
are not involved in the world because we
have commitments; we have commit-
ments because we are involved. Our in-
terests must shape our commitments,
rather than the other way around."
"Second, we shall provide a shield if a
nuclear power threatens the freedom of
a nation allied with us or of a nation whose
survival we consider vital to our security."
Nuclear power is the element of security
that our friends either cannot provide or
could provide only with great and disrup-
tive efforts. Hence, we bear special obliga-
tions toward non-nuclear countries. Their
concern would be magnified if we were to
leave them defenseless against nuclear
blackmail, or conventional aggression
backed by nuclear power. Nations in a
position to build their own nuclear weap-
ons would be likely to do so. And the
spread of nuclear capabilities would be
inherently destabilizing, multiplying the
chances that conflicts could escalate into
catastrophic exchanges.
Accordingly, while we maintain our nu-
clear force, we have encouraged others to
forego their Own under the Non-
Proliferation Treaty. We have assured
those signing the NPT that they would
not be subject to nuclear blackmail or
nuclear aggression. The Soviet Union has
done so as well.
"Third, in cases involving other types
of aggression we shall furnish military and
economic assistance when requested in ac-
cordance with our treaty commitments.
But we shall look to the nation directly
threatened to assume the primary respon-
sibility of providing the manpower for its
defense." No President can guarantee that
future conflicts will never involve Amer-
ican personnel-but in some theaters the
threshold of involvement will be raised
and in some instances involvement will be
much more unlikely. This principle, first
applied to security matters, applies as well
to economic development. Our economic
assistance will continue to be substantial.
But we will expect countries receiving it
to mobilize themselves and their re-
sources; we will look to other developed
nations to play their full role in furnishing
help; and we will channel our aid increas-
ingly through multilateral channels.
We will continue to provide elements of
military strength and economic resources
appropriate to our size and our interests.
But it is no longer natural or possible in
this age to argue that security or develop-
ment around the globe is primarily Amer-
ica's concern. The defense and progress
of other countries must be first their re-
sponsibility and second, a regional respon-
sibility. Without the foundations of self-
help and regional help, American help
will not succeed. The United States can
and will participate, where our interests
dictate, but as a weight--not the weight-
in the scale.
THE PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION
Policy becomes clearer only in the
process of translation into programs and
actions.
In this process the Nixon Doctrine seeks
to reflect the need for continuity as well as
the mandate for change. There are two
concurrent challenges:
-to carry out our new policy so as to
maintain confidence abroad.
224
