Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 8 [327]
better world, a more prosperous world,
than we have had previously.
That has been the purpose of my travels
abroad. That will be the purpose of this
trip, a trip to Mainland China, a purpose
that does not involve what will happen
this year, next year, or even 3 or 4 years
from now,
but that will see to it, we hope,
that 15 or 20 years
from now,
when that
child who brought the crown here will
possibly be a queen, that she grows up at
a time when we have an open world,
when the United States of America is not
separated from any other nation without
any communication with that nation.
I think it is the responsibility of who-
ever is President of the United States to
do everything that he can not just to bring
peace for this generation, but to build a
peace for the next generation. We have
not had that for a century; that is what
we are dedicated to do and that is some-
thing we believe that we can contribute to.
I can tell you that looking over this
great crowd, recognizing that so many
are represented here from all walks of life,
recognizing, particularly, that so many
represented here are young people in col-
lege and high school, recognizing too that
this State has a great tradition of defend-
ing America if war ever became neces-
sary-let me tell you, I will take away
memories of a beautiful day, of a wonder-
fully warm reception, but also a renewed
dedication to this proposition:
This America of ours is a beautiful
country. The people of this country are a
good people. The people of this country
deserve peace. The people of this country
deserve prosperity without war, and we
are going to work for that, and we are
going to have it with your help.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:33 p.m. at
Davis and Elkins College.
The queen of the 35th annual festival was
Catherine Grace Sparacino. "Sylvia" is the
traditional name used by each festival queen.
327 Statement About a Labor Dispute in the Coal
Mining Industry. October 8, 1971
THE current strike that has shut down
most of the Nation's coal mines hits the
State of West Virginia harder than any
other State in the Union. West Virginia
leads the Nation in the output of bitumi-
nous coal. One-third of the Nation's coal
miners live and work here. This strike is
costing workers in this State a daily pay-
roll loss of $1.5 million, and it is costing
the State a daily revenue loss of $300,000.
Workers in other affected industries also
suffer losses.
This State has a special interest in pre-
serving industrial peace in the coal mines.
The parties are now back at the bargain-
ing table in response to the urging of the
Secretary of Labor. I urge the negotiators
of both sides to work diligently to bring
this crippling strike to a speedy end. Labor
contracts are being settled daily in other
industries—there is no reason why a settle-
ment should not be reached in the coal
mining industry. It should be reached by
collective bargaining, and it should be
reached quickly.
NOTE: The statement was released in connec-
tion with the President's visit to West Virginia.
1029
