[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ple. The overall trend is consistent and
unmistakable.
What We Found and Where We Are
Understanding our purposes in Viet-
nam must begin with a look at the situa-
tion we found when we took office and
the situation today. Let us compare them
in concrete terms.
Two years ago the authorized troop
strength for Americans in Vietnam was
549,500. Troop levels had risen steadily
for five years. On January 1, 1971, that
authorized level was 344,000, and on
May 1, 1971, there will be a new ceiling
of 284,000. Troop levels have dropped at
a steady rate. The process will continue.
Two years ago American combat deaths
for the previous twelve months were
14,561 and averaged 278 weekly. In 1969
the figures were 9,367 and 180, respec-
tively. In 1970 they were 4,183 and 80;
and indeed in the last six months they
were 1,337 and 51. The decline has been
constant.
Two years ago the enemy could launch
major offensives in most parts of Vietnam.
The pacification program was just begin-
ning to recover from the setbacks of the
1968 Tet offensive. Now the enemy
mounts very few significant operations
and is particularly quiescent in Military
Regions III and IV in southern South
Vietnam, which contain two-thirds of the
population. Pacification has made steady
progress throughout these two years.
Two years ago there was no compre-
hensive allied peace plan for ending the
war. Now, as the result of several initia-
tives by the Republic of Vietnam and our-
selves, we have laid out a comprehensive
and flexible framework for a negotiated
settlement.
Two years ago the additional demands
of the Vietnam War were costing us ap-
proximately 22 billion dollars per year.
Today they are costing us approximately
half that.
Two years ago the ratio of South Viet-
namese forces to American forces in Viet-
nam was less than 2 to 1. Today it is more
than 32 to 1.
Two years ago the ratio of South Viet-
namese to American major engagements
with the enemy was about 7 to 1. Now it
is about 16 to 1.
Two years ago there was no assurance
that the South Vietnamese could under-
take large-scale military operations on
their own. Now, they have proven their
ability to do so.
Two years ago the South Vietnamese
constitutional system was just beginning
to take hold. Since then the National As-
sembly and the Supreme Court have
played increasingly meaningful roles, and
there has been a series of elections at the
province, village, and hamlet levels. To-
day, the political focus in South Vietnam
for almost all forces except the Com-
munists is within the established system.
Two years ago large areas of South
Vietnam were unsafe and many routes
impassable. Now, while there are still
many dangerous pockets, the vast bulk of
the country is secure.
This progress has been made possible
largely by the efforts of the South Viet-
namese. It is they who have compensated
for the reduced U.S. effort. It is they who
now carry the major part of the burden
and are progressively taking on more.
In short, with assistance from us and
other allies, the South Vietnamese have
made their country the most dramatic
and concrete example of the partnership
250
