Richard Nixon, 1971
June 22 [206]
opportunities "for doing more." Those
opportunities have been recognized by
this organization. You have spoken to
them in your resolutions. You will be con-
sidering them in your meetings at this
convention. Among them-the opportu-
nities for doing more, problems to provide
opportunities and their solutions-are
these: There are too few doctors in some
areas as you know, too many in others.
We see a growing need for more health
personnel, more efficient training. We
have too many doctors spending too much
time on routine tasks that others could
help them with. We recognize the growing
menace of malpractice suits which force
every doctor to look upon his patients as
potential plaintiffs.
As we look at American medicine we
also see a need to place more emphasis on
primary care, on preventive medicine, on
outpatient treatment. And we see that
despite our considerable progress in this
area, in the field of voluntary health in-
surance, financial considerations still deny
quality care to many Americans while the
dark threat of catastrophic costs still im-
perils most of our people.
These are challenges. We can be grate-
ful that our country now has entered into
a period of productive discussion about
the best ways of meeting them.
I say to this organization that I am sure
many of you are concerned about what
may come in the future in the reform of
health care systems. But I say: Welcome
this debate. You should join it. We need
you to join it. We need your assistance in
it. It will be a great debate. It will be a
strong one. It will be one that will com-
mand the attention of the country in the
weeks and months and, perhaps, for years
ahead.
I noted with interest that your new
president, Dr. Hall,ยน for several
years has
been the boxing and wrestling commis-
sioner of the State of Nevada. Well, you
need a boxing and wrestling commissioner
in this debate that is coming in, I can as-
sure you. For out of this time of discus-
sion and decision will surely come a whole
new era in the history of American health
care.
Last February, I offered my own con-
tributions to this discussion, a wide range
of proposals that I have discussed with
some of your leaders. And these proposals
are designed to balance growing demand
for care with a growing supply of serv-
ices. They are founded on the principle
that we cannot simply buy our way to
better medicine.
It is very easy sometimes to think that
the plan that costs the most will help the
most, but often the situation is just the
opposite. In fact, I believe that the most
expensive plan that has been offered in
the current discussion on health care in
America-a plan for nationalized com-
pulsory health insurance-is the plan that
would actually do the most to hurt Amer-
ican health care in this Nation.
This is not a new position for me.
I made the same general statement in my
speech in 1951 to this organization and
in 1966. Let me give you the reasons why
I have reached this conviction. The con-
viction is strongly held, as I am sure is
the conviction held by those who advocate
this plan.
First of all, if this plan went into op-
eration, by fiscal year 1974 it would cost
the Federal Government over $77 billion.
ยน Dr. Wesley W. Hall, president-elect of the
American Medical Association.
763
