[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
or Thailand, we will be drawn in.
That is why ending the war in Vietnam
in a way that does not reward Com-
munist aggression, that is something that
is essential if we are going to avoid
another war.
Now, putting it in the larger context of
world war, the reason that I feel strongly
that we may well have seen our last war
is that when we look at the awesome
power of nuclear weapons, when we look
at the nuclear standoff that the United
States and the Soviet Union now find
themselves in, neither of those great
powers, in my opinion, is going to have a
leader who will make the decision to at-
tack the other power and, at that same
time, kill 70 million of his own people.
That is the great deterrent.
So, I think as far as a big war is con-
cerned, the enormous deterrent of nuclear
power is going to deter it. And as far as
smaller wars are concerned, the fact that
the United States handles the situation in
Vietnam the way it does, and the fact that
we will continue to maintain our commit-
ments, maintain our commitments around
the world, but applying the Nixon Doc-
trine, strengthen other nations so that they
can defend themselves, it will mean that
as far as the United States is concerned,
we may not have to have another war.
The last point is very important. You
see, the difficulty in Vietnam, the difficulty
in Korea, is that the United States had to
go in and do the fighting for them. The
Nixon Doctrine provides that we will help
other nations help themselves.
And for that to work, however, it is
necessary that we help them help them-
selves, because there will be, as I pointed
out in this interview with Mr. Sulzberger,
brushfire wars throughout, probably, in
times to come.
The main thing is for us to not get in-
volved in them. And if those with whom
we have treaty commitments have ade-
quate power to defend themselves, then we
will not have to go in to defend them.
That is the way to avoid American
involvement.
COMMUNICATION WITH THE PUBLIC
[10.] MR. SMITH. Now to go back to
my very first question, what is your prob-
lem in getting that case across to the
American people?
When President Johnson retired from
politics, he confessed to an association of
broadcasters that he felt he had deficien-
cies in communication. Well, you are ob-
viously very articulate and clear. Can this
be the possibility: Your former aide, Pat-
rick Moynihan, has written an article in
Commentary saying that we have entered
an era in which it is fashionable and
obligatory for the press to disparage Presi-
dents, and he gives a host of reasons for
that. Do you believe that to be true?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Smith, you
will remember that in 1962 I had my hoe-
down with the press, and I have avoided
one since. I have respect for the press. It
is true that of all the Presidents in this
century, it is probably true, that I have
less, as somebody has said, supporters in
the press than any President. I understand
that, and I do not complain about it be-
cause it is philosophical.
MR. SMITH. Don't you think the press
mistreated Lyndon Johnson more, and
Harry Truman?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, as a matter of
fact, I think President Johnson did get
456
