Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 19 [273]
my special message to the Congress on
the environment on February 8, I out-
lined the specific components of this
"Legacy of Parks" proposal. Since that
time the Congress has acted favorably on
some of the implementing legislation, but
there is still a great deal that must be done
before the major parts of this program
become effective.
The main source of funds for both State
and Federal park acquisitions at present
is the Land and Water Conservation
Fund. I asked in my 1971 and 1972
budgets that the Congress appropriate
the full amount authorized for this Fund
so that our acquisition efforts can be
expanded.
In discussing this Fund, I would em-
phasize the good work which State gov-
ernments have been doing to purchase
and develop their own recreational lands.
The Fund has provided them with a great
deal of money, to be sure, but they them-
selves have provided the required match-
ing funds from their own resources. They
have arranged land purchases, directed
development, and undertaken the respon-
sibility for operating and maintaining the
facilities. Since the inception of the Fund,
in fact, the matching fund program has
resulted in the purchase and development
of some 700,000 acres. The annual acqui-
sition rate has risen to the 150,000 acre
level. State governments have also done
an excellent job of experimenting with
new ideas so that the range of public rec-
reational opportunities can be broadened.
For example, more than half of our
States are now carrying out programs of
scenic river or trail preservation.
Other elements in our program are also
moving forward. In May of 1971, for
example, my Administration submitted a
bill to establish a Gateway National Rec-
reaction Area in New York and New
Jersey which would provide over 20,000
acres of parks, beaches, wildlife preserve,
and open water, situated within easy
reach of the more than 14 million people
who live in the immediate area. The
Senate acted favorably on this bill on the
day before it began its summer recess. I
urgently hope that the House of Repre-
sentatives will add its approval soon after
it reconvenes.
One of the hallmarks of our proposals
concerning parks is the emphasis we have
placed upon variety. A highly diversified
people should have access to highly di-
versified opportunities. For example,
many will prefer the conveniences and
activities of a well-developed park, while
others will prefer the solitude of the
wilderness.
It is essential that our system of parks
satisfy both the casual tourist and the avid
outdoorsman, that we have places where
families can meet other families and
places where people can be alone.
In my judgment, we have not always
done all we should to provide such diver-
sity. One important reason is our failure
to set aside sufficient wilderness areas for
recreational purposes. To help remedy
this situation, I have asked the Congress
this year to set aside 14 new wilderness
areas, totaling 1.8 million acres. And I
have asked that we accelerate the process
whereby we designate these wilderness
areas, so that the current backlog of pro-
posals can be eliminated. I again urge
Congressional action on these recommen-
dations.
As another important part of the "Leg-
acy of Parks" program, I have asked that
annual funding for the open space pro-
grams of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development be increased from
907
