Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 28 [340]
340 Remarks of Welcome to President Josip Broz Tito
of Yugoslavia. October 28, 1971
President Tito, Madam Broz, our distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, I am very honored on
behalf of the American people to welcome
you again to the United States and to our
Nation's Capital. I welcome you on this
occasion first as the leader of a nation with
which the United States has very friendly
relations, but I welcome you also as a
world statesman of the first rank.
I recall on the occasion of the visit that
I made to your country-the privilege of
being the first President of the United
States to visit Yugoslavia—the long talks
that we had, not only about relations be-
tween our two countries but about the
problems of the world generally. I look
forward to resuming those talks today and
on the occasions that we will meet while
you are here. I know that our discussions
will further the interests of better relations
between our two countries, but will also
contribute to the goal of peace in the
world, to which you are dedicated and to
which we are dedicated.
A moment ago, across these south
grounds of the White House, we heard the
music of your national anthem. The words
of that national anthem also have very
great meaning. One phrase reads like this:
"We will stand steadfast and strong, like
a granite mountain." Mr. President, may
our friendship between Yugoslavia and
the United States always be steadfast and
strong, and may our dedication to the
principle of the right of every nation in
the world to be independent in a world of
peace be as steadfast and strong.
Mr. President, we welcome you warmly
not only to our Nation's Capital but also
to the other parts of America that you will
visit in the days that you are here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
President Tito was given a formal welcome
with full military honors.
See also Items 342 and 343.
President Tito began his remarks in Eng-
lish; he then continued in Serbo-Croatian,
which was translated by an interpreter. His
remarks follow:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, ladies and gentle-
men:
May I thank you most warmly on behalf
of my wife, my associates, and in my own
name for this solemn and friendly welcome,
and for your kind words.
I find great satisfaction in the fact of meet-
ing you again after your important visit to my
country, the first visit paid by an American
President to Yugoslavia. Our encounters and
talks eloquently reflect the traditionally
friendly relations prevailing between our two
countries, allies in the World Wars, participants
in the founding of the United Nations, which
have had much in common in their past history.
Today we are also bound by the fact that
the fate of all countries and peoples is becom-
ing ever more common, as we live in a world
in which, in view of the present level of prog-
ress of mankind, we can achieve general pros-
perity or suffer general catastrophe.
Founded on mutual respect and enriched by
new possibilities for equal cooperation, our rela-
tions are developing in all fields. We have come
here, in the same way as you came to
Yugoslavia, to strengthen and promote precisely
such relations still further. This is in the interest
of our two countries, while, at the same time,
these relations constitute a significant factor of
peace and stability in Europe and in the world.
Mr. President, we are looking forward with
particular interest to our talks with you and
your associates on many important questions of
international relations in which your country
plays a very important role and bears a great re-
sponsibility. As an independent and nonaligned
1065
