Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
erally support our phased withdrawals but
misread the Cambodian operations as a
return to a policy of escalation. I believed
then that the impact of these actions—
reduced enemy activity, lowered U.S. cas-
ualties, and continued withdrawals-
would ultimately persuade some of the
latter of the wisdom of our decision.
While many Americans may still dis-
agree with that decision, I think the facts
since June 30 have conclusively demon-
strated not only the tactical success of the
operations, but also their strategic purpose
of reducing American involvement in
Vietnam.
Political and Economic Issues
Vietnamization has political and eco-
nomic dimensions in addition to military
ones. They will become increasingly im-
portant as the war winds down.
Political development in any newly in-
dependent country is a challenging task.
When that country is under fire from a
determined enemy, the difficulties are
multiplied. The government sees its first
priority as providing security. Military
considerations are likely to dominate the
time of officials, the content of programs,
and the freedom of political life.
Nevertheless, political development in a
paramilitary conflict is a crucial ingredi-
ent of a government's effort. It is increas-
ingly important in Vietnam as the military
struggle subsides. Ultimately, the fate of
Vietnam will turn on political factors—
the motivation of the people during the
conflict; the cohesion of non-Communist
political forces in a possible electoral com-
petition with the Communists; the solidity
of the political institutions during and
after the war.
There has been a steady political evolu-
tion in South Vietnam beginning with the
election of a Constitutional Assembly in
1966 and of the President and National
Assembly in 1967. In 1970 there were con-
tinued signs of a growing commitment to
the political institutions established by the
1967 Constitution. Elections for hamlet
chiefs and for Village, Municipal, and
Provincial Councils took place throughout
the country. There were also elections for
half the seats in the Upper House which
attracted a wide spectrum of non-Com-
munist political forces.
1970 saw enactment of Land-to-the-
Tiller legislation, a sweeping land reform
program which will give land to tenant
farmers and could have significant politi-
cal impact. It has our full support.
The Presidential and Lower House
elections this year will further test the
fabric of the constitutional system, the
strengths of the various political factions,
and the allegiance of the people. 1971 will
show the extent of political development
in South Vietnam. Vietnamese people of
all factions will judge the responsiveness
of the political process and register their
verdicts. The enemy will seek to exploit
the political currents of an election year.
But it will also be watching-and perhaps
drawing conclusions from-the stability
of the system.
The maintenance of a sound South
Vietnamese economy is crucial for Viet-
namization. This problem was of great
concern in 1970, but the Government
moved on it with some encouraging
results.
Our extensive review of the economic
situation in July, 1970, made it abun-
dantly clear that the key Vietnamization
goals of constructive political change and
increased South Vietnamese military per-
formance were intimately linked to the
goal of a sound economy.
259
