[328] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
328
The President's News Conference of
October 12, 1971
THE PRESIDENT'S MEETING WITH
SOVIET LEADERS
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Be seated, please.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have an an-
nouncement which is embargoed till 12
noon Washington time and 7 o'clock Mos-
cow time. In order for you to have the
chance to file before the 12 o'clock dead-
line, I have asked Mr. Kempster [Norman
Kempster, United Press International],
who has the right to end the conference, to
break it off at 5 minutes till 12. Between
that time and the time that I read this an-
nouncement, of course, I will take ques-
tions on this announcement or any other
subject that you would like to have
covered.
The announcement is as follows:
"The leaders of the United States and
the Soviet Union, in their exchanges dur-
ing the past year, have agreed that a meet-
ing between them would be desirable once
sufficient progress had been made in nego-
tiations at lower levels.
"In light of the recent advances in bi-
lateral and multilateral negotiations in-
volving the two countries, it has been
agreed that such a meeting will take place
in Moscow in the latter part of May 1972.
"President Nixon and the Soviet leaders
will review all major issues, with a view
towards further improving their bilateral
relations and enhancing the prospects of
world peace."
We will go to your questions.
QUESTIONS
THE TRIPS TO CHINA AND THE SOVIET
UNION
[2] Q. Mr. President, what relation-
ship does this have to your visit to China?
THE PRESIDENT. The two are inde-
pendent trips. We are going to Peking for
the purpose of discussing matters of bi-
lateral concern there, and I will be going
to the Soviet Union for the purpose of dis-
cussing matters that involve the United
States and the Soviet Union. Neither trip
is being taken for the purpose of exploit-
ing what differences may exist between
the two nations; neither is being taken at
the expense of any other nation.
The trips are being taken for the pur-
pose of better relations between the United
States and the Soviet Union and better
relations between the United States and
the People's Republic of China. And any
speculation to the effect that one has been
planned for the purpose of affecting the
other would be entirely inaccurate.
Q. Mr. President, why announce a trip
of this nature so far in advance?
THE PRESIDENT. It is vitally important,
both in the case of this trip and the trip
to the People's Republic of China—which,
as you know, we announced far in ad-
vance, the date yet to be selected. Mr.
1030
