[255] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
America the very best and saying to them,
"If you want to go into politics, do it,
because you are going to have a chance."
I can assure you if you do, you will have
a chance. You will have an equal chance.
You will not be discriminated against.
That, at least, is my opinion. If you want
to go into business, the professions, various
other activities, the same thing.
Wherever a woman has the capacity,
she can make it. You know you all com-
pete with boys in school, and you do very
well. I have seen the grades that you get,
and the girls do very well.
I expect out of this group that some
may end up in the Congress, State legis-
lature, city council, school boards. Maybe,
who knows, years ahead, maybe in this
office. It can happen; it should happen;
and America will be better for it because
we did not limit our search for leadership
simply to half the population, the men.
We went through the whole population,
to everybody. We did not limit our search
for leadership to the big States, or to cer-
tain religions, certain races, or the rest.
We looked to all of America. That is the
essence of America, that we look every
place for our leadership.
Now, let's come to another phase of
leadership. A woman has this advantage
over a man: that she can exert leadership
without ever being elected to office, with-
out ever holding a position. I refer to the
influence that a woman can have in her
home, the influence that she has over her
children, the influence, of course, that she
has over her husband.
When I think back, I remember espe-
cially the influence of my mother, as you
of course remember the influence of yours.
My mother had perhaps more influence
on me than my father. I think it rather
works that way. Not always, but the
mother often influences the boy, and the
father may influence the daughter more.
I am not sure Mrs. Nixon agrees with
me with regard to our daughters
[laughter]-but I know that the mother
can have an enormous influence in finding
and encouraging the leadership of her
children.
Now a word about the wife's influence.
I have met most of the great leaders of
the world, and most of the first ladies of
the world, since World War II, and I can
assure you the first ladies of the world
have an enormous impact on their hus-
bands and on world affairs.
Looking around the world, some of the
most gracious people, some of the most
effective people in the world have been
the women that I met. For example, one
of the countries that Speaker Albert, with
whom I had breakfast this morning, is
going to visit this month is the Philippines.
The Philippines has a very dynamic man
as its President, Marcos. He was a war
hero in World War II, vigorous and
strong and so forth—but if you think he
is strong, you should see his wife. Mrs.
Marcos, a beautiful woman, attractive,
persuasive, came here last fall. She was
talking to us about the need for more
sugar quotas for the Philippines—both to
the Speaker and to me, we found as we
compared notes. She was talking also
about the need for many other things,
such as an REA. Anybody from farm
areas here? You know what the REA is.
She said, "We need an REA in the Philip-
pines. What can you do to help?" I can
tell you that Mrs. Marcos had as much
influence in her private visit to the United
States as even her husband did when he
came publicly. So you can imagine the
866
