Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 13 [290]
American relationship in recent times, I am
confident that the fundamental relations for
friendship between our two countries are as
firm today as they have ever been before.
However, it is also true that there has been
some friction in our economic relations and
concern lest this friction, if not dealt with ap-
propriately, may possibly influence the basic
relationship between our two countries.
I am very happy, therefore, that we have
been able to mutually understand the economic
problems existing between Japan and the
United States by convening this Joint Com-
mittee at this time, since it will undoubtedly
contribute to further promoting and strength-
ening our mutual friendship.
In the postwar world, the United States has
been a strong pillar of international peace and
prosperity, and the nations of the world hope
that the United States will continue to remain
so for many years to come.
Thanks to the good will and friendship of
the American people, Japan has been able to
achieve economic progress as we see it today,
possessing as we do the second greatest pro-
ductive power in the free world.
We well recognize, therefore, that Japan-
U.S. cooperation is not only a matter of con-
cern for our two peoples but also a matter of
far-reaching inference for the entire world.
On this occasion, let me express my strong
hope that Japan and the United States will
continue to develop their mutual friendship and
cooperation in order to bring about greater
happiness to the peoples of our two countries
and, further, to the hundreds of millions of
other people on this earth.
Finally, I would like to say how grateful we
all are for the very cordial welcome extended
to us, and all the care that has been given to
make our visit a happy one.
For example, two nights ago we stayed at
Williamsburg, and on the day following that,
we were permitted to play golf. Some of us
played that game, and on that course with all
those water hazards, I am sure that some of
them lost many of their golf balls. So the
President, being kind enough, I understand,
will be providing us with the golf balls.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask that you
raise your glasses to drink to the health and
happiness of President and Mrs. Nixon.
290 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report on Location of New Federal Facilities in
Rural Areas. September 13, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the first annual
report on the location of new Federal
facilities in areas of low population
density.
This first report describes the begin-
nings of an organized effort to place more
Government facilities and activities in
rural areas as required by the Agricultural
Act of 1970. I believe it will serve as a
bench mark demonstrating this adminis-
tration's commitment to a healthy and
balanced revitalization of rural America.
During the period covered by this re-
port, more than 60% of all Federal work-
ers placed in newly located activities were
employed in areas of low population den-
sity. I would emphasize, however, that the
location of Federal facilities and activi-
ties in rural areas is only one part of our
comprehensive program for rural devel-
opment. This overall program—which
also includes a variety of efforts to provide
more financial assistance and better Gov-
ernment services to rural communities--
has had a considerable impact for
good in many locales, expanding em-
ployment and training opportunities,
947
