[297] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
freeze on wages, then there ought to have
been a freeze in some of these areas, not
cutting profits down to where companies
couldn't modernize their plants and
couldn't go forward, because I agree with
you that if we don't have modern equip-
ment then we can't compete with other
people in other lands. And they certainly
have got them. So I do feel that we are
for it, but at the same time, I think we
ought to look at the exorbitant profit areas.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Younglove, as a
representative of the steel union, one of
the strongest unions, as we know, I think
that you have, of course, very properly
recognized that the interests of a union.
leader, and of obviously his membership,
is to deal with a profitable corporation.
I would say heaven help the labor leader
that is trying to make a good contract with
a corporation that is losing money. It is
better to have one that is making profits.
Now, second, I think it is particularly
helpful that you pointed up the need for
profits being plowed back into business,
so that we could be more competitive. For
example, look at steel. We find that steel
today, and you know this is the case, in
Japan, in Germany, some of the most
modern steel plants in the world-per-
haps the most modern-are in Japan.
We should not resent that, but I say let's
see that the American steel industry makes
enough profits so that it can be competi-
tive and your members can be competitive
with the steel workers of Japan and
Germany.
When we try to pick out this segment
or that segment of the economy, you have
named the finance industry-bankers, I
presume-and that would be an easy one
to be against because there are a lot more
borrowers than there are bankers. But let
me say, Mr. Younglove, let's talk about
interest rates for a moment. Why don't
we limit interest rates?
Well, if you have ever gone to a bank,
it is sort of like you can drive the horse
to water, but you can't make him drink.
Applying that to a banker, you can limit
the interest rate, but you can't make the
banker loan the money.
So, when you come to this matter of
interest rates, it isn't just a question of lim-
iting the interest; it is a question of pro-
viding some system under which the
money that is needed for a growing
economy is forthcoming. Now, your great
financial institutions, it is true, have made
profits, but it is also true that since this
freeze began, interest rates have come
down, not a great deal, but they have
come down. We want them to continue
to come down.
As far as the general principle, however,
of looking around the economy and once
we see a very successful business making
a profit, say: "Ah, because you are suc-
cessful, we are going to penalize you by
limiting your profit." I don't think that is
good for America. I think we ought to
reward success rather than to penalize
it.
AID TO U.S. EXPORTERS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, your DISC
proposal will help American export of
goods and, therefore, create and retain
the jobs of American workers. But is this
enough to restore our normal trade sur-
plus in this competitive world today, or
The Domestic International Sales Corpora-
tion proposal was incorporated into the Reve-
nue Act of 1971 (Public Law 92-178, 85 Stat.
497), which was signed by the President on
December 10, 1971.
970
