Richard Nixon, 1971
[75]
Feb. 25
attaches to our performance in this new
dimension, for upon it rests much of the
hope for a better future.
PART VI: THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL SYSTEM
"The NSC system is meant to help us
address the fundamental issues, clarify our
basic purposes, examine all alternatives,
and plan intelligent actions. It is meant
to promote the thoroughness and delibera-
tion which are essential for an effective
American foreign policy."
U.S. Foreign Policy For The 1970's
A Report to the Congress
February 18, 1970
Upon my inauguration, I reestablished
the National Security Council as the
principal forum for consideration of for-
eign policy issues and created a system of
supporting committees to serve it. Chaired
by the President and comprising the Vice
President, the Secretaries of State and De-
fense, the Director of the Office of Emer-
gency Preparedness, and others at my
invitation, the Council provides a focus
at the highest level of our government for
full and frank discussions of national
security issues. Of course, I also consult
the Secretaries of State and Defense and
other senior advisors individually to ob-
tain their views on national security
issues.
Too often in the past our foreign policy
machinery was the captive of events. Day-
to-day tactical considerations occupied
our time and determined our actions.
Policy emerged from a narrow rather than
conceptual perspective. The National
Security Council system helps us concen-
trate on purposes and develop policy in
the context of our long-range goals.
THE PROCESS
Creativity, systematic planning, and
thorough analysis are given special em-
phasis. It is every concerned agency's obli-
gation to contribute information and
analysis and to present and argue its posi-
tion. Only in this way can I be certain
that the full range of views and reason-
able options has been explored.
The system helps us to bring together
all the knowledge available and to bring
to bear the best analytical thought of
which we are capable:
-Analysis and decision must rest on
the broadest possible factual base.
There must be a common apprecia-
tion of the facts and of their
relevance.
-Coherent policy needs a conceptual
framework. Where do we want to go
in the long run? What are our pur-
poses? Our analysis must bring out all
reasonable interpretations of the
facts, and treat the facts in the frame-
work of longer-range trends and our
objectives.
-I have made sure that my choice is
not limited to ratifying or rejecting
bureaucratic compromises which
submerge differences to accommo-
date varying interests within the gov-
ernment. I insist that the facts, issues,
and conceptual framework for deci-
sion be presented together with al-
ternative courses of action, their pros
and cons, and costs and consequences.
THE STRUCTURE
The NSC system is designed to marshal
all the resources and expertise of the de-
partments and agencies of the govern-
71-234-72-25
341
