[395] Dec. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
countries but also to progress on the eco-
nomic and other fronts for better under-
standing in the world.
[At this point, President Pompidou spoke in
French. The President then resumed speaking.]
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to ex-
press, on my part, on behalf of all of the
American party, our very deep gratitude
to the Prime Minister of Portugal and to
the Government of Portugal and to the
people of this city and of this island for
their very warm hospitality. We leave here
with unforgettable memories of magnifi-
cent weather, of very friendly people, and
also of hospitality and friendship which
cannot be excelled any place in the world.
The fact that we met-the President of
France and I-under such pleasant cir-
cumstances, I am sure, contributed to the
fact that our meeting was, we believe, a
very successful meeting. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:38 p.m. in the
rose garden outside the Junta Geral at Angra
do Heroísmo on Terceira Island.
A translation of President Pompidou's
remarks follows:
The excellent hospitality which the Portu-
guese Government has afforded us has contrib-
uted to giving our conversation an agreeable
character. It was not needed to make them
friendly. I am happy, following these 2 days of
talks, to be able to say, as President Nixon
said, that these conversations have been
constructive.
They dealt, as you were told, with all con-
ceivable subjects, whether it be bilateral matters
of interest to the United States and France,
whether it be our respective views on world
problems now pending, and more generally
about everything that can help the return and
the strengthening of peace.
As was natural, part of our conversation was
devoted to economic and monetary problems.
We have, I believe, well prepared [for] the meet-
ing which the Group of Ten is to hold in the
near future, and I think that we will have made
a constructive contribution to the solution of
these problems.
396 Joint Statement Following Meetings in the Azores With
President Pompidou of France. December 14, 1971
PRESIDENT Nixon and President Pom-
pidou reached a broad area of agreement
on measures necessary to achieve a settle-
ment at the earliest possible date of the
immediate problems of the international
monetary system. In cooperation with
other nations concerned, they agreed to
work toward a prompt realignment of
exchange rates through a devaluation of
the dollar and revaluation of some other
currencies. This realignment could, in
their view, under present circumstances,
be accompanied by broader permissible
margins of fluctuation
of fluctuation around the
newly established exchange rates.
Aware of the interest of measures in-
volving trade for a lasting equilibrium of
the balance of payments, President Pom-
pidou confirmed that France, together
with the governments of the other coun-
tries which are members of the European
Economic Community, was preparing the
mandate which would permit the immi-
nent opening of negotiations with the
United States in order to settle the short-
term problems currently pending and to
establish the agenda for the examination
of fundamental questions in the area of
trade.
President Nixon underscored the con-
tribution that vigorous implementation by
the United States of measures to restore
1190
