[257] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
have the junior Senator from the State of
New Hampshire, Senator Tom McIntyre,
Tom.
And Manchester's own, Lou Wyman.
Our other Congressman from the State
of New Hampshire, Congressman Cleve-
land, who was here to to greet us.
Now, we have a number of other dis-
tinguished guests. You saw Mrs. Nixon a
moment ago. I wonder if Julie is here. Oh,
yes.
I would like before going on with my
remarks which will be very brief, but I
think appropriate for the occasion-to
thank all of the musical organizations that
are here. You know, I have been, before I
was President, the national chairman of
the Boys' Clubs of America; it is a wonder-
ful organization-and to have The
Muchachoes ¹ from the Boys' Club. Let's
give them a hand, over here.
I remember that we had a wonderful
reception where we shook hands with
3,000 people at the St. Augustine Church
in Manchester, so we have the Black
Knights from St. Augustine's Church
over here.
This is a new one. I haven't seen this.
How about The Gazebos 3 from the Man-
chester Park? Well, we want to thank all
of you for coming.
Now, a word about our visit to New
Hampshire and our memories of this
State. First, I recall that it was on Febru-
ary 2, 1968, that Mrs. Nixon and I came
to New Hampshire. We came then with
our two daughters, Tricia and Julie. And
on that occasion, we came for the pur-
pose of participating in the New Hamp-
1 The Muchachoes Drum and Bugle Corps.
2 The Saint Augustine's Black Knights Drum
and Bugle Corps.
A band from the Manchester Parks and
Recreation Department.
shire primary. When I made a speech
that time in New Hampshire, there was a
huge crowd. And one of those who wel-
comed me pointed out, “You know, the
trouble is that every presidential candidate
comes to New Hampshire in the primary
and then we never see him again until 4
years later."
So I made a promise. I said at the
beginning of the speech, "Win or lose, I
will be back to New Hampshire before 4
years." So here I am. I am glad to be
back.
Speaking of winning or losing, I know
there are a lot of people here from
Nashua. I remember that one of the most
pleasant meetings that we had in that
primary period was the Junior Chamber
of Commerce annual dinner in Nashua.
Some of you perhaps may have attended
it.
There were two guests of honor that
night. I was one; I had to make a speech.
And the other was Greg Landry. I recall
that on that occasion I made a prediction
that Greg Landry, who had just been
drafted by the Detroit Lions, was going to
make it in the big time. Well, he did go
on, as you know, to become one of the
great stars in the National Football
League, and I must say that I am very
proud to have gone up the same way that
Greg Landry has gone up.
One change has occurred in our fam-
ily as a matter of fact, two-since we
were here. Tricia was married, and there
was a small audience looking at it, I un-
derstand, on television, and we were there
to see her in New York just a couple of
days ago; and Julie, who was with us in
1968 on that occasion, and who was then
attending Smith College, has also been
married. Her husband, David, not fol-
lowing his grandfather's advice or his
874
