Richard Nixon, 1971
May 19 [174]
nations in the world, but that our children
will have that opportunity, which they do
not have today, to visit all parts of the
world, to know people in all parts of the
world, and to learn the truth of the great
principle upon which this organization
was founded: that we are, in truth, all
brothers in our hearts.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:22 a.m. in
the Sheraton Park Hotel.
W. John Kenney was chairman of the Dis-
trict of Columbia chapter, American National
Red Cross, and chairman of the convention.
174 Statement About Federal Assistance for Farmers in
Drought-Stricken Areas of the Southwest. May 19, 1971
THE SEVERE drought in the Southwest
has created serious hardships on farmers,
ranchers, and the agricultural economy
in that part of the country. The severity
of the drought is most forcefully demon-
strated by the estimate that losses to agri-
cultural enterprises may now exceed $400
million.
The drought situation has caused in-
creasing concern on two levels: first, the
effect on the individual farmer, especially
the small farmer who cannot grow his
crops but still must make the mortgage
payments on his farm and equipment;
and second, the effect on the economy of
the region.
Today I am ordering additional steps
to help these farmers by dealing with both
their immediate and longer range needs.
pos-
For the farmer who is suffering fi-
nancial distress, even to the point of
sibly losing his farm because of fore-
closure as the result of the drought, I am
today instructing the Secretary of Agri-
culture to make available $50 million in
Farm Ownership Loan Program funds.
This will serve as an important source of
aid for drought victims in emergency
counties in the Southwest.
I have also directed the Secretary of
Agriculture to reduce the price at which
feed grain can be sold to drought-stricken
farmers to 75 percent of support level.
This equals approximately 50 percent of
the
open market price for feed grain. This
step should help alleviate both the im-
mediate and medium-range problems now
facing those who are most directly affected
by the drought.
In addition, I am prepared to direct the
release of an additional $75 million to the
Operating Loan Program as soon as the
House of Representatives acts favorably
on S. 1806, legislation which will con-
vert the Operating Loan Program from a
direct to an insured basis.
I have also directed the Secretary of
Agriculture to create a Hay Bank which
will allow farmers to grow and put up hay
on 25 percent of their set-aside lands for
use in drought emergencies.
To help the farmer who cannot operate
his farm because he does not have the
money or credit to buy feed, fuel, or
fertilizer, we have submitted to the Con-
gress a request to make available $65 mil-
lion through the Farmers Home Admin-
istration Emergency Farm Operating
Loan program. A substantial portion of
these funds will be available to victims
of the drought and are in addition to $28
million which has already been made
available in the drought-stricken area.
To monitor our programs and insure
647
