[352] Nov. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
vigorous at the very time of its birth.
This is the challenge that I leave to
this great audience across this Nation to-
night. It is not a partisan challenge. It is
bigger than the Republican Party or the
Democratic Party; it is bigger than Amer-
ica itself. Because whether America meets
the challenge of world responsibility, of
developing here at home a new sense of
freedom and justice and opportunity, the
realization of the American dream such
as we have never had it before, whether
America meets the challenge abroad
which only we can meet, whether we meet
the challenge of developing a new world,
a new world in which nations can finally
live at peace with each other-that de-
pends on us.
I am confident, as I speak to you here.
I am confident as I think of how much
you have contributed, not just with your
dollars, but of the commitment you are
making by this contribution. I am con-
fident that America's leaders will meet the
challenge of leadership and that we will
go forward to a new era of greatness.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:54 p.m. in
the International Ballroom of the Hilton Hotel.
His remarks were broadcast live on closed-
circuit television to a series of similar Repub-
lican fundraising dinners in Dallas, Houston,
Los Angeles, Minneapolis, Nashville, San Fran-
cisco, and St. Louis.
353 Statement Following the Laying of a Wreath on
the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National
Cemetery. November 11, 1971
FIFTY YEARS ago a soldier known to
God alone was returned to America from
the foreign land where he fell in defense
of freedom. He was buried in Arlington
National Cemetery on Armistice Day, No-
vember 11, 1921, and his memory con-
secrated for all time to those who have
died that this Nation might live.
That first Unknown was selected by an
Army sergeant named Edward F.
Younger. Three times Younger circled
the caskets, on one of which he would lay
a single white rose, and suddenly he
stopped in front of one of those caskets.
As he is reported to have told it later, "A
voice seemed to say: 'This is a pal of
yours.' " He laid the rose on that coffin.
Today, Americans come here from all
over to stand near one of these Unknowns,
and in their hearts a voice says: This is a
friend of yours-or, here is your brother or
your father or your son.
Though only God can know the names
of those who sleep here, we all can know
what is most important to the soul of this
Nation. We know that these were Ameri-
cans who answered freedom's call and
paid freedom's price.
Their skins may be black or white or
red or yellow; they may have been young
with their lives before them, or they may
have had full lives already; their religions
we do not know; the homelands from
which their ancestors came we cannot
know. In the American ideal, none of
these things was essential to the quality
of life they were able to seek. In death,
the ideal is realized-those who lie here
are equal in the sacrifice they made, equal
in the contribution they made, equal in
the honor we bear them.
Thirteen years ago President Eisen-
1096
