[96] Mar. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
be interfered with by having to be in the
armed services, you may think these are
the lost years. Don't you believe it.
This is a great country, and it is great
because we have men like you who serve
this country to maintain the peace forces
of the United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:37 a.m.
97 Exchange of Remarks With Reporters at Quonset
Point Naval Air Station, Rhode Island.
March 12, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. I saw Secretary Rogers
at that time. It was quite a class. It was
what we called 442.1 We came here in
August when it was hot, and I remember
trudging along on this pavement. We
called it a pavement then, of course, it
was the airstrip. The main thing that I
accomplished here was that my wife said
that I had never stood straighter than
when I finished that 2 months' training,
because I tend to slump.
I have always marveled at the fact that
people who are in the military service,
like General Eisenhower, always have
such erect posture. But those of us who
were in it as I was, and so many in World
War II, for only 3 years, we soon get back
to our old habits. We slump too much.
My wife always says, "I just wish you
would stand as straight as you did when
you came from Quonset."
Q. What does David [Eisenhower] say
about it, Mr. President? Has he indi-
cated his feeling on this training?
THE PRESIDENT. He has done excep-
tionally well in his training. I am very
proud of the fact that he ended up in the
1 The President and Secretary of State
William P. Rogers were classmates in the Offi-
cer Candidate School at Quonset Point Naval
Air Station. They were commissioned lieu-
tenants (jg.), in September 1942.
top 10 percent of his class. He has a sense
of duty. He naturally has the feeling that
any young man newly married has, about
taking time out of his life, being away
from his wife, but he also recognizes the
necessity for service, as I think the great
majority of young Americans do.
Q. Has he enjoyed his training at
Newport?
THE PRESIDENT. I suppose his attitude
would be about the same as mine. You
know, when I was here, that training was
hard work. You had to learn so many new
things, like navigation, I was an aviation
officer but we had to learn about naviga-
tion and subjects that were completely
foreign to me.
The only one that was very easy for me
was they had a course in naval courts and
boards. You know, for a lawyer that was
duck soup. But those other courses I must
say were very difficult. It was hard for
civilians to go into the service, to learn
not only the discipline but to learn the new
kinds of subjects that we had never been
exposed to before.
David, I think, has had that same prob-
lem, because he came out of a liberal arts
college, as I did, with a history major and
then had to go right into the service. You
had to learn very, very fast. Fortunately,
he got it when he was a little younger. I
426
