[325] Oct. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
for the purpose of winning it, and we are
going to stay in it till we do win it.
I am appointing a Price Commission
to hold down prices. It will be made up
up of
persons outside of government-all public
members, not beholden to any special in-
terest group. The Price Commission will
develop yardsticks and will be empowered
to restrain price and rent increases to the
necessary minimum and to prevent wind-
fall profits. Its goal will be to continue to
drive down the rate of inflation.
This goal, however, can only be
achieved with the active cooperation of
workingmen and businessmen, farmers
and consumers, Members of the Congress,
of our State and local governments. That
means all of us.
I am also appointing a Pay Board to
stop inflationary wage and salary in-
creases the kind of increases that do not
really benefit the workingman. For ex-
ample, in the past 6 years workers have
received big wage increases, but every
wife of a worker who has to do the family
shopping will tell you that those increases
have practically all been eaten up by rises
in the cost of living.
The Pay Board will be made up of
representatives of labor, management, and
the public. Both the Price Commission
and the Pay Board will seek voluntary co-
operation from business and labor, but
they will be backed by the authority of
law to make their decisions stick. Their
staffs will be small. Stabilization must be
made to work not by an army of bureau-
crats, but by an all-volunteer army of
patriotic citizens in every walk of life.
The Cost of Living Council, which is
headed by the Secretary of the Treasury,
will have the power to back up the Pay
Board and the Price Commission with
Government sanctions where necessary.
I have today named Counsellor Rums-
feld as a member of that Council, and he
will spend full time as the Director of
Operations for the Council.
Secretary Connally, the Chairman of
the Council, will be on television tomor-
row at 1 o'clock to answer technical ques-
tions with regard to the continuing
program.
Our experience over the past 7 weeks
proves conclusively that the vast majority
of Americans will cooperate whole-
heartedly with the system of voluntary re-
straint. But if there are some who try to
take advantage of the patriotic coopera-
tion of their fellow Americans, I can as-
sure you that the Government must be and
will be prepared to act against them. For
that reason, in a meeting with the bipar-
tisan legislative leaders today in the Cab-
inet Room, I have asked the Congress to
extend for 1 year the Economic Stabiliza-
tion Act which gives the President the
power he needs to stop inflation.
Holding the line against inflation means
holding all of that line. Consequently, I
am appointing a Government Committee
on Interest and Dividends to apply a yard-
stick to both of those areas. That Com-
mittee will be headed by Dr. Arthur
Burns, Chairman of the Board of Gover-
nors of the Federal Reserve System.
The Nation needs interest rates as low
as they can be to meet the credit require-
ments of American families on equitable
terms and to stimulate noninflationary
economic expansion. I am confident that
this can be accomplished on a voluntary
basis. As a safeguard, however, as I in-
formed the bipartisan leaders today, I
will ask the Congress for standby controls
over interest rates and dividends.
Let me turn now to the subject of prof-
its. Many of my good friends in the field
1024
