Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 17 [268]
benefit from this bill already receive a
larger annuity than the salaries they re-
ceived when they were on active duty.
H.R. 2600 would not only increase the
disparity between the group affected and
other District Government employees, but
would also create a new disparity within
the police and firemen's retirement system
by singling out one select group and ignor-
ing other employees who retired prior to
October 1, 1956, with less than 100%
disability.
I am also seriously concerned that this
bill would establish an unfortunate prece-
dent for other retirees under the D.C.
Policemen and Firemen's Retirement Sys-
tem, and also for those under other Dis-
trict of Columbia and Federal retirement
systems.
All of us can be proud of the outstand-
ing services which the District of Colum-
bia's police and firemen have performed
over the years. They deserve a just reward
for their work, and today their disability
and retirement benefit system is one of
the finest and most generous in the coun-
try. It would not be in the public interest,
however, to create special benefits for a
small group of these men which would
be unfair to the many other deserving
persons in District Government.
The White House
August 17, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
268 Remarks to the 89th Annual International Meeting
of the Knights of Columbus in New York City.
August 17, 1971
Supreme Knight John McDevitt, Your
Eminence Cardinal Cooke, Mr. Attorney
General, Mr. Secretary of Transporta-
tion, all of the distinguished guests on the
platform and in this audience:
This is a very special day for me, be-
cause to be the first President of the
United States to address this States Din-
ner of the Knights of Columbus is a great
honor. I am proud to be that first
President.
On this occasion, I must say that to
see the signs you held up from the States
across the country gave me somewhat the
feel of a convention. I did not say which
party, because I realize that this is an
organization above party. This organiza-
tion has one party: the United States of
America.
I want to associate myself with the
remarks of His Eminence Cardinal
Cooke. I would like to use this opportu-
nity, speaking from this platform, to pay a
tribute to him. I have known him, had
the privilege of knowing him, for 20
years. I had the privilege of addressing
the Al Smith dinner right here on several
occasions and Cardinal Spellman before
him, and now Cardinal Cooke, of course,
has been a great religious leader for this
diocese and for the United States of
America.
But speaking as the President of the
United States and Commander in Chief
of our Armed Forces, I think that the
work that Cardinal Spellman did Christ-
mas after Christmas, year after year—
and that now Cardinal Cooke contin-
ues of going abroad and visiting our
Armed Forces, this is something that all
71-234-72-60
893
