Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 2 [346]
be discussing the world's problems.
But what I am certain is the motive that
has driven you and provided the initiative that
has inspired you to go on is the hope that if
you can convince these people that war is no
longer a practical means of achieving political
objectives and that it is far better that we
should try and live a life of cooperative exist-
ence or cooperative coexistence, then I think
we set the foundations in which less can be
devoted to the impedimenta of war and more
can be devoted to the cause of peace and to the
cause of the underdeveloped countries of this
world.
So you have this magnificent task, and, sir, I
believe you have come at a prophetic moment
of history to be able to lead the western coun-
tries of the world in their task of bringing an
era of peace and an era of the kind of world,
the kind of good world, that we want others
in time to inherit.
From my own country's point of view, as I
have said, there is a feeling of enduring friend-
ship and, I believe, almost a blood relationship
between our two people. I have been astonished
even in New York going along to the Times
Building and going to other places and finding,
as I walked in, how many people wanted to
come up and shake hands because they had
seen an Australian flag and they felt, well, here
was somebody who thinks the same and acts
the same and wants the same sort of things
to happen in the world as we do.
And as I have shaken hands with them, and
I have spoken to them-2 or 3 days of experi-
ence-I have had to confess again, as I have
confessed in the many other voyages that I
have made to this country, how similar we are
and how similar the ideals that we cherish and
how similar are the actions that we take in
order to ensure that they are put into practice
in various parts of the world.
But for our own part, I think we have to
recognize that whilst we are a moderately sized
country, not a super power as you are, nonethe-
less we are prepared to play our part independ-
ently in the Southeast Asian theater, and we
are prepared, not on a global field, but on a
local field and in a local atmosphere, to make
what contribution we can to the peace and to
the prosperity of, first of all, to the Indochinese
Peninsula, and now with the help we are giving
in Malaysia and Singapore and the other aid
and assistance we are able and willing to give
in places such as Indonesia, the Philippines,
and other parts of Southeast Asia.
But what we do cherish is the fact that we
can move on a basis of security. And that basis
of security that permits us to have the freedom
of action that we want, and the independence
that is so cherished in the way that it is
cherished by Australians, is the guarantee and
the assurance that we receive from you and
from your Administration that the ANZUS
Treaty is just as sacred today and is just as valid
today as it was when it was first signed a few
years ago by Mr. Dulles and our own Foreign
Minister, Sir Percy Spender.
Here is the basis of our security and the
basis of our defense requirements. And equally,
too, as we look around in so many other areas,
do we find that we have there, standing by our
side, willing and able to assist us when the
moment comes-we have the United States
in the same way as we can be regarded by
you as true, faithful, and reliable allies, so,
too, can we turn to you and realize that you
look at us in exactly the same way.
So, having said all this, Mr. President, may
I say to you again, that I do want to thank you
from the bottom of my heart and on behalf
of the Australian people, for giving me the
chance to come here at this very critical moment
to join with you in consultation, because it
has been consultation in the truest and the
fullest sense of the word.
You have not kept back any of your secrets.
You have told me what you think, you have
told me of your grand design for the future.
I can only hope that you are successful, and
deep in my heart I feel that you will be.
Can I say this to you, too? You have re-
ferred to the fact that you have been to
Australia on at least two occasions. I would
like to be able to encourage you to come back,
and particularly to bring your wife with you.
And I think if I could give you one rea-
son why I would like you to come, it is this:
Recently we had a Gallup poll taken in Aus-
tralia over a fairly wide area of people, and
they asked if people would nominate the man
that they felt was most able to lead the world
onto the paths of freedom and dignity and jus-
tice, into the paths that would give them
greater prospects and greater hopes for the
future. And lo and behold, sir, when the tally
71-234-72-71
1077
