Foreword
easy cease-fire in the Middle East, the reversion of Okinawa to
Japan.
Nineteen hundred and seventy-one was also a year of high
drama in the domestic arena—especially in the economic realm.
The reader can trace in this volume our search for bold new ways
of achieving full prosperity at home—without war and without
inflation—and of building fairer systems for the international
exchange of money and goods. Here, too, are my blueprints for
what I referred to in my State of the Union Address as a New
American Revolution-reorganizing the basic structure of the
Federal Government, revitalizing the Federal system through a
series of revenue sharing measures, helping the Nation's poor,
protecting its environment, and improving its health.
In these pages one can mark the progress of our crusade against
cancer, our war against crime and drug abuse, our ongoing
struggle for equal opportunity. Here also is recorded the successful
culmination of the historic effort to give 18-year-olds the right to
vote.
As the subjects of these documents are diverse, so are their forms
and their audiences. But whatever the subject, the audience, and
the form, most of the papers collected in this volume serve to illu-
minate this single overriding theme: If we are going to make a
real change for the better in our country and our world we must
change the very foundations on which our policies have rested in
the past. It is not enough merely to change the details of policy—
nor even the amount of money that we spend on established pro-
grams. What we need, instead, are fundamentally new approaches
to the challenges of our time.
To build a lasting structure of peace abroad we have therefore
adopted a comprehensive new approach which places greater
emphasis on negotiation with our adversaries and partnership
with our allies. And to build a lasting structure for progress at
home, we have adopted new approaches which call for greater
Federal cooperation with other levels of government, with private
institutions, and with the American people themselves.
VI
