Richard Nixon, 1971
July 31 [245]
around, I can simply say: I did not prom-
ise then that that would happen. I was not
running for anything then. I was just in
the Navy, as many others were. But I am
glad that after 29 years I finally found the
water I asked for 29 years ago right here
in Iowa.
I am so delighted, too, that so many of
you have come here on this magnificent
day to give me the opportunity to par-
ticipate with the other distinguished guests
on this platform in the dedication of this
dam and of this lake.
I saw the cars parked for almost miles
around. I know you had to walk quite a
way. And I know, too, that we had some
competition today insofar as what you
might have been doing at this moment. It
seems that this weekend has been com-
petition generally for me. Yesterday, for
example, I was in Canton, Ohio, for a
dinner. There was a big crowd, but the
master of ceremonies, Kyle Rote, pointed
out that he was surprised that any sports
fans were there at all because at that very
hour the all-star game was being played in
Chicago and was on television.
At this time, as you know, at this very
hour, if you were watching on television
you could see that fantastic ride in a golf
cart on the moon. So, I do appreciate the
fact that so many of you came, came out
here on this beautiful day to this dam site
so that I could have the opportunity to
talk a bit about it and so that all of us to-
gether can share a moment in history, a
moment in history on this earth which
means so much to the people of this area
and, as I will point out in my remarks,
so much to America, all Americans.
The building of this lake is a classic
example, it seems to me, of the way
American resourcefulness converts prob-
lems into opportunities. You all remember
the floods. I remember back 29 years ago
the situation with regard to the fact that
this was generally an area where there
were flooding problems.
But today, instead of the river floods,
you now have the benefit of this dam, this
reservoir, and with all the recreational
and economic possibilities that they open
up. The Corps of Engineers certainly
deserves a great deal of credit, and I am
glad that tribute was paid to them in the
very eloquent invocation.
May I give you a little advice? I pre-
sided over the United States Senate for 8
years. What I say now is not said in
derogation of the speeches that are made
in that great body. But I often said to the
Chaplain of the Senate as he opened the
Senate with prayer, I said, "Chaplain, do
a good job today. You are probably going
to make the best speech of the day." Cer-
tainly, as we heard this eloquent invoca-
tion, it reminded us of our spiritual back-
ground, our religious background, and, of
course, told us of who was responsible and
those to whom we should give our thanks.
We should, of course, express our
thanks to the Members of Congress of both
parties who have supported this project
through the years, authorized in the Eisen-
hower Administration in 1954, but money
not appropriated until 1964, when John
Kyl, the Congressman from this district,
worked on the appropriation and when
Jack Miller, as a Senator, also worked
on it.
But I want to say that, in addition to the
Congressmen and the Senators and the
others in Washington who can take credit,
members of both parties in the Congress,
much of the credit, as a matter of fact-
let me say, speaking somewhat as an expert
as to how these projects finally get built-
goes to the people out in front of me here
841
