Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 25 [116]
116
Special Message to the Congress on Executive Branch
Reorganization. March 25, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
When I suggested in my State of the
Union Message that "most Americans to-
day are simply fed up with government
at all levels," there was some surprise that
such a sweeping indictment of govern-
ment would come from within the gov-
ernment itself. Yet it is precisely there,
within the government itself, that frustra-
tion with government is often most deeply
experienced.
A President and his associates often
feel that frustration as they try to fulfill
their promises to the people. Legislators
feel that frustration as they work to carry
out the hopes of their constituents. And
dedicated civil servants feel that frustra-
tion as they strive to achieve in action
the goals which have been established
in law.
GOOD MEN AND BAD MECHANISMS
The problem with government is not,
by and large, the people in government.
It is a popular thing, to be sure, for the
public to blame elected officials and for
elected officials to blame appointed offi-
cials when government fails to perform.
There are times when such criticism is
clearly justified. But after a quarter cen-
tury of observing government from a
variety of vantage points, I have con-
cluded that the people who work in gov-
ernment are more often the victims than
the villains when government breaks
down. Their spirit has usually been will-
ing. It is the structure that has been weak.
Good people cannot do good things
with bad mechanisms. But bad mecha-
nisms can frustrate even the noblest aims.
That is why so many public servants-of
both political parties, of high rank and
low, in both the legislative and executive
branches are often disenchanted with
government these days. That is also why
so many voters feel that the results of
elections make remarkably little differ-
ence in their lives.
Just as inadequate organization can
frustrate good men and women, so it can
dissipate good money. At the Federal
level alone we have spent some $1.1 tril-
lion on domestic programs over the last
25 years, but we have not realized a fair
return on this investment. The more we
spend, the more it seems we need to spend
and while our tax bills are getting bigger
our problems are getting worse.
No, the major cause of the ineffective-
ness of government is not a matter of men
or of
money. It is principally a matter of
machinery. It will do us little good to
change personnel or to provide more re-
sources unless we are willing to under-
take a critical review of government's
overall design.
Most people do not pay much atten-
tion to mechanical questions. What hap-
pens under the hood of their automobile,
for example, is something they leave to
the specialists at the garage. What they
do care about, however, is how well the
automobile performs. Similarly, most peo-
ple are willing to leave the mechanical
questions of government organization to
those who have specialized in that sub-
ject—and to their elected leaders. But
they do care very deeply about how well
the government performs.
At this moment in our history, most
Americans have concluded that govern-
473
