[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
and do the fighting for them-if we can
avoid it.
Under our Vietnamization policy, we
are getting out. That is one-half of it. But
the other very important half of it is that
the South Vietnamese are developing and,
by the time we get out, will have devel-
oped the capacity to defend themselves.
And, so, how that fits into our policy to
Southeast Asia, it seems to me, is quite
clear. Once we leave South Vietnam,
South Vietnam will be strong enough, at
least for the foreseeable future, to defend
itself.
That will mean that in Indonesia,
Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, with
which country, of course, we have a treaty,
the Philippines, with which we have a
treaty, will also have a greater assurance
of stability.
And I think the repercussions will go
clear up to Japan, because as we look at
the rimland of Asia, we must remember
that in all of the debate at the present time
and the great interest, understandably, in
what has happened with regard to Main-
land China this last week, that on the
rimland of Asia live 300 million people.
They produce three times as much as
Mainland China and whether those peo-
ple are going to remain free nations, in-
dependent nations, depends upon whether
they think they have the capability and
whether they can develop the capability
of self-defense.
The policy of the United States—and
this is a very significant change--is to help
other nations, to help the Thais, to help
the Indonesians, to help the Vietnamese,
to help the Japanese, the others, develop
the capability of defending themselves,
except, of course, where a nuclear attack
would be involved and then the United
States assumes the responsibility.
U.S. PRISONERS OF WAR
[8.] Mr. Chandler.
OTIS CHANDLER (publisher, Los An-
geles Times). Mr. President, what reason
do you have to believe that I realize
that you hope to negotiate for the release
of the prisoners of war but, assuming that
might not be successful-what reason do
you have to believe that the North Viet-
namese might not keep our prisoners of
war there for some time to come as hos-
tages and to try to force the United States
into withdrawing or ceasing all aid after
our troops have left Vietnam, ceasing all
military and economic aid to South
Vietnam?
In other words, using them as hostages
way into the future.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Chandler,
as you know, we have had some pretty
bitter experiences with some Communist
nations with regard to American pris-
oners. We have had a very difficult experi-
ence with the North Vietnamese who
have, without question, been the most
barbaric in their handling of prisoners of
any nation in modern history. Under the
circumstances, however, let's put our-
selves in the position of North Vietnam.
What is in it for them? What is in it for
them is to get the United States residual
force, including our airpower, out of that
part of the world.
Now, that is a lot for them. That, it
seems to me, will be a great incentive when
the time comes that they have to make
the decision as to whether they are going
to retain prisoners or whether they are
going to have to continue as they will
have to continue to be exposed to an
American presence in South Vietnam and
to American airstrikes which, of course,
we will continue in the event that they
540
