Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 10 [91]
trated educational experience through an
academic year away from the job. This
type of long-term training program at uni-
versities encourages a valuable exchange
of insights between faculty members and
Federal officials, helping both to achieve
a better understanding of the problems of
governing.
91
I ask you to search carefully for strong
candidates, and to continue nominating
them for participation in "Education for
Public Management" and other long-term
training programs administered by the
Civil Service Commission.
RICHARD NIXON
Remarks on Signing a Special Message to the
Congress on Special Revenue Sharing for Rural
Community Development. March 10, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
We want to welcome you all to the
Roosevelt Room for this signing cere-
mony. I have had the opportunity of meet-
ing each of you individually, and I think
the members of the press will be interested
to know that perhaps there has never been
gathered in one room in the White House
a group of people more representative of
one of the great sources of power in this
country, economic power, than is gathered
here now. Because we have here repre-
sentatives of the agricultural community,
those who are the most productive of all
of America's economy, those who repre-
sent the rural heartland of this country.
And it is, therefore, very appropriate
that this signing ceremony of the rural
development special revenue sharing pro-
gram occur in their presence. Because for
the first time a national administration
now takes an initiative in an area which
has been forgotten, too often forgotten,
forgotten in the sense that as we look at
rural America, as we recognize the pro-
ductivity of American agriculture, we
realize that this is one area where we are
first in the world and will remain first in
the world because every year our farmers
become more and more productive.
As they become more and more pro-
ductive, however, rural America, where
our farmers live, has become less and less
a place that attracts people, people who
will create the kind of life which will be
meaningful for the years ahead in that
part of the Nation.
And these new initiatives in which we
will add approximately 35 percent to the
funds previously granted to this part of
the country will mean that the people
who live in rural America, out through
the great heartland of this country, now
will have those programs, those programs
that will attract the industry, the infra-
structure, and everything else that is es-
sential to provide the quality of life that
the rural America, the farmers of
America, agriculture of America, really
deserves.
This new initiative I consider to be one
of the most important. It is not the largest
program. It is not the largest; but in terms
of the amount of increase, it is the largest
increase of any of the special revenue
sharing programs.
That does not mean that we are putting
less stress on the problems of cities, less
407
