Appendix B
April
8 Prime Minister Keith J. Holyoake of New
Zealand paid a courtesy call on the Presi-
dent at the White House.
9 Ambassador at Large David Kennedy met
with the President at the White House to
report on his recent trip to South Vietnam,
Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, and
Micronesia.
9 Marguerite Piazza, singer and entertainer,
who is chairman of the 1971 Cancer Cru-
sade, and Dr. H. Marvin Pollard, president
of the American Cancer Society, called on
the President to launch the Crusade. The
President presented Miss Piazza with the
Society's annual Courageous Person Award.
9 The President met with Bowie Kuhn,
commissioner of baseball; Joseph E. Cronin,
president of the American League; Charles
S. (Chub) Feeney, president of the Na-
tional League; and Robert E. Short, presi-
dent, Ted Williams, manager, Joseph R.
Burke, vice president, and James H. Lemon,
vice president and former owner, all of
the Washington Senators, who presented
him with passes for the coming season.
9 The President presented the 25th annual
"Boy of the Year" award to 18-year-old
Pelton H. Stewart of San Francisco. He
also presented plaques to the nine regional
winners at the White House ceremony.
9 The President met with Robert H. Taylor,
Special Agent in Charge of Presidential
Protective Division, United States Secret
Service, who is taking a leave of absence
until September to attend the Institute for
Court Management in a program designed
to train Court Administrators to relieve
judges of administrative responsibilities.
9 T. Kong Lee, a leader of the San Francisco
Chinese community and a member of the
National Advisory Council on Adult Edu-
cation, met with the President at the White
House.
9 The President attended Good Friday serv-
ices at St. John's Episcopal Church,
Lafayette Square.
April
12 Ambassador Chow Shu-kai of the Republic
of China paid a farewell call on the Presi-
dent at the White House prior to his return
to Taiwan to assume the post of Foreign
Minister.
12 Mrs. Anna Chennault met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to report on her
recent visit to Southeast Asia.
12 Marilyn Cochran, of Richmond, Vt., rep-
resenting the 1970-71 United States Alpine
Ski Team, called on the President at the
White House to present an autographed
picture of the team. She was accompanied
by her brother and sisters, Bob, Barbara,
and Lindy.
12 The President announced the designation
of Ambassador Joseph L. Jova, United
States Representative on the Council of
the OAS, to be United States Representa-
tive to the 14th session of the Economic
Commission for Latin America of the Eco-
nomic and Social Council of the United
Nations. The session will convene in San-
tiago, Chile, on April 27 and continue
through May 8, 1971.
13 At the invitation of the President, the
leadership of the Joint Committee on
Atomic Energy attended the Cabinet meet-
ing for a report by Atomic Energy Com-
mission Chairman Glenn T. Seaborg on the
development of nuclear energy supply in
the United States.
13 Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge met with
the President at the White House to report
on his third visit to the Vatican.
13 Carl Yastrzemski, left fielder for the Boston
Red Sox, who received the Commissioner's
Award for being the most valuable player in
the 1970 All-Star Game, called on the
President at the White House.
14 Senators John C. Stennis and Margaret
Chase Smith, chairman and ranking Re-
publican member of the Senate Committee
on Armed Services, met with the President
at the White House to discuss matters which
will be considered by the committee, includ-
ing the military pay raise and draft exten-
sion bill.
1252
