Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. II [355]
Community Development and of Natural
Resources, and in which the new Depart-
ment will concentrate exclusively on those
problems which involve serving the
farmer.
This new reorganization plan will be
contained in a new proposal that will be
sent to the Congress and, we trust, will be
implemented by the Congress. We believe,
incidentally, that this change will have
very, very significant effect not only in
reassuring the farm community but, per-
haps just as important, in getting the
necessary support that we need in the
Congress to get action on our reorgani-
zation proposals. The commmunity devel-
opment proposals, the natural resources
proposals are the two best candidates at
the moment, and with this change having
been made, we believe that the chance
for overall success of approval of our vari-
ous proposals has been greatly enhanced.
So, with that announcement, I think
all of
you would like to hear a word from
Secretary Hardin. As I say, he will meet
the press at the Department tomorrow to
take your questions on his future and also
on his stewardship of the Department, but
I know he would like to say a word to the
White House press corps before whom he
has appeared on many occasions.
Secretary Hardin.
[At this point, Secretary Hardin spoke. The
President then resumed speaking.]
Now, ladies and gentlemen, subject, of
course, to the advice and consent of the
Senate, the new Secretary of Agriculture,
Earl Butz.
[At this point, Mr. Butz spoke. The President
then resumed speaking.]
Thank you very much ladies and gen-
tlemen, and we will leave you now to your
stories.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
The remarks of Secretary Hardin and Mr.
Butz are printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 1508).
On the same day, the White House released
biographical data on Mr. Butz.
355 Letter Accepting the Resignation of Clifford M. Hardin
as Secretary of Agriculture.
Dear Cliff:
It is with the deepest of regret, both
personal and official, that I accept your
request to leave the Cabinet.
You have served with high distinction
as Secretary of Agriculture-both as an
effective advocate for the American
farmer and for the needs of rural America,
and as a trusted adviser whose counsel at
the Cabinet table has been wise and wel-
come. It has been a great satisfaction to
me to know that I could always count on
your excellent assistance in our efforts,
which meant so much to both of us, to
November 11, 1971
secure for the American farmer the better
break that he deserves. The solid begin-
ning we have made on the difficult task of
bettering the conditions of life in rural
America and restoring the economic vital-
ity of the Nation's heartland will be a
lasting testament to your skill, your energy
your dedication.
and
It has been a great pleasure to serve
with you.
As you return to private life, you
do so with my profound gratitude for all
that
you have contributed as a member of
the administration. Pat joins me in wish-
ing you and Martha the very best, and in
1099
