I Veto of a Pay Bill for Federal Blue-collar Employees.
January 2, 1971
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning, without my approval,
H.R. 17809, a bill which would fix in law
the pay practices applied to Federal "blue
collar" employees.
A uniform government-wide wage sys-
tem for these employees already exists.
The Coordinated Federal Wage System
which is now in effect is flexible and can
respond to changing labor market condi-
tions. The responsiveness of the present
method has been demonstrated recently
as it provided average wage increases of
9.5 percent during Fiscal Year 1969 and
8.1 percent in Fiscal Year 1970.
H.R. 17809 would also have adverse
economic implications. At a time when
the Administration is most concerned
about inflationary wage settlements in the
private sector, this bill would mean that
many Federal Employees in a given local-
ity would be paid at much higher rates
than those prevailing in the private sector
of the same locality. Under the present
system, most Federal blue collar workers
are already paid four percent more than
prevailing rates. This bill would mean
that about two-thirds of these workers
would be paid at rates eight percent above
prevailing rates.
2
The costly and unwarranted pay fea-
tures of H.R. 17809 would add still fur-
ther to a $4 billion blue collar Federal
payroll. Since the majority of the em-
ployees covered by the proposed bill are
employed by the Department of Defense,
the only way in which the substantial
added costs of the enrolled bill could be
met would be through further reductions
in employment levels. The Department
of Defense has been undergoing substan-
tial employee reductions in the past two
years and further reductions would not be
acceptable at this time.
Finally, it should be noted that when
the wages of Federal employees go up,
even greater pressures are placed on pri-
vate employers to raise their own wages-
and thus the fires of inflation are fueled.
In order to keep the administrative
wage structure flexible, to fight inflation,
and to maintain sufficient employment
levels, I must disapprove this bill.
The White House
January 1, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The veto message was dated January 1,
1971, and released January 2.
The House of Representatives referred the
veto message to committee, and no further
action was taken.
Statement on Signing the Omnibus Crime Control Act
of 1970. January 2, 1971
I AM SIGNING into law today the
Omnibus Crime Control Act of 1970. The
act authorizes appropriations for the Law
Enforcement Assistance Administration
for another 3 years, and provides a num-
ber of improvements in LEAA's program.
In America, law enforcement has been
and must remain primarily the responsi-
bility of State and local governments.
However, the financial burden of carry-
ing out this responsibility rests heavily
upon these governments. They now spend
more than $7 billion annually on pro-
grams to control crime.
I
