Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
I have also asked the Administrator of
Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare to de-
velop ways in which the Veterans Admin-
istration medical system can be used to
supplement local medical resources in
scarcity areas.
3. A series of new area Health Educa-
tion Centers should also be established in
places which are medically underserved-
as the Carnegie Commission on Higher
Education has recommended. These cen-
ters would be satellites of existing medical
and other health science schools; typi-
cally, they could be built around a com-
munity hospital, a clinic or an HMO
which is already in existence. Each would
provide a valuable teaching center for
new health professionals, a focal point
for the continuing education of experi-
enced personnel, and a base for providing
sophisticated medical services which
would not otherwise be available in these
areas. I am requesting that up to $40
million be made available for this pro-
gram in Fiscal Year 1972.
4.
We should also find ways of compen-
sating and even rewarding-doctors and
nurses who move to scarcity areas, despite
disadvantages such as lower income and
poorer facilities.
As one important step in this direc-
tion, am proposing that our expanding
loan programs for medical students in-
clude a new forgiveness provision for
graduates who practice in a scarcity area,
especially those who specialize in primary
care skills that are in short supply.
In addition, I will request $10 million
to implement the Emergency Health Per-
sonnel Act. Such funds will enable us to
mobilize a new National Health Service
Corps, made up largely of dedicated and
public-spirited young health professionals
who will serve in areas which are now
plagued by critical manpower shortages.
C. MEETING THE PERSONNEL NEEDS OF
OUR GROWING MEDICAL SYSTEM
Our proposals for encouraging HMO's
and for serving scarcity areas will help us
use medical manpower more effectively.
But it is also important that we produce
more health professionals and that we
educate more of them to perform critically
needed services. I am recommending a
number of measures to accomplish these
purposes.
1. First, we must use new methods for
helping to finance medical education. In
the past year, over half of the nation's
medical schools have declared that they
are in "financial distress" and have ap-
plied for special Federal assistance to meet
operating deficits.
More money is needed-but it is also
important that this money be spent in new
ways. Rather than treating the symptoms
of distress in a piecemeal and erratic
fashion, we must rationalize our system
of financial aid for medical education so
that the schools can make intelligent plans
for regaining a sound financial position.
I am recommending, therefore, that
much of our present aid to schools of
medicine, dentistry and osteopathy-
along with $60 million in new money—-
be provided in the form of so-called
"capitation grants," the size of which
would be determined by the number of
students the school graduates. I recom-
mend that the capitation grant level be
set at $6,000 per graduate.
A capitation grant system would mean
that a school would know in advance
how much Federal money it could count
on. It would allow an institution to make
177
