Richard Nixon, 1971
June 11 [199]
equate "poor" with "black" does a dis-
service to the truth, and it blinks the
fact-fundamental to anything so in-
tensely personal as housing-that we are
dealing with the needs not of an un-
differentiated mass, but of millions of
individual human beings, each separate
and unique.
In many cases when dealing with poor
people who happen to be members of a
racial minority-questions of where to
locate housing for poor people and where
to locate housing for members of the
minority are related. But the issues in-
volved are separate, and those who would
treat effectively with race and poverty
must take care to maintain the distinc-
tion. What is true of blacks in this regard
is also true of Mexican-Americans, Indi-
ans, and members of other minorities.
When predominantly poor members
of a racial minority are concentrated
heavily in one particular area of a central
city, the question of where to build hous-
ing designed to accommodate some but
not all of them is often not easily an-
swered. On the one hand, for example,
concentrating the subsidized housing in
the predominantly black area could have
the effect of reinforcing the racial sepa-
ration that already exists. On the other
hand, failure to build at least a portion of
it there could be unfair to the people who
choose to live there, as well as reinforcing
the housing blight that often prevails in
such areas. Quite apart from racial con-
siderations, residents of outlying areas may
and often do object to the building in their
communities of subsidized housing which
they fear may have the effect of lowering
property values and bringing in large
numbers of persons who will contribute
less in taxes than they consume in serv-
ices. Beyond this, and whether rightly or
wrongly, as they view the social conditions
of urban slum life many residents of the
outlying areas are fearful that moving
large numbers of persons-of whatever
race-from the slums to their communities
would bring a contagion of crime, vio-
lence, drugs, and the other conditions
from which so many of those who are
trapped in the slums themselves want to
escape.
In many other respects, the balances
to be struck are often close and the con-
siderations complex: For example, how
are the interests of one part of a metro-
politan area to be weighed against those
of the area as a whole? What other hous-
ing opportunities are available? How do
transportation patterns, job patterns,
school locations, enter into the choice?
What related efforts are being made to
expand opportunity and end racial dis-
crimination? And how and by whom are
the determinations to be made?
By establishing "fair housing" as a pol-
icy but leaving the term undefined, Title
VIII of the 1968 act added a complexity
of its own: a lively debate about just what
it means, and especially about the mean-
ing of its requirement that Federal offi-
cials take "affirmative action" to promote
it.
This and the other laws make abun-
dantly clear that the Federal Government
has an active, affirmative role to play in
eliminating racial discrimination in either
the sale or rental of housing. They also
make it clear that those communities
which seek Federal assistance for most
housing and community development pro-
grams must work honestly and construc-
tively to meet the housing needs of their
low- and moderate-income families. The
debate has arisen over the extent to which
Federal agencies are either required or
729
