Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 5 [253]
253 Statement on Signing Bill Extending Special
Assistance to Depressed Rural Areas.
August 5, 1971
IT IS essential that we encourage and
maintain balanced economic growth in
rural areas, especially in those regions
where special assistance is needed. The
enactment of S. 2317, which I have today
signed, contributes significantly to this
effort.
This bill provides for the extension of
two acts: the Public Works and Economic
Development Act of 1965 and the Appa-
lachian Regional Development Act of
1965. It extends for 2 years the Economic
Development Administration (EDA),
and the title V regional action planning
commissions, while also expanding the
special impact area criteria for the pur-
poses of EDA eligibility. It provides for a
4-year extension of the Appalachian Re-
gional Commission (ARC), and extends
the Commission's highway program until
June 30, 1978.
The experience, leadership, and exam-
ple of the Appalachian Commission has
been an important part of the basis for
my proposal for a $1.1 billion program of
rural community development special
revenue sharing. The work of the Appa-
lachian Commission has shown how effec-
tive regional cooperation and local
initiative can be in planning and develop-
ing the economy of a depressed area.
It is both appropriate and necessary
that the work of the Appalachian and
other existing regional commissions, as
well as the programs of EDA, be con-
tinued in the interim until the more com-
prehensive program of rural revenue
sharing can be enacted. I again urge the
Congress to enact my general and special
revenue sharing proposals.
This Administration supports a pro-
gram which will assure sound economic
development rather than stopgap meas-
ures. This bill will focus on the areas
which need concentrated assistance in-
stead of diffusing economic development
assistance. This Administration will resist
the use of any criteria which would divert
assistance from those areas of the country
that need it most. We will also resist the
temptation to endorse patchwork and
shortrun proposals to remedy economic
distress. Such measures tend to treat the
symptoms rather than the basic causes of
unemployment.
I am gratified that the Congress has
also passed a responsible appropriations
bill to finance the Economic Development
Administration's programs and has moved
to final consideration of the bill contain-
ing funds for the Appalachian regional
development program. Together with the
recent passage of the Emergency Employ-
ment Act of 1971, these actions are a posi-
tive and reasonable response to my request
that we provide a balanced national effort
for economic assistance, rather than em-
barking on an ineffective and excessively
costly new program for accelerated public
works.
NOTE: The President signed the bill in a White
House ceremony attended by Governors Arch A.
Moore, Jr., of West Virginia and Louie B.
Nunn of Kentucky, as well as Members of Con-
gress and government officials.
As enacted, S. 2317 is Public Law 92-65
(85 Stat. 166).
863
