Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 14 [12]
cesses of a violent few. Let me repeat what
I have said over and over again during
the past 2 years.
I believe one of America's most price-
less assets is the idealism which motivates
the young people of America. My genera-
tion has invested all that it has, not only
its love but its hope and its faith, in yours.
I believe you will redeem that faith and
justify that hope. I believe that as our
generations work together, as we strive
together, as we aspire together, we can
achieve together-achieve great things for
America and the world.
And so let us forge an alliance of the
generations. Let us work together to seek
out those ways by which the commitment
and the compassion of one generation can
be linked to the will and the experience
of another so that together we can serve
America better and America can better
serve mankind.
Our priorities are really the same. To-
gether we can achieve them.
I pledge to you that as you have faith
in our intentions, we will do our best to
keep faith with your hopes.
Let me cite one of the ways in which I
propose to give substance to this alliance
between the generations. One thing gov-
ernment must do is to find more effective
ways of enlisting the dedication and ideal-
ism of those young Americans who want
to serve their fellow man. Therefore, I will
send a special message to the 92d Congress
asking that the Peace Corps, VISTA, a
number of other agencies now scattered
throughout the Federal Government, be
brought together into a new agency, a
new volunteer service corps that will give
young Americans an expanded opportu-
nity for the service they want to give, and
that will give them what they do not now
have offered to them-a chance to trans-
fer between service abroad and service
at home.
I intend to place this new agency under
the dynamic leadership of one of the
ablest
young men I have ever known, the
Peace Corps Director, Joe Blatchford, and
I intend to make it an agency through
which those willing to give their lives and
their energy can work at cleaning up the
environment, combating illiteracy, mal-
nutrition, suffering, and blight, either
abroad or at home.
To the extent that young people re-
spond to this opportunity, I will recom-
mend that it be expanded to new fields,
new endeavors, for I believe that govern-
ment has a responsibility to insure that the
idealism and willingness to contribute of
our dedicated young people can be put to
constructive use.
As we free young Americans from the
requirements of the draft and of the war,
from the requirements of forced service,
let us open the door to voluntary service.
And for those who want to serve but can-
not devote their full time, the new Center
for Voluntary Action will open new op-
portunities for millions of Americans of
all ages to the extent they wish to con-
tribute their time, their talents, their
heart, to building better communities, a
better America, a better world.
Let me turn now to another way in
which you can contribute. You all know
that in the year 1970 we have taken a step
which could have a very dramatic effect
on your future and the future of America.
We have provided you with the most
powerful means a citizen has of making
himself felt in a free and democratic
society.
You now have the right to vote. To-
33
