[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
to the Vietnamese themselves, how-
ever uncertain, was the only policy
available once we had rejected the
status quo, escalation and capitula-
tion.
-The support of the American people
during the remainder of the conflict
required a diminishing U.S. involve-
ment.
-The health of the American society
after the conflict called for a solution
that would not mock the sacrifices
that had been made.
There has been one guiding principle,
one irreducible objective, for both our
negotiations and Vietnamization. I stated
it on May 14, 1969, and consistently
since: "We seek the opportunity for
the South Vietnamese people to deter-
mine their own political future without
outside interference."
In our search for a negotiated solution
we have stretched our positions towards
those of the other side. But we have not
agreed to their demand that we impose
a political future on the South Vietnam-
ese at the conference table.
In Vietnamization we have withdrawn
our forces as rapidly as the South Viet-
namese could compensate for our pres-
ence. But we have not withdrawn them
so as to allow the North Vietnamese to
impose a political future on the battle-
field.
A peaceful settlement will remain our
overwhelming preference. We will not
give up our search. But in the meantime
we will not let down our friends.
Our policy has not satisfied-and can-
not satisfy—either those who believe in a
military solution or those who press for
an immediate end to our involvement.
For the vast majority of Americans who
prefer a just peace to capitulation, there
is, of course, still room for debate and crit-
icism. But we ask these Americans to re-
call the situation we found two years ago,
to judge the soundness of our purposes,
and to measure the record to date against
these purposes. They can be sure that we
shall keep our promises in the future, as
we have kept them in the past.
Negotiations
From the outset our constant primary
goal has been a negotiated end to the war
for all participants. We would take no
satisfaction in the fact that after U.S.
involvement and casualties were ended,
Vietnamese continued to fight Viet-
namese.
However, it takes two sides to negotiate,
and Hanoi's attitude has been consist-
ently intransigent. No progress has been
made despite the advancement in 1970
of the two elements which might make
the North Vietnamese consider negoti-
ations to be in their interest:
-the creation of conditions which give
them incentive to turn to negotia-
tions rather than protracted war-
the tremendous drain on their man-
power and resources, the growing
strength of the South Vietnamese
military forces and political system,
and the continuing support of the
American people for our Indo-
china policy.
-the elaboration of our various pro-
posals which are designed to make
clear to the other side that they will
have a fair chance for political
power to the extent desired by popu-
lar will.
Since 1968 the U.S. has done almost
everything that various parties—includ-
ing Hanoi-told us would kindle negotia-
tions. We halted the bombing and other
252
