[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
their foreign policies to problems affect-
ing their own concept of their national
interests. National policies were sustained,
and to some extent defined and limited, by
the resources which states were willing
and able to commit. With all its faults,
this process imposed a degree of discipline
and realism upon foreign policy goals.
At the UN this pattern has been modi-
fied. Many states find themselves involved
in political problems in which their own
interests are very often not importantly
engaged and their ability to obtain infor-
mation is limited. Without self-discipline,
this can easily lead the organization to
adopt positions which cannot command
the resources or the support required for
attainment.
There are, of course, advantages in
detachment, in having problems consid-
ered by a community as a whole rather
than by the parties directly involved. But
for this advantage to be maximized, more
self-restraint is needed on the part of
member states. UN members contribute
best to the maintenance of peace when
they examine issues on their merits in-
stead of voting as blocs along geographical
or ideological lines. And it should be re-
membered that problems cannot always
be solved by the simple formula of choos-
ing the middle ground between conflict-
ing claims. To assume that justice is
necessarily a middle point is to encourage
adversaries to move toward extremes.
The UN does in fact mirror much of
the world's social turmoil, national con-
flicts, and ideological differences. It has to
its credit substantial accomplishments in
peacekeeping, in social and economic bet-
terment, and in drafting principles of
international law. It will be strengthened
to the extent that its members foreswear
unrealistic rhetoric and concentrate on
using the UN constructively to settle
rather than publicize disputes. The UN
must not become the forum where differ-
ences are exacerbated by intemperate
advocacy.
HUMAN BETTERMENT
Another major function of the United
Nations is to promote economic and social
development. Its basic instrument for this
purpose the UN Development Pro-
gram-has achieved a good record in pro-
viding technical experts and technical
training to the underdeveloped countries,
and in helping them survey the invest-
ment potential of their natural resources.
However, the Program has encountered
two basic problems. First, its resources fall
short of the job to be done. Second, even
at its present level of operations, its capac-
ity to operate efficiently is strained to the
utmost. It needs to adopt improved man-
agerial practices.
During the past year, two actions in the
UN set the stage for remedying these
inadequacies:
-In October, the General Assembly
adopted the strategy for the Second
Development Decade, which began
in January 1971. The strategy set
goals, the basic one being an average
growth rate of 6% in developing
countries, and an action program
covering the spectrum of economic
and social development. An impor-
tant element was the affirmation by
developed countries, including the
United States, of efforts to achieve
an aid target of the transfer of re-
sources, government and private,
equal to one percent of Gross Na-
tional Product.
-In December, the General Assembly
328
