Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
vide financial and technical assist-
ance to individual firms and workers
injured by imports.
In 1970, we used these alternatives. I
accepted the Tariff Commission's findings
in all three cases in which it found injury
to U.S. industries from imports. I ex-
tended tariff relief in three escape-clause
cases. I ordered adjustment assistance for
three industries and for a number of
spe-
cific firms and groups of workers. And the
trade bill which I submitted in late 1969,
and supported through 1970, would have
made these statutory alternatives more
readily available in cases of real need with-
out opening them so wide as to provide
an avenue for unjustifiable pleas for
protection.
We have therefore demonstrated that
there are several viable alternatives to leg-
islated import restrictions, and that we
can and will use them effectively. We will
defend U.S. trade interests vigorously.
And we have therefore demonstrated that
a continuation of our historic policy of
liberal trade is both possible and pro-
foundly in our national interest. But, in
addition to our own actions, we must look
to our major trading partners—especially
the European Community, which when
expanded in membership will account for
almost one-half of all world trade-to
take actions, and perhaps even new initi-
atives, which would enable us all to move
decisively in this direction together.
ISSUES FOR THE FUTURE
There is a full and challenging agenda
of international economic problems before
us. Our success in dealing with this
agenda will have a major impact on our
overall foreign policy. Our goals will be
to:
-found our global economic relations
on a strong domestic base. Interna-
tional economic policy begins at
home.
-improve the management of our in-
ternational economic relations. We
will look to the new Council on In-
ternational Economic Policy to inte-
grate our governmental efforts and
blend our domestic and foreign eco-
nomic policies.
-improve the means by which na-
tional economies can adjust to each
other in a world of increased eco-
nomic interdependence. We must
work with others to solidify and fur-
ther improve the world monetary
system.
-help promote the development of
lower income countries. We will seek
Congressional approval of our new
foreign assistance program and ap-
ply its principles of partnership with
recipients and other donors alike.
-defend and encourage liberal trade
policies abroad and at home. Fresh
policies and enlightened partnership
with our friends will be required to
stem protectionism, solve the prob-
lems that feed it, and regain mo-
mentum toward a world of freer
commerce.
PART III: THE SOVIET UNION
"The great central issue of our time—
the question of whether the world as a
whole is to live at peace-has not been
resolved.
"This central issue turns in large part
on the relations among the great nuclear
powers. Their strength imposes on them
special responsibilities of restraint and
wisdom. The issue of war and peace can-
303
