[101] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
more than here, Mr. President, with you and
Mrs. Nixon, do we feel more at home.
As we have traveled through the great coun-
try-we have only seen parts of it-we have
witnessed what is this great American spirit.
We wish that it will long remain in the im-
portant role that you Americans have to play
in the world.
On this eve of St. Patrick's Day, our national
holiday, you will forgive me, Mr. President, if
I recall with pride the contribution that men
and women of Irish descent and, indeed, of
Irish birth have made to the progress, this
wonderful progress of this great country.
We are proud of that tradition.
And thank you for the applause, because I
know you, too, you of Irish birth and Irish
descent, are equally proud of that great contri-
bution made to this Nation.
We pray that Providence will smile on this
country and on its people. We pray that you,
sir, will have the strength-and I know you
have the courage-to carry out the onerous
duties that have been thrust upon you and
your country in this unsettled world.
We know that with your dedication to the
principles of freedom that you will not now or
ever renege on that trust. We, the small
nations of the world, look to you, sir, and look
to your great country to uphold the principles
of freedom which we hold so dear.
When you were in our country some 6
months ago, Mr. President, you said you were
endeavoring and striving to bring to your
Nation a generation of peace.
We hope that you will be successful in that
striving and in that purpose.
Ba mhaith liom thar cionn Uachtarán na
hÉireann, thar cionn Rialtas agus muintir na
hÉireann, La'le Phádraig fé mhaise do mholadh
dhaoibh go léir, duit-se, a Uachtaráin agus
Bean Nixon, agus do mhuintir
mhuintir na Stát
Aontaithe uile.
I have just in my own ancient Irish tongue
wished you, Mr. President, and Mrs. Nixon,
your compatriots, a happy and peaceful St.
Patrick's Day.
Go raibh míle maith agaibh.
Thank you very much.
102 Message to the Congress Transmitting Report
on Control of Hazardous Water Pollutants.
March 16, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I have the honor to transmit herewith
for the consideration of the Congress a
report on "Control of Hazardous Pollut-
ing Substances" as required by Section
12(g) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act as amended.
The recommendations made in the en-
closed report reflect the conclusions
reached by the Department of Transpor-
tation in its study made at my request. Ad-
ditional study, beyond that possible in the
short period available for this report, may
indicate a need for modifications in these
recommendations. Such modifications
would be incorporated in any legislation
which is developed to implement the rec-
ommendations of the report.
The White House
March 16, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The two-volume report is entitled
"Control of Hazardous Polluting Substances,
Department of Transportation, U.S. Coast
Guard" (90 pp. plus appendixes).
434
