[73] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
cussions with Communist China
while maintaining our defense com-
mitment to Taiwan. When the Gov-
ernment of the People's Republic of
China is ready to engage in talks, it
will find us receptive to agreements
that further the legitimate national
interests of China and its neighbors.
In Asia, we can see tomorrow's world
in microcosm. An economically powerful
democratic free nation, Japan, is seeking
new markets; a potentially powerful Com-
munist nation, China, will one day seek
new outlets and new relations; a Commu-
nist competitor, the Soviet Union, has
interests there as well; and the independ-
ent non-Communist nations of Southeast
Asia are already working together in re-
gional association. These great forces are
bound to interact in the not too distant
future. In the way they work together and
in the way we cooperate with their rela-
tionship is the key to permanent peace in
that area—the Far East, the scene of such
a painful legacy of the recent past, can
become an example of peace and stability
in the future.
In the Middle East, the United States
took the initiative to stop the fighting and
start the process of peace.
Along the Suez Canal a year ago, there
was daily combat on the ground and in the
air. Diplomacy was at an impasse. The
danger of local conflict was magnified by
growing Soviet involvement and the pos-
sibility of great powers being drawn into
confrontation.
America took the lead in arranging a
cease-fire and getting negotiations started.
We are seeing to it that the balance of
power, so necessary to discourage a new
outbreak of fighting, is not upset. Working
behind the scenes, when a crisis arose in
Jordan, the United States played a key
role in seeing that order was restored and
an invasion was abandoned.
We recognize that centuries of suspicion
and decades of hostility cannot be ended
overnight. There are great obstacles in the
way of a permanent, peaceful settlement,
and painful compromise is required by all
concerned.
We are encouraged by the willingness
of each of the parties to begin to look to
the larger interest of peace and stability
throughout the Middle East. There is still
the risk of war, but now—for the first time
in years the parties are actively calculat-
ing the risks of peace.
The policy of the United States will
continue to be to promote peace talks-
not to try to impose a peace from the out-
side, but to support the peace efforts of
the parties in the region themselves.
One way to support these efforts is for
the United States to discourage any out-
side power from trying to exploit the situa-
tion for its own advantage.
Another way for us to help turn a tenu-
ous truce into a permanent settlement is
this: The United States is fully prepared
to play a responsible and cooperative role
in keeping the peace arrived at through
negotiation between the parties.
We know what our vital interests are
in the Middle East. Those interests in-
clude friendly and constructive relations
with all nations in the area. Other nations
know that we are ready to protect those
vital interests. And one good reason why
other nations take us at our word in the
Middle East is because the United States
has kept its word in Southeast Asia.
We now come to a matter that affects
every nation: the relations between the
world's two great super powers.
216
