Richard Nixon, 1971
June 5 [196]
It was the summer of 1946, 25 years
ago, that Congress first authorized this
project. I remember that summer well.
Another man on this platform remembers
it very well, too. That was the year I was
lucky enough to win when I ran for Con-
gress. He ran, too. He was elected from
Oklahoma, I from California. And when
I think of all the events that have taken
place in the world in the quarter century
since Speaker Albert and I were first
elected to that 80th Congress, I realize
what a momentous time in history this
has been. That doubles my pride in shar-
ing with him and all the others on this
platform and all of those in this great
audience, the dedication of this magnifi-
cent project-a project which was only
a bold dream when we came to Congress
25 years ago, but now it is a grand reality,
and for generations to come it will be a
living monument to what man and nature
together can accomplish.
As I conclude today, I would like to
conclude on a personal note of apprecia-
tion to all of those who have made this
for me, personally, and in my capacity as
President of the United States, one of the
most memorable days of my service in that
office. Sometimes those of us who see the
Nation only from Washington tend to get
a distorted view. The reason is obvious.
It is inevitable that bad news will drive
out good news, not by deliberation, but
simply because bad news seems to make
more news than good news.
Consequently, if you sit in Washington
without getting out to the country, you
get an impression of the country that ev-
erything is wrong, that America is an ugly
country: ugly physically, ugly morally,
ugly spiritually.
I want to thank all of you today, the
people of Oklahoma and Arkansas, and
all the others from these heartland States,
for reminding us of some fundamental
truths. America is a beautiful country,
and the American people are a good peo-
ple, they are a strong people, with faith
in God and faith in themselves.
And the spirit that built America, the
spirit of 1776, still lives. It is a
spirit of hope, it is a spirit of idealism, it
is a spirit to dare and achieve great things.
And as we look at America's role in the
world, we see a nation, the strongest and
the richest nation in the world, but a na-
tion, I can tell you, that throughout the
world is not feared by any who have free-
dom, because we will never use our
strength except to defend freedom; and
is not feared by any who love peace, be-
cause America will always use its strength
to serve the cause of peace and not to
break the peace.
And I say to you today, I thank you
for reminding all of us on this day where
we came from, of all of our great tradi-
tions, and of some of the good things about
America.
On this day let us all stand just a little
taller, let us all stand taller and say we
are proud to be Americans.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, you
can see by this picture here that where
the interests of the United States are
really concerned, building better
America, we are not Democrats, we are
not Republicans, we put this Nation first.
We are all Americans, we really are.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:06 p.m. in
the port of Catoosa near Tulsa, Okla.
David Hall was Governor of Oklahoma and
Dale Bumpers was Governor of Arkansas.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
On June 4, 1971, the White House released
a fact sheet on the navigation project.
719
