[204] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
problems in the field of race relations.
Here I think it is important for us to
realize that those of us in positions of lead-
ership, of opinion, you, particularly, the
opinionmakers, have a very great respon-
sibility. We can point to some progress. I,
of course, have a rather diverse back-
ground in that respect. I went to school
in the West, grew up in the West; I have
lived in the North, in New York City;
and I also went to school for 3 years in
the South at Duke University in Durham,
North Carolina. I think I know the
Nation.
It is interesting and ironic to note that
the section of the country that has the
most difficult problem has made the most
progress in the field of race relations over
the past 3 years. For example, 38 percent
of all black students in the South go to
majority white schools. Twenty-eight per-
cent of all black students in the North go
to majority white schools. There has been
a doubling-I mean a tripling-of the
number in the South in the past year.
There has been no change whatever in
the North in this number over these past
3 years.
We could go on by dissecting the prob-
lem and pointing out how far we still have
to go in the South, how far we have to
go in the North. We could talk about other
areas: job opportunity, housing, and so
forth.
I would simply like to leave this thought
with you with regard to this: It is the
responsibility of the national Administra-
tion to enforce the law. We will, and we
are.
In the field of school desegregation, in
the field of fair housing and all the rest,
we shall enforce the law. But I recall in
my
first year in law school, the first day,
the professor in contracts started the
course before we opened the case books,
and he said, “Gentlemen, before you study
all these cases I want to say one thing. A
contract is only as good as the will of the
parties to keep it."
To paraphrase that, we must recognize
that a law is only as good as the will of
people to obey it. That will must come,
and it will only come, through leader-
ship, again from the media and the rest,
all of us who have this responsibility, who
will, one, not create among the minds
of people that they must like a law in order
to obey it; but to create at least among
those who have the problem, whatever
it may be in this difficult area, to create
among them this attitude that once the
courts have spoken, once the law has been
laid down, then it is their responsibility to
carry it out.
That is why when we worked on the
problem of Southern school desegregation
we could have gone the other way. We
could have demagogued it a year ago,
when the Supreme Court handed down
its decision, and we would have had mas-
sive resistance. But we called in the white
leaders and the black leaders-and we
met with them hour after hour after
hour-from all of the major States. I per-
sonally met with them at the White
House. They left; and many of the white
leaders particularly-even some of the
blacks but most of the white leaders said,
"We don't agree with the law, we don't
like the law, but we do not want our part
of the country to be a non-law-abiding
area."
It is that type of an attitude that we
need, of course, to inculcate all across this
country.
Now if I could move finally to putting
this in the perspective of our foreign pol-
icy, without going into great detail in that
756
