Richard Nixon, 1971
July 23 [235]
235 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report on Financial Assistance to Rural Areas.
July 23, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the first an-
nual report on financial assistance to rural
areas, as called for by Title 9 of the Agri-
cultural Act of 1970.
The revitalization of rural America is
one of the important objectives of my
administration. For I am convinced that
the growth which this Nation will inevi-
tably experience in the coming decades
will be healthy growth only if it is bal-
anced growth-and this means growth
which is distributed among both urban
and rural areas. The recent trend of di-
minishing population and diminishing
prosperity in many rural areas must be
actively resisted. This report tells about
some of the steps we have taken in this
direction-and about some of the conclu-
sions we have reached concerning future
steps.
As the report points out, financial as-
sistance is now available from public and
private sources for agriculture, industrial
development, housing, community devel-
opment and other economic activities in
rural areas. This document describes some
of the things this administration is doing
to correct deficiencies in these programs.
It also provides detailed financial data for
selected Federal programs for Fiscal Year
1970, most of them Federal direct and in-
sured loan programs.
Perhaps the most important element of
the report, however, is its conclusion that
the most critical financial needs for
achieving greater rural development are
those of State and local governments. My
General and Special Revenue Sharing
proposals are geared to meet these needs.
These proposals recognize both the stead-
ily increasing demands for service being
placed on State and local governments
and the severe limitations on new and
existing sources of revenue at these gov-
ernmental levels.
These proposed revenue sharing funds
could be used for specific services pres-
ently provided by State and local govern-
ments, or to finance new programs and
services tailored to particular needs of
States and localities, including rural de-
velopment. One of my six Special Rev-
enue Sharing programs, in fact, is
earmarked specifically for Rural Commu-
nity Development and it alone would pro-
vide a total of $1.1 billion annually for
rural programs and services administered
at the State and local level. In addition,
substantial portions of my revenue sharing
proposals for transportation, education,
urban community development, man-
power training, and law enforcement as-
sistance would directly benefit rural
residents. And my General Revenue Shar-
ing proposal would provide additional
funds which could be used to augment
various rural efforts.
I would emphasize that revenue sharing
monies could be used not only to pay for
direct governmental services but also to
give credit assistance for accelerating the
expansion of commercial and industrial
development through locally sponsored in-
stitutions. Such institutions can be par-
ticularly useful in those specific areas
where there are shortages of private in-
vestment capital, and where even the
823
