[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our experience in the 1960's has un-
derlined the fact that we should not do
more abroad than domestic opinion can
sustain. But we cannot let the pendulum
swing in the other direction, sweeping us
toward an isolationism which could be as
disastrous as excessive zeal.
Thus, while lowering our overseas pres-
ence and direct military involvement, our
new policy calls for a new form of leader-
ship, not abdication of leadership. This
policy must not only reflect a changed
public will. It must shape a new consen-
sus for a balanced and positive American
role.
While cutting back overseas forces
prudently, we must resist the automatic
reduction of the American presence every-
where without regard to consequences.
While trimming our defense budget where
possible and adjusting defenses to mod-
ern realities, we must resist ritualistic vot-
ing against defense spending. Mere scal-
ing down is not an end in itself. We need
to determine the proper role for our forces
abroad; the level of assistance for allied
forces; and the shape of our respective
budgets.
The Nixon Doctrine will enable us to
remain committed in ways that we can
sustain. The solidity of domestic support
in turn will reverberate overseas with con-
tinued confidence in American perform-
ance.
THE RECORD OF IMPLEMENTATION
Different national and regional cir-
cumstances dictate variations in style,
speed, and substance in implementing the
Nixon Doctrine. This past year the shar-
ing of responsibilities was reflected in
various ways.
In some areas the Nixon Doctrine re-
sulted in reduced American presence:
-In Vietnam, we progressively trans-
ferred combat burdens in an on-going
war. Vietnamization produced sub-
stantial improvement in South Viet-
namese forces, the withdrawal of
some 260,000 Americans by May 1 of
this year and a decline in American
casualties in 1970 to a level 70%
below 1968.
-In South Korea, we moved to a more
supportive role in the continuing
process of deterring a new war. We
announced a reduction of 20,000 in
the authorized American troop ceil-
ing together with modernization of
Korean forces through expanded mil-
itary assistance.
-Elsewhere in Asia we cut back our
forces to reflect our declining involve-
ment in Vietnam and the increased
capabilities of our allies. Troop re-
ductions and base consolidations by
this July will lower the U.S. presence
by some 12,000 in Japan, 5,000 in
Okinawa, 16,000 in Thailand and
9,000 in the Philippines.
-Worldwide we cut back the U.S. of-
ficial presence, civilian and military,
for a more efficient and less conspicu-
ous approach. A program begun in
November 1969 reduced our govern-
ment personnel abroad by about
86,000.
In other cases our new approach took
different forms:
-In Europe we enlisted greater mate-
rial and intellectual contributions
from our allies. We jointly reviewed
NATO strategy and agreed to a real-
istic defense in which the European
conventional share will be relatively
226
