Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
research and treatment of sickle cell dis-
ease fivefold, to a new total of $6 million.
2. A second major area of emphasis
should be that of health education.
In the final analysis, each individual
bears the major responsibility for his own
health. Unfortunately, too many of us fail
to meet that responsibility. Too many
Americans eat too much, drink too much,
work too hard, and exercise too little. Too
many are careless drivers.
These are personal questions, to be sure,
but they are also public questions. For the
whole society has a stake in the health of
the individual. Ultimately, everyone
shares in the cost of his illnesses or acci-
dents. Through tax payments and through
insurance premiums, the careful subsidize
the careless, the nonsmokers subsidize
those who smoke, the physically fit subsi-
dize the rundown and the overweight, the
knowledgeable subsidize the ignorant and
vulnerable.
It is in the interest of our entire country,
therefore, to educate and encourage each
of our citizens to develop sensible health
practices. Yet we have given remarkably
little attention to the health education of
our people. Most of our current efforts in
this area are fragmented and haphazard-
a public service advertisement one week,
a newspaper article another, a short lec-
ture now and then from the doctor. There
is no national instrument, no central force
to stimulate and coordinate a comprehen-
sive health education program.
I have therefore been working to create
such an instrument. It will be called the
National Health Education Foundation.
It will be a private, non-profit group
which will receive no Federal money. Its
membership will include representatives
of business, labor, the medical profession,
the insurance industry, health and welfare
organizations, and various governmental
units. Leaders from these fields have al-
ready agreed to proceed with such an or-
ganization and are well on the way toward
reaching an initial goal of $1 million in
pledges for its budget.
This independent project will be com-
plemented by other Federal efforts to
promote health education. For example,
expenditures to provide family planning
assistance have been increased, rising four-
fold since 1969. And I am asking that the
great potential of our nation's day care
centers to provide health education be
better utilized.
of
3. We should also expand Federal pro-
grams to help prevent accidents-the
leading cause of death between the ages
one and 37 and the fourth leading cause
of death for persons of all ages.
Our highway death
death toll-50,000
fatalities last year-is a tragedy and an
outrage of unspeakable proportions. It is
all the more shameful since half these
deaths involved drivers or pedestrians
under the influence of alcohol. We have
therefore increased funding for the De-
partment of Transportation's auto acci-
dent and alcohol program from $8 million
in Fiscal Year 1971 to $35 million in Fiscal
Year 1972. I am also requesting that the
budget for alcoholism programs be
doubled, from $7 million to $14 million.
This will permit an expansion of our re-
search efforts into better ways of treating
this disease.
I am also requesting a supplemental
appropriation of $5 million this year and
an addition of $8 million over amounts
already in the 1972 budget to implement
aggressively the new Occupational Safety
and Health Act I signed last December.
71-234-72-15
181
