[177] May 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
through what you have done, to close
completely the information gap. That is
what you have done. That is what
have contributed.
you
The Government of the United States,
the people of the United States, the gov-
ernments of all your countries and of the
whole world are grateful to you for your
work and what you have done.
As you conclude your work, I wish
you the very best on your journeys as you
return to your home countries. I hope that
in the future at some time I may be able
to speak to you by satellite.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:52 a.m. in
the Main Conference Room at the Department
of State to the final plenary session of the Con-
ference, following approval by member coun-
tries of definitive arrangements for a permanent
INTELSAT charter.
178 Remarks on Arrival at Austin, Texas.
May 22, 1971
MRS. NIXON and I want to tell you how
very grateful we are for your giving us
this
very warm welcome here deep in the
heart of Texas.
Incidentally, I want you to know that
as I saw these clouds, that if it rains, give
us the credit, will you please?
I went to Florida last weekend-I only
get away for a couple of days at a time and
usually I complain when it rains-but
they have been having a drought there,
too; and it rained and I am happy. I hope
it rains today, and I am sure that Presi-
dent Johnson will agree, even at that cere-
mony there.
Let me say, too, that in our visit today
we have some very distinguished people
with us. And I would like to present them
to you so that you can know who these
people are that you see on television.
The Secretary of State is here, Secretary
Rogers, and Mrs. Rogers.
Then we have a very distinguished man
who is known to all Texans, who won your
hearts as indicated by your votes the many
times you reelected him Governor of this
State, and now the strong man in our
Cabinet, the Secretary of the Treasury,
John Connally. Incidentally, we ap-
pointed him to the Cabinet not just be-
cause of his abilities but because he also
has a very attractive wife-don't you
think?
Another member of our Cabinet, one
who has taken on a very great responsibil-
ity representing the United States in New
York as our Ambassador to the United
Nations, the former Congressman, George
Bush, and Mrs. Bush. Isn't it fine to have
a fine couple like that representing the
United States in the United Nations? We
think so.
I also have another visitor who has
come with us. This puts a completely
bipartisan and nonpartisan tone on this,
but the man who will give the invocation
today for this ceremony, and who spent
the evening last night with us at the White
House, Dr. Billy Graham, and his wife.
Now they tell me that we must go on to
the ceremonies which will be on live tele-
vision, I understand, starting in about
three-quarters of an hour, or an hour.
Just let me say this in conclusion: I al-
ways enjoy an opportunity to travel to any
part of the country, and I particularly ap-
preciate the opportunity to come to
Texas, a State that I visited often in many
campaigns and that I visited on several
occasions in a nonpolitical capacity dur-
654
