Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
country and is currently worse in the
United States than in many countries-
this affliction is spreading rapidly and
without the slightest respect for national
boundaries. No country is immune, and
any country could be next.
There is, therefore, a strong world in-
terest in joint action to eliminate the il-
legal narcotics traffic. And such coopera-
tion is necessary, for the production and
manufacture of narcotics and dangerous
drugs is immeasurably easier to control
than their illegal passage across national
frontiers. Effective law enforcement ef-
forts can, in fact, prevent the illegal pro-
duction of most narcotics drugs, for
production in quantity requires activities
difficult to conceal. On the other hand,
the mere scale of international movement
of people and goods makes it impossible
for a country to insulate itself from illegal
traffic in drugs.
The control of illegal narcotics, there-
fore, requires an integrated attack on the
demand for them, the supply of them,
and their movement across international
borders. To that end, the United States
has actively sought international coopera-
tion to control the production and dis-
tribution of narcotics. Our efforts have
taken
many forms.
We have worked closely with a large
number of governments, particularly
Turkey, France, and Mexico, to try to
stop the illicit production and smuggling
of narcotics.
In September 1970, a special session of
the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs
met, at our request, to invest the interna-
tional community with a sense of urgency
about this problem. This meeting pro-
duced a resolution including recommen-
dations for short and long
long term
international action against drug abuse.
were
subse-
These recommendations
quently approved by the UN's Economic
and Social Council. This will bring to
bear on this problem the whole array of
talents and energies of the UN specialized
agencies.
The short run program will concentrate
on such matters as strengthening interna-
tional drug control bodies, increasing
technical assistance to countries that seek
to improve their controls over drugs and
their law enforcement capabilities, and
improving research on drug abuse. To
provide funds that otherwise would be
unavailable for the immediate programs,
a UN Special Fund for Drug Control was
established. For the longer term, the UN
Secretary General has been asked to de-
velop a plan for the provision of new
economic opportunities for poppy grow-
ers, and the education and rehabilitation
of addicts.
In another initiative strongly supported
by the U.S., a conference on psychotropic
substances met in Vienna earlier this year.
We are hopeful that a treaty with wide-
spread adherence will emerge which will
bring under international control a num-
ber of these dangerous substances—such
as the amphetamines, barbiturates, hallu-
cinogens, etc.—not hitherto subjected to
such regulation.
The United States will be submitting
shortly specific proposals to strengthen the
existing Single Convention on Narcotics
Drugs. In essence our amendments would
provide to the International Narcotics
Control Board mandatory powers where
it now has only the power to request
voluntary compliance.
Clearly, our Government has acted vig-
orously in the last year to stimulate inter-
national energies on this problem. An
excellent start has been made, and we
335
