Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 26 [305]
one of the major places to get it-certainly
is through the development of nuclear
energy.
That is why I made an announcement
on June 4,2 one that did not get, of course,
the enormous publicity of the announce-
ment of the journey to China, one that did
not get the publicity of my announcement
of the new economic policy to deal with
the problems of inflation and unemploy-
ment in this country, but one which in
terms of the future of the country may be,
in long-range terms, even more important
in some respects, and that is that the
United States was going to go forward in
building a breeder reactor.
Now don't ask me what a breeder reac-
tor is; ask Dr. Schlesinger. But don't tell
him not to tell you, because unless you are
one of those Ph. D.'s, you won't under-
stand it either. But what I do know is this:
that here we have the potentiality of a
whole new breakthrough in the develop-
ment of power for peace. And that means
jobs-jobs for this area, but jobs and
power for hundreds, for millions of people
all over the world.
At the time of that announcement, I
was able to announce we were going to
have one experimental plant to go for-
ward. I want to tell you today—and I
have chosen this place and time to make
the announcement for reasons you will all
understand-that because private indus-
try has already contributed $200 million
to the development of the first plant, that
I have decided to authorize going forward
on a second one.
We are not yet ready to drop the other
shoe and to say where they are going to be,
except this: This area that has so much
talent in terms of brains, that has so much
2 See Item 195.
resources in terms of experience, has a role
to play in the future in the development
of our power. I will just say that, and we
hope that
you will be able to play it.
One final thought before we go in for
the tour. I mentioned a moment ago how
all of this business about breeder reactors
and nuclear energy is over my head. That
was one of my poorest subjects-science.
I got through it, but I had to work too
hard. I gave it up when I was a sopho-
more. But I can assure you that it always
has been fascinating to me because it
seems to me that if a people are to be a
great people, we must always explore the
unknown. We must never be afraid of it.
That is why we have to go to space; that
is why we should have built the SST; that
is why, as far as this particular matter is
concerned, in terms of nuclear power, we
must not be afraid. We must explore it.
We can't be sure what it is going to pro-
duce, but on the other hand, we know
that by exploring the unknown, we are
going to grow, we are going to progress,
and progress in a way that will be good
for all Americans and for other people
in the world.
There is a wonderful story about Ben-
jamin Franklin that illustrates my point
on that score. A balloon was sent aloft, the
first time that Americans at that time had
seen a balloon, and somebody asked
Franklin, "Of what possible use is that
thing?" And his answer was, "Of what
possible use is a newborn babe?" So that
is what we have here. We have here the
possibilities of new breakthroughs.
The fact that you live in this area, and
that whether you work here in this instal-
lation, whether you are associated with it,
it seems to me this is one of the most ex-
citing places to live, one of the most excit-
ing times to be alive in the history of man,
ΙΟΟΙ
