Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 4 [250]
ously this year on both those issues, and
the fact that since the talks at Helsinki
began that we have made progress, gives
hope that we are going to make an
arrangement.
But to speculate that maybe we are
going to get that done before we go to
Peking, I think, would be ill-advised.
PARIS PEACE TALKS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, why have you
not accepted the Vietcong proposals after
all these weeks of probing, or given some
formal reply?
THE PRESIDENT. I have noted some
criticism in the press about the fact that
Ambassador Bruce had to leave August 1.
Incidentally, I am most grateful that he
stayed an extra month, because his doctor
got hold of me and said he should have
left July 1. But, in any event, his having
left August 1, and Mr. Porter not being
able to arrive of the latter part of August,
there has been some speculation, in fact
there is and I understand this--criticism
in the press and the Senate and the House
that the Administration is not interested
in negotiating a settlement, that we are
not considering the various proposals that
have been made by the VC and the North
Vietnamese.
Now, just so the members of the press
will not get out on a limb with regard to
predicting what we are or are not doing,
let me make one statement, and then I
will go no further.
We are very actively pursuing negotia-
tions on Vietnam in established channels.
The record, when it finally comes out, will
answer all the critics as far as the activity
of this Government in pursuing negotia-
tions in established channels. It would not
be useful to negotiate in the newspapers
if we want to have those negotiations
succeed.
I am not predicting that the negotia-
tions will succeed. I am saying, however,
that as far as the United States is con-
cerned, we have gone and are going the
extra mile on negotiations in established
channels. You can interpret that any way
you want, but do not interpret it in a way
that indicates that the United States is
missing this opportunity, that opportunity,
or another one, to negotiate.
SOUTH VIETNAM ELECTION
[7] Q. Mr. President, one of the
points being mentioned in the comments
on the negotiations is the election in South
Vietnam this fall. Is that a factor that does
have some bearing on the pace of the
negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. It has certainly in
terms of the North Vietnamese. As you
know, the stumbling block for them in
negotiations really is the political settle-
ment. As they look at the election this fall,
they feel that unless that election comes
out in a way that a candidate they can
support-or at least that they are not as
much against as they are
as they are President
Thieu-but unless it comes out that way,
it will be very difficult for them to have a
negotiated settlement.
With regard to the elections, let me
emphasize our position. Our position is
one of complete neutrality in these elec-
tions. We have, under Ambassador
Bunker's skillful direction, made it clear
to all parties concerned that we are not
supporting any candidate, that we will
accept the verdict of the people of South
Vietnam.
I have noted, for example, that Presi-
dent Thieu has invited observers to come
71-234-72-57
853
