Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 9 [385]
arrange more adequate coverage for them-
selves and their employees. All partici-
pants would have greater assurance that
they will actually receive the benefits
which are coming to them. And they could
also be far more certain that their pension
funds were being administered under
strict fiduciary standards.
There is sometimes a tendency for Gov-
ernment to neglect or take for granted the
"little man" in this country, the average
citizen who lives a quiet, responsible life
and who constitutes the backbone of our
strength as a nation. "He can take care
of himself," we say, and there is a great
deal of truth in that statement. The self-
reliance of the average American is an ex-
tremely important national asset.
The fact that a man is self-reliant, how-
ever, does not mean that Government
should ignore him. To the contrary, Gov-
ernment should do its part to cultivate
individual responsibility, to provide incen-
tives and rewards to those who "take care
of themselves." Only in this way can we
be sure that the self-reliant way of life will
be a continuing and growing part of the
American experience.
My pension reform program would
help do this. It builds on traditional
strengths which have always been at the
root of our national greatness.
The private pension system has con-
tributed much to the economic security of
American workers. We can be proud of its
growth and its accomplishments. The
proposals I offer will strengthen and stim-
ulate its further development.
I hope this program will receive the
prompt and favorable consideration of the
Congress. For it can do a great deal to
protect the rights of the average American
during his working years and to enhance
the quality of his life when he has retired.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
December 8, 1971
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the pension reform program
by Peter M. Flanigan, Assistant to the Presi-
dent, Laurence H. Silberman, Under Secretary,
Department of Labor, and Ronald B. Gold,
Financial Economist, Office of Tax Analysis,
Department of the Treasury.
385 Statement on the Death of Dr. Ralph J. Bunche.
December 9, 1971
FELLOW Americans and peace-loving
men and women everywhere today mourn
the death of one of the greatest architects
of peace in our time: Dr. Ralph Bunche.
Present at the founding of the United
Nations and engaged since its inception in
its most delicate and demanding missions,
Dr. Bunche never relented in his persist-
ence to advance the cause of brotherhood
and cooperation among men and nations.
America is deeply proud of this distin-
guished son and profoundly saddened by
his death. But we are also strengthened by
the inexhaustible measure of dedication
and creative action that spans his splendid
career.
His calm and wise counsel will be sorely
missed in the chambers of the United
Nations. His role in the effort to bring
peace to the Congo and the Middle East
71-234-72——77
1173
