[299] Sept. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
there is total agreement among all of us
on this platform, although we might have
different ways to achieve that goal. We
want an open country, we want open
cities, and we also want an open world.
At the present time we are ending the
longest war in the history of the United
States. We are also trying to build-and
we are having success in building—a new
structure of peace, one which will provide
not just peace for a year,
for the next elec-
tion, or for the next 5 years, but provide
for something we have not had for this
whole century: a whole generation of
peace. I think that is what Americans
want most of all.
When I noticed the high school stu-
dents were here, the various bands that
have been playing, when I see so many
young people, and when I see your par-
ents, I know that is what you want.
As you know, from here we are going
on to Portland and then up to Alaska to
welcome the Emperor of Japan. Later, I
will have the opportunity to visit Main-
land China, the People's Republic of
China. Let me just tell you what these
visits have to do with this generation of
peace. Very simply this: They are not
going to solve all differences between na-
tions, particularly with regard to those
great differences that exist between the
Government of the United States and the
Government of the People's Republic of
China, with which we do not have diplo-
matic relations at this time. But they do
mean this: They do mean that a step has
been taken toward a goal.
When nations have differences, they
can either talk about them and negotiate
about them or they can fight about them.
If 10 to 15 years from now the People's
Republic of China is still isolated from
the rest of the world, and particularly
with no communication with the United
States of America, there is a great danger
that due to that isolation we might end in
finding that our differences were ones that
we could not talk about, and we might
end up fighting about.
I believe we have got to avoid that. I
believe the time to start avoiding that is
now, to make this an open world in which
we negotiate rather than confront those
who differ with us around the world.
In that goal, let me say we have bipar-
tisan support. I think we have the support
of all generations.
There is one other thing I would like
to say before we have a chance to meet
some of you. As we build this generation
of peace, we also want a new prosperity
that is based not on war, but on peace,
in which production for peace provides
the jobs that Americans need. This is
something we all want. It is something
that we can build. It is something that this
State can contribute to and that all of you
can contribute to.
Finally, let me say that in this Nation
in these years ahead we want this Nation
to continue to have not only those areas
that can produce, as the great agricultural
area of Montana produces, for making
this the best fed, the best dressed nation
in the world but also the beauty of this
country, which this State has in such re-
markable degrees.
One final story to illustrate it: A couple
of months ago, among the many visitors
that stream through the Oval Office of
the White House, was a tremendously in-
teresting group of teenagers from the
State of Washington. They had ridden
bicycles clear across the country. They
called themselves Cyclemates.
As they rode across the country they
stopped at various places. It, of course,
982
