Richard Nixon, 1971
May 26 [183]
advances speed up by almost a geometrical
proportion. Already we take moon land-
ings almost for granted. Computers and
industrial advances, agricultural break-
throughs, all are multiplying the goods
and services that our economy can
provide.
These material advances are important.
They extend man's reach. They widen our
range of choices. They make it possible to
look ahead toward an end to hunger and
misery and disease, not only in America
but elsewhere in the world as well.
But by themselves, these advances can
never be enough. The engineers and the
scientists can take us to the moon, but we
need the poet or the painter to take us
to the heights of understanding and
perception.
Doctors are enabling us to live longer
and healthier lives, but we need the musi-
cian and the dancer and the filmmaker
to bring beauty and meaning to our lives.
So on urging greater support for the
arts, I do it not only because the arts need
help. I do it also because the Nation needs
what the arts and only the arts can give.
That is why I have urged the Congress
to provide full funding for this year's au-
thorization for the arts and humanities
Endowments, funding that would raise
each to $30 million, more than three times
the level of 2 years ago.
This is an investment in cultural re-
sources that we can expect to find repaid,
in my opinion, many, many times over,
not only in terms of a strengthening of the
arts themselves and their supporting insti-
tutions but also in terms of a new aware-
ness and appreciation of the arts and
artists by people all across the Nation.
And we should remember that we add
immeasurably to the store of human hap-
piness as we help millions of persons find
in their lives the added meaning that only
the arts convey, the appreciation that only
they can provide.
To my mind, one of the most exciting
new directions charted by the National
Council on the Arts has been its effort to
take arts to the people and to the people
in all walks of life, all across this Nation.
By doing this, we not only build a
deeper, more solid base of support for the
arts in the future, attracting new people
to an understanding and appreciation of
what they can offer in terms of spiritual
enrichment and therefore building au-
diences for the future, but also the arts
themselves do more to enrich the quality
of life for people, whatever their back-
ground may be throughout America.
I had this brought home to me when I
was the devil's advocate in asking a ques-
tion of a group of motion picture pro-
ducers and directors and others with
whom I met at the Western White House
in San Clemente just a few weeks ago.ยน
One of those who was there was a pro-
ducer, as I recall, and a very successful
one, one of the new successful ones at the
moment in monetary terms in Hollywood.
He told me that he was very proud to
work with Nancy Hanks and others in the
work that you are devoting so much time
to.
Then I asked him the question that
sometimes I am asked of Congressmen
and Senators when they say, "Why in this
ยน On April 5, 1971, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Peter M.
Flanigan, Assistant to the President, Charlton
Heston, president, Screen Actors Guild, Jack
J. Valenti, president, Motion Picture Associa-
tion of America, Inc., and Taft B. Schreiber,
vice president, Music Corporation of America,
following a meeting with the President to dis-
cuss problems in the motion picture industry.
677
