[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
very skilled diplomat here in Washington,
and with Mr. Gromyko when he was here.
Now, as far as another meeting is con-
cerned, a meeting at a higher level, that
is a matter that has been speculated about.
If it appears at some time that a meeting
of that type would be what is needed to
bring about the final consummation in one
of these areas, for example the SALT
talks or the Mideast or the rest, we will
certainly have such a meeting.
But unless there is the chance for prog-
ress, a summit talk is not in their interest
and it is not in our interest, and not in
the interest of world peace. It creates a
false sense of security.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[15.] MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, we
have no formal alliance with the State of
Israel. But isn't it really a fact that we are
now so deeply committed morally to the
Israelis that if they were in unmistakable
danger of defeat wouldn't we have to
intervene?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Sevareid, to
speculate on that question would not
really be in the interests of peace in that
area, as I see them at this point. Let's
look how far we have come. We have had
a cease-fire for 5 months, no killing, and
for 3 or 4 years before that there were
killings every day in that part of the world.
Second, as you know, the Israelis have
gone back to the Jarring talks, and also
the other side will be there. That doesn't
mean that the prospect for an early agree-
ment is very great. It does mean, however,
that there is some chance that there will
be discussion.
And, third, it seems to me that we must
take into account the fact that the people
in that part of the world, the people of
Israel, the people in the countries that are
Israel's neighbors, that they are over-
whelmingly on the side of peace-they
want peace. Their leaders are going to
have to reflect it.
I think that we are at a critical time in
the Mideast, a critical time over the next
few months when we may get these talks
off dead center, make some progress to-
ward a live-and-let-live attitude. Not
progress that is going to bring a situation
where the Israelis and their neighbors are
going to like each other. That isn't ever
going to happen, perhaps. But where they
will live with each other, where they won't
be fighting each other.
Now, to speculate about what is going
to happen in the event that Israel is going
to go down the tube would only tend to
inflame the situation with Israel's neigh-
bors. And I won't do it.
MR. SEVAREID. Would it, Mr. President,
calm the situation and help the prospects
for peace if we did have some formal
alliance with the State of Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't believe so,
because I think that what we are doing for
Israel is so well known to them, and also
incidentally it is quite well known to their
neighbors, that it provides the balance
that is needed.
We just provided a $500 million aid
program for Israel. I say "aid"-they are
going to be able to purchase weapons to
that extent. We have made it clear time
and again that we would help to main-
tain the balance of power in the area so
that Israel would not be in a position that
its neighbors could overwhelm them with
their superior manpower or with the
forces that they got from the Soviet Union.
But I do not believe that a formal alliance
would be is either necessary or would
be in the interest of peace in the area.
16
