[51] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
first flight and this latest is a measure of
how far we have progressed in space in
the short span of 10 years. But two things
have not changed: the courage and deter-
mination of the men who fly these mis-
sions, and the skill and dedication of the
thousands here on earth who make their
flights possible.
To each and every one of the many
people who contributed to the success of
Apollo 14, a grateful nation says: "Well
done." And to the astronauts them-
selves to Captain Shepard, Commander
Mitchell, and Major Roosa-we all will
add an equally hearty: "Welcome home."
NOTE: Shortly after splashdown, President
Nixon telephoned the Apollo 14 astronauts
aboard the U.S.S. New Orleans in the South
Pacific to express his personal congratulations
on the completion of their mission.
52 Remarks at a Reception for the Freedoms
Foundation. February 9,
I WANT to express my apologies to all of
you for delaying this appearance for just
a few minutes, but I had a telephone call,
a very important one. I didn't make a
telephone call to the moon, but I was talk-
ing to the astronauts out in the Pacific.
They are back and back safely. I talked
to all three of them.
And I just want you to know that after
talking to them I think it is most appro-
priate to come to meet with the trustees
of the Freedoms Foundation, because they
stand for what is very best in freedom and
for America, our three astronauts.
I pointed out to all of them that at the
diplomatic reception last night where the
ambassadors, the chiefs of mission, from
116 countries were here, that all of them
spoke of the astronauts and how much
they admired what they had done because
bravery, that kind of technical ability, is
something that transcends political dif-
ferences or geographical differences or
national differences.
And I was certainly very proud, as the
President of the United States, to receive
the congratulations of these heads of for-
eign governments.
I think all of you should know, and I
1971
am sure you do know, that when these
men do return home they not only come
here, at the White House where we have a
dinner for them; that this year we are hav-
ing them and their wives and their chil-
dren go to spend a night or a weekend at
Camp David, which would be interesting.
And then-I hope it is still there when
we get back.
But anyway, I told Captain Shepard
that Arnie Palmer wants him to go on
the tour now. And I also will replace the
golf ball that he hit off into outer space
with one of the Presidential golf balls.
But I think that what I particularly
want to leave with this group here is that
Freedoms Foundation, an organization
that all of you have supported and do sup-
port so loyally, is one that I have known
for many, many years. I knew it from the
time that I was Vice President of the
United States and I remember Mrs. Nixon
and I went up to Valley Forge for a
presentation in the barn.
I also know that through the years that
I have been Vice President, so many of
the award winners have come to my
office then, and then as President I have
been honored to receive them in the Cab-
144
