[82] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
And the discovery of these qualities, of
course, these qualities in men who other-
wise might be in very important activities,
but who by the very fact that they were
in this activity focused and developed
capabilities far beyond what they might
have developed otherwise, this makes that
program worthwhile, these extraordinary
men.
I think of these here. I think of the
others in the past, of Borman, Stafford,
Armstrong, Schirra, all the rest.
And speaking for all of the American
people, we are proud of these men. We
are proud of all of them, and we say that a
nation that can produce men like this can
go not only to the moon but far beyond
in every way that we can think of.
I think, as you noted, when we made
these awards to our three astronauts, the
only one that didn't get a promotion was
Captain Shepard.
I checked into that to see why that was
the case. Because it is traditional, you
know, for the President to promote all
spacemen one rank. And so we promoted
the other two. I said what about Shepard?
They said, "Well, he is a captain now in
the Navy. You can't make him an admiral
because the Navy's regulations will not
permit him to be made an admiral unless
he has some experience other than in the
space field."
Well, I thought I would change the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs for that but,
nevertheless, he is a very good man and
we needed him for what he is presently
doing.
I thought the Chief of Naval Opera-
tions, Admiral Zumwalt, was a very good
man. Also, I thought of when I left this
office I will be a lieutenant commander.
So I didn't want to have any trouble with
the Navy.
So I did want to find something spe-
cial we could do for Captain Shepard.
And so we now make a personal award to
him. And if the Vice President would
come up and join me for this award, I
think it would be appropriate.
I shall read it to you: "Whereas, Cap-
tain Alan B. Shepard, U.S. Navy, was the
first man to transport a golf ball into
outer space. And, whereas, using the moon
as a tee, on the third or fourth❞—it says—
"swing, he propelled aforementioned pel-
let possibly further than such an object
has ever been propelled before, and,
whereas, the likelihood exists that it fell
eventually into a small crater and, thus,
became the first cellestial hole-in-one.
Therefore, all who are here present and
all who read this certificate in years to
come know ye that he has been invested
with the distinguished order of lunar
duffer. Done at the White House on this
First Day of March, 1971. And witnessed
and attested by the Vice President of the
United States, who wishes to point out
that Captain Shepard's first two swings
were embarrassing failures. And he knows
just how he feels."
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President,
I would just like to say a few words in
self-defense.
First of all, I am a very good golfer who
just happened to have a few bad first
holes. I want you to understand that.
And, Alan, I know this-no, I don't
know it. I only know it from the hearsay
that I got at my table tonight, but I under-
stand that this ball you hit this astro-
nomical distance that has been described
went completely around the moon and
came back and reposed some distance
compatible with my possibilities on earth.
And I don't know whether that is true
or not, but I guess it is all right.
372
