Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [182]
grandmother on my mother's side would
have said, yes, it was a mistake, because
they were pacifists and they even dis-
agreed when I was in World War II.
Many others would say that.
But when we look at the U.S. role in
the world in those four wars, whatever
our mistakes may have been, we at least
can be proud of the fact that we did not
start any of them, we gained nothing from
them and asked nothing from them in the
way of domination over any other people,
and third we came to the aid of people
whose freedom was threatened.
Now I will not go into a rather mean-
ingless debate at this point, because we
all have our views, and we are probably
pretty concrete about them, about the war
in which we are presently engaged. But
as far as the motivation of America, why
we are doing what we are doing, its moti-
vation has no imperialistic overtones, its
motivation as was the case in Korea,
World War I, and World War II is to
help another nation whose freedom, in-
dependence, call it what you will, is
threatened and also to build a more
peaceful world. That is a record that we
can be proud of.
Second, as far as America's strength in
the world is concerned, we need not be
apologetic about it. At the present time,
is there any other nation in the world that
you would rather have this strength? I
have been to 70 countries. I talked to the
leaders of countries-leaders of countries
with very different philosophies. I have
yet to find a leader that feared the United
States of America, that feared that we
would use our armed strength for the
purpose of invading it, of conquest, or for
any other purpose except to help them
maintain their independence.
We made our mistakes. We make them
now, but we in America, as we play our
world role, perhaps we are naive, but we
are basically idealistic, we maintain our
strength for purposes of peace and not for
other purposes.
Turning to the domestic field, we have
many faults here. I spoke in Mobile of the
fact that we have differences between
regions, we have differences between
races, we have differences between reli-
gions, we have differences between the
generations today, and these differences
have at times been very destructive. We
must recognize that we will always have
those differences. People of different races,
different religions, from different back-
grounds, and of different ages are not
always going to agree.
The question is, can those differences
be resolved peacefully, and second, can
they be made creative rather than destruc-
tive? Must they be a drain upon us?
Must they go so far that they destroy the
confidence and faith of this great Nation
in its destiny and its future? I do not
believe that that is necessary.
Two specific points that I would like
to mention. I would say this in the North
if I were speaking there; I say it in the
South. I know the difficult problems most
of you in the Southern States have had
on the school desegregation problem. I
went to school in the South, and so, there-
fore, I am more familiar with how South-
erners feel about that problem than others.
Also, I went to school in the North, or
the West I should say, and I have nothing
but utter contempt for the double hypo-
critical standard of Northerners who look
at the South and point the finger and say,
"Why don't those Southerners do some-
thing about their race problem?”
Let's look at the facts. In the past year,
2 years, there has been a peaceful, rela-
673
