[159] May 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
neglect, or inability to perform. Po-
litical pressures cannot be a basis for
removal.
These provisions, all painstakingly de-
signed to insulate the board from outside
pressures, find an apt precedent in the
corporation created four years ago to
promote freedom and initiative in non-
commercial broadcasting. In establishing
the Corporation for Public Broadcasting,
the Congress was once again dealing with
a sensitive area of our national life, and it
chose much the same course that I am
recommending today.
The primary mission of the Legal Serv-
ices Corporation should be the review and
approval of applications for funds sub-
mitted by neighborhood law offices, spe-
cial units of private law firms, and other
attorneys who seek to provide legal as-
sistance to the poor. The decision in the
case of each individual grant or contract
should be made by the corporation's pres-
ident—an official employed by the
board-based upon guidelines established
by the board.
To advise the board of the Legal Serv-
ices Corporation, I propose that an ad-
visory council also be established with its
membership including eligible poor clients
and representatives of the organized bar.
As a further means of assuring its in-
dependence, I recommend that grants
made by the corporation to neighborhood
offices and other recipients not be subject
to veto by governmental officials. It is
important, however, that State and local
officials be given ample notice of new
grants. Therefore, I propose that the cor-
poration be required to notify the Chief
Executive Officer of the State, Common-
wealth, District of Columbia or possession
at least 30 days prior to approving a grant
or contract for that area, so that full con-
sideration could be given to the views of
that executive. Thus the legitimate con-
cerns of the jurisdiction involved could be
taken into account before proceeding,
but the corporation would retain its
independence.
As yet another guarantee of that in-
dependence, and also to assure continuity
and facilitate long-range planning, I pro-
pose that funding by the Congress be
appropriated on a three-year basis.
INDEPENDENCE FOR THE LAWYER
While it is important to insulate the
corporate structure so that public funds
can be properly channeled into the field,
it is even more important that the lawyers
on the receiving end be able to use the
money ethically, wisely and without un-
necessary or encumbering restrictions.
The legal problems of the poor are of
sufficient scope that we should not restrict
the right of their attorneys to bring any
type of civil suit. Only in this manner can
we maintain the integrity of the adversary
process and fully protect the attorney-
client relationship so central to our judi-
cial
process.
At the same time, it would be a waste
of our resources and a dilution of the legal
services program if these same lawyers
were also to become involved in criminal
suits, since legal representation in crimi-
nal cases is already available to the poor
under many other programs. Counsel for
the indigent has been held by the Supreme
Court to be a constitutional requirement
in felony cases. States now provide for
such counsel, and the Federal Govern-
ment has made substantial sums of money
available for criminal representation.
620
