[351] Nov. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
be an unacceptable risk of war in the
years ahead. With negotiation between
the United States and the Soviet Union
and the People's Republic of China, there
is a chance for peace, and we owe it to
future generations to seize that chance
and that is what we have done.
But as we think of that peace, let us
remember that great as the challenges of
war are, the challenges of peace can even
be greater, because once peace comes, and
even as it comes, there is a tendency to
let down. There is a tendency for a great
people to retreat from responsibilities in
the world, and that would only lead to in-
creasing the dangers of another war. That
is why at this point I speak of the chal-
lenges of peace in several respects.
First, particularly now, at a time that
we are attempting to negotiate a limita-
tion on nuclear arms, it is essential that
the United States maintain its military
strength at an adequate level. We must
do this because of the accident of history.
We did not ask for this responsibility, but
it is ours, whether we want it or not.
Because of that accident of history, what
happened in World War II, the United
States is the only one of the free nations
that has the strength or the potential
strength to carry the responsibilities of
freedom. If we do not carry those re-
sponsibilities, the possibilities of keeping
peace in the world will be greatly
diminished.
It goes beyond simply maintaining mili-
tary strength at home. I know how easy
it is for Members of the Congress-I was
once in the House; I was once in the Sen-
ate and I know how easy it was then-to
try to find a reason to vote against those
programs of mutual assistance for coun-
tries abroad, foreign aid for countries that
needed aid, aid for the purpose of helping
other countries to help themselves, to cre-
ate a more stable world.2
There are no constituencies for foreign
aid. We know that. But let us recognize
this: If the United States at this particular
time should determine that it will dis-
continue its programs of mutual assistance
for countries abroad-helping them so
that they can help themselves—it can only
mean that the world will become much
more unstable, that the dangers of war
in the world will greatly increase, and that
the United States will no longer be a world
power respected in the world, no matter
how strong we are at home.
That is why tonight I speak of the
challenges of peace, not only in main-
taining our strength at home but in meet-
ing our responsibilities abroad. This is
above partisanship, because Republicans
have joined with Democrats through the
years to see that these programs-whereas
they have no constituencies in this coun-
try-because they are essential to main-
tain the peace of the world, that these
programs are continued, and I trust they
will be, by this Congress.
But let me turn now to other challenges,
challenges not in the military field, but
challenges in the economic field. And here
in the great city of New York-New
York, New Jersey, Connecticut-this
great financial capital of the United
States, it is appropriate for me to speak
at least briefly of the economic challenges
that America faces, infinitely greater to-
day, because of the irony that as the dan-
gers of war are reduced, as negotiation
"A statement by Press Secretary Ronald L.
Ziegler on the Senate's rejection of the foreign
aid bill was released by the White House on
October 30, 1971, and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 7,
P. 1457).
1088
