[86] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
would have funds to help support certain
programs which operate most effectively
across State and local boundaries.
This Act, like my other revenue sharing
proposals, would include rigorous safe-
guards against all discrimination. The leg-
islation I am recommending today
stipulates that revenue shared and other
funds expended by the Secretary of Labor
under this Act would be considered Fed-
eral financial assistance within the mean-
ing of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964.
MANPOWER POLICY AND PUBLIC
SERVICE EMPLOYMENT
One of the most innovative features of
my proposed Manpower Training Act of
1969 was an automatic "trigger" which
provided more manpower funds when the
national unemployment rate rose to 4.5
percent or more for three consecutive
months.
The Manpower Revenue Sharing Act
contains a similar feature. Triggered funds
would be distributed by the Secretary of
Labor to areas of high unemployment to
provide additional training and employ-
ment opportunities.
Under such conditions many State
and local governments might choose
to use these funds to create temporary
public service jobs to offset the rise in
unemployment.
This is an acceptable and appropriate
use of triggered funds-and of regular
shared revenues for manpower programs.
Transitional and short-term public em-
ployment can be a useful component of
the Nation's manpower policies. But pub-
lic employment not linked to real jobs or
not devoted to equipping the individual
to compete in the labor market is only a
palliative, not a solution for manpower
problems.
Thus, this Act would also provide
permanent authority for public service job
creation as part of an overall manpower
program-but with the proviso that such
jobs must constitute transitional oppor-
tunities. Within a two-year period partic-
ipants must be enabled to move into the
public employer's regular payroll, or
helped to obtain other public or private
employment.
Public jobs created through manpower
funds would thus be used to develop skills
and abilities, with participants moving
through such positions into permanent
opportunities.
Federal funds already support almost
2 million jobs in State and local govern-
ment. When enacted, General Revenue
Sharing may support tens of thousands
more.
Furthermore, last week the administra-
tion requested Congressional approval for
the creation of at least 200,000 new pub-
lic jobs for welfare recipients. A part of
my welfare reform proposals, these new
jobs would lead to non-subsidized employ-
ment for welfare recipients for whom
other jobs are not available.
FITTING PROGRAMS TO PEOPLE
This new reliance on local flexibility
and local initiative should benefit citizens
and communities across the country. For
example:
-This Act would allow city govern-
ments to bring jobless ghetto resi-
dents onto city payrolls in education,
health, safety and anti-pollution work
while preparing them to move into
permanent jobs.
-This Act would allow State govern-
ments to reach out to isolated rural
384
