Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 2 [380]
going home with promises to keep. As we
keep those promises, as we fulfill our
commitments to action, we will make this
Conference the great new beginning you
have talked about this week. Let us make
the last days the best days for all
Americans.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:33 a.m. in
the Washington Hilton Hotel.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
A White House announcement of the desig-
nation of Arthur S. Flemming as Chairman of
the 1971 White House Conference on Aging
was released on April 23, 1971, and is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 7, p. 674). On the same day,
the White House also released the transcript of
a news conference on Dr. Flemming's appoint-
ment by Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary, and
John B. Martin, Commissioner, Administration
on Aging, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare; and Dr. Flemming.
380 Remarks at the Swearing
Secretary of Agriculture.
Ladies and gentlemen of the Cabinet and
of the Congress:
As you know, we are gathered here to-
day for the swearing in of our new Secre-
tary of Agriculture. We will have the
swearing-in ceremony first, and then I
would like to make a brief remark of wel-
come to our new member of the Cabinet,
and then he will have the opportunity to
say a word, too, in response to what I
Mr. Justice Blackmun will administer the
oath.
say.
[At this point, the oath of office was adminis-
tered by Associate Justice Harry A. Blackmun
of the Supreme Court. The President then re-
sumed speaking.]
We are going to have Senator Aiken
stand here by us because he was one of
those that led the fight in the Senate. I
was reminded just before coming into this
room that I announced the nomination of
the new Secretary of Agriculture on Ar-
mistice Day. He has been wondering what
became of the truce.
I can only say, however, that a man
who goes before the Senate, who has a
number of Senators who are strongly for
him, and others who with conviction are
In of Earl L. Butz as
December 2, 1971
against him, is a man who after surviving
that ordeal comes out stronger and better
than ever.
I think Winston Churchill, in writing
about some of his early war years, once
said that there is nothing so exhilarating
in life as to be shot at without result.
And you seem to have survived it well.
I mentioned at the time that I sent the
nomination to the Senate, that I had
chosen Earl Butz because of his qualifica-
tions in the field of agriculture over 40
years. I believe he is as well qualified for
this position as any man who has ever
held it.
But there is another reason that I
selected him for this post. He is an
activist; he is an independent thinker. He
is a man who will come into this office-
and the door of this office will always be
open to him to speak his mind-and say
what he thinks needs to be done for the
farmers of this country and for American
agriculture. As a matter of fact, I think
he has something that he is going to be
saying tomorrow on some subjects, and he
will be listened to.
I believe that he will serve not only
1161
