[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
establishment of public agencies to assure
public discussion of plans, proper resolu-
tion of environmental issues, and timely
construction of facilities. Last fall, the
Office of Science and Technology spon-
sored a study entitled "Electric Power and
the Environment," which identified many
of these issues. Only through involving the
environmental protection agencies early in
the planning of future power facilities can
we avoid disputes which delay construc-
tion timetables. I believe that these two
goals of adequacy of power supply and
environmental protection are compatible
if the proper framework is available.
-I propose a power plant siting law to
provide for establishment within each
State or region of a single agency with
responsibility for assuring that en-
vironmental concerns are properly
considered in the certification of spe-
cific power plant sites and transmis-
sion line routes.
Under this law, utilities would be re-
quired to identify needed power supply
facilities ten years prior to construction of
the required facilities. They would be re-
quired to identify the power plant sites
and general transmission routes under
consideration five years before construc-
tion and apply for certification for specific
sites, facilities, and routes two years in
advance of construction. Public hearings
at which all interested parties could be
heard without delaying construction time-
tables would be required.
Mined Area Protection
Surface and underground mining have
scarred millions of acres of land and have
caused environmental damages such as air
and water pollution. Burning coal fires,
subsidence, acid mine drainage which pol-
lutes our streams and rivers and the de-
struction of aesthetic and recreational
values frequently but unnecessarily ac-
company mining activities. These prob-
lems will worsen as the demand for fossil
fuels and other raw materials continues to
grow, unless such mining is subject to reg-
ulation requiring both preventive and
restorative measures.
-I propose a Mined Area Protection
Act to establish Federal requirements
and guidelines for State programs to
regulate the environmental conse-
quences of surface and underground
mining. In any State which does not
enact the necessary regulations or en-
force them properly, the Federal
Government would be authorized to
do so.
PRESERVING OUR ARCHITECTURAL
AND HISTORIC HERITAGE
Too often we think of environment only
as our natural surroundings. But for most
of
us, the urban environment is the one in
which we spend our daily lives. America's
cities, from Boston and Washington to
Charleston, New Orleans, San Antonio,
Denver, and San Francisco, reflect in the
architecture of their buildings a unique-
ness and character that is too rapidly
disappearing under the bulldozer. Unfor-
tunately, present Federal income tax poli-
cies provide much stronger incentives for
demolition of older buildings than for
their rehabilitation.
Particularly acute is the continued loss
of many buildings of historic value. Since
1933 an estimated one-quarter of the
buildings recorded by the Historic Ameri-
can Building Survey has been destroyed.
Most lending institutions are unwilling to
138
