[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal Republic has met with the
East German Premier.
-France reached agreement with the
USSR in 1970 for periodic consulta-
tion on major world issues.
-NATO allies have conversed bilat-
erally with Warsaw Pact countries
on a Conference on European Se-
curity, as well as on the question of
mutual reduction of forces in
Europe.
At issue are major national questions
(such as the relationship between East
and West Germany), basic regional prob-
lems (such as mutual force reductions),
and the overall U.S.-Soviet strategic re-
lationship. Whatever the issue, however,
its resolution will engage the interests of
NATO and Europe as a whole.
Obviously, the Western countries do not
have identical national concerns and can-
not be expected to agree automatically on
priorities or solutions. Each ally is the best
judge of its own national interest. But our
principal objective should be to harmo-
nize our policies and insure that our efforts
for détente are complementary. A dif-
ferentiated détente, limited to the USSR
and certain Western allies but not others,
would be illusory. It would cause strains
among allies. It would turn the desire
for détente into an instrument of political
warfare. Far from contributing to recon-
ciliation in Europe, it would postpone it
indefinitely.
Today's pursuit of détente is taking
place simultaneously with efforts to
strengthen the economic and political sol-
idarity of Western Europe. The West
cannot afford to allow the momentum of
individual approaches to the East to put
allies inadvertently in the painful position
of having to choose between their national
concerns and their European responsi-
bilities.
East-West détente and Western cohe-
sion can be mutually supporting, if the
Alliance consults thoughtfully to strike a
balance between individual and common
interests. The United States applies such
a code of consultation to itself; we have
been scrupulous to maintain a dialogue
with our allies on the issues and develop-
ments in SALT; in turn, our allies have
worked in consultation with us on major
East-West issues. It is crucial that this
continue.
Our urgent task in the coming year is
to achieve an understanding within the
Alliance on our analysis of the sources of
East-West tensions, on our respective roles
in dealing with them through individual
and collective diplomacy, and on our
evaluation of future trends. I pledge the
United States to an intensive effort of
Allied consultation on these questions in
1971, at the highest level and in bilateral
channels and multilateral forums.
The Major Issues: We must translate
our consensus on objectives into specific
policies.
Allied efforts toward mutual force
reductions in Europe will continue in the
coming year. Reducing the military con-
frontation in Europe is in the common
interest of East and West. Our mutual ob-
jective should be to create a more stable
military balance at lower levels and lower
costs.
The problem of defining a fair agree-
ment in precise terms is extremely com-
plex. As in the preparations for SALT,
I instructed our Government to develop
the analytical building blocks of an agree-
ment and evaluate them in differing com-
binations, as our contribution to the Al-
238
