[108] Mar. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
This 42,500-mile system is now 74 percent
finished and is scheduled for completion
in 1978. The Interstate highways that
have been built under this program have
helped to open America to new dimensions
of intercity travel. The system has ad-
vanced the cause of highway safety while
at the same time permitting unparalleled
individual mobility. In my judgment, it
would not be in the national interest to
alter the basic funding mechanism for the
construction of this system at this time.
Although all Special Revenue Sharing
funds would be assigned to governmental
units, the recipient government could, in
turn, channel the funds to private enter-
prises which meet public transportation
needs. This would include the many urban
bus systems that are privately owned and
operated.
No State or local matching funds would
be required under this program. The Fed-
eral Government would not rigidly appor-
tion funds among a variety of narrow
transportation programs nor would it ap-
prove specific local projects. Thus the
Special Revenue Sharing Program for
Transportation would stimulate State and
local governments to take the initiative in
meeting transportation needs, to experi-
ment with new and more creative projects,
to listen to local opinion and to mobilize
local energies which are often stifled under
present arrangements.
I would emphasize in addition that each
State would receive at least as much
money from the new Special Revenue
Sharing Program for Transportation as it
has been receiving under the current cate-
gorical grant programs. Each State would
thus be "held harmless" against any re-
duction in the overall level of support it
receives from programs which become a
part of this Special Revenue Sharing
fund.
Two FUND ELEMENTS
The Special Revenue Sharing Program
for Transportation would consist of two
elements, one for General Transportation
activities and one for Mass Transit Capi-
tal Investment.
GENERAL TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT
The General Transportation element
would total $2.041 billion for the first full
year of revenue sharing. This money could
be spent for the planning, construction,
acquisition, improvement, operation and
maintenance of a broad spectrum of trans-
portation systems and services, including
highway, aviation and mass transit.
The money in this General Transporta-
tion element would be distributed in the
following manner: Ten percent would be
allocated among the States and localities
at the discretion of the Secretary of Trans-
portation. This money would be used to
encourage planning, to fund research de-
velopment and demonstration projects,
and to finance other activities related to
the development and implementation of
national transportation objectives.
The remaining 90 percent of this Gen-
eral Transportation element would be al-
located to the States according to the
following four-part formula: 25 percent
of this remainder would be distributed
according to the ratio of each State's total
population to the total population of the
United States; 35 percent would go to
States according to the ratio of their popu-
lation in urban places (over 2,500 in pop-
ulation) to the Nation's total population
in urban places; 20 percent would be
444
