Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 23 [27]
27 Remarks Honoring the Late Senator Richard Brevard
Russell in Atlanta, Georgia.
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have just had the very great honor to
represent the people of the United States
in paying a tribute to Senator Russell.
I have laid a wreath on the casket in the
State Capitol of Georgia, and then I have
met with members of his family, a very
large family and a very devoted family,
and spoke to them about what Senator
Russell has meant to this country.
Last night on national television in the
State of the Union, I asked the Members
of the House and the Senate to rise in a
silent tribute of prayer to Senator Russell.
I said then that he was a great Senator
and that he was a good friend for all of
those who had the privilege to know him.
I think that my feelings today, as I
stand here at the Capitol in the State of
Georgia, go really to things more funda-
mental than friendship or service in the
United States Senate. They go to the char-
acter of this man.
Richard Russell was certainly one of
the most intelligent men ever to serve in
the United States Senate. I have often
heard it said that no new Member of the
Senate should ever dare try to tangle with
him. In fact, no older Members of the
Senate would dare to do so with hope of
coming out ahead.
He was one of the hardest working
Members of the Senate. He was one who,
of course, served in the Senate so many
years that he had high seniority. But what
really set him apart was what we call
character-character which grew up over
a period of years, character that came
from his native soil of his native State,
character that came from his family, char-
January 23, 1971
acter that came from his deep religious
belief, and character which came from a
sense of patriotism that enabled him to
serve six Presidents with equal devotion.
The way I summarize Senator Russell's
place in history very briefly is this: Had he
been born 10 years later and served in the
Senate 10 years later, he would probably
have been President of the United States.
All of those who knew him put him in that
league.
But not having been President of the
United States, he did something else that
perhaps could have meant just as much.
For five Presidents of the United States—
for President Roosevelt, President
Truman, President Johnson, President
Eisenhower, President Kennedy—and
then President Nixon, he was an adviser
and a tower of strength in all areas of for-
eign policy and in national defense.
I would remember Senator Russell as a
President's Senator, one that a President
could always turn to when there was a
hard fight, a close vote; one that he could
always turn to and confide any informa-
tion that was extremely confidential,
knowing that it would never go beyond
that room.
And I also remember one other thing
that I think summarizes it all. I men-
tioned last night that I called on the Sena-
tor before his death, shortly, at Walter
Reed Hospital, and what impressed me
about him was that here was this man
suffering in the last days of his life and
never for one moment during about 45
minutes that we were there in the room
did he talk about himself. He just talked
about the country that he loved so much.
59
