[170] May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
over the past 3 years. This is an important
recognition of the needs of the Nation's
elderly. This new 5 percent increase helps
to establish the point that I have long
been urging that social security benefits
be tied to the cost of living, and I believe
it is appropriate.
I
Any bill can be improved; H.R. 1 is no
exception. While hailing the concepts em-
bodied in this legislation, I would hope
that subsequent Congressional action
could focus on several areas of possible
improvement.
First, the cost of the social security and
Medicare measures as provided in the
bill should be determined in the light of
present budget realities. The cost-saving
approaches which were proposed for
Medicare at an earlier time should now
be enacted following similar actions on
the Medicaid program. These actions
should be accompanied by a shift in the
way we would finance our supplementary
medical insurance program. Payments for
this program should be made while the
beneficiary is working rather than by re-
ducing his retirement income.
Finally, it should be made very clear
that the fiscal relief this bill provides is
only a partial response to the fiscal pres-
sures now bearing down on States and
cities throughout the country. There is a
need for welfare reform, but there is also
a pressing need for revenue sharing-dis-
tributed in a fashion more appropriate
to the real financial burdens felt by all
States and cities. I would urge speedy
action on this front as well.
I view revenue sharing and welfare re-
form as interlocking components in our
effort to reform Federal fiscal relief to the
State and local institutions of govern-
ment. Welfare reform in 1973 will relieve
fiscal pressure, primarily on State govern-
ments, by helping them to meet the fast-
est growing element of their present
expenditures. Revenue sharing would
provide immediate help to our equally
hard-pressed cities and to States as well.
Revenue sharing would also help to pro-
mote a long-range reform of the present
fragmented and inefficient system of de-
livering Federal aid to State and local
governments, and it would do much to
strengthen the overall capacities of State
and local governments.
H.R. 1 is the single most significant
piece of social legislation to be considered
by the Congress in decades. It is my pro-
found hope that the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate of the United States
will carry forward the momentum which
has been generated, thus seizing an
historic opportunity-and meeting an his-
toric obligation.
NOTE: The White House released the tran-
scripts of two news briefings on H.R. 1: the
first, on May 12, 1971, by Elliot L. Richardson,
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare;
and the second, on May 18, by John G.
Veneman, Under Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.
171 Statement on Signing Bill Extending Negotiation Period
in the Railway Labor Dispute. May 18, 1971
I AM SIGNING this legislation in order
to end the current national railroad strike
which has resulted in severe hardship to
millions of Americans and would, if it
continued, sharply curtail the current up-
turn in the Nation's economy. I fully ex-
640
