Richard Nixon, 1971
[151]
Apr. 26
Chamber of Commerce-not in this hall,
but in another room here in this build-
ing you will recall that there were
ing—you
approximately 540,000 Americans in Viet-
nam. By December 1, we will have re-
duced our troop levels by 365,000 men.
The casualties have been cut until now
they are one-fifth of what they were just
2 years ago. We have some way to go.
Our goal is a total withdrawal of all
American forces in Vietnam in a way that
will assure the return of our prisoners of
war and will give the South Vietnamese a
chance to prevent a Communist takeover.
You can be confident that we have a pol-
icy that will achieve that goal. And by
achieving that goal in that way, we will
have a chance to build what we all want:
a lasting peace, something we have not
enjoyed in this country in this century, a
full generation of peace.
Second, you, and everyone else in this
world, have a right to be confident that
the United States will use its strength only
to build peace with freedom, never to
destroy it in the world.
Now I know that you hear, as I hear,
and you read of what is wrong with
American foreign policy--and we do
make our mistakes, and we have made
them in the past. But I have talked to the
leaders of most of the nations of the world,
the leaders of over 70 countries. And in
that period of time, in talking to leaders
of Communist countries as well as non-
Communist countries, peoples with dif-
ferent systems of government, peoples
with which we had differences, I have
found this single significant fact always
standing out: There is not a leader in the
world today of any country who believes
that the United States will ever use its
power to destroy freedom; that will ever
use its
power to break the
peace. And why
do they believe that? Because looking at
this century, in World War I, World War
II, in Korea, and in the terribly difficult
war in Vietnam, the United States has
come to the aid of those who were trying
to defend themselves against aggression.
And based on that record, the peoples of
the world know that we stand for peace,
that we stand for freedom. We can be
proud that we have that kind of a foreign
policy, and we can be proud that peoples
throughout the world, at least the leaders
of the other nations, are keenly aware of
that.
And, third, you can be confident that
America's economy will continue its
vigorous expansion without bringing on
a new round of inflation. I say this be-
cause the facts show-and I want to give
you the facts-that we are winning the
fight against rising prices. It is a hard
fight because once the inflationary forces
have been allowed to stay in for a number
of years, it is harder to get them reduced.
In 1969, inflation was roaring along at
a rate higher than 6 percent a year. In
1970, we managed to reverse that trend
and prices rose 52 percent. But in the
first quarter of this year, prices rose at the
annual rate of 2.7 percent. That is the
lowest rise in 4 years. We have cut the
rate of inflation in half, but the battle is
still there to be fought. The figures ahead,
month by month, will have their ups and
downs. But the worst of inflation is be-
hind us, and I am determined to see to it,
with your help and with the help of
others, that it stays behind us.
We are on our way to a period of solid,
sustainable expansion, the kind of ex-
pansion the Nation needs to provide new
jobs for workingmen, new opportunities
for businessmen. To keep that expansion
from driving up prices we must not slip
583
