[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
authorize the Administrator of EPA
to set noise standards on transpor-
tation, construction and other equip-
ment and require labeling of noise
characteristics of certain products.
Before establishing standards, the Ad-
ministrator would be required to publish
a report on the effects of noise on man,
the major sources, and the control tech-
niques available. The legislation would
provide a method for measurably reducing
major noise sources, while preserving to
State and local governments the author-
ity to deal with their particular noise
problems.
III. PROMOTING ENVIRONMENTAL QUAL-
ITY IN OUR LAND USE DECISIONS
The use of our land not only affects the
natural environment but shapes the pat-
tern of our daily lives. Unfortunately, the
sensible use of our land is often thwarted
by the inability of the many competing
and overlapping local units of govern-
ment to control land use decisions which
have regional significance.
While most land use decisions will con-
tinue to be made at the local level, we
must draw upon the basic authority of
State government to deal with land use
issues which spill over local jurisdictional
boundaries. The States are uniquely
qualified to effect the institutional reform
that is so badly needed, for they are closer
to the local problems than is the Federal
Government and yet removed enough
from local tax and other pressures to
represent the broader regional interests of
the public. Federal programs which in-
fluence major land use decisions can there-
by fit into a coherent pattern. In addition,
we must begin to restructure economic
incentives bearing upon land use to en-
courage wise and orderly decisions for
preservation and development of the land.
I am calling upon the Congress to adopt
a national land use policy. In addition, I
am proposing other major initiatives on
land use to bring "parks to the people", to
expand our wilderness system, to restore
and preserve historic and older buildings,
to provide an orderly system for power
plant siting, and to prevent environmen-
tal degradation from mining.
A NATIONAL LAND USE POLICY
We must reform the institutional frame-
work in which land use decisions are
made.
-I propose legislation to establish a
National Land Use Policy which will
encourage the States, in cooperation
with local government, to plan for
and regulate major developments
affecting growth and the use of criti-
cal land areas. This should be done
by establishing methods for protect-
ing lands of critical environmental
concern, methods for controlling
large-scale development, and im-
proving use of lands around key facil-
ities and new communities.
One hundred million dollars in new
funds would be authorized to assist the
States in this effort-$20 million in each
of the next five years-with priority given
to the States of the coastal zone. Accord-
ingly, this proposal will replace and ex-
pand my proposal submitted to the last
Congress for coastal zone management,
while still giving priority attention to this
area of the country which is especially
sensitive to development pressures. Steps
will be taken to assure that federally-
assisted programs are consistent with the
approved State land use programs.
134
