[119] Mar. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
pointed by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development.
The causes of the inflationary wage and
price pattern in the construction industry
are extremely complex. They are related
in part to the highly fragmented way in
which the industry and its bargaining
processes are organized. A full solution to
this problem will come only through
patient, persistent efforts to change these
fundamental conditions. Meanwhile,
however, the action I have taken today
will provide a framework within which
management, labor, and Government can
work together in limiting the dangerous
120
consequences of continued wage and price
inflation in the construction industry. All
Americans have a stake in its success.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
On March 29, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11588 establishing the Con-
struction Industry Stabilization Committee and
an Interagency Committee on construction,
and Proclamation 4040 reinstating the Davis-
Bacon Act.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing and the text of
a statement by Secretary of Labor James D.
Hodgson on the President's action. Secretary
Hodgson's statement is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 7,
p. 582).
Memorandum About the Federal Summer Employment
Program for Youth. March 30, 1971
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
When schools close for the summer,
many students will seek summer employ-
ment. Some will need the earnings to con-
tinue their education or to help out at
home. To others the job might mean a
start toward a new career, or a chance to
relate classroom theory to practical ex-
perience. Under the Federal Summer
Employment Program for Youth, we have
the opportunity to support the aspirations
of young Americans by:
-Making it possible for them to obtain
employment experience and concur-
rently to witness the functioning of
their Government at close range.
-Broadening their career horizons to
include the wide variety of occupa-
tions in Government.
-Providing them opportunities to ex-
change ideas and to receive advice
and counsel from Government
officials.
In addition to students employed
through merit staffing procedures on the
basis of their abilities, we must provide
opportunities for needy youth to earn
money and learn about the world of work.
For this latter purpose, your general goal
should be to employ one needy youth for
every 40 regular employees on your
payroll.
The Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission will continue to provide the
leadership and necessary guidelines for
all aspects of our Federal Summer Em-
ployment Program for Youth, and will
report to me on its results.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was dated March 29,
1971, and released March 30 at San Clemente,
Calif.
492
