[378] Dec. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
America, and to provide very much for
people abroad when they are in need.
This, of course, is something that needs
to be said, and those who come from the
community of agriculture can be very
proud of what American farmers, people
in agriculture, have done for this country
and for the world. And yet, as I thought
further about the problem, I realized that
you were a broader group simply than one
interested in agriculture.
You are interested in all of America,
because you come from all of America—
you come from the cities and the towns
and the farms. And because the America
of the future will be yours and what you
make it, you, therefore, I think, would like
whoever appears before you-and par-
ticularly one who appears in the capacity
that I do, as President of the United
States, President of all the people-you
would like to have me address you not as a
narrow, special-interest group, but as
young people representing the young
people of America.
I would like to do that today. I would
like to say some things that I have been
wanting to say for a long time to a young
audience, a young audience representative
of the whole country. You are that audi-
ence, and that is why I have chosen this
forum for the purpose of saying these
things.
I am going to begin with a proposition
that perhaps is a little different from what
you sometimes hear. It seems to be some-
what the fashion for a speaker speaking
to a young group to point out what a
terrible time this is to be growing up in
America-the problem of a war, the prob-
lem of environment, the problem of jobs,
all the other things that we see and that
we hear about. There are many problems.
I am keenly aware of them. I think about
them a great deal, as you might imagine,
just as you think about them a great deal.
But then I tried to put myself back a
few years, many, many years, when I was
as young as you are, and I thought of what
I thought about America then. I thought
it was a great country.
At that time, particularly as I entered
the twenties of my life, America was in a
depression. But I looked to the future with
hope, because I realized that whatever our
problems were, that this country, our
country, could solve them, that this was
the place that I would choose to live if I
had to make a choice of all the countries
in the world. I believed that then, and I
believe it now.
I want to tell you why I think you
should believe it, believe it very, very
deeply today, not with any Pollyannaish
statement in which we cover up those
things that are wrong about our country
and wrong about this world, and not with
any statements in which we downgrade
the great dangers that we confront in the
world, but just laying it on the line like it
is, the kind of America you are in today,
the kind of America you can make to-
morrow, the kind of a world we can have,
particularly you can have, by the end of
this century, in the year 2000, when we
celebrate a new year that comes only once
in a thousand years.
One of the reasons that I speak in
optimistic terms is this: Just to stand be-
fore this great assembly of young leaders
and young achievers, as you are, to feel
your idealism, your commitment to ex-
cellence, is to stand on the threshold of
the brightest future the world has ever
known. I believe that.
You are coming to maturity at a time
which history will remember as a great
period of emancipation for young Ameri-
1146
