Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 2 [379]
cial Security Administration to provide an
information center in each of its 889 dis-
trict and branch offices to help explain all
Federal programs which aid the elderly.
These offices, of course, will supplement
the State offices which already are doing
a very fine job in this respect.
Then, there are two additional admin-
istrative decisions which will help older
Americans remain in their own homes.
The first will make housing money more
readily available to older citizens to pur-
chase homes in a variety of settings, in-
cluding condominium apartments and re-
tirement communities. Secretary Romney,
who is also a very tenacious, evangelistic
man in our Cabinet, is going to see that
that is done, I can assure you.
The second will require that Federal
grants will provide services for older per-
sons and also provide for the transporta-
tion they need to take advantage of these
services.
Now, I turn to another subject—and if
I seem to be moving from place to place,
believe me, you moved from place to place
throughout this Conference, and I am
trying to cover most of the major subjects
in which you have expressed an interest.
Some of the best service programs for older
Americans are those which give older
Americans a chance to serve. Thousands
of older Americans have found that their
work in hospitals, in churches, in parks,
and schools gives them a new sense of pride
and purpose even as it contributes to the
lives of others.
Federal programs to provide such op-
portunities have proved remarkably suc-
cessful at the demonstration level, but that
is all they have been up to this point. We
are going to change it. We are going to
move from demonstration to establish
these programs on a broader national
basis. Therefore, I am going to request
that the Retired Senior Volunteers pro-
gram be tripled to $15 million, so that an
additional 50,000 volunteers can be in-
volved. I have directed that the Foster
Grandparents program be doubled to $25
million, and I will ask that this program
be altered so that Foster Grandparents
can work with older persons as well as with
children.
I have also ordered that our jobs pro-
gram for older persons with low incomes
be doubled to $26 million. Under this pro-
gram, projects such as Green Thumb and
Senior Aides have demonstrated that older
Americans can make valuable contribu-
tions in health, education, and community
service projects even as they earn addi-
tional income.
Let me say: Every older American can
be proud that you have made these pro-
grams work in recent years. That is why
we can double this one, triple that one,
make a permanent program out of what
was previously a trial or demonstration
one. These decisions mean that you will
be able to work in more places and for
more people.
Now, I have spoken this morning about
some of the immediate steps I am taking
as part of my commitment, with your com-
mitment, to action. We are proud of these
initiatives, but we are not content to rest
on them. We are going to build on them.
That is why I have outlined a mechanism
for following up on this Conference, one
which will allow us to take the fullest ad-
vantage of the excellent work which you
have done.
Any discussion of recommendations for
dealing with the problems of the aged
would not be complete without recogniz-
ing the strong support expressed at this
Conference for extending Medicare cov-
1159
