[339] Oct. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
several substantive agreements in the
strategic arms limitation talks with the
Soviet Union. We have had an historic
agreement on Berlin.
Today we are preparing to take addi-
tional steps toward an end to the con-
flicts which have divided so many of the
world's people and which have threatened
all of the world's people. My trips to Mos-
cow and Peking are directed toward that
goal. We go there with no false hopes,
and we intend to leave behind us in
America no unrealistic expectations.
There are great differences between
the Government of the United States and
the Governments of the Soviet Union and
the People's Republic of China. But we
have much in common with the Russian
people and the Chinese people. We share
this earth. We share a love for our chil-
dren. And we share an understanding of
the ultimate futility of war.
And so, while the road to a lasting peace
may still be long and difficult, yet all
that reasonable men may do to accom-
plish that lasting peace will be done.
There is a theory that nations flourish
in war. Nevertheless, as we study the an-
cients we see that the old warrior empires
have perished and the fruits of conquest
are gone. But so much that was created
in peace remains through the ages-old
aqueducts that once brought water to
cities; old theaters where men were enter-
tained and enlightened; the literature of
those times remains; there are works of art
that still move us with their grace; there
are laws and forms of government that still
influence us. So we see what things in
ancient societies had lasting values and
what things have passed.
In America there is a unity of purpose
that distinguishes our people from the an-
cients. The things we are willing to die for,
we are equally willing to live for. Where
in other states the periods of peace were
used to prepare for war, in our own we
work for peace, and when it is achieved,
we work to maintain it.
We seek peace again today. We are
ending one war and moving to prevent
others. We have a new generation of vet-
erans, and they are returning from the
most publicized and the least understood
war in our history.
Because it has been so little understood,
this war has been especially difficult for
many Vietnam veterans. All too often they
have suffered from the frustration which
this war has generated among many
Americans.
We must not permit this. A nation
which condemns those who serve it will
find itself condemned in turn.
It is rather for us now to redeem the
sacrifices our men have made in Vietnam
and to grasp again the old dream, the old
possibility which they have preserved―
the dream of peace. It is for us now, as one
people, to make that dream a reality, to
insure at last what American fighting
men have struggled to insure for two cen-
turies-that this generation of veterans
might truly be the last; that the world will
see a new dawn of hope for the old ideal
of human brotherhood; and that men and
nations will find at last a larger purpose in
peace than they ever found in war.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. from
Camp David in Maryland. The address was
broadcast live on nationwide radio.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
1064
