Richard Nixon, 1971
June 17 [203]
eration, I am initiating a worldwide
escalation in our existing programs for
the control of narcotics traffic, and I am
proposing a number of new steps for this
purpose.
First, on Monday, June 14, I recalled
the United States Ambassadors to Turkey,
France, Mexico, Luxembourg, Thailand,
the Republic of Vietnam, and the United
Nations for consultations on how we can
better cooperate with other nations in
the effort to regulate the present substan-
tial world opium output and narcotics
trafficking. I sought to make it equally
clear that I consider the heroin addiction
of American citizens an international
problem of grave concern to this Nation,
and I instructed our Ambassadors to make
this clear to their host governments. We
want good relations with other countries,
but we cannot buy good relations at the
expense of temporizing on this problem.
Second, United States Ambassadors to
all East Asian governments will meet in
Bangkok, Thailand, tomorrow, June 18,
to review the increasing problem in that
area, with particular concern for the ef-
fects of this problem on American service-
men in Southeast Asia.
Third, it is clear that the only really
effective way to end heroin production
is to end opium production and the grow-
ing of poppies. I will propose that as an
international goal. It is essential to recog-
nize that opium is, at present, a legitimate
source of income to many of those nations
which produce it. Morphine and codeine
both have legitimate medical applications.
It is the production of morphine and
codeine for medical purposes which jus-
tifies the maintenance of opium produc-
tion, and it is this production which in
turn contributes to the world's heroin
supply. The development of effective sub-
stitutes for these derivatives would elim-
inate any valid reason for opium
production. While modern medicine has
developed effective and broadly-used sub-
stitutes for morphine, it has yet to provide
a fully acceptable substitute for codeine.
Therefore, I am directing that Federal
research efforts in the United States be
intensified with the aim of developing at
the earliest possible date synthetic substi-
tutes for all opium derivatives. At the
same time I am requesting the Director
General of the World Health Organiza-
tion to appoint a study panel of experts to
make periodic technical assessments of any
synthetics which might replace opiates
with the aim of effecting substitutions as
soon as possible.
Fourth, I am requesting $1 million to
be used by the Bureau of Narcotics and
Dangerous Drugs for training of foreign
narcotics enforcement officers. Additional
personnel within the Bureau of Narcotics
and Dangerous Drugs would permit the
strengthening of the investigative capaci-
ties of BNDD offices in the U.S., as well
as their ability to assist host governments
in the hiring, training, and deployment
of personnel and the procurement of nec-
essary equipment for drug abuse control.
Fifth, I am asking the Congress to
amend and approve the International Se-
curity Assistance Act of 1971 and the
International Development and Humani-
tarian Assistance Act of 1971 to permit
assistance to presently proscribed nations
in their efforts to end drug trafficking.
The drug problem crosses ideological
boundaries and surmounts national differ-
ences. If we are barred in any way in our
effort to deal with this matter, our efforts
will be crippled, and our will subject
747
