[321] Oct. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
enemy number one in the United States
today. What we must do is to wage an
all-out offensive against that deadly
That offensive is underway right
now. Government is playing a large part,
educators are, scientists and doctors are.
enemy.
But these efforts, by themselves, will not
be enough. The only way we can conquer
public enemy number one is by meeting it
with public defender number one. By that
I mean the people gathered in Monroe,
Louisiana, today. I mean mobilizing thou-
sands, and even millions, of individual
Americans on the basis of their absolute
refusal to tolerate the drug menace as a
part of our national life any longer.
What you are doing in Monroe this
morning is an indication that this kind of
fighting spirit is taking hold all over this
land, and I say more power to you.
Let's look for a moment at the dimen-
sion of the drug problem. Heroin, the most
dangerous of all illicit drugs, is coming into
wider use. Vicious criminal networks
push it ruthlessly, and far too many peo-
ple-and, most tragically, young people—
continue to believe the lie that heroin is a
source of pleasure. In fact, it is a source
of enslavement or death. Only a small
minority of heroin users ever get rid of that
deadly habit.
At the same time, we also find that other
drugs are being shoved aggressively at
Americans behind a smokescreen of false
claims and half-truths.
The Government is moving against the
drug problem on a number of fronts. We
are moving hard to cut off the drug sup-
ply. In doing so, we are getting increasing
cooperation from other countries where
smuggling and production have been most
troublesome. Here at home we have put a
lot more money and manpower into law
enforcement. We are requesting still more.
At the same time, we are working to
help the people who have already been
victimized by drugs. We have set up a
new White House office to coordinate re-
habilitation and treatment work across the
country, as well as in Vietnam, and among
those veterans who have become drug
users in the service, wherever they were in
the world.
We are making a major effort at head-
ing off the problem among young people
before it gets started, through educational
programs which get them the facts on
what the law is, what the effects of these
various drugs are, and what a poor risk it
is from any standpoint for a young person
to gamble on drugs.
I particularly want to congratulate
those who planned this conference for
your enlisting thousands of young people,
high school students and college students,
in this great battle against drug abuse,
because that is the key. Young people are
the target of the peddlers of drugs, and
they must be the ones who must lead the
fight against them.
But none of these efforts, important as
they are, get to the fundamental question
of why-why do people turn to drugs in
the first place? The answer lies in the ero-
sion of moral and spiritual values to the
point where people look to a pill or a shot
of drugs for support, when they should be
able to look to the strength of their own.
character and the vitality of the American
spirit.
So no matter what else we do, we are
going to continue to have a drug problem
until we have a new birth of individual
character and of national character to
give people something finer and higher
to live for.
I hope your conference will consider this
great need, for it is truly the key to solving
1020
