[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
intend to intensify our efforts against the
scourge of narcotics and dangerous drugs.
Hijacking. In 1970, the world-wide
implications of this problem were dra-
matically illustrated by the hijacking to
the Middle East and the subsequent de-
struction of four aircraft, and the attempt
to force political actions upon govern-
ments as the price for the safe return of
the innocent passengers. In addition to
the continuing series of hijackings of
Western Hemisphere aircraft to Cuba,
this problem also cropped up behind the
Iron Curtain with the hijacking of Soviet
and Eastern European aircraft.
These events have brought the world
to an awareness of the fragility of the
network of international air traffic. Great
as is its contribution to our well-being, it
is singularly vulnerable to abuse at the
hands of the irresponsible and the malev-
olent. The world cannot afford to permit
the boon of air travel to become the tool
of criminals.
Fortunately, the events of last year
brought a near universal recognition of
that fact. The International Civil Avia-
tion Organization is the focus of the gen-
eral readiness to deal with the problem of
air piracy. With the United States playing
an active role, a new treaty was drawn up
and signed at a conference called by
ICAO which met at The Hague at the
end of the year. It recognizes aircraft
hijacking as a crime, whatever the motives
behind it, and ensures that hijackers will
be subject to prosecution or extradition if
apprehended on the territory of contract-
ing states. I will submit this convention
to the Senate shortly, and I hope the
United States will be among the first to
ratify it. Once that has been done, we in-
tend to exert every effort to ensure the
widest possible international acceptance
of this convention, for we consider it a
significant step forward.
However, we think that additional
action is necessary. It should include in-
ternational agreement to suspend air serv-
ices to countries which refuse to cooperate
in the release of hijacked aircraft and the
punishment of hijackers. An agreement
should cover other acts of interference
with civil aircraft, such as sabotage. We
intend to be vigorous in pursuing such
agreements.
The Kidnapping of Diplomats. Terror-
ist groups in several countries have now
adopted the practice of kidnapping for-
eign officials and ransoming them for
political and judicial concessions from
their own government. Kidnapping is, of
course, a crime in any nation, but in this
particular form it is, in addition, a direct
and serious challenge to the integrity of
the machinery of international life. For its
very purpose is to endanger the friend-
ship between nations, and to use the inter-
national tension that results from such
kidnappings to blackmail governments.
The international community needs to
recognize this crime for what it is, an
assault upon international amity and co-
operation. We need an agreement be-
tween the nations of the world which will
guarantee the punishment of those who
commit such crimes, wherever they go
and whatever motives they profess. As in
the case of aircraft hijacking, we need to
make certain that there is no profit in
such a crime, and no sanctuary for those
who commit it.
The Organization of American States
has adopted a Convention characterizing
these acts as common crimes irrespective
of motive and providing for the extradi-
tion or prosecution of the perpetrators of
these offenses. This was a useful step in
336
