Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 4 [250]
the wide differences that we have. Our in-
terests are very different, and both sides
recognized this, in the talks that Dr. Kis-
singer had, the very extended talks he had
with Premier Chou En-lai. We do not ex-
pect that these talks will settle all of those
differences.
What is important is that we will have
opened communication to see where our
differences are irreconcilable, to see that
they can be settled peacefully, and to find
those areas where the United States,
which today is the most powerful nation
in the world, can find areas of agreement
with the most populous nation in the
world which potentially in the future
could become the most powerful nation in
the world.
As we look at peace in the world for the
balance of this century, and for that
matter even in the next century, we must
recognize that there cannot be world
peace on which all the peoples in the
world can rely, on which they have such a
great stake, unless there is communication
between and some negotiation between
these two great super powers, the People's
Republic and the United States.
I have put this in general terms because
that is the understanding of the People's
Republic, Premier Chou En-lai, and it is
our understanding our agenda will be
worked out at a later point; before the
trip it will be very carefully worked out
so that the discussions will deal with the
hard problems as well as the easy ones.
We expect to make some progress, but
to speculate about what progress will be
made on any particular issue, to speculate,
for example, as to what effect this might
have on Vietnam, would not serve the
interests of constructive talks.
ALL-ASIAN CONFERENCE ON VIETNAM
[3] Q. Mr. President, may I ask a
related policy question on Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. There have been some suggestions,
including some indirect hints from China,
that a negotiating forum involving a con-
ference, an Asian conference to be held in
Asia, primarily with Asian participants
but with the United States as well, might
be a better forum for negotiating a settle-
ment in Vietnam. Can you speak to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Bailey [Charles
W. Bailey 2d, Minneapolis Tribune and
Minneapolis Star], the question of
whether there should be an all-Asian con-
ference, with the Government of the
People's Republic participating, as you
know, has risen several times over the past
few months, and was raised before our
announcement was made.
As far as we are concerned, we will con-
sider any proposal that might contribute
to a more peaceful situation in the Pacific
and in the world. However, at this point
there is no understanding between the
United States and the People's Republic
as to whether or not out of this meeting
should come that kind of proposal.
Let me say on that score, there were no
conditions asked for on either side, and
none accepted. There were no deals made
on either side or accepted, none offered
and none accepted. This is a discussion
which will take place with both sides
knowing in advance that there are prob-
lems, but with both sides well prepared.
This is the secret of any successful
summitry.
As you know, parenthetically, I have
always taken somewhat of a dim view of
851
