Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
rence. Today, nuclear destruction would
be mutual. No NATO leader should be
left with only the choice between capitula-
tion and immediate resort to general
nuclear war.
Sole reliance on conventional forces
might lead an aggressor to conclude that
we might accept the loss of vital territory
without taking further action. Sole reli-
ance on nuclear forces, on the other
hand, might lead inevitably and unneces-
sarily to the very widespread devastation
that we should be trying to prevent.
Neither of these prospects enhances our
security.
We and our allies therefore reaffirmed
our consensus that we must have forces
able to deter and defend below the thresh-
old of general nuclear war, to give us
full flexibility in responding to any out-
break of hostilities. This means a strong
and credible deployment of modernized
NATO conventional forces. These forces
must be capable of rapid mobilization and
reinforcement and of sustaining a success-
ful initial forward defense against con-
ventional attack.
The Military Situation in Europe. We
next had to assess the military balance in
Europe in terms of the goals of our
strategy.
The economic strength of the NATO
nations, we found, makes us considerably
stronger in military potential than the
Warsaw Pact. We and our allies collec-
tively enjoy a three-fold advantage in
Gross National Product and a two-fold
advantage in population.
The actual balance of conventional
military forces in Europe is much closer,
however. NATO's active forces in peace-
time are roughly comparable to those of
the Warsaw Pact. Following mobilization,
NATO is capable of maintaining forces
larger than the Warsaw Pact. But geo-
graphic proximity and differences in do-
mestic systems give the Warsaw Pact the
significant advantage of being able to
mobilize its reserves and reinforce more
rapidly than NATO.
It follows as a practical matter that:
-NATO must be alert for warning of
an impending attack, so that we can
act as promptly as possible to mobilize
and reinforce.
-We must improve NATO's conven-
tional deterrent, especially correcting
qualitative deficiencies in present
Allied forces.
We must maintain a sufficient tacti-
cal and strategic nuclear deterrent as
a complement to our conventional
forces.
-We must continue our consultation-
as I urged in last year's report-on
defining the precise role of tactical
nuclear weapons.
Our strategic review illuminated the
need for specific qualitative improve-
ments. Several components of our posture
require additional attention: the shelter-
ing of our tactical aircraft; our logistical
stocks and transport; the peacetime dis-
position of Allied ground forces; the pro-
tection of NATO's flanks; the standard-
ization of Allied equipment; our armored
and anti-armor forces; our overall mari-
time capabilities, particularly for anti-sub-
marine defense; our machinery for mobili-
zation and reinforcement; and NATO
communications for crisis management
purposes. Our studies have shown that
many improvements in these areas can be
made at acceptable cost.
Sharing Alliance Burdens Equitably.
The conception of burden sharing in pre-
vious administrations was that our allies
should share our burden; the thrust of the
235
