Appendix B
March
16 Representatives of the Friendly Sons of St.
Patrick of Philadelphia called on the Presi-
dent at the White House.
16 At an "Irish Evening at the White House,"
celebrating the birthday of the First Lady
and the visit of Prime Minister John M.
Lynch of Ireland, the President and Mrs.
Nixon announced the engagement of their
daughter Tricia to Edward Cox of New
York.
19 The President hosted a reception at the
White House for members of the National
Alliance of Businessmen.
23 The President met with a group of mayors
of large and medium-sized cities and repre-
sentatives of the U.S. Conference of Mayors
and the National League of Cities for a
discussion of common problems, revenue
sharing, and Government reorganization.
23 Leaders of the dairy industry met with the
President at the White House to discuss
industry problems.
24 Representatives of the International Mili-
tary Sports Council met with the President
to present him with the Council's Grand
Medal of Honor.
24 The annual USO report was presented to
the President by Harvey S. Firestone, Jr.,
chairman, and Gen. Emmett O'Donnell, Jr.,
president, of the United Service Organi-
zations, Inc.
24 The Creston High School Choir of Grand
Rapids, Mich., was invited to sing for the
President during a tour of the White
House.
24 The President spoke at a Republican fund-
raising dinner at the Washington Hilton
Hotel.
25 Members of the National Newspaper Asso-
ciation, an organization of publishers of
small newspapers, were guests of the Presi-
dent at a reception at the White House.
25 Five student body presidents representing
the Association of Student Governments
met with the President at the White House.
March
They had been elected as a steering com-
mittee to follow up on resolutions passed by
the National Student Congress which met
in Washington earlier in March.
26 The President greeted members of the
American Justinian Society, who are
American jurists of Italian descent.
26 The President met with religious leaders
attending a conference on drug abuse at
the White House.
29 The President has approved a time exten-
sion for the report of the Emergency Board
created on March 4, 1971, to investigate
a railway labor dispute. The extension per-
mits the Board to file its recommendations
by April 14, 1971, instead of April 3.
30 The President has approved the Articles of
Incorporation of the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation, forwarded to him.
pursuant to the Rail Passenger Service Act
of 1970.
April
8 The President spoke at the opening of a
special briefing for the wives of Cabinet
members and top White House Staff and
for women in key Government positions.
The briefing, held in the East Room at the
White House, dealt with the Administra-
tion's domestic programs.
8 The President chaired the first meeting of
the Council on International Economic
Policy at the White House. At the meeting,
he announced that he was appointing
Ambassador at Large David Kennedy as a
member of the Council and that Ambassa-
dor Kennedy would, over the next several
months, travel as his personal envoy to
consult with the leaders of our major trad-
ing partners in Europe, the Far East, and
Latin America about problems in inter-
national trade. The President also stated
that he was authorizing adjustment assist-
ance benefits for 11 shoe plants, in cases
where the United States Tariff Commis-
sion had split evenly, and called for further
examination of escape-clause implications.
1251
