Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 18 [108]
Public transportation has been caught
up in a vicious cycle of increasing costs,
rising fares, shrinking profits, decreasing
quality, and declining ridership. Ironic-
ally, this decline in mass transit has come
at the same time that the need for fast,
convenient, economical public transporta-
tion has become greater than ever before.
This Nation has the technology to provide
such transportation. If we can move three
men a quarter million miles to the moon,
then surely we can also find ways to move
millions of men and women over short
distances in our cities. This is another
of the great transportation challenges of
our time.
HOW HAVE THESE PROBLEMS
BEEN MET?
All of these problems-pollution, con-
gestion, inefficiency, and the lack of suffi-
cient mass transit services-have been
recognized for years. And for years the
Federal Government has been working to
alleviate them. In the past two years, this
administration has recommended a num-
ber of new programs to improve Ameri-
can transportation. As a result, we now
have an accelerated program to develop
urban mass transit systems, new authori-
zations for the expansion and improve-
ment of airports and airways, and a quasi-
public corporation to operate a national
rail passenger system.
It is clear, however, that more money
and more regulations alone will not solve
our transportation problems. Nor will
they make the Federal Government more
responsive to local needs and local aspira-
tions. It is equally clear that the estab-
lished relationships among Federal, State
and local governments are unsuitable for
achieving the goals we pursue.
What are those goals? They can be
usefully described under the general head-
ing of "balanced transportation."
ACHIEVING BALANCED TRANSPORTATION
A balanced transportation system is es-
sentially one that provides adequate trans-
portation not just for some of the people
in a community but for all the people in
a community. A balanced system also rec-
ognizes that an individual can have dif-
ferent transportation needs at different
times. Such a system treats speed as only
one of the factors in the transportation
equation and does not ignore the impor-
tance of other qualities such as comfort,
safety, and reliability.
Despite our technological capacity, we
do not enjoy a fully balanced transpor-
tation system in modern America, par-
ticularly in our larger cities. We have
relied too much in our cities on cars and
on highways; we have given too little
attention to other modes of travel. Ap-
proximately 94 percent of all travel in
urbanized areas is by automobile, yet
about 25 percent of our people--
especially the old, the very young, the poor
and the handicapped-do not drive a car.
They have been poorly served by our
transportation strategy.
DISTORTIONS CAUSED BY MATCHING
REQUIREMENTS
One of the most disturbing elements in
the present transportation picture is the
fact that such inequities have often been
reinforced and even precipitated by the
Federal Government. One reason is that
Federal dollars have been relatively easy
to obtain for highway building but more
difficult to obtain for other transportation
441
