[379] Dec. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
on Aging, on which Dr. Flemming also
plays the leading role.
And finally, I have asked Dr. Flemming
to create a post-conference board to act as
your agent in following up on your pro-
posals. When matters that affect the in-
terests of older Americans are being dis-
cussed in the White House, I am deter-
mined that the voice of older Americans
will be heard. That is my commitment to
you.
Now, as we consider your suggestions,
we will be guided by this conviction: Any
action which enhances the dignity of older
Americans enhances the dignity of all
Americans, for unless the American dream
comes true for our older generation, it
cannot be complete for any generation.
This is true, first, because we all grow
old. The younger generation today will be
the older generation tomorrow. But more
than that, the entire Nation has a high
stake in a better life for its older citizens
simply because we need you. We need the
resources which you alone can offer.
We are speaking, after all, of a proven
generation, one that has brought this
country through the most turbulent period
in human history. Your skills, your wis-
dom, your values, and your faith-these
are among the most valuable resources
this Nation possesses.
This country will have to be at its best
if we are to meet the challenge of competi-
tion in the world of the seventies, and we
cannot be at our best if we keep our most
experienced players on the bench. I am
not speaking of the Washington Redskins,
either, in that respect. Yet, in recent years
all of us know a gulf has been opening
between older Americans and the rest of
our people. This gulf is the product of a
great social revolution which has weak-
ened the traditional bonds of family,
neighborhood, and community. For mil-
lions of older Americans, the result has
been a growing sense of isolation and
insecurity.
We have to change that. Younger and
older Americans need one another. We
must find ways to bring the generations
together again.
In addressing the challenges before us,
let us begin where most of you begin—and
that is the problem of inadequate income.
We have to begin there because if we
move in this front, all the other battles will
be easier, and if we fail to move in the
income front, the other battles—and there
are many others that I will discuss in my
remarks this morning-will be impossible.
That is why it is so important that the
Congress approve one of the most im-
portant bills to come before it in many
years-the bill known as H.R. 1.
Now, let me talk to you a bit about
H.R. 1. It is generally known as welfare
reform. I presented it to the country in a
radio-television address almost 22 years
ago. In that period since it was presented
to the country, it has been debated and
talked about, passed one House, still
languishes in the Senate, no prospects for
this session, and apparently not too much
prospect even for the next session, unless
something happens in terms of waking the
Congress up to the fact that the American
people want it.
Let me tell you what H.R. 1 does. You
hear about welfare reform. Well, believe
me, we need it. We have a system at the
present in this country, a system in which,
under our present welfare rules, in many
States it makes it more profitable for a
man not to work than to work, and it
rewards a man for leaving his family,
rather than staying with his family. When
you have that kind of a system, you ought
1154
