Appendix B
June
17 Senator John L. McClellan of Arkansas
presented the President with a replica of
the original Bowie knife. Made by Jimmy
Lile of Russellville, Ark., the knife is one
of a number made in commemoration of
the dedication of the McClellan-Kerr
Arkansas River Navigation System.
17 Representative Wendell Wyatt of Oregon
met with the President at the White House.
17 Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona re-
ported to the President on his recent trip
as the President's personal representative to
the Paris Air Show.
18 President Leopold Sedar Senghor of Senegal
met with the President at the White House.
President Senghor also was the guest of
honor at a luncheon given by Secretary of
State William P. Rogers.
21 The President met at Miami Beach, Fla.,
with Frank E. Fitzsimmons, president of
the International Brotherhood of Team-
sters, and with members of the organiza-
tion's Constitution Committee.
21 The President has authorized Secretary of
Agriculture Clifford M. Hardin to make
certain changes in the emergency drought
assistance programs to make more hay
available in certain drought areas by elim-
inating reductions in price support pay-
ments to farmers.
22 The President met at the White House
with Governors A. Linwood Holton of Vir-
ginia, Arch A. Moore, Jr., of West Virginia,
and Louie B. Nunn of Kentucky to discuss
the Appalachian Regional Commission.
22 The President hosted a reception in honor
of the board of directors of the National
Association of Broadcasters in the Blue
Room at the White House.
24 Representatives of the National Football
League Players Association called on the
President at the White House to present
an honorary membership in the association.
June
24 The President met at the White House
with a delegation of students from the
Police Athletic League of Philadelphia who
presented a pledge signed by 300,000 Phil-
adelphia students affirming their belief in
the principles of respect for law, authority,
and fair play.
24 Anthony D. Marshall, United States Am-
bassador to the Malagasy Republic, met
with the President at the White House.
28 Vernon Jordan, executive director of the
National Urban League, met with the
President at the White House.
28 The President was host to the Chowder
and Marching Club at a private dinner.
29 The President met with the National Com-
mission on
on Productivity at the White
House.
29 The President greeted YMCA Youth Gov-
ernors at the White House.
29 The President and the First Lady hosted
a dinner in honor of Postmaster General
and Mrs. Winton M. Blount, marking the
changeover on July 1 of the Post Office
Department to the United States Postal
Service.
30 The President received a gold medal com-
memorating the 150th anniversary of Greek
independence from the American Hellenic
Educational Progressive Association, the
Order of AHEPA, at the White House.
30 The President has asked Dr. Henry A. Kis-
singer, Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs, to visit South
Vietnam from July 3 to 5 on a general fact-
finding mission. Dr. Kissinger will return
by way of Paris, where he will consult with
Ambassador David K. E. Bruce. En route,
he will also visit Thailand, India, and
Pakistan.
July
1 Entertainer Sammy Davis, Jr., met with
the President to discuss the problem of
drug abuse.
1259
