Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 19 [145]
have, so that they would be able to take
this trip to Washington.
Here in the poorest county in Texas
these young Mexican-Americans said,
"We want to earn the money ourselves."
For one year they washed cars, and
they did babysitting; they did a lot of
menial tasks. They did also some things
that were really in the free enterprise
tradition. One of the girls knew how to
make those Texas tamales. She made them
and others went around and sold them
at 75 cents a dozen all over the commu-
nity. And in the end, standing there in the
Rose Garden in the White House, 35
young Americans, most of them Mexican-
Americans, proud, because they say, "We
earned our way and we're proud that we
did." Oh, they didn't come by a fancy
airplane; they came by a bus. But I have
never been as proud of America or proud
of a group of young Americans as I was
of them, because I knew they could have
found an easier way to do it.
Now I know there are those who say,
"Wasn't it a shame, those poor young
Mexican-Americans had to go out and do
all those menial tasks? Wouldn't it have
been better if somebody very wealthy had
given them money so that they could have
come?"
And my answer is: not at all. I don't
mean that we want life to be hard for
young people, but I do say that when any
kind of activity inspires in a young person
the spirit of self-reliance, the spirit of
individuality, the spirit of dignity, that is
something that is very precious in this
country. We should not snuff it out; we
should not discourage it. We should en-
courage it.
So I think back to that class and what
I can do. I think of the great responsibility
that I have to work for a world in which
they can enjoy what Americans have not
enjoyed in this century: a full generation
of peace.
I think when my Administration is
completed, that that will perhaps be,
and I trust it will be, our proudest
achievement.
I also shall work for an America in
which we will have a strong prosperity,
in which individuals who want to work
will have the opportunity to work, and
everybody has an equal chance not only
for a job but to go up and be promoted
if he has what it takes.
But also, together, we must all work for
a system, a system in which young Ameri-
cans, as they look at the opportunities of
this country, not only will grow up in a
world of peace, not only will grow up in a
world in which we have prosperity-and
we are the most prosperous nation in the
world, and we are going to become more
prosperous as time goes on--but grow up
in a nation which recognizes the dignity
of work, the dignity of self-reliance. This
is our job. That is what the reform of this
welfare system is about.
A long time ago this Nation proudly
acquired a reputation as a refuge for the
tired and the poor, and those "huddled
masses" who sailed into New York
Harbor so that they might hold their
heads up again—they have their counter-
parts today in slums and other poor sec-
tions all across America.
And our task, our task together, is to
provide a system that will help them to
raise their heads, to raise them in pride
and in dignity; a system that is fair to the
poor, that is fair to the taxpayer, and
that is true to the spirit of independence
that has built America, that has made it
557
