[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Prices rose by over fifty percent in the
twelve months up to mid-1970. These in-
creases were eroding the purchasing pow-
er of the already near-subsistence pay re-
ceived by many soldiers and civil servants
at the very time they were being tasked
with the growing burdens of Vietnamiza-
tion. Moreover, if inflation had continued,
the economic security of other major
groups, such as farmers, veterans, and ur-
ban workers, could have been jeopardized.
In the fall of 1970 the South Viet-
namese Government took strong fiscal and
monetary actions, including an important
reform of the exchange rate. These diffi-
cult steps, supplemented by a slight in-
crease in our assistance to offset the
increased budgetary costs of Vietnamiza-
tion, dramatically arrested an accelerating
inflation. The price level rose by only
about four percent in the last half of the
year, setting the stage for policies that can
lead to more enduring economic stability.
There are two lessons to be drawn from
these developments:
-First, Vietnamization of the economy
and the war cannot be accomplished
at the same time without our eco-
nomic assistance. As the South Viet-
namese take on more of the fighting
they divert more resources from in-
ternal production. Our assistance, by
providing the external resources to
help maintain internal levels of con-
sumption for soldiers, farmers and
workers, is a vital aspect of Vietnam-
ization. We will provide external sup-
port commensurate with the military
burden borne by the economy and
people in this difficult period of
transition.
-Second, we can do no more for the
Vietnamese economy than it does for
itself. The enterprise and resource-
fulness of the Vietnamese people are
widely acknowledged. Thus, as dem-
onstrated in 1970, the vital link be-
tween our assistance and a sound
economy is the Vietnamese Govern-
ment's economic policy. We will con-
tinue to expect the Government
to take all reasonable self-help
measures.
While we provide assistance to support
Vietnamization, we are looking towards
the time when the economy can become
self-sufficient. The date depends not only
on the course of the war but on the pace
of economic development. The country's
potential is great. For example, even as
the war has continued, increasing domes-
tic rice production will cause rice imports
to decline from over 700,000 annual tons
in the late 1960's to about 100,000 tons
in 1971 and zero in 1972. Together with
the South Vietnamese we are analyzing
the development prospects and plan to
begin discussions this year on measures, to
include additional funding, that can be
taken to hasten the process. We believe
other countries will want to participate
in this effort.
We look forward to the day when the
peoples of Vietnam, South and North, can
turn from the waste of war to the con-
structive tasks of peace.
Prisoners of War
We have the deepest concern for the
plight of our prisoners of war in Indo-
china. Some 1600 Americans, including
pilots and soldiers and some 40 civilians,
are missing or held in North Vietnam,
South Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia.
Some have been held as long as six years,
longer than for any other prisoners of war
in our history.
The enemy violates specific require-
260
