[328] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
ferences to be resolved, but there is one
thing in which we agree at this point and
that is that the interests of neither country
would be served by war.
If there is another world war, if there
is a war between the super powers, there
will be no winners. There will be only
losers.
Also, I think we can both agree that
neither major power can get a decisive
advantage over the other, an advantage
which would enable it to launch a pre-
emptive strike or an advantage because it
was able to launch a preemptive strike
which might enable it to engage in inter-
national blackmail.
It is because we have reached the point
that the competition in terms of escalating
arms race cannot gain an advantage-and
both of us emphasized this in our meet-
ing-it is for that reason that now the
time has come to negotiate our differences,
negotiate with regard to our differences,
recognizing that they are still very deep,
recognizing that, however, there is no
alternative to negotiation at this point.
TEXTILE NEGOTIATIONS
[14] Q. Mr. President, are we going
to have textile agreements this week in
advance of the October 15th deadline
which, reportedly, the Administration has
set down for mandatory quotas?
THE PRESIDENT. At the present time
very intensive talks are going on with the
Japanese on the textile question. We are
hopeful that those talks will produce a
mutual agreement. In the event that there
is not a mutual agreement, and in the
event by October 15th there is either not
an agreement or a process underway
which points to the negotiating of an
agreement, then the United States will
move unilaterally.2
EUROPEAN SECURITY CONFERENCE
[15] Q. In connection with the
agenda for the Moscow talks, what is the
position of the United States at present
on the question of a European Security
Conference and, specifically, is it the U.S.
position that we will not agree to a Euro-
pean Security Conference until there is a
final agreement on Berlin and a first-stage
agreement on SALT?
THE PRESIDENT. The European Secu-
rity Conference is a matter that has been
very widely discussed between our two
governments. As a matter of fact, it was
one of the subjects for discussion, I think
it is proper to reveal, when I met with
Mr. Gromyko. I have noted that the press
has so speculated, and the press, in this
case, is correct.
With regard to the European Security
Conference, you are correct in saying that,
until the Berlin matter is wrapped up, the
discussions with regard to the possibility
of a European Security Conference would
not serve a useful purpose. After it is
wrapped up, then we shall go forward
with preliminary discussions to see
whether or not a European Security Con-
ference could serve a useful purpose.
2 The transcript of a news briefing by Peter
G. Peterson, Assistant to the President for
International Economic Affairs, on textile
agreements between the United States, Japan,
Hong Kong, and the Republic of Korea was
released by the White House on October 15,
1971, and is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 1408).
On the same day, the White House released a
fact sheet on the U.S. textile and apparel
industry.
1036
