Richard Nixon, 1971
June 25 [210]
For nothing ages a person faster than the
feeling that he is unneeded, he is un-
wanted, and he is unproductive. Senator
Percy and I both remember a grand old
man in the Senate, Senator Green of
Rhode Island.¹ He served in the Senate
until he was over 90. He used to put it
this way: "Most people," he said, "say
that as you get old you have to give up
things." He said, "I think you get old be-
cause you give up things."
Now, I think most of you, and most
Americans, would agree with that. What I
would like to talk about today, however,
is the frequent failure of our society to
put this wisdom into practice, for we have
not, in fact, been doing a very good job
of involving older people in the life of our
American society.
This is a great tragedy. It means that
old age, which should be a time of pride
and fulfillment-pride and fulfillment
looking back and looking forward—is too
often a time of isolation and withdrawal.
Rather than being a time of dignity, it is
often a time of disappointment, and the
growing separation of older Americans
also means that we are not taking full
advantage of a tremendous reservoir of
skill and wisdom and moral strength that
our Nation desperately needs at this mo-
ment in its history.
There is one thing I know about the
older generation in America. They believe
in this country. They have faith in this
country. They have the moral strength
and character that we need, that all
Americans need.
Now all of you know we are engaged in
a great venture in America, and that is to
bridge the
gaps which have developed be-
1 The late Theodore Francis Green, United
States Senator from Rhode Island 1937-61.
tween geographic parts of this Nation, to
bring the North and South and East and
West together; between the economic
classes, to bring the workers and manage-
ment and others together; to bridge the
gap between racial groups and religious
groups; and lately we have done a great
deal of soul-searching about the place of
the younger generation in our national
life.
But while the generation gap between
the
young and their parents has captured
our attention in recent years, as it should,
the generation gap between older Ameri-
cans and the rest of our people has often
just been ignored. It has been slighted.
The time has come for a new attitude
toward old age in America. The time has
come to close the gap between our older
citizens and those who are not yet old.
The way to do this, I believe, is to stop
regarding older Americans as a burden
and start regarding them as a resource for
America.
Even while science has made it possible
for people to live longer, the trend toward
early retirements, the growing mobility
of society, the loosening of family ties
mean that large numbers of senior citizens
now have neither families nor jobs to give
a focus and a foundation to their daily
existence. That is why I say that the
generation over 65 is a very special group
which faces very special problems-it
deserves very special attention. That is
why we have been moving to insure that
our older citizens get that special attention
that they deserve.
Let me talk about that special atten-
tion for a moment, if I can.
First, we are making determined efforts
to improve the financial position of older
citizens. Despite the fact that, overall,
American expenditures on the aging have
777
