Richard Nixon, 1971
June 11 [199]
In saying this, I use the words "free"
and "open" quite precisely.
Freedom has two essential elements:
the right to choose, and the ability to
choose. The right to move out of a mid-
city slum, for example, means little
without the means of doing so. The
right to apply for a good job means little
without access to the skills that make
it attainable. By the same token, those
skills are of little use if arbitrary pol-
icies exclude the person who has them
because of race or other distinction.
Similarly, an "open" society is one
of open choices—and one in which the
individual has the mobility to take ad-
vantage of those choices.
In speaking of "desegregation" or
"integration," we often lose sight of
what these mean within the context of
a free, open, pluralistic society. We can-
not be free, and at the same time be
required to fit our lives into prescribed
places on a racial grid--whether segre-
gated or integrated, and whether by
some mathematical formula or by au-
tomatic assignment. Neither can we be
free, and at the same time be denied―
because of race-the right to associate
with our fellow citizens on a basis of
human equality.
An open society does not have to be
homogeneous, or even fully integrated.
There is room within it for many com-
munities. Especially in a nation like
America, it is natural that people with
a common heritage retain special ties;
it is natural and right that we have
Italian or Irish or Negro or Norwegian
neighborhoods; it is natural and right
that members of those communities feel
a sense of group identity and group
pride. In terms of an open society, what
matters is mobility: the right and the
ability of each person to decide for
himself where and how he wants to live,
whether as part of the ethnic enclave or
as part of the larger society-or, as
many do, share the life of both.
We are richer for our cultural di-
versity; mobility is what allows us to
enjoy it.
Economic, educational, social mobil-
ity-all these, too, are essential elements
of the open society. When we speak of
equal opportunity we mean just that:
that each person should have an equal
chance at the starting line, and an equal
chance to go just as high and as far as
his talents and energies will take him.
The Federal Government bears an im-
portant share of responsibility for achiev-
ing fair housing for all Americans. But
fair housing is not the responsibility of
the Federal Government alone, and not
of government alone. Its achievement de-
pends on all of us-on the States and lo-
calities, on business and industry, on civic
and professional leadership, and on each
of us in his daily life.
For its part, the Federal Government
will discharge fully its own particular re-
sponsibilities and offer example and lead-
ership for others in the discharge of their
responsibilities. We will be vigorous in en-
forcing both the constitutional mandate
and the statutory requirements that there
not be housing discrimination on grounds
of race. In the more complex and diffi-
cult area of providing subsidized housing
in areas where it is needed, we will en-
courage communities and local developers
to take into account the broad needs of
the various groups within the community
and of the metropolitan area.
But we all must recognize that the kinds
of land-use questions involved in housing
71-234-72—50
733
