Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 25 [303]
land may be much less as compared with
what the Soviet Union would have to
have.
So, when somebody says the Soviet
Union has three or four or five times as
many divisions as the United States has,
that doesn't mean that what they have
makes them, therefore, automatically
superior.
I would say at this point that in terms of
strategic missiles, there is basically a bal-
ance between the United States and the
Soviet Union and that neither power at
this time is going to be able to gain a clear
enough superiority that either would
launch a preemptive attack upon the
other.
That is the reason why the possibilities
of success in the SALT talks, the strategic
arms limitation talks, are, in my opinion,
good. I think an announcement was made
this morning that a significant step has
already been taken with regard to acci-
dental war and a more improved hot line.³
That took a lot of negotiating, but it is
important and it will be signed next week
in Washington when Mr. Gromyko is here.
That also is an indication that progress
is being made on limitations of offensive
and defensive weapons, which I an-
nounced on May 20-and at the same
time it was announced in Moscow-would
be the goal for this
year.
Now, whether we achieve it by the end
of this year, no one can say at this point.
We have made progress. And I believe the
goal will be achieved. I believe that we
will reach an agreement, and the reason
3A White House announcement of approval
of two agreements that had been negotiated
with the Soviet Union at the strategic arms limi-
tation talks was released September 24, 1971,
and is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 1318).
we will reach an agreement is this funda-
mental point that I make: Neither power
at this time could, if it wanted to, gain
that superiority which would enable it to,
frankly, blackmail the other one.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Senator Jack-
son, on the floor of the Senate, stated that
the imbalance in the Middle East, as far
as military weapons are concerned, is
widening to the detriment of Israel. He
suggested that there be immediate imple-
mentation of at least $500 million worth
of jets and other weaponry. Does the Ad-
ministration support this thinking, or are
there facts different from what Senator
Jackson suggests?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me respond to
the question not simply in terms of Sena-
tor Jackson's recommendations, and I
have great respect for him in this field
because he is an expert, but in terms of
what the policy of the Administration is.
First, we support the truce.
Second, it would not be in the interest
of either Israel or the U.A.R. to break
that truce. I think that we, therefore,
have a pretty good idea that the truce may
be maintained.
But third, however, neither side should
assume, neither Israel nor the U.A.R.,
that the truce can go on indefinitely, be-
cause unless there is progress made toward
a permanent settlement, there is in-
evitably going to develop an imbalance
from one side to the other.
Now, having stated those general prop-
ositions, let me state the position of the
United States toward Israel. I have stated
over and over again that the United States
will do what is necessary to see that the
balance of power in the region is not
993
