Richard Nixon, 1971
June 18 [204]
been placed on the crisis of the cities, the
crisis of county government, the crisis
of State government in finance. And at
first blush, that appears to be the major
reason for it. It is a major reason. It is,
however, in my opinion, not the most
compelling reason as far as people are
concerned. In my view, the most com-
pelling argument for revenue sharing, one
that goes directly to people, is what will
happen to property taxes.
I have found that the property tax at
the present time in the United States is
the most unpopular tax. It is the fastest
rising tax, and it is the most unfair tax
of all. It is the most unpopular because
it is the one that people have to pay twice
a year. It doesn't come out painlessly as
does the income tax-more or less pain-
lessly as far as the average wage earner is
concerned. The property tax bill comes
in and the individual has to get up the
money in order to pay the tax bill. It is the
fastest rising. You probably had some sta-
tistics already given to you. Over the past
10 years it has gone up two and a half
times across the Nation. In the State of
New York I think it has tripled. In the
past 4 years, the property taxes in the
States represented at this regional brief-
ing have gone up 45 percent. And as a
result, we are having a taxpayers' revolt,
a taxpayers' revolt not directed so much
to sales taxes or income tax or Federal
tax-all of which have moved some but
not nearly at this escalating pace-but a
taxpayers' revolt with regard to bonds,
the various activities that are essential in
order to build schools and other institu-
tions which, of course, are the responsibil-
ity of local government.
Unless we find a way to stop the rise in
property taxes, local government and
State government in this country are going
to have a financial crisis of enormous pro-
portions. Revenue sharing is the only hope
of stopping the rise of property taxes.
Oh, there is another hope, and that is,
cut the cost of government at the State
level, cut it at the city level. The State of
New York, of course, is trying to do both.
But once the people get used to certain
levels of services it is very difficult to cut.
Run the country or the State or the unit
of government more economically? Yes,
some cuts can be made. But as demands
go up, inevitably the cost of government
will
go up, and the taxes must come from
some area.
So as far as the hope for reduction of
property tax is concerned, revenue shar-
ing provides the only hope. If revenue
sharing is passed, it could stop the rise in
property taxes by giving the States, local
governments, and county governments a
new source of income.
If revenue sharing, on the other hand,
is passed, looking ahead it has been esti-
mated by our experts in the various de-
partments, particularly the Treasury
Department, that it could result in a re-
duction of property taxes across the coun-
try, of course varying, depending upon the
situation in each State and local govern-
ment unit, a reduction of approximately
30 percent.ยน
So it is this issue that I think particu-
larly should be hammered home by those
who believe that revenue sharing is an
idea whose time has come, because to
the
average person around the country he
is concerned about the crisis of his Gov-
1 The reference was to an estimated possible
30 percent offset of annual local property tax
increases. (I.e., revenue sharing proceeds to all
communities were estimated to equal 30 per-
cent of total projected property tax increases
in an average year.)
751
