Richard Nixon, 1971
June 13 [200]
imaginatively, and to address it with a
keen understanding of the needs of those
persons for whom the housing is being
provided as well as the needs of the com-
munity at large.
Local and State authorities, for their
part, should continue to respond construc-
tively, pressing forward with innovative
and positive approaches of their own. For
it is they—and beyond them, it is millions
of Americans individually-with whom
the challenge primarily rests. We are deal-
ing here in a realm in which Federal
authority, while substantial in terms of
enforcement, is very limited in terms of
the many choices that must be made in
each community.
There are some who assume that the
Federal Government has the power to do
anything it wants-or that they want.
But we have maintained our freedom for
200
nearly two centuries by insisting that the
Federal Government's exercise of power
not exceed its authority.
I believe in that principle. And because
the authority of the Federal agencies is
limited-quite properly, I believe—with
respect to the essentially local and in-
dividual choices involved in local com-
munity planning, their power will be used.
in only limited ways.
This does not reduce the challenge to
the States, the localities, and the people;
it heightens it. For the task of making our
communities livable, not for some but for
all-of achieving our goals of decent
homes and of open communities in a free
and open society-this task summons the
best that is in each and every one of us,
in a cause that touches our soul as a
Nation. We cannot afford to fail. I believe
that together we can succeed.
Letter to the Secretary of Labor on Employment
Opportunities for Returning Vietnam-Era Veterans.
June 13, 1971
Dear Mr. Secretary:
We have recently had occasion to dis-
cuss the serious need for increasing em-
ployment opportunities for our returning
veterans. As you know, I am greatly con-
cerned at any denial of civilian job op-
portunities to these young men who have
borne the burden of fighting. I am also
deeply concerned at the evidence that the
most serious problem is experienced by
those with educational deficiencies or
other disabilities.
I am directing you to assume leadership
of an intensive effort to place unemployed
Vietnam-era veterans in jobs or training
and to establish procedures which will
provide employment for veterans as we
continue phasing down the war in Viet-
nam. This will require effective mobiliza-
tion of Federal resources. You have my
personal mandate to undertake this task
in coordination with Chairman James
Oates of the Jobs for Veterans Commit-
tee, and you will have the full support of
other Federal agencies.
This is an effort which I consider to be
of the highest priority in Federal man-
power and training programs, and of such
importance that every available program
should be used to the maximum toward
achieving its goals. To speed action, I call
upon all Government agencies to draw
fully upon resources and authority already
at hand.
735
