Richard Nixon, 1971
June 11 [199]
have contributed so greatly to America.
I know, incidentally, that here in our
own Cabinet we have John Volpe, and
what a wonderful spokesman he is for all
of you. And I have on my White House
Staff John Scali,2 and just to show that
we look upon this not as a partisan mat-
ter, I am always, of course, glad to have
our good friend from New Jersey, Pete
Rodino, here.
But what I really feel that you should
know is this: I know that this organiza-
tion was set up because of your concern
that the laws of this land would become
too restrictive and that people of Italian
background and of other backgrounds, as
well, would not be allowed to come here.
Let me say that will not be the case.
It will not be the case because America
needs the new people. It needs the new
ideas. It needs the new drive, the new
enthusiasm, the character that our people
from abroad who are still coming here by
the thousands can give to us. I hope Amer-
ica will always be the land of the open
door, because as long as that door is open,
2 John A. Scali, Special Consultant to the
President.
it means that this land will continue to
grow and continue to prosper and con-
tinue to have that drive which makes a
great nation.
I simply want to close by saying that I
only wish we could provide an air-con-
ditioned garden for you. I understand you
are going to have an air-conditioned tour,
however, and we want you all to be
welcome.
I think this is the last event we are hav-
ing in this garden before we have a wed-
ding ceremony on Saturday, and so we
are very happy to have such a distin-
guished group here. I am standing, I
think, where the minister usually stands.
But I have preached to you long
enough. Let me say, have a wonderful
time while you are here, and when you
talk to me--believe me when you talk to
me about the need to keep the doors of
this Nation open for those from abroad
who can contribute to it, it is like the
preacher talking to the choir. I am with
you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:03 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
199 Statement About Federal Policies Relative to
Equal Housing Opportunity. June 11, 1971
OF ALL the services, facilities, and other
amenities a community provides, few mat-
ter more to the individual and his family
than the kind of housing he lives in-and
the kind of neighborhood of which that
housing is a part. Through the ages, men
have fought to defend their homes; they
have struggled, and often dared the wil-
derness, in order to secure better homes.
It is not surpirising, therefore, that pub-
lic policies affecting the kind and location
of homes available should be the subject
of intense and widespread interest, and
also of intense, far-ranging, and some-
times passionate debate.
One of the achievements of this Ad-
ministration of which I am most proud
has been the dramatic progress we have
made in increasing the supply of housing,
including particularly low- and moderate-
income housing, so as to expand the range
of housing opportunities for Americans
721
