Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 7 [286]
peace will depend on the competitive
spirit of the American people.
On this Labor Day, 1971, I am confi-
dent that this spirit is strong and healthy
among America's 80 million wage earners.
This means that America has the char-
acter, the drive, and the greatness to suc-
ceed in achieving our goal of a new
prosperity in a full generation of peace.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon from
Camp David in Maryland. His address was
broadcast live on nationwide radio.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
286
Memorandum Establishing the Cabinet Committee on
International Narcotics Control. September 7, 1971
Memorandum for:
Honorable William P. Rogers, Secre-
tary of State
SUBJECT: Cabinet Committee on Inter-
national Narcotics Control
Drug abuse, particularly narcotics ad-
diction, has grown to crisis proportions in
the last several years in the United States.
It is imperative that the illicit flow of
narcotics and dangerous drugs into this
country be stopped as soon as possible. In
order most effectively to coordinate this
effort, which encompasses diplomatic, in-
telligence, and law enforcement functions,
I am hereby establishing a Cabinet Com-
mittee on International Narcotics Control.
The Cabinet Committee will be chaired
by the Secretary of State and include:
Secretary Rogers
Attorney General Mitchell
Secretary Laird
Secretary Connally
Ambassador Bush
Director Helms
and such others as become necessary in the
opinion of the Chairman.
The Cabinet Committee will be sup-
ported by a Working Group to be com-
posed of personnel from each of the con-
cerned agencies. The Executive Director
of the Cabinet Committee and Chairman
of the Working Group will be Egil
Krogh, Jr.
The Cabinet Committee shall be re-
sponsible for the formulation and coordi-
nation of all policies of the Federal Gov-
ernment relating to the goal of curtailing
and eventually eliminating the flow of
illegal narcotics and dangerous drugs into
the United States from abroad. To the
maximum extent permitted by law, Fed-
eral officers and Federal departments and
agencies shall cooperate with the Cabinet
Committee in carrying out its functions
under this directive and shall comply with
the policies, guidelines, standards, and
procedures prescribed by the Cabinet
Committee.
More specifically, the Cabinet Com-
mittee shall-
(1) develop comprehensive plans and
programs for the implementation
of these policies;
(2) assure that all diplomatic, intelli-
gence, and Federal law enforce-
ment programs and activities of
international scope are properly
coordinated;
937
