[87] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
87 Memorandum Urging Support of the Red Cross.
March 4, 1971
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
I have today designated March, 1971,
as Red Cross Month. As President of the
United States and Honorary Chairman
of the American National Red Cross, I
extend my personal support to the vital
humanitarian activities of the Red Cross.
I know that all of you as citizens and lead-
ers will want to do likewise, and that you
will want to cooperate in informing every
Federal employee and every member of
the Armed Forces of the many ways
through which he or she can render serv-
ice and reap benefits by supporting the
Red Cross.
In every community across the Nation,
men and women who work for the Federal
Government or serve in the Armed Forces
will have opportunities to help the Red
Cross toward its 1971 national fund goal
of $133,978,000, or to contribute their
services as volunteers, or to take part in
Red Cross blood donor programs. With
your help in making them aware of these
opportunities, they will, I am confident,
respond generously.
Recent efforts of the Red Cross have
brought relief to victims of Hurricane
Celia and of flooding in Puerto Rico.
Around the world the Red Cross has
helped American servicemen in Vietnam
and 29 other countries; has taken a lead-
ing role in urging adherence to the
Geneva conventions in the treatment of
American prisoners of war in North Viet-
nam; and has ministered to refugees from
the civil strife in Jordon and from East
Pakistan's catastrophic cyclone. It adds
up to a titanic achievement in easing
human suffering, and summons all of us
in the Federal Government to set an ex-
ample for the Nation with an outpouring
of support during March.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Proclamation 4033 designating March as Red
Cross Month, 1971.
88 The President's News Conference on Foreign Policy.
March 4, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. Won't you be seated,
please.
QUESTIONS
RATE OF U.S. TROOP WITHDRAWALS
[1] Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, As-
sociated Press].
Q. Are any of the difficulties that the
South Vietnamese Army have encoun-
tered in Laos in recent weeks going to
cause you to slow down the rate of Ameri-
can troop withdrawals?
THE PRESIDENT. No. As a matter of
fact what has already been accomplished
in Laos at this time has insured even more
the plan for withdrawal of American
troops. I will make another announce-
ment in April, as I have previously indi-
cated. And the disruption of the supply
lines of the enemy through Laos, which
has now occurred for 3 weeks, has very
seriously damaged the enemy's ability to
wage effective action against our remain-
386
