[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
As part of this legacy, I have requested
a $200 million appropriation to begin a
new program for the acquisition and de-
velopment of additional park lands in
urban areas. To be administered by the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment, this would include provision
for facilities such as swimming pools to
add to the use and enjoyment of these
parks.
Also, I have recommended in my 1972
budget that the appropriation for the
Land and Water Conservation Fund be
increased to $380 million, permitting the
continued acquisition of Federal parks
and recreation areas as well as an ex-
panded State grant program. However,
because of the way in which these State
grant funds were allocated over the past
five years, a relatively small percentage
has been used for the purchase and devel-
opment of recreational facilities in and
near urban areas. The allocation formula
should be changed to ensure that more
parks will be developed in and near our
urban areas.
-I am submitting legislation to reform
the State grant program so that Fed-
eral grants for the purchase and de-
velopment of recreation lands bear
a closer relationship to the popula-
tion distribution.
-I am also proposing amendments to
the Internal Revenue Code which
should greatly expand the use of
charitable land transfers for conser-
vation purposes and thereby enlarge
the role of private citizens in pre-
serving the best of America's land-
scape.
Additional public parks will be created
as a result of my program for examining
the need for retention of real property
owned by the Government. The Prop-
erty Review Board, which I established
last year, is continuing its review of indi-
vidual properties as well as its evaluation
of the Government's overall Federal real
property program. Properties identified as
suitable for park use and determined to
be surplus can be conveyed to States and
political subdivisions for park purposes
without cost. The State or other political
subdivision must prepare an acceptable
park use plan and must agree to use the
property as a park in perpetuity. More
than 40 properties with high potential for
park use have already been identified.
Five such properties are now available
for conversion to public park use. One,
Border Field, California, will be devel-
oped as a recreation area with the assist-
ance of the Department of the Interior.
The other four will be conveyed to States
or local units of government as soon as
adequate guarantees can be obtained for
their proper
maintenance and operation.
These four are: (1) part of the former
Naval Training Devices Center on Long
Island Sound, New York; (2) land at a
Clinical Research Center in Fort Worth,
Texas; (3) about ten miles of sand dunes
and beach along the Atlantic Coast and
Sandy Hook Bay, a part of Fort Han-
cock, New Jersey; and (4) a portion of
Fort Lawton, Washington, a wooded,
hilly area near the heart of Seattle. In
addition, efforts are underway to open a
significant stretch of Pacific Ocean Beach
Front and Coastal Bluffs at Camp Pen-
dleton, California.
Many parcels of federal real property
are currently under-utilized because of
the budgetary and procedural difficulties
that are involved in transferring a Fed-
eral operation from the current site to a
more suitable location.
-I am again proposing legislation to
136
