Appendix B
September
13 Cabinet members and their wives met with
the President at the White House for a
discussion of the new economic policy.
13 Business leaders met with the President at
the White House to discuss the new eco-
nomic policy.
14 Agricultural leaders met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss the new
economic policy.
14 Senators Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott
met with the President at the White House
to report on the Interparliamentary Union
meetings which they attended in Europe.
14 Their Imperial Highnesses, Prince and
Princess Hitachi of Japan, met with the
President at the White House.
16 The President and the First Lady hosted a
dinner at the White House in honor of the
Apollo 15 astronauts and their families.
17 Charles S. Rhyne, former president of the
American Bar Association, met with the
President to report on his visit to Yugoslavia
to attend the World Peace Through World
Law Conference held in Belgrade.
17 Representative Jack Kemp of New York
met with the President to report on his
trip to Southeast Asia, Israel, and Poland.
17 Ambassador Corneliu Bogdan of Romania
met with the President at the White House
and delivered a message from Romanian
President Nicolae Ceausescu.
17 The President greeted winners of the 7th
World International Bowling Federation at
the White House.
17 John Geiger, commander of the American
Legion, called on the President at the White
House.
17 Actress Ginger Rogers called on the Presi-
dent at the White House.
17 Chairmen and ranking minority members
of several Congressional committees met
with the President at the White House to
discuss the new economic policy.
September
20 The President met with the 1971-72 White
House Fellows who began their year in the
executive branch on September 1.
20 Laurie Lea Schaefer of Bexley, Ohio, who
was chosen to be Miss America of 1972,
and Phyllis George of Denton, Tex., who
was Miss America of 1971, called on the
President at the White House.
20 Ronald Au of Honolulu, Hawaii, president
of the United States Jaycees, met with the
President at the White House.
21 Representatives of consumer groups met
with the President at the White House to
discuss the new economic policy.
21 King Olav IV of Norway met with the
President at the White House during his
private visit to the United States.
21 Paul G. Hoffman, who will retire in Janu-
ary as Administrator of the United Nations
Development Program, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
21 Participants in the International Seminar
on Illicit Drug Traffic and Abuse met with
the President at the White House.
21 Ambassadors Johan Samuel Frederick
Botha of South Africa, Mustapha Ramathan
of Uganda, Unia Gostel Mwila of Zambia,
Karoly Szabo of Hungary, Gudmundur I.
Gudmundsson of Iceland, and Eyvind
Bartels of Denmark presented their creden-
tials to the President in a ceremony at the
White House.
21 The President greeted representatives of the
auto racing world at a reception at the
White House.
21 The President met with Kenneth E. BeLieu,
newly confirmed as Under Secretary of the
Army, to thank him for his 33 months of
service on the White House Staff, where
he was Deputy Assistant for Congressional
Relations.
24 The President met with Rear Adm. Samuel
Gravely, Brig. Gen. Cunningham C. Bryant,
and Brig. Gen. Benjamin L. Hunton, and
discussed the problems of blacks in the
military services. Secretary of Defense
Melvin R. Laird joined the meeting.
1263
