Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 26 [29]
employees in the U.S. Capitol Buildings
and Grounds Security Act of 1967.
Under this proposal the maximum pen-
alties for violation of the rules promul-
gated by GSA would be raised from a $50
fine or thirty days in jail to a $500 fine or
six months in prison.
Passage of this legislation would help
divert future protests back into the legiti-
mate democratic channels where they
belong.
FEDERAL WAGERING TAX
The Federal wagering tax can be a
useful tool in our increasingly successful
effort against organized crime. Some of
its provisions, however, were ruled un-
constitutional in 1968 as violative of the
Fifth Amendment right against self-
incrimination. Both to retain this needed
weapon and to bring the law into accord
with the rulings of the Supreme Court, I
again propose a prohibition on any use-
against the taxpayer-of information ob-
tained through his compliance with this
statute. At the same time, the new amend-
ments would broaden the coverage of the
wagering tax and increase the level of
taxation.
NON-TESTIMONIAL IDENTIFICATION
Currently, law enforcement officers are
often handicapped in obtaining significant
non-testimonial evidence-such as blood
samples or fingerprints-in a way to qual-
ify it for use as legal evidence. Under this
proposal, a judicial officer could, under
prescribed conditions, issue an order re-
quiring that a suspect give such kinds of
evidence. This is a constitutionally sound
step that would advance the cause of
criminal justice without infringing upon
any of the legitimate rights of suspects and
defendants.
OBSCENITY AND PORNOGRAPHY
The overwhelming majority of Amer-
icans is rightly appalled at the burgeoning
growth of the pornography industry here
in the United States. Though Court rul-
ings have restricted some government
countermeasures, in other instances they
have left us the freedom to act. They have
both recognized the right to protect
minors from the products of this obnoxious
enterprise, and reaffirmed the right to
restrict pandering through advertising. I
propose anew that Congress pass meas-
ures, with stiff penalties, prohibiting the
use of interstate facilities to transport un-
solicited salacious advertising, or to de-
liver any harmful and offensive matter to
youngsters. It would be difficult to over-
state the strength of my support for these
two pieces of legislation.
EDUCATION: REFORM AND OPPORTUNITY
Under this broad category, I have in-
cluded three measures submitted to the
Ninety-first Congress, all of which I be-
lieve have great merit and would serve
great needs. The first is for a National
Institute of Education, the need for which
is becoming increasingly apparent; the
second is a measure to provide financial
assistance to those school districts carrying
the strain of desegregation; the third is to
encourage and assist the men coming
home from Vietnam to make better use
of the educational opportunity the coun-
65
