[33] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
-giving financial relief to the
States; and
-establishing a Federal floor un-
der benefit payments for all
needy families with children, in-
cluding those with working
fathers, for the first time.
Social security improvements.-I
will propose a significant reform of
the social security system, providing
automatic adjustments for increases
in the cost of living. Such an adjust-
ment now calls for a 6% benefit,
effective retroactively to January 1,
1971, to cover the cost of living in-
crease since January 1, 1970. I will
also propose increases in widows'
pensions.
Beyond these basic reforms, I will seek
to harmonize related income maintenance
programs with the principles of our in-
come strategy. This will include:
-reform of services provided to wel-
fare recipients to encourage greater
accountability and effectiveness in
the use of funds, and to establish
national standards for foster care,
with new incentives for the adoption
of handicapped children; and
-proposals to put railroad retirement
funds on a financially sound basis.
IMPROVING HEALTH CARE.-During the
current session, I will send a message to
the Congress that will set out a national
health strategy for the seventies and pro-
pose significant changes in the Federal
role in the Nation's system of health care.
This strategy will seek to expand pre-
ventive care, to train more doctors and
other health personnel, and to achieve
greater equity and efficiency in the deliv-
ery of health services. It will include a new
health insurance program for all low-
income families with children.
The budget reflects in a preliminary
way the emphasis that this administration
will place on health in 1971, with:
-an increase of $100 million to accel-
erate greatly the search for a means
of preventing and curing cancer;
-a vigorous effort to find a cure for
sickle cell anemia;
-a $95 million increase in Federal sup-
port for schools that train our
Nation's health manpower; and
-a rational policy of using Federal
resources to help bring the rapid in-
crease in medical care costs under
control.
The budget also provides for:
-a substantial improvement in the
quality of medical care provided
to veterans with service-connected
injuries;
-expansion of services for mothers and
children, Indians and Alaska natives,
and women who cannot afford family
planning services;
-expanded programs to combat drug
abuse and alcoholism;
-emphasis on assuring purity of foods
and drugs; and
-encouraging greater use of less costly
services and facilities in delivering
medical care.
COMMUNITY SAFETY AND CRIME PRE-
VENTION.-My commitment to the reform
and revitalization of our system of crimi-
nal justice is supported by this budget.
The budget proposes a 32% increase in
outlays to improve law enforcement, to
make our judicial system fairer and more
efficient, and to raise the effectiveness of
correction and rehabilitation. In this way,
we will:
-step up the war on organized crime
and the gambling operations that
finance it;
90
