[259] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
measures that may be appropriate. Such a
review is badly needed. Study after study
tells us-compellingly-that many things
are wrong with certain nursing home
facilities, but there is not yet a clear
enough understanding of all the steps that
must be taken to correct this picture.
Of course, I am also looking to the
White House Conference on Aging, which
meets this December, to offer specific rec-
ommendations regarding this same diffi-
cult question.
8. Finally, I would emphasize my
earnest hope that all these efforts will
bring about the improvement of existing
substandard homes rather than their abo-
lition. The interests of the elderly are far
better served when a home is reformed
and renewed than when a home is elimi-
nated. But let there be no mistaking the
fact that when facilities fail to meet rea-
sonable standards, we will not hesitate to
cut off their Medicare and Medicaid
funds.
We are particularly hopeful that our
efforts will bring reform, since any reason-
able expenses incurred as a result of im-
proving care can often be financed under
the existing Medicare and Medicaid
pro-
grams. We are fully prepared to budget
the necessary funds to meet reasonable
cost increases which result from such
improvements.
The Federal Government stands ready
to help in this great reform effort in other
ways as well. Under the Hill-Burton Act,
for example, we are able to provide loan
guarantees and direct loans for the mod-
ernization of old nursing home facilities
and the construction of new ones. The
Federal Housing Administration also pro-
vides help in this field by insuring mort-
gages to finance construction or rehabili-
tation of nursing homes and intermediate
care facilities. And the Small Business
Administration also guarantees loans and
makes direct loans to assist proprietary
nursing homes in constructing, expanding,
or converting their facilities, in purchas-
ing equipment or materials, and in assem-
bling working capital.
In addition to all of these efforts, the
Administration is working in a number of
other ways to improve the life of all older
Americans—whatever their place of
residence. Some of our strongest initiatives
to help older people—including major
reforms in both the welfare and social
security systems-are contained in the
legislation designated H.R. 1 which is now
pending in the Senate. I would emphasize
again, the passage of this legislation could
make a major impact for good in the lives
of older Americans, including those who
need to live in nursing homes and ex-
tended care facilities.
As we work to improve the quality of
life for the elderly-and especially for
those who must rely on the care provided
in the nursing homes of our country-
we should not expect overnight miracles.
The problems we face have developed in
too many places over too long a time. But
we can expect that our efforts will result
in significant and continuing progress.
With the cooperation of the Congress, the
State governments, and the nursing home
industry, we can truly transform sub-
standard nursing homes so that the very
best nursing homes of today will be the
typical nursing homes of tomorrow.
NOTE: The statement was released at Nashua,
N.H.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on nursing homes.
880
