[243] July 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
football, to our coaches, to the players who
are examples. I think what football and
other sports mean to, and what they con-
tribute to, millions of us who are fans—
more than the recreation, more than the
enormous spectator sport that it is—is the
spirit, a spirit of competition, a spirit of
trying to do our very best, a spirit of when
we lose of trying to win the next time out,
and a spirit, may I say also, of being for
our team, all the way, strong for it.
I think it is great for the Giant fans to
be for the Giants and for the Bengal fans
to be for the Bengals, and the Browns fans
to be for the Browns. I think it is great,
too, for Americans to be for America, all
the way.
So, if we learn from football to be for
our team, for our town, for our country,
then that is a good thing. Oh, I don't
mean that our country is perfect, but I
have traveled to most of the nations of
the world and just let me remind us all of
this great truth. Go anyplace else; you
will enjoy it. But you will, when you come
back to America, say, "I am glad that I
am an American," because in no nation of
the world is there more opportunity; in
no nation of the world is there more free-
dom; in no nation in the world are there
better jobs, better wages, a better income,
a better life than in America.
There are a lot of things to improve
about it, but the greatness of this country
is that we have a system in which, where
we don't like what we find, we can change
it and we can improve it.
So, I would leave this final passing
thought with you tonight on my first
visit and I hope not my last-to this
Hall of Fame. In the spirit of American
football at its best, let's always try to be
number one, because we owe it to our-
selves, we owe it to our country.
Second, in the spirit of American foot-
ball, let's be for our team, let's be for our
country. As we look at this country, when
we hear people say America is an ugly
country, let's stand up and answer. Let's
say this is a beautiful country, and the
glory of it is that we have the great oppor-
tunity to make it even more beautiful in
the years to come.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10: 18 p.m. in the
Canton Civic Center.
The Commissioner of the National Football
League was Pete Rozelle.
The banquet was in honor of the following
men who were inducted into the Professional
Football Hall of Fame the next day: Norm
Van Brocklin, Jim Brown, the late Bill Hewitt,
Frank (Bruiser) Kinard, the late Vince Lom-
bardi, Andy Robustelli, and Y. A. Tittle.
244 Television Interview With ABC Sports
Commentator Frank Gifford in Canton, Ohio.
July 31, 1971
MR. GIFFORD. Mr. President, I know of
your fondness not only for sports, physical
fitness, but also Vince Lombardi who is
being honored here at the Hall of Fame.
He was a very special man, I think, to so
many people, and I think you felt that.
THE PRESIDENT. He was very special
to me mainly because I read about him
and admired him as millions of Americans
did who saw what a man he was. He was
a great coach, as you, of course, know, but
more than that he was a fine family man.
838
