Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 22 [26]
more people a chance to do something, we
can have government that truly is by the
people.
And by setting up a completely modern,
functional system of government at the
national level, we in Washington will at
last be able to provide government that
is truly for the people.
I realize that what I am asking is that
not only the executive branch in Washing-
ton but that even this Congress will have
to change by giving up some of its power.
Change is hard. But without change
there can be no progress. And for each of
us the question then becomes, not "Will
change cause me inconvenience?" but
"Will change bring progress for America?"
Giving up power is hard. But I would
urge all of you, as leaders of this country,
to remember that the truly revered lead-
ers in world history are those who gave
power to people, and not those who took
it away.
As we consider these reforms we will be
acting, not for the next 2 years or for the
next 10 years, but for the next 100 years.
So let us approach these six great goals
with a sense not only of this moment in
history but also of history itself.
Let us act with the willingness to work
together and the vision and the boldness
and the courage of those great Americans
who met in Philadelphia almost 190 years
ago to write a constitution.
Let us leave a heritage as they did—not
just for our children but for millions yet
unborn-of a nation where every Ameri-
can will have a chance not only to live in
peace and to enjoy prosperity and oppor-
tunity but to participate in a system of
government where he knows not only his
votes but his ideas count-a system of
government which will provide the means
for America to reach heights of achieve-
ment undreamed of before.
Those men who met at Philadelphia left
a great heritage because they had a
vision-not only of what the Nation was
but of what it could become.
As I think of that vision, I recall that
America was founded as the land of the
open door-as a haven for the oppressed,
a land of opportunity, a place of refuge,
of hope.
When the first settlers opened the door
of America three and a half centuries ago,
they came to escape persecution and to
find opportunity—and they left wide the
door of welcome for others to follow.
When the Thirteen Colonies declared
their independence almost two centuries
ago, they opened the door to a new vision
of liberty and of human fulfillment-not
just for an elite but for all.
To the generations that followed,
America's was the open door that beck-
oned millions from the old world to the
new in search of a better life, a freer life,
a fuller life, and in which, by their own
decisions, they could shape their own
destinies.
For the black American, the Indian,
the Mexican-American, and for those
others in our land who have not had an
equal chance, the Nation at last has be-
gun to confront the need to press open the
door of full and equal opportunity, and of
human dignity.
For all Americans, with these changes
I have proposed tonight we can open the
door to a new era of opportunity. We can
open the door to full and effective par-
ticipation in the decisions that affect their
lives. We can open the door to a new
partnership among governments at all
levels, between those governments and
57
