[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
6 "A Conversation With the President," Interview With
Four Representatives of the Television Networks.
January 4, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, ladies and
gentlemen, I wish to welcome the distin-
guished members of our television panel
to the White House Library, and also to
welcome all of you who are listening on
television and on radio to this "Conversa-
tion with the President."
I was thinking when this program was
announced that I would have an opening
statement as I had, you will recall, 6
months ago when we met in California.
But in view of the record of the 91st Con-
gress and some of the talk that went on
at the end, I thought that a filibuster
would not be appreciated. So, we will go
directly to your questions.
QUESTIONS
CHANGES IN THE PRESIDENT
[1] JOHN CHANCELLOR (National
Broadcasting Company). Sir, you have
lived here in the White House and had
this responsibility now for 2 years, and I
wonder, Mr. President, how you have
changed. We heard some talk and read
in the papers during the last campaign
about the "old Nixon," but all the his-
torical evidence we have indicates that
the Presidency changes men.
And I wonder what changes in yourself
you have observed.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the changes,
Mr. Chancellor, are primarily not physi-
cal. Physically, as you probably noted from
the doctor's report-which, incidentally,
a President is required to have once a year,
and probably that is a good thing-there
have been no significant changes there. So,
the job must agree with me.
The changes more are in an under-
standing of the job. When you come into
office, the Presidency, one has ideas as to
what he can accomplish. And he believes
he can accomplish a great deal, even
though he may have a Congress that is not
part of his own party. Then, after he gets
in, he finds that what he had hoped in
terms of achieving goals will not be as
great as the actual performance turns out
to be.
So, I would say that in terms of how I
have changed, it is in realizing that while
we must set high goals and always seek
them, that we must not become impatient.
And we must plow forward, recognizing
that in the end we are going to make some
progress, if not all the progress that we
had hoped.
I would say, in other words, at this time
I am not disappointed in the record of
the last 2 years in terms of some of the
things we accomplished. But I have great
hopes for the next 2 years, because I think
I know better how to do the job. I think I
know better how to deal with the Con-
gress. I think I know better how to work
with the Cabinet.
This is perhaps how I have changed. I
know more. I am more experienced. I
hope I do better.
ACHIEVEMENTS AND DISAPPOINTMENTS
[2.] ERIC SEVAREID (Columbia Broad-
casting System). Mr. President, to be
specific about the last 2 years, what do you
6
