Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [135]
people? My plan will end American in-
volvement in a way that would provide
that chance. And the other plan would
end it precipitately and give victory to
the Communists.
In a deeper sense, we have the choice
of ending our involvement in this war on
a note of despair or on a note of hope. I
believe, as Thomas Jefferson did, that
Americans will always choose hope over
despair. We have it in our power to leave
Vietnam in a way that offers a brave
people a realistic hope of freedom. We
have it in our power to prove to our
friends in the world that America's sense
of responsibility remains the world's great-
est single hope of peace.
And above all, we have it in our power
to close a difficult chapter in American
history, not meanly but nobly-so that
each one of us can come out of this sear-
ing experience with a measure of pride in
our Nation, confidence in our own char-
acter, and hope for the future of the spirit
of America.
I know there are those who honestly
believe that I should move to end this
war without regard to what happens to
South Vietnam. This way would aban-
don our friends. But even more important,
we would abandon ourselves. We would
plunge from the anguish of war into a
nightmare of recrimination. We would
lose respect for this Nation, respect for one
another, respect for ourselves.
I understand the deep concerns which
have been raised in this country, fanned
by reports of brutalities in Vietnam. Let
me put this into perspective.
I have visited Vietnam many times,
and, speaking now from that experience
and as Commander in Chief of our Armed
Forces, I feel it is my duty to speak up
for
the two and a half million fine young
Americans who have served in Vietnam.
The atrocity charges in individual cases
should not and cannot be allowed to re-
flect on their courage and their self-sacri-
fice. War is a terrible and cruel experience
for a nation, and it is particularly terrible
and cruel for those who bear the burden
of fighting.
But never in history have men fought
for less selfish motives-not for conquest,
not for glory, but only for the right of a
people far away to choose the kind of
government they want.
While we hear and read much of iso-
lated acts of cruelty, we do not hear
enough of the tens of thousands of indi-
vidual American soldiers-I have seen
them there-building schools, roads, hos-
pitals, clinics, who, through countless acts
of generosity and kindness, have tried to
help the people of South Vietnam. We
can and we should be very proud of these
men. They deserve not our scorn, but they
deserve our admiration and our deepest
appreciation.
The way to express that appreciation
is to end America's participation in this
conflict not in failure or in defeat, but in
achievement of the great goals for which
they fought: a South Vietnam free to
determine its own future and an America
no longer divided by war but united in
peace.
That is why it is so important how we
end this war. By our decision we will
demonstrate the kind of people we are
and the kind of country we will become.
That is why I have chartered the course
I have laid out tonight: to end this war-
but end it in a way that will strengthen
trust for America around the world, not
undermine it, in a way that will redeem
525
