[43] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
3. Distributing Revenues Within the
States.
Those States which do not adopt their
own plan for subdividing shared revenues
would follow a formula prescribed in the
Federal legislation. This formula would
assign to the State government and to all
units of local government combined a
share of the new money equal to that por-
tion of State and local revenues currently
raised at each level. On the average, this
"pass through" requirement would mean
that about one-half of the revenue sharing
funds would go to the States and half
would go to the localities. Governmental
units of all sizes would be eligible for aid-
but only if they were set up for general
purposes. This would exclude special pur-
pose units such as sewer districts, school
districts, and transit authorities. Each gen-
eral purpose unit would then receive its
proportionate share of revenues based on
how much money it raises locally.
4. Other Procedures and Require-
ments.
General Revenue Sharing monies
would come without program or project
restrictions. The funds would be paid
out at least quarterly through the Treas-
ury Department; no massive new Federal
agencies would be established. Each State
would be required to pass on to local units
their proper share of the Federal funds
and to observe appropriate reporting and
accounting procedures.
In my State of the Union message I
emphasized that these revenue-sharing
proposals would "include the safeguards
against discrimination that accompany all
other Federal funds allocated to the
States." The legislation I am recom-
mending provides these safeguards. It
stipulates that: "No person in the United
States shall on the ground of race, color or
national origin be excluded from partici-
pation in, be denied the benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any
program or activity funded in whole or in
part with general revenue sharing funds."
The Secretary of the Treasury would
be empowered to enforce this provision.
If he found a violation and was unable to
gain voluntary compliance, he could then
call on the Attorney General to seek ap-
propriate relief in the Federal Courts, or
he could institute administrative proceed-
ings under Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964-leading to a cut off of Fed-
eral funds. The Federal Government has
a well defined moral and constitutional
obligation to ensure fairness for every citi-
zen whenever Federal tax dollars are
spent. Under this legislation, the Federal
Government would continue to meet that
responsibility.
ENHANCING ACCOUNTABILITY
Ironically, the central advantage of rev-
enue sharing--the fact that it combines
the advantages of Federal taxation with
the advantages of State and local decision-
making is the very point at which the
plan is frequently criticized. When one
level of government spends money that
is raised at another level, it has been
argued, it will spend that money less re-
sponsibly; when those who appropriate
tax revenues are no longer the same peo-
ple who levy the taxes, they will no longer
be as sensitive to taxpayer pressures. The
best way to hold government accountable
to the people, some suggest, is to be certain
that taxing authority and spending
authority coincide.
If we look at the practice of govern-
ment in modern America, however, we
find that this is simply not the case. In
118
