Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 22 [338]
Except for the contribution he
may be
able to make to the cause of world peace,
there is probably no more important
legacy that a President of the United
States can leave in these times than his
appointments to the Supreme Court.
I believe that Chief Justice Burger, Mr.
Justice Blackmun, by their conduct and
their decisions, have earned the respect
not only of those who supported them
when I nominated them but also those
who opposed them.
It is my firm conviction tonight that
Lewis Powell and William Rehnquist will
earn the same respect, and that as guard-
ians of our Constitution, they will dedicate
their lives to the great goal of building
respect for law and order and justice
throughout this great land of ours.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:31 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
On the same day, the White House released
biographical information on the nominees.
The text of a letter from Attorney General
John N. Mitchell to Leon Jaworski, president,
and Lawrence E. Walsh, chairman of the
Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary,
American Bar Association, discussing ABA con-
sultation on Supreme Court nominations was
made available to the press on October 21,
1971, and is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 1434).
338 Remarks at the Convention of the National Federation
of Republican Women. October 22, 1971
Mrs. Gladys O'Donnell, all of the distin-
guished guests here on the rostrum, and
all of the distinguished delegates and
guests to the convention of the Women's
Federation:
I feel somewhat lonely here, in one
sense. I am the only man on the platform.
I must say, that is a better break than a
woman gets when she goes before the
American Bar Association, however.
I am proud of the two men that I an-
nounced last night as appointees to the
Supreme Court. They are men who, I
think-like the other two appointees that
I have named, Mr. Chief Justice Burger
and Mr. Justice Blackmun-are fine
legal scholars, and also, they share the
philosophy of judicial conservatism that I
think the Supreme Court and the Nation
wants at this point.
While I know that a great number in
this audience, including my wife, felt very
strongly that not only should a woman be
considered but that a woman should be
appointed, let me say that at least we
have made a beginning, and there will be
a woman on the Supreme Court in time.
As a member of the American Bar As-
sociation, and with great respect for that
august organization, just let me say that
when its jury of 12 decides on the qualifi-
cations of individuals that the President
of the United States, through the At-
torney General, submits to them for con-
sideration, the jury should at least have
one woman on it, not all men, if they are
going to consider a woman. I am sure
that will come.
Let me say with regard to this Federa-
tion that I am delighted to welcome you
here, and because of the people that have
appeared on your program already this
morning and because of what has hap-
pened up to this time, I would like to be
permitted some personal notes.
First, I am glad that you have heard
1057
