Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
At the time of Cambodia, as Senator
Fulbright will recall, I did have the whole
group down, and we discussed some of
these matters, and I answered questions.
The possibility of having meetings on
an informal basis with committee mem-
bers is something that I can consider. I see
many of them individually.
For example, Senator Aiken, Senator
Mansfield-I see him virtually every 2 to
3 weeks for breakfast as the majority
leader. Any Senator who asks to see me
usually gets in to see me. It is a question of
time.
ACCESS TO THE PRESIDENT
[12.] MR. SMITH. The story keeps re-
curring that access to you is difficult.
Newsweek carries a story this week that
Secretary Volpe is having a hard time see-
ing you, as Mr. Hickel 2 complained he
did. In the case of Senators, I will use
names. A year ago Senator Javits, Repub-
lican, New York, the best vote-getter in
the State of your party——
THE PRESIDENT. That is right.
MR. SMITH. said he had not been
consulted by you on anything.
And Senator Dole, who is increasingly
your spokesman, was heard to complain
recently that he had been "shunted off"
to lesser White House aides. Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is no
substitute, Mr. Smith, for seeing the man
in the Oval Office, and yet while my
schedule, as you probably are aware, due
to a rather disciplined schedule in which
I, unless I have a guest, eat breakfast
alone in 5 minutes, never have guests for
lunch-I do that in 5 minutes, too. I per-
haps put more time in, in a day, than any
2
Walter J. Hickel, Secretary of the Interior,
1969-70.
President could put in, and it is because
it is my way—I am not bragging about it.
But in terms of the number of people
I see, the number of Senators, the number
of Cabinet officers, the number of ap-
pointments, I would say that it is probably
a record. But the more you see naturally
the more others who don't get in as often
want to see you. It is not possible to meet
this adequately, but the only way I can
figure it out is to cut another hour off of
my sleep, but then I wouldn't be as sharp
on this program.
EXECUTIVE AND CONGRESSIONAL POWERS
[13.] MR. SMITH. Well, the kind of
thing I am concerned about is, I see-
this is a prediction-I see the next 2 years
being dominated by this political theme:
The age-old conflict between the Execu-
tive and Congress, but in sharper form
than ever. Resolutions are being prepared
in the Senate to try and require your aides
to testify, resolutions limiting your powers
as Commander in Chief.
And there is another assault coming
from another quarter, and I don't know
whether you are aware of it. But tomorrow
morning Senator Ervin begins hearings
on the impounding of funds by you which
had been appropriated by Congress. It is
said that several billions of dollars that
Congress has appropriated for things like
dams and so on you have refused to spend,
that this violates the Constitution and de-
prives Congress of its main power, the
power of the purse.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith, when I
was a Senator and a Congressman, par-
ticularly when I was a Senator and a Con-
gressman with a President in the other
party in the White House, I played all
those games, too, with very little success.
459
