[98] Mar. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
grade, so I started a little bit higher.
I want you to know, too, that it is a
very great pleasure for me to be able to
share this occasion with you, as you, the
members of this class, begin your service
as naval officers. I began my naval serv-
ice at Quonset Point, as has been pointed
out, and it has taken me 29 years to cross
Narragansett Bay. But I am glad finally
to be here.
This does not reflect on my training.
I think I was a pretty good navigator. I
just took the long way around. I do not
contend that it necessarily means any-
thing as far as your future is concerned,
but it should be noted for the record that
the two Presidents before me were also
Navy men, and, of course, President Eis-
enhower first tried to go to Annapolis be-
fore he finally went to West Point. We
are very honored today that his son,
Am-
bassador Eisenhower,¹ is here. He chose
West Point-his first choice.
I know it is the custom to tell gradu-
ating classes that they are facing great
opportunities and great obligations.
Sometimes it is true and sometimes it is
not true. In your case it happens to be
true.
The pursuit of peace is the opportunity
which lies before you, and the preserva-
tion of peace will be the special obliga-
tion of your generation. There is no
greater opportunity, and there is no
greater responsibility.
It may be difficult now to appreciate
this fully. Our involvement in the war in
Southeast Asia is drawing to an end. The
next 3 years stretch before you, with the
prospect of danger or boredom or both.
And I know some of you will wonder
¹ John S. D. Eisenhower, Ambassador to Bel-
gium 1969-71.
about the significance of serving, about
the need for it. I know that many of you
resent the time taken away from the pur-
suit of other careers. You see these years
as lost years.
I tell you, they will not be lost. Rather,
I believe that nothing you do in your
life will be more important than the
service you give in the next 3 years. Out
of the sacrifice and the bitterness and the
testing of the last 10 years has come the
opportunity to achieve at last what Amer-
icans all want and what we have not had
in this whole century: a full generation
of peace. It is for us now to seize that op-
portunity, to win the peace. It will be for
you to keep it.
You serve in the peace forces of the
world. There are those in America who
question this, but the record is clear. Our
power has always been used for build-
ing the peace, never for breaking it—for
defending freedom, never for destroying
it.
America has fought in four wars in
this century. Yet, we did not seek war; we
did not plan war; we did not begin war.
But when it came, young Americans
fought courageously.
Today, despite the terrible evidence of
this century, there are those who have
refused to learn the hard lessons of the
history of tyranny. They would tell us,
as their predecessors in other times have
told us, that the appetite for aggression
can be satisfied only if we are patient and
that the ambitions of the aggressor are
justified if only we understand them
properly.
I am never surprised to see these posi-
tions held. But I am always astonished to
see them held in the name of morality.
We know too well what follows when na-
tions try to buy peace at the expense of
428
