[202] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
202
Remarks About an Intensified Program for Drug
Abuse Prevention and Control. June 17, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
I would like to summarize for you the
meeting that I have just had with the
bipartisan leaders which began at 8
o'clock and was completed 2 hours later.
I began the meeting by making this
statement, which I think needs to be
made to the Nation:
America's public enemy number one in
the United States is drug abuse. In order
to fight and defeat this enemy, it is neces-
sary to wage a new, all-out offensive.
I have asked the Congress to provide
the legislative authority and the funds
to fuel this kind of an offensive. This will
be a worldwide offensive dealing with the
problems of sources of supply, as well as
Americans who may be stationed abroad,
wherever they are in the world. It will
be governmentwide, pulling together the
nine different fragmented areas within the
government in which this problem is now
being handled, and it will be nationwide
in terms of a new educational program
that we trust will result from the discus-
sions that we have had.
With regard to this offensive, it is neces-
sary first to have a new organization, and
the new organization will be within the
White House. Dr. Jaffe, who will be one
of the briefers here today, will be the man
directly responsible. He will report di-
rectly to me, and he will have the respon-
sibility to take all of the Government
agencies, nine, that deal with the prob-
lems of rehabilitation, in which his pri-
mary responsibilities will be research and
education, and see that they work not at
cross-purposes, but work
but work together in
dealing with the problem.
If we are going to have a successful of-
fensive, we need more money. Conse-
quently, I am asking the Congress for
$155 million in new funds, which will
bring the total amount this year in the
budget for drug abuse, both in enforce-
ment and treatment, to over $350 million.
As far as the new money is concerned,
incidentally, I have made it clear to the
leaders that if this is not enough, if more
can be used, if Dr. Jaffe, after studying
this problem, finds that we can use more,
more will be provided. In order to defeat
this enemy which is causing such great
concern, and correctly so, to so many
American families, money will be pro-
vided to the extent that it is necessary and
to the extent that it will be useful.
Finally, in order for this program to be
effective, it is necessary that it be con-
ducted on a basis in which the American
people all join in it. That is why the meet-
ing was bipartisan; bipartisan because we
needed the support of the Congress, but
bipartisan because we needed the leader-
ship of the Members of the Congress in
this field.
Fundamentally, it is essential for the
American people to be alerted to this dan-
ger, to recognize that it is a danger that
will not pass with the passing of the war
in Vietnam which has brought to our
attention the fact that a number of young
Americans have become addicts as they
serve abroad, whether in Vietnam, or
Europe, or other places. Because the prob-
lem existed before we became involved in
Vietnam; it will continue to exist after-
wards. That is why this offensive deals
with the problem there, in Europe, but
738
