Richard Nixon, 1971
May 21 [176]
country, and may it never be such a time,
because as these citations are read, all of
us as Americans, and all of us as citizens
of the world, will be proud that America
produced these people-these award win-
ners-who, through their work in the field
of science, through their work in the field
of exploring the unknown, have contri-
buted to the works of peace and a better
world for all of us.
[At this point, Dr. Edward E. David, Jr.,
Science Adviser to the President, read the cita-
tions, the texts of which follow. Fred G. Brauer
accepted the medal on behalf of his father,
Richard D. Brauer; James Wheeler accepted
the medal on behalf of his father, John A.
Wheeler; and Mrs. Saul Winstein accepted the
medal awarded posthumously to her husband.
BARBARA MCCLINTOCK-For establishing the
relations between inherited characters in
plants and the detailed shapes of their
chromosomes, and for showing that some
genes are controlled by other genes within
chromosomes.
ALBERT B. SABIN-For numerous fundamental
contributions to the understanding of
viruses and viral diseases, culminating in
the development of the vaccine which has
eliminated poliomyelitis as a major threat
to human health.
GEORGE E. MUELLER-For his many individ-
ual contributions to the design of the
Apollo system, including the planning and
interpretation of a large array of ad-
vanced experiments necessary to insure
the success of this venture into a new and
little known environment.
RICHARD D. BRAUER-For his work on con-
jectures of Dickson, Cartan, Maschke, and
Artin, his introduction of the Brauer
group, and his development of the theory
of modular representations.
ROBERT H. DICKE-For fashioning radio and
light waves into tools of extraordinary ac-
curacy and for decisive studies of cosmol-
ogy and of the nature of gravitation.
ALLAN R. SANDAGE-For bringing the very
limits of the universe within the reach of
man's awareness and unraveling the evo-
lution of stars and galaxies-their origins
and ages, distances and destinies.
JOHN C. SLATER-For wide-ranging contribu-
tions to the basic theory of atoms, mole-
cules, and matter in the solid form.
JOHN A. WHEELER-For his basic contribu
tions to our understanding of the nuclei
of atoms, exemplified by his theory of
nuclear fission, and his own work and
stimulus to others on basic questions of
gravitational and electromagnetic phe-
nomena.
SAUL WINSTEIN-In recognition of his many
innovative and perceptive contributions to
the study of mechanism in organic chemi-
cal reactions.
After the presentation of the medals by the
President, he resumed speaking as follows:]
Well, ladies and gentlemen, that con-
cludes the official ceremony, and now, at
this time, we would like to invite all of you
to join Mrs. Nixon in the State Dining
Room for coffee and other refreshments,
for those who are not on diets, and I would
like to say that I would like very much to
join you also, but the Secretary of State
and I will have to leave this meeting for
an 11:30 meeting at the State Department
which, incidentally, does involve science
to an extent.
After over 2 years of negotiations, the
INTELSAT agreement, covering 79 na-
tions with regard to communications
satellites throughout the world, is being
signed and initialed by the various nations,
so we are going there for that purpose.
So, if you will excuse us for leaving, Mrs.
Nixon will be very happy to receive you.
And we hope you enjoy this house. It be-
longs to all of you as much as it does to us.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
The National Medal of Science was estab-
lished in 1959 by act of Congress (73 Stat.
431) "to provide recognition for individuals
651
