[27] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
And he talked about the national defense
of this country and the need to keep it
strong.
When the conversation was over, and as
we left the room, I will never forget the
last words that he spoke. As I recall, this
is what he said, "I only wish I could get
down there and help.”
I think that summarizes Richard
Russell's life. He always wanted to be
wherever he could be to help, and he has
set an example for all of us as Americans
to be proud of, an example for all of us
to emulate, a selfless service to America.
We rather throw the word "great"
around rather loosely these days, and
every man who serves in the United States
Senate or the Congress is, in a sense, a
great man to have achieved that place of
honor. But when we use the word "great"
with Senator Russell, all of us who know
him, all of us who had the opportunity to
serve with him, know in our hearts that if
we had to pick one Senator that we felt
stood out above all the rest in times of
crisis, that a President could rely on, it
would be Richard Russell of Georgia.
That is why he was not just this Presi-
dent's Senator, but every President's
Senator. He is going to be missed by this
State. He is going to be missed by this
country. But he is particularly going to be
missed by Presidents of the United States
in the future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:35 p.m. at the
State Capitol.
28 Remarks of Welcome to Prince Juan Carlos of
Spain. January 26, 1971
Your Highness Prince Juan, Princess
Sophia:
I welcome you, on behalf of all the
people of the United States, very warmly
to our country and to the Nation's Capi-
tal. I welcome you not only officially but
personally.
Speaking officially for the people of the
United States, we recall the great debt we
owe to those courageous and daring Span-
ish explorers who came to the New World
so many centuries ago.
We think of the heritage we owe to
Spanish-speaking people in our Nation.
We recall the fact, for example, that right
at this time, next to English, more Ameri-
cans speak Spanish than any other lan-
guage. It is our second language.
We also think of the present, of the fact
that we are partners in defense and that we
also are partners in progress in our eco-
nomic policies, partners in progress for the
fastest growing economy of all the nations
of Europe, the economy of your country.
And we think also of the future, of the
vibrancy and the strength represented by
the
young people of your country of which
you and your Princess are such distin-
guished representatives.
And speaking personally, Mrs. Nixon
and I will never forget the welcome we
received from the people of Spain in
Madrid a few months ago.
You are welcomed just as warmly to
our country, and we hope that your few
days stay here will be as memorable for
you as our stay in your country was
memorable for us.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
Prince Juan Carlos received a formal welcome
with full military honors.
60
