[135] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
the sacrifices that have been made, not
insult them, in a way that will heal this
Nation, not tear it apart.
I can assure you tonight with confi-
dence that American involvement in this
war is coming to an end.
But can you believe this? I understand
why this question is raised by many very
honest and sincere people. Because many
times in the past in this long and difficult
war, actions have been announced from
Washington which were supposed to lead
to a reduction of American involvement
in Vietnam. And over and over these ac-
tions resulted in more Americans going
to Vietnam and more casualties in
Vietnam.
Tonight I do not ask you to take what
I say on faith. Look at the record. Look
again at this chart on my left. Every
action taken by this Administration, every
decision made, has accomplished what I
said it would accomplish. They have re-
duced American involvement. They have
drastically reduced our casualties.
In my campaign for the Presidency, I
pledged to end American involvement in
this war. I am keeping that pledge. And
I expect to be held accountable by the
American people if I fail.
I am often asked what I would like to
accomplish more than anything else while
serving as President of the United States.
And I always give the same answer: to
bring peace-peace abroad, peace at
home for America. The reason I am so
deeply committed to peace goes far be-
yond political considerations or my con-
cern about my place in history, or the
other reasons that political scientists
usually say are the motivations of
Presidents.
Every time I talk to a brave wife of an
American POW, every time I write a
letter to the mother of a boy who has
been killed in Vietnam, I become more
deeply committed to end this war, and to
end it in a way that we can build lasting
peace.
I think the hardest thing that a Presi-
dent has to do is to present posthumously
the Nation's highest honor, the Medal
of Honor, to mothers or fathers or widows
of men who have lost their lives, but in
the process have saved the lives of others.
We had an award ceremony in the East
Room of the White House just a few
weeks ago.ยน And at that ceremony I re-
member one of the recipients, Mrs. Karl
Taylor, from Pennsylvania. Her husband
was a Marine sergeant, Sergeant Karl
Taylor. He charged an enemy machine-
gun singlehanded and knocked it out. He
lost his life. But in the process the lives
of several wounded Marines in the range
of that machinegun were saved.
After I presented her the Medal, I
shook hands with their two children,
Karl, Jr.-he was 8 years old-and Kevin,
who was 4. As I was about to move to
the next recipient, Kevin suddenly stood
at attention and saluted. I found it rather
difficult to get my thoughts together for
the next presentation.
My fellow Americans, I want to end
this war in a way that is worthy of the
sacrifice of Karl Taylor, and I think he
would want me to end it in a way that
would increase the chances that Kevin
and Karl, and all those children like them
here and around the world, could grow
up in a world where none of them would
have to die in war; that would increase
1 The private ceremony took place on Feb-
ruary 16, 1971. The text of the citation of
Sergeant Taylor's posthumous award is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 7, p. 229).
526
