[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
satisfying answer. But from the stand-
point of policy, it is the right answer. Be-
cause to try to make a headline by saying
that tomorrow we are going to do this or
that or the other thing would be mis-
understood among many countries of the
world where this matter has to be dis-
cussed and also might have exactly the
reverse reaction with the Chinese.
I think the steady, ordered process that
we have engaged on now begins to bear
fruit. I will just conclude with this one
thought:
The other day was Easter Sunday. Both
of my daughters, Tricia and Julie, were
there and Tricia with Eddie Cox-I
understand they are getting married this
June-and Julie and David Eisenhower.
And the conversation got around to
travel and also, of course, with regard to
honeymoon travel and the rest. They were
asking me where would you like to go?
Where do you think we ought to go?
So, I sat back and thought a bit and
said, “Well, the place to go is to Asia.” I
said, "I hope that sometime in your life,
sooner rather than later, you will be able
to go to China to see the great cities, and
the people, and all of that, there."
I hope they do. As a matter of fact, I
hope sometime I do. I am not sure that
it is going to happen while I am in office.
I will not speculate with regard to either
of the diplomatic points. It is premature
to talk about recognition. It is premature
also to talk about a change of our policy
with regard to the United Nations.
However, we are going to proceed in
these very substantive fields of exchange of
persons and also in the field of trade. That
will open the way to other moves which
will be made at an appropriate time.
[12.] Mr. Risher.
MR. RISHER. I just want to follow
up on that if I could. Do you think that
this might lead to a resumption of the
meetings in Warsaw that were broken up
about a year ago, I think?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Risher, as
you recall, those meetings were resumed
after we came into office. That, again,
was a result of an initiative that we took.
And then they were broken off again. We
are ready to meet any time they are ready
to meet.
I cannot—I don't have any information
indicating that they want to resume them
at this time, but we certainly have the
door open. We are not pressing them,
although we would welcome them open-
ing them.
CUBA AND CHILE
[13.] Mr. Meyer.
MR. MEYER. Mr. President, in view of
the long-range attempt to normalize rela-
tions with China, and in view of the fact
that we seem to be trying to maintain nor-
mal relations with Chile in view of the
changes in that government, are we think-
ing also about long-range or short-range
normalizing our relations with Cuba?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly not short-
range. As far as long-range, until Cuba
changes its policy toward us, we are not
going to change our policy toward Cuba.
Let me distinguish, Mr. Meyer, because
coming from Miami I know you have a
big Cuban readership, and they are torn—
I mean they would like to be able to have
some communication with their friends
back in Cuba and yet they are concerned
about the government, as you well know
how strong they feel.
Chile has what is termed a Communist-
leaning government, at least. We will call
it a Marxist government. Allende is a
Marxist, with strong Communist support.
544
