[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the system will add additional pressures
to keep quality up and costs down. And
since the range within which benefits can
vary will be somewhat narrower than it
has been, competition between insurance
companies will be more likely to focus on
the overall price at which the contract
is offered. This means that insurance com-
panies will themselves have a greater
motivation to keep medical costs from
soaring.
I am still considering what further
legislative steps may be desirable for regu-
lating private health insurance, including
the introduction of sufficient disincentive
measures to reinforce the objective of
creating cost consciousness on the part of
consumers and providers. I will make such
recommendations to the Congress at a
later time.
2. I am also proposing that a new
Family Health Insurance Plan be estab-
lished to meet the special needs of poor
families who would not be covered by
the proposed National Health Insurance
Standards Act-those that are headed by
unemployed, intermittently employed or
self-employed persons.
The Medicaid program was designed to
help these people, but-for many rea-
sons-it has not accomplished its goals.
Because it is not a truly national program,
its benefits vary widely from State to State.
Sixteen States now get 80 percent of all
Medicaid money and two States, Cali-
fornia and New York, get 30 percent of
Federal funds though they have only 20
percent of the poverty population. Two
States have no Medicaid program at all.
In addition, Medicaid suffers from
other defects that now plague our failing
welfare system. It largely excludes the
working poor-which means that all ben-
efits can suddenly be cut off when family
income rises ever so slightly-from just
under the eligibility barrier to just over it.
Coverage is provided when husbands
desert their families, but is often elimi-
nated when they come back home and
work. The program thus provides an in-
centive for poor families to stay on the
welfare rolls.
Some of these problems would be cor-
rected by my proposal to require em-
ployers to offer adequate insurance cover-
age to their employees. No longer, for
example, would a workingman receive
poorer insurance coverage than a welfare
client-a condition which exists today in
many States. But we also need an addi-
tional program for much of the welfare
population.
Accordingly, I propose that the part
of Medicaid which covers most welfare
families be eliminated. The new Family
Health Insurance Plan that takes its place
would be fully financed and administered
by the Federal Government. It would
provide health insurance to all poor fam-
ilies with children headed by self-
employed or unemployed persons whose
income is below a certain level. For a
family of four persons, the eligibility ceil-
ing would be $5,000.
For the poorest of eligible families, this
program would make no charges and
would pay for basic medical costs. As
family income increased beyond a certain
level ($3,000 in the case of a four-person
family) the family itself would begin to
assume a greater share of the costs-
through a graduated schedule of premium
charges, deductibles, and coinsurance pay-
ments. This provision would induce some
cost consciousness as income rises. But
unlike Medicaid-with its abrupt cutoff
of benefits when family income reaches a
certain point-this arrangement would
184
