[199] June 1I
Public Papers of the Presidents
site selection are essentially local in na-
ture: They represent the kind of basic
choices about the future shape of a com-
munity, or of a metropolitan area, that
should be chiefly for the people of that
community or that area to determine. The
challenge of how to provide fair, open
and adequate housing is one that they
must meet; and they must live with their
success or failure.
To local officials are entrusted the ini-
tial, and often the final, determinations
as to how much low- and moderate-
income housing is to be built, how well
it is to be built, and where it is to be
built. They operate under the same anti-
discrimination strictures that apply to
Federal officials. And in terms of site selec-
tion and residential zoning-both sensi-
tive and complex matters, and yet both
central to the goal of truly open housing
in truly open communities—they operate
in an area little charted by the Supreme
Court but increasingly being navigated by
the lower courts, as land-use restrictions
come under mounting challenge on con-
stitutional grounds.
Two recent court cases suggest the
boundaries within which other courts will
be wrestling with these questions in the
months and years just ahead. In one of
these cases (James v. Valtierra), the U.S.
Supreme Court decided that, absent any
evidence of racially discriminatory intent,
a State law requiring prior approval of
low-rent housing projects by community
referendum does not, on its face, violate
the Constitution. Noting California's long
tradition of using referenda on a wide
range of issues of public policy and the
factual finding in the lower courts that
legitimate economic considerations were
involved in the referendum in question,
the court concluded that there was no
factual basis for a claim that the Cali-
fornia law was "aimed at a racial minor-
ity." On the other hand, in another case
presenting sharply contrasting circum-
stances (Kennedy Park Homes Associa-
tion v. City of Lackawanna, N.Y.), a
Circuit Court of Appeals recently held
illegal certain zoning and other municipal
restrictions used to block a subsidized low-
income housing development in an all-
white neighborhood. In that case the mu-
nicipal practices were determined to be
subterfuges and part of a pattern of ra-
cially motivated discrimination by mu-
nicipal officials; the Supreme Court
denied certiorari. In short, the one case
did not present evidence of racially dis-
criminatory intent; the other did.
If these cases define the outer limits,
they also indicate the broad range within
which cases will be pressed in the courts by
those who would seek the mandate of
judicial decree in setting aside local re-
strictions to achieve social purposes: For
example, the right of a community to im-
pose large-lot zoning, even in the absence
of any racial discrimination, has lately
been under court challenge.
If the infinitely varied individual ques-
tions that arise as our thousands of local
governments hammer out their individual
local land-use policies are not appropriate
for Federal determination-and they are
not-neither would it be wise to allow a
situation to develop in which they have to
be hammered out in the courts. But they
no doubt will end up in the courts if they
are not satisfactorily dealt with outside
the courts through timely and enlightened
local action.
This Administration will offer leader-
ship in encouraging local and State gov-
ernments and housing authorities to
address this question creatively and
734
