[397] Dec. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. Secretary, could you tell us anything
about the timetable for devaluation and any
idea of what the devaluation will be?
SECRETARY CONNALLY. No, we don't know
the timetable, again, simply because this is go-
ing to depend entirely upon the actions of the
Group of Ten and all the nations. And this is
the thing that we want to emphasize, that this
is not a two-nation affair. It is a package of
actions that have to be taken by the Group of
Ten. Trade issues have to be included. So, I
can't give you a timetable, but we are certainly
looking in the very short range for a solution.
to all these problems.
Q. One other question, Mr. Secretary. Do
you feel assured that other nations will revalue
their currencies forthwith to accommodate us?
SECRETARY CONNALLY. Well, certainly an-
ticipated in any solution to the problem is a
revaluation of some of the currencies around
the world, yes.
Following the remarks of Secretary Connally,
Secretary of State William P. Rogers spoke
as follows:
I would just like to add, ladies and gentle-
men, that I think that the conversations
between President Nixon and President Pompi-
dou were most significant and, as the President
said, I think this was a historic meeting. We
were able, during the course of 7 hours in our
discussions, to come to a better understanding
of common problems in the foreign affairs
field. We particularly discussed the very tragic
events in South Asia. We have a common posi-
tion on the European Security Conference. I
think that the planning that we are doing on
mutual and balanced force reductions all in-
dicate that the relations between France and
the United States have been greatly improved
as a result of this visit, and I think that the
President, particularly, deserves a great deal of
credit for resolving or helping to resolve these
difficult problems in the monetary, economic,
and trade field. And I think that the action
that Secretary Connally has taken to give
leadership in this field is very significant, and
I am sure that it is going to be a great help
to me in the field of foreign affairs.
Thank you.
398 Statement About the Absence of Emergency Strike
Legislation for Labor Disputes in the Transportation
Industry. December 15, 1971
NEARLY 2 years have passed since I pro-
posed to Congress a realistic solution to
emergency disputes in transportation.
In that period several rail crises and
port shutdowns have retarded economic
recovery and injured thousands of indi-
viduals who have no direct voice in the
disputes process that can so adversely af-
fect them. Workers in many industries
have been thrown out of work. Losses in
perishables have been tremendous. The
overall impact on the American people,
and especially on our farmers, has been
devastating.
The Congress itself, under pressure
from rail crises, has been forced to take
crash actions and write improvised
solutions.
Today, as Congress prepares to go into
recess, emergency strike legislation still
languishes deep in committee files.
In view of all these circumstances, I find
it imperative to call to the attention of
the Congress the fact that longshoremen
in nearly all of our ports are working only
because of Taft-Hartley injunctions, and
that these have limited duration. A re-
newed work stoppage on our west coast
is possible—and legal under present law-
as early as Christmas Day.
1192
