[29] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Although lengthy, this list does not con-
tain all the measures proposed over the
past two years which will be resubmitted
to the Congress in this session.
There are other measures-measures to
deal with strikes creating national emer-
gencies, Social Security amendments, bail
reform, aid for higher education, reform
of the draft and steps to move toward an
all-volunteer armed force, and other ini-
tiatives-which the Congress must also
consider. I will deal with these separately.
In my message on the State of the
Union, I outlined six great goals-goals
which, by their accomplishment, could
make this the greatest Congress in Amer-
ica's history as a nation.
These included one especially urgent
item of unfinished business which I pro-
posed to the 91st Congress: welfare re-
form. In fairness to the taxpayers, to the
communities, and also to the children, we
can afford to delay no longer in discard-
ing the present system and replacing it
with a new one.
In due course, I will be making more
detailed proposals to the Congress for
achieving the other goals that I outlined.
Meanwhile, I believe that the items of un-
finished business I propose today merit the
prompt and careful consideration of the
Congress. I believe they are good meas-
ures. I believe they are wise proposals. I
believe they are necessary legislation. I
urge the Congress to act favorably upon
them.
ECONOMIC JUSTICE
Two proposals being resubmitted would
promote economic justice. One would pro-
vide broader opportunities for Americans
entering into new small businesses-es-
pecially black Americans and members of
other minorities who need, but cannot ac-
quire, the seed capital to go into busi-
ness for themselves. The other would pro-
vide improved benefits for certain Amer-
ican workers.
AID TO SMALL BUSINESS
Ten months ago, several proposals were
sent to the Congress to promote the pros-
pects for success of small businesses in the
United States. They included:
-Allowing private and corporate lend-
ers an income tax deduction equal to
twenty percent of the interest earned
on Small Business Administration
guaranteed loans, which would act
as an incentive for loans to small busi-
nesses and minority enterprises;
-Providing managerial training to dis-
advantaged persons going into busi-
ness for themselves;
-Authorizing banks to become sole
sponsors of Minority Enterprise
Small Business Investment Com-
panies (MESBICs);
-Authorizing SBA to pay interest sub-
sidies on loans it guarantees, in cases
of demonstrated need;
-Liberalizing the net operating loss
carryover rules and stock option pro-
visions for qualified small businesses;
-Allowing tax deduction for contribu-
tions to nonprofit MESBICs.
Many of these amendments passed the
Senate in the 91st Congress. I urge this
Congress to give them a favorable
response.
LONGSHOREMEN'S DISABILITY
COMPENSATION
The existing minimum disability com-
pensation for longshoremen and harbor
workers was established in 1956-the
62
