Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 18 [335]
gard to a new initiative for conquest of
cancer, we needed just what this facility
had to offer.
Consequently, today we are making an
announcement that, where we have pre-
viously had scientists—some of the best
people that we could possibly find in the
United States-working on weapons of
war, we now have scientists devoting their
efforts toward saving life, rather than de-
stroying life.
So I think all Americans are very ap-
preciative of the fact that, in terms of our
conquest of cancer program, we have one
of the best facilities in the world right
here which will be used for the purpose of
making progress in that area.
I think all of us, too, are very happy
that we have here an indication of how
the genius of man, which could be used
to destroy life-that same genius can bet-
ter be used to save life.
I would finally say this: This facility,
which once was so top secret, which was
closed not only to Americans but, of
course, to anybody from foreign lands,
now is open to all people in the world.
Wherever scientists or doctors may be,
whether in Europe or Latin America or
Africa or Asia, they can come here. They
are welcome to come here to see what
we have done, just as we hope they will
welcome us, so that we can see what they
have done. And whether they come from
the Soviet Union, or perhaps later from
Mainland China, we want people from all
over the world who are working on what
is one of the great initiatives for mankind,
finding some way that we can have a
conquest of cancer, a cure for it, and a
prevention of cancer, so that scientists
from all over the world can share the
information and work together toward
that end.
I am confident that this day, therefore,
is a very significant day, significant in
terms of the people who live in this area,
and whose Senators and Congressmen
were so anxious to have us not simply say
that this is surplus, and that would mean
that the jobs that were available here,
that were caused by this facility, would be
gone; but you are also happy that this
facility is being used for a cause that helps
not only the people in this community, but
in the future may help the people of all
the United States and all of the world.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:25 a.m. at
Fort Detrick.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet describing the conversion of the
Fort Detrick facilities to cancer research.
On January 27, 1971, the White House re-
leased an announcement of the conversion of
the biological warfare facilities at Pine Bluff
Arsenal, Pine Bluff, Ark., to the National
Center for Toxicological Research. The an-
nouncement is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 123).
335 Statement About Conversion of Facilities at Fort Detrick,
Maryland, to a Center for Cancer Research.
October 18, 1971
FOR thousands of years, mankind has
dreamed of turning swords into plow-
shares and spears into pruninghooks-of
changing the implements of war into
instruments of peace. Today we mark
another chapter in the realization of that
dream as we announce that one of our
largest facilities for research on bacterio-
1051
