Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 1 [82]
Mr. President, I just want to under-
score my personal admiration for these
wonderful astronauts, and when you
talked about having them on a trip around
the world, I had that experience with Tom
Stafford and Gene Cernan.
And I just want to tell you from per-
sonal observation there has never been a
group of men who can engender the kind
of spirit in our friends around the globe
that these men can.
And I hope that as astronauts have
completed their lunar duties, and hope-
fully their Martian duties and their extra-
terrestrial duties generally in the future,
that they will all become honorary am-
bassadors to promote the interests of
global peace and the real conviction of
us in the United States that people should
learn to live together and work together,
here and everywhere that the sun shines.
THE PRESIDENT. I will give Captain
Shepard-we will find a way to make
you an admiral eventually—but anyway,
I will give him a chance to respond in a
moment. But I don't want his two fellow
astronauts to feel imposed upon, and I
am going to give them the Presidential
golf ball with the seal and signature, and
one to the Vice President. Just putt with
it, please.
CAPTAIN SHEPARD. I really have waited
for this moment to tell the truth. You
know how golfers are. They are even
worse than fishermen when it comes to
counting the number of strokes, or meas-
uring the inches or the length of the fish.
But really, I am not going to talk about
the length of the six iron shot at all. I
think that has been fairly well docu-
mented. And Ed is sworn to secrecy. So I
feel secure.
But I do want to say the real reason for
doing this was sort of a scientific experi-
ment, but being a patriot, I had the in-
terest of the country at heart and having
observed the Vice President in action on
the golf course, I thought the only way
to help him out was to experiment. And
so I did, on the moon.
I am happy to report, Mr. Vice Presi-
dent, because of the lack of atmosphere,
regardless of how badly you hit them, they
will still go straight.
THE PRESIDENT. We want to say to all
our guests that that completes the pro-
gram. We want all of you to know, too,
that the rest of this house belongs to you
for this evening.
We know that many of you will want
to renew old acquaintances in the Red
Room, in the Green Room, the Blue
Room, the State Dining Room, and out in
the Grand Hall there will be music be-
fitting the occasion.
Oh, I should point out-because at the
table it was asked-the music tonight
really covers all of the services. The
Marine Corps, which, as you know, is a
branch of the Navy, according to one
President-but, nevertheless, the Marine
Corps Orchestra, the traditional band of
the Presidents for 180 years, of course, in
the Grand Hall; the Army Chorus; and
the Air Force Strings.
And you will now hear a Marine Corps
combo in the hall. We have enjoyed hav-
ing you. We want you to get a chance to
talk to our friends, our honored guests,
the astronauts.
Tomorrow they go with their fami-
lies to Camp David for 3 days of rest.
Their wives tell me that they have only
had a half hour a day with them because
71-234-72-27
373
