[176] May 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
who make outstanding contributions in the
physical, biological, mathematical, and engi-
neering sciences." Awards are based on recom-
mendations of the President's Committee on
the National Medal of Science.
A White House announcement of the Na-
tional Medal of Science recipients for 1970 was
released on January 27, 1971, and is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 7, p. 124).
177 Remarks to the International Telecommunications
Satellite Consortium Plenipotentiary Conference.
May 21, 1971
Mr. Secretary of State, Your Excellencies,
the members of the diplomatic corps, and
ladies and gentlemen:
I am very honored to participate in this
ceremony and briefly to have the oppor-
tunity, first, to express appreciation to all
of those who have worked for 27 months
on this project, and to add to the con-
gratulations that you have just received
from the Secretary of State for the cul-
mination of 27 months of work.
Seventy-nine nations¹ have agreed to
the document, which I understand will
be initialed finally by the representatives
of those nations at a later time. For 79
nations to agree on anything is a major
accomplishment. For 79 nations to agree
in an area that is new-new in terms of a
scientific breakthrough, new in terms of
not being as predictable as most of those
things that we negotiate about-for that
kind of an agreement to be worked out is
an enormous tribute to the men and
women who represented their countries
and other organizations in negotiating the
agreement.
Also, it should be pointed out that I
have been here in the State Department
Auditorium on several occasions for par-
ticipating in treaties and other signing
¹ Of the 79 member states, the vote was: 73
approved, o opposed, 4 abstained, I absent, I
not registered at the Conference.
ceremonies. This one is particularly
unique because not only have 79 govern-
ments agreed to it; in addition to that, at
the operating level, as I understand it, a
document has been agreed to that will
affect all of the operating agencies in the
various nations. Those agencies are not all
the same. They take a different form; for
example, Comsat in the United States,
and others in other countries. They are
not the same in each country.
To bring the basically commercial op-
erating agencies—although many of them
are government entities-to bring them
together in an agreement at the same time
that the governments agree is indeed an
historic and unique accomplishment, and
is an indication of what can happen in
the future in these exciting areas where
breakthroughs are occurring.
I say these things because I know that
when you have met here and in other
places, you probably wonder why it is that
INTELSAT doesn't make the headlines.
It is not always on the first page; some-
times it is not even in the paper at all
when you have an important meeting.
I can simply say that those of us at the
highest levels of government in all coun-
tries know how important your work is.
We realize that this is a very unique and
vital breakthrough in communications be-
tween nations and among nations, as well
652
