[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
good examples of how efforts of many
nations can be focused and coordinated
in addressing serious environmental prob-
lems facing all nations.
The United Nations, whose specialized
agencies have long done valuable work on
many aspects of the environment, is spon-
soring a landmark Conference on the
Human Environment to be held in
Stockholm in June 1972. This will, for
the first time, bring together all member
nations of the world community to discuss
those environmental issues of most press-
ing common concern and to agree on a
world-wide strategy and the basis for a
cooperative program to reverse the fearful
trend toward environmental degradation.
I have pledged full support for this Con-
ference, and the United States is actively
participating in the preparatory work.
Direct bilateral consultations in this
field are also most useful in jointly meet-
ing the challenges of environmental prob-
lems. Thus, the United States and Canada
have been working closely together pre-
paring plans for action directed to the
urgent task of cleaning up the Great
Lakes, that priceless resource our two na-
tions share. Over the past few months,
ministerial level discussions with Japan
have laid the basis for an expanded pro-
gram of cooperation and technological
exchange from which both nations will
benefit.
It is my intention that we will develop
a firm and effective fabric of cooperation
among the nations of the world on these
environmental issues.
WORLD HERITAGE TRUST
As the United States approaches the
centennial celebration in 1972 of the
establishment of Yellowstone National
Park, it would be appropriate to mark
this historic event by a new international
initiative in the general field of parks.
Yellowstone is the first national park to
have been created in the modern world,
and the national park concept has repre-
sented a major contribution to world
culture. Similar systems have now been
established throughout the world. The
United Nations lists over 1,200 parks in
93 nations.
The national park concept is based
upon the recognition that certain areas of
natural, historical, or cultural significance
have such unique and outstanding char-
acteristics that they must be treated as
belonging to the nation as a whole, as
part of the nation's heritage.
It would be fitting by 1972 for the na-
tions of the world to agree to the principle
that there are certain areas of such unique
worldwide value that they should be
treated as part of the heritage of all man-
kind and accorded special recognition as
part of a World Heritage Trust. Such an
arrangement would impose no limitations
on the sovereignty of those nations which
choose to participate, but would extend
special international recognition to the
areas which qualify and would make
available technical and other assistance
where appropriate to assist in their pro-
tection and management. I believe that
such an initiative can add a new dimen-
sion to international cooperation.
-I am directing the Secretary of the
Interior, in coordination with the
Council on Environmental Qual-
ity, and under the foreign policy
guidance of the Secretary of State,
to develop initiatives for presentation
in appropriate international forums
to further the objective of a World
Heritage Trust.
140
