Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
-logistic and air support for Lao forces
when requested by the government.
Within this framework we have main-
tained our military aid and air operations
during the past year in response to in-
creased North Vietnamese levels of in-
filtration and aggression.
Southern Laos became critical for
Hanoi after the allied Cambodian oper-
ations deprived it of the port of Sihanouk-
ville and the border sanctuaries. They
swelled their forces in the area by more
than 25,000, captured the towns of Sara-
vane and Attopeu, and intensively built
up their supplies and their logistics net-
work. Whereas for years southern Laos
had been central to Hanoi's operations in
northern South Vietnam, at the end of
1970 it was becoming the hub and cross-
roads of Hanoi's campaigns throughout
Indochina. Almost all of its men and sup-
plies were now flowing through this area.
The strategic principles that applied to
the enemy's bases in Cambodia were valid
as well for southern Laos. Hanoi deepened
the area's part in the Vietnam war, with
direct implications for Vietnamization
and our withdrawals.
The Prospects
We do not underestimate the difficulties
ahead for Laos and Cambodia. Hanoi
has intensified the war on these fronts and
its focus is likely to remain there in the
coming months.
The Lao government has already dem-
onstrated determination to preserve its
independence in the face of overt aggres-
sion, diplomatically if possible, militarily
if necessary. The Cambodians also have
the essential ingredients for success-na-
tional unity, maximum self-help, and the
support of friends. The country's small,
unprepared army is gaining both in size
and ability, and the spirit of its people
continues to inspire all observers. We can
expect major testing of Cambodia over
the coming months, but we believe that
time is on its side.
Our future policy in Laos and Cam-
bodia will follow the lines we have estab-
lished. We face some very serious
problems:
-At the conference table. Even if
Hanoi were to negotiate genuinely
about Vietnam, difficult issues re-
main concerning its neighbors: the
removal of North Vietnamese and
Viet Cong troops, the securing of
South Vietnam's borders, and the
reestablishment of the Geneva
Agreements.
-On the battlefield. Enemy intentions
and capabilities in Indochina will
pose some hard choices about the
deployment of allied troops as we
pursue our own withdrawals. While
North Vietnamese activities have
subsided in South Vietnam, some of
their 60,000 troops massed in south-
ern Laos could move into South Viet-
nam, or into Cambodia, or against
northern Laos. In Cambodia we can
expect sustained enemy thrusts
against the government.
-In the United States. We will have
the continuing responsibility of ex-
plaining the purpose and extent of
our activities in Laos and Cambodia.
North Vietnamese actions could re-
quire high levels of American assist-
ance and air operations in order to
further Vietnamization and our
withdrawals.
I will continue to do what is necessary
to protect American men as they leave
267
