Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 19 [67]
67 Remarks at a Reception for the President's Council
and the Conference on Physical Fitness and
Sports. February 19, 1971
MRS. NIXON and I are delighted to
welcome this very distinguished company
to the East Room of the White House.
We understand that some of our guests
could not be here for very good reasons.
Spring training for baseball rules out some
of the baseball celebrities and sports fig-
ures and some of those on the golf tour-
I understand everybody over 40 has a new
lease on life as a result of what happened
in Hawaii the other day-could not be
here.
But if I could be allowed just a few
moments to impose on your time, before
Mrs. Nixon and I have the privilege of
meeting you each personally, to reminisce
a bit about physical fitness; how this pro-
gram really began; how it has grown;
what it means, and what it means par-
ticularly in terms of the health message
that I sent to the Congress yesterday
dealing with the medical profession's con-
tribution to health and how we get better
health care for all Americans.
In 1956, President Eisenhower called
me into his office. You may recall this was
the year after he had his heart attack. He
had just read a very disturbing article
with regard to the health of young Ameri-
cans of high school age as compared with
young people in Japan and European
countries. And he said that it was essential
that we develop a physical fitness pro-
gram, one in which our young people
would be more interested in physical fit-
ness, more interested in it-recognize its
importance to raise the standards.
I, as Vice President, was given the
assignment of attempting to put some
emphasis on this program. During the
period that I was Vice President we made
some progress in creating interest on the
program.
Then, in the years after that, when Bud
Wilkinson was here, brought here by
President Kennedy, the program got ad-
ditional impetus and was extended not
just to those in high school, in college, the
younger generation, but to some of us
older people, too.
And as a result of that program, people
around the country, I think, have been
made aware of the importance of physical
fitness and what an individual can do
about his health that will possibly not
make it necessary for him to go to a doc-
tor. And so much can be done, if we do
take care of ourselves properly.
This meeting today with Jim Lovell,
who is--what an example of fine health!
Look at that weight and all that sort of
thing. We are going to send him on the
first mission to Mars-but this meeting
today, frankly, gives us an opportunity to
point up the fact that here are some of
the great examples of people who have
been successful in the field of sports and
physical fitness, because what you do has
an enormous effect on young people across
the country and on older people as well.
Let's face it. This is a sports-minded
country. That isn't bad. It has a lot to do
with the spirit of a country, the fact that
people are interested in how a golf match
or a football game or a baseball game or,
for that matter, a tennis game, any kind
of sport that you might figure that people
who may not participate, who will never
193
