Richard Nixon, 1971
June 11 [199]
couraging that many communities are
meeting this challenge, and meeting it
successfully.
THE LAW
THE FEDERAL ROLE
The Federal Government's responsibili-
ties for eliminating racial discrimination
in housing derive partly from the Consti-
tution, partly from the Government's own
extensive involvement in housing and
community development programs, and
partly from a number of statutes and
Executive orders.
The broad outlines of the law are con-
tained in our Constitution, which in its
5th, 13th, and 14th amendments guaran-
tees basic civil rights, including the right
to seek shelter free from any racial dis-
crimination fostered by Federal, State, or
local governments.
Executive Order 11063, issued in 1962,
expressly states that housing discrimina-
tion and segregation prevent the Nation
from attaining the housing goals declared
by the 1949 Housing Act. It further di-
rects all Federal departments and agen-
cies "to take all action necessary and
appropriate to prevent discrimination” as
to race, color, religion, or national origin
in federally assisted housing and related
projects.
Congress followed up this initiative 2
years later with the Civil Rights Act of
1964. A critical provision of that law,
Title VI, provides that no person shall,
"on the ground of race, color, or national
origin, be excluded from participation in,
be denied the benefits of, or be subjected
to discrimination under any program or
activity receiving Federal financial as-
sistance." As a penalty for such discrimi-
nation, it provides for a cutoff of Federal
funds to the program in which the dis-
crimination occurs. The clear intent of the
Congress in enacting this legislation was
to insure that no program utilizing Fed-
eral financial aid should be tainted by
racial or ethnic discrimination. A careful
review of the legislative history indicates
that the Congress intended that the cut-
off of Federal funds resulting from a vio-
lation should apply only to the particular
activity in which the unlawful racial dis-
crimination took place, and not to all ac-
tivities undertaken by the violator.
In the Civil Rights Act of 1968, the
Congress declared that "It is the policy
of the United States to provide, within
constitutional limitations, for fair housing
throughout the United States."
Title VIII of the 1968 act goes beyond
the previous statutes (which in terms of
housing, had dealt only with that which
was federally assisted) to prohibit dis-
crimination on account of race, color,
religion, or national origin in most pri-
vate real estate actions, whether sale or
rental and regardless of whether Federal
assistance is involved or not. In addition,
this title also makes it the responsibility
of "all executive departments and agen-
cies" and the specific responsibility of the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to "administer their programs and
activities relating to housing and urban de-
velopment in a manner affirmatively to
further the purposes of this title."
ANTIDISCRIMINATION ENFORCEMENT
The provisions of the law aimed at bar-
ring racial discrimination in housing are
administered primarily by the Depart-
ments of Justice and of Housing and Ur-
ban Development.
HUD's role under Title VI in the 1964
act is to guard against racial discrimina-
71-234-72- -49
725
