Richard Nixon, 1971
July 29 [241]
241 Statement Announcing Participation of 20
Cities in the New Planned Variation Program.
July 29, 1971
TODAY I am announcing the selection of
20 cities to participate in Planned Varia-
tion-an intensive effort to demonstrate
what local government can accomplish in
solving urban problems when given
greater freedom from Federal regulations.
The cities are:
1. Butte, Mont.
2. Dayton, Ohio
3. Des Moines, Iowa
4. East St. Louis, Ill.
5. Erie, Pa.
6. Fresno, Calif.
7. Indianapolis, Ind.
8. Lansing, Mich.
9. Newark, N.J.
10. Norfolk, Va.
II. Paterson, N.J.
12. Seattle, Wash.
13. Tampa, Fla.
14. Tucson, Ariz.
15. Winston-Salem, N.C.
16. Waco, Tex.
17. Houston, Tex.
18. Rochester, N.Y.
19. San Jose, Calif.
20. Wilmington, Del.
In my March 5, 1971, message to the
Congress proposing a system of special
revenue sharing for urban community de-
velopment, I noted that too often State
and local officials are hemmed in and re-
stricted by the burdensome requirements
and regulations of Federal grant-in-aid
programs. They are sometimes treated like
children, given an allowance, told pre-
cisely how to spend it, and then scolded for
not being self-reliant enough to handle
more responsibility. I am firmly convinced
that the way to develop greater respon-
sibility at the State and local level is to
give greater responsibility to State and
local officials. The Administration has de-
veloped the new Planned Variation pro-
gram as a way to convert a portion of
present Model Cities grants into a test of
what can be accomplished under the reve-
nue sharing approach to intergovern-
mental relations.
The basic purpose of Planned Variation
is substantially to improve the operation of
the Federal grant system under existing
legislation. The Administration's revenue
sharing proposals, now pending before the
Congress, would accomplish needed basic
changes in this system. While these pro-
posals are under consideration, however,
we are continuing to make improvements,
reducing delays and redtape in the present
system. Along with these efforts we are
endeavoring to reduce the extent to which
Federal officials are in a position to "sec-
ond-guess" the decisions and priorities of
local elected officials.
The Planned Variation program con-
sists of three central features:
First, all 20 cities will receive funds to
build up the planning and management
capacity of the local chief executive. These
funds will strengthen the chief executive
in his role of managing local government.
They will be used-with the help of local
citizen advisory groups-to identify the
priority needs of the community and to
develop a local comprehensive plan, which
includes a strategy for resource allocations
to meet priority needs and which assures
that both Federal and local funds are used
831
