[261] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
I just want to say this one thing with
regard to this State, what this State means
to us and what also it means to the Nation.
First, to us, like millions of Americans-
and we come from clear across in Cali-
fornia-it is a great vacation State. And I
am glad we can spend a weekend here on
Minot Island. I am going to try that
water. They say it is cold, but no colder
than California water.
Second, it is also a State with the great
political tradition. And I would say this—
I speak as a Republican-I would say this
in behalf of both Republicans and Demo-
crats: Maine can be proud of the fact
that in the Senate, in the Congress, at the
national level, it has produced not just
Senators and Congressmen who repre-
sented Maine, and their parties but Sena-
tors and Congressmen who had a national
reputation. I will name two, and just to
put it in the proper order, first the senior
Senator, of course, from Maine, Margaret
Chase Smith. I am very proud of her.
Then, of course, Maine can be very proud
of the Democratic nominee for Vice
President in the year 1968, and a man
who might be the nominee, they say, for
something in 1972, Ed Muskie.
Now, having gotten the bipartisan thing
in, I will not say something partisan, but
let me say something that I think we all
believe. When we first came to Maine it
was at the beginning of World War II,
and since then we have had three wars:
World War II, Korea, and then Vietnam.
I see representatives of the VFW here.
I see representatives of the American
Legion. We have, of course, a National
Guard band. That reminds us of what our
men have been through and how much
they have sacrificed.
Then through the years, as I have
returned, whether we are Democrats or
Republicans, and whatever our differ-
ences about what foreign policy should
be, I think we can say this: We can be
proud of the fact that the United States
of America as a nation, wherever we have
fought in wars, we have never fought to
destroy freedom; we have fought to help
others keep their freedom. We have never
fought to break the peace; we have fought
to keep the peace. We are a peaceful
nation. We want peace, and we are going
to get it. We are going to have peace for
America in this generation and the years
ahead. That is why I can report to you
that we are ending the war in which we
have been engaged. It will come to an
end, and it will come to an end in a way
that will contribute to a lasting peace.
Beyond that, I will be taking a jour-
ney-a long journey in a few months. The
purpose of that journey really is not about
our generation, the generation repre-
sented by the Governor and the Congress-
man and the rest. But it is really about this
generation. I see them here, the young.
What are they going to have 25 years from
now? Are they going to look back, as we
do, on three wars in one generation or are
they going to look back on a generation
of peace?
Let me tell you: We cannot have a
generation of peace unless this is a world
in which nations that might be antago-
nists have a chance to know each other, to
talk to each other. It doesn't mean we will
always agree. But it is essential that the
United States of America, the most
powerful nation in the world, have com-
munication with other nations in the
world that might threaten the peace of
the world. Let us keep our strength; but
from that position of strength, let us nego-
tiate with other nations so that we can
see to it that this young generation will
884
