[183] May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
again, 1931, the depths of the depression,
people were just thinking, "How do we
get a job? How do we make a living?"
And here is a lady talking about the arts
and how important it was.
She told of an experience that she had
had when she was in her teens, about our
age. Her father, apparently, was a man
not very, very wealthy, but relatively well
to do. He took his family, a fairly large
family, on a steamer to Europe.
They went over second class. All the
way over, the children, the teenagers par-
ticularly-there were three or four of
them-heard the music of the orchestra
on first class, and they talked to their fa-
ther and said, "Couldn't we come back
first class?"
They went to Europe, they traveled
through Europe, and she said they had a
very exciting experience. But just before
traveling to Cherbourg for the boat that
was to bring them back-or the steamer-
she said that they went through, in Paris,
a very interesting gallery where paintings
were for sale.
Her father and mother fell in love with
a particular painting. The children also
saw the painting, and they liked it very,
very much. They wanted to buy the
painting.
It cost, for them, a great deal of money.
Then the father thought about whether
or not he should make the purchase, and
they had a family conference.
In the family conference, he said, quite
frankly, to the whole family, "We really
can't afford the painting. But, if we could
go back second class, we could do so. So
I will let you decide. We will go back
first class, which I have already promised
you, or we will buy the painting and go
back second class."
They voted. It was unanimous. They
bought the painting. They went back sec-
ond class. And she said to us, "We have
never regretted it.”
So that brought home to me, as it
brought home, I am sure, to the 300
in that convocation, the meaning-the
meaning which all of you sense in this
audience and all of you with whom you
work also sense, and what you live for,
the meaning of understanding what art
can mean, even in a period when we have
difficulties in economics, when we are
thinking of the material considerations
and the rest.
It is that particular lesson, I think, that
this group can most effectively bring home
to the people of America, not just those
in the higher income brackets-all of
them for fashion may want to be with you,
some of them because they deeply believe,
as you believe-but to open for those who
otherwise, like those children in Watts,
would never have any experience except
simply grubbing along to make enough to
live on, to make enough to have a house
to live in, to have enough food. They
could have an experience which raised the
level of their lives far above what it other-
wise would be.
So when I reflect on the importance of
the arts in America, I also think in per-
sonal terms of the magnificent perform-
ances that we have been privileged to hear
at state dinners and at our "Evenings at
the White House," where so many gifted
artists have helped us present some of the
best in American music and other per-
forming arts.
And I also think of a January evening
a year ago. I went to Philadelphia to hear
the Philadelphia Orchestra-it celebrated
its 70th birthday-and on that occasion
to present the Medal of Freedom to its
conductor, Eugene Ormandy.
680
