[129] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
million more in non-public schools. There
are more than 117,000 schools and nearly
18,000 public school districts, each with
its own unique conditions and each with
its own problems.
Federal expenditures for elementary
and secondary schooling over the past
decade are projected to increase from
$0.9 billion in fiscal year 1961 to $5.5 bil-
lion in fiscal year 1972. Yet there are seri-
ous problems with the way in which this
aid is provided.
THE PRESENT SYSTEM
Under the present piecemeal system of
Federal aid, education grants are avail-
able to local schools under 38 separate
authorizations for "instruction," 37 sep-
arate authorizations for low-income stu-
dents, and 22 separate authorizations for
reading instruction. The confusion is so
great that some school districts have had
to hire separate staffs charged solely with
cutting through the maze of applications,
guidelines, regulations and reporting re-
quirements which are an intrinsic part of
the present grant system.
There are other problems:
-The time, energy and imagination
needed to bring educational reform
is frequently drained off into what
is an essentially non-productive effort
to qualify for Government grants.
Yet, at the same time, rigid qualifica-
tions for grants frequently stifle crea-
tive initiative. In the end, a system
which ought to promote innovation
instead discourages it. And because
Federal programs are resistant to
change, we see money being spent on
programs which may have outlived
their usefulness, or that simply are in-
effective, while funds for new ideas
cannot be obtained.
-Educational planning is made diffi-
cult because of the fragmentation of
grants. Under the present system, a
community must make a series of
separate applications to a series of
Federal officials. There is no assur-
ance that every proposal will be
funded, or that any proposal will
be funded. Consequently, the pres-
ent fragmented procedures virtually
eliminate any possibility of prepar-
ing a comprehensive, coordinated
program.
-There is little accountability under
the present system; if a program fails
it is difficult to assess responsibility.
Although it is the common response
to blame Washington if something
does not function according to design,
such an exercise is usually futile given
the cumbersome nature of the Fed-
eral bureaucracy.
-There is little flexibility in the present
system. Individual grants are often
too narrowly defined and designed to
achieve the things Washington wants,
while at the same time allowing little
latitude to meet individual com-
munity needs.
-There has been little useful evalua-
tion of how Federal aid programs
under the present system help chil-
dren learn more effectively, or of
how they provide the children with
equal educational opportunities. The
diversity of the country and the large
number and great variety of Federal
aid programs have made it impossible
for those at the Federal level to meas-
ure the success or failure of their ef-
forts, and so we resort to judging
502
