Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 11 [94]
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. at
the Williamsburg Conference Center.
In his opening words, the President re-
ferred to Senator Harry F. Byrd, Jr., of
Virginia.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
94
The Conference, called at the President's
request and the first of its kind, took place
March 11-14, 1971. It was organized and
sponsored by 14 related organizations, includ-
ing the American Bar Association, the Ameri-
can Judicature Society, and the Law Enforce-
ment Assistance Administration.
Statement About Textile Imports From Japan.
March 11, 1971
FOR 2 years, this Administration has
attempted to negotiate a voluntary agree-
ment with the Government of Japan cur-
tailing the excessive wool and manmade
fiber textile imports from Japan. The
United States has sought to be as flexible
as possible concerning the details of an
agreement, while consistently adhering to
certain basic principles which we consider
essential to any agreement designed to
curb these excessive imports. These prin-
ciples are reflected in the following terms
which have been presented to the Japa-
nese Ambassador by the U.S. negotiator in
meetings through January of this year:
-A limited number of categories of
particularly sensitive products, cover-
ing about one-half of those imports,
would be assigned specific import
ceilings. The ceilings would be based
upon imports from Japan in 1969
plus a reasonable growth factor.
Shifting of imports among these cate-
gories would be permitted so as to
reflect changing conditions in the
U.S. market, subject to limitations to
avoid excessive concentration in any
of these sensitive categories.
-If imports from Japan of any other
category exceed the 1970 import level
plus a more liberal growth factor, the
United States could request consulta-
tion with Japan and impose specific
limitations if a mutually satisfactory
solution was not reached.
On Monday, following discussions be-
tween its Washington representative and
the chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, the Japan Textile Fed-
eration announced that the Japanese tex-
tile industry is undertaking a unilateral
program to limit future exports of textile
products to the United States. At the same
time, the Government of Japan issued a
public statement endorsing this unortho-
dox action by a private Japanese group
and terminating its negotiations with the
United States Government. On its face,
this unilateral program falls short of the
terms essential to the United States in the
following significant respects:
-Only one overall ceiling for all cotton,
wool, and manmade fiber fabric and
apparel textiles is provided, with
only a general undertaking by the
Japanese industry "to prevent undue
distortions of the present pattern of
trade." This allows concentration on
specific categories, which could result
in these categories growing many
times faster than the overall limits.
-The overall ceiling would be based
on imports from Japan in the year
ending March 31, 1971, plus a
growth factor. During the 2 years that
we have been negotiating with the
423
