Richard Nixon, 1971
July 6 [222]
found ourselves in immediately after
World War II, has a challenge such as we
did not even dream of. Then we were
talking about the dollar gap; then we
were talking about the necessity of-put-
ting it in terms of a poker game-that the
United States had all the chips and we
had to spread a few of the chips around
so that others could play.
We did it. One hundred billion dollars
worth to Western Europe, for example,
to rebuild them, and billions of others to
other countries, and it was the correct pol-
icy as it turned out. But now when we see
the world in which we are about to move,
the United States no longer is in the posi-
tion of complete preeminence or pre-
dominance. That is not a bad thing. As a
matter of fact, it can be a constructive
thing. The United States, let us under-
stand, is still the strongest nation in the
world; it is still the richest nation in the
world. But now we face a situation where
four other potential economic powers
have the capacity, have the kind of
people-if not the kind of government,
but at least the kind of people-who can
challenge us on every front.
That brings us back home, and it brings
us back home for a hard look at what
America needs to do if we are going to
run this race economically and run it ef-
fectively and maintain the position of
world leadership, a position that can only
be maintained if the United States retains
its preeminent position in the economic
field.
I could sum it up briefly this way:
First, in personal terms, we need a
healthy people. Mr. Richardson has, of
course, directed his comments to the need
for programs that will make us a more
healthy people in a very physical sense.
We need a healthy environment. And
Mr. Ruckelshaus has directed his remarks
to the need for programs that will make
the environment in this country more
healthy.
We need, also, a healthy economy. Mr.
Stein has been talking about the econ-
omy, and I think it is only relevant to
mention the fact that in terms of the
economy that we have a situation here
that at the moment, again, obscures our
vision because of temporary problems
which will change once the problems
move along. For example, when we con-
sider the problem of unemployment, it
must be noted that if the 1,200,000 who
have been let out of defense plants and
out of the Armed Forces since this Ad-
ministration came in were still in the
Armed Forces and in Vietnam and in
defense plants, unemployment would be
less than 5 percent today. But the cost
would be too high. What we want is high
employment, and full employment to the
extent that we can get full employment,
but without the cost of war. And we can
have it. That is what our policy is directed
to achieve.
When we speak of a healthy economy,
we are also speaking, as Mr. Stein men-
tioned-I heard his answer to that last
question-of an economy in which the
fires of inflation have been cooled. We
are moving on that. We have made some
progress, not enough, but we have made
some.
At this particular point, it is essential
that whether it is in having to make the
hard decision to veto a public works bill
which would not speak to the problem
of unemployment now, but would enor-
mously escalate the problem of inflation
a year from now, and 2 years and 3 years
and 4 years from now, or whether it is
in speaking to the leaders of labor and
807
