Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 5 [89]
are allowed to fall into disrepair. Residents
and businesses move away and no one
moves in to replace them. As the quality
of life declines in one area, surrounding
neighborhoods-which have not been
marked for renewal-can also be ad-
versely affected. Thus a program which
was set up to cure a problem, can actually
work to make that problem worse, par-
ticularly for the poorer residents of the
neighborhood who are often unable to
receive relocation assistance until the
project actually begins.
"Planner's blight" is one dramatic re-
sult of Federal red tape. But there are
many other costs as well. Instead of focus-
ing their time and their resources and
their talents on meeting local needs, city
officials must concentrate on pleasing
Washington. They must learn to play a
terrible game called "grantsmanship,” in
which the winners are those who under-
stand the rules and intricacies of the Fed-
eral bureaucracy rather than those who
understand the problem that needs to be
solved. Many local governments now feel
they must hire experts who have spe-
cialized in grantsmanship to carry on their
dealings with Washington. Additional
distortions in local efforts occur when local
resources are diverted from higher priority
programs in order to provide the match-
ing funds which are needed to qualify for
many Federal grants.
Deprived of the freedom and the tools
to undertake broad programs of renewal
and development in their jurisdictions,
local officials grow more and more frus-
trated. And so do local voters who too
often find that the official who is most
accessible to them can escape from their
complaints by saying, "We had to do it
this way to qualify for Federal money."
TWO TRAPS TO AVOID
Clearly we can do better than this-
indeed, we must do better if our cities.
are to be revived. But our search for a bet-
ter answer will never be successful unless
we avoid two temptations which have
trapped us in the past.
The first is the temptation to try to force
progress with money. If only we appro-
priate more funds, we are often told, then
everything will be all right. How long will
it take us to learn the danger of such
thinking? More money will never com-
pensate for ineffective programs. The
question we must ask is not "how much?"
but "how?" and the answer to that
question lies not in the quantity of our
resources, but in the quality of our
thinking.
The second trap we must avoid is that
of confusing national interest with Fed-
eral control. We have too easily assumed
that because the Federal Government has
a stake in meeting a certain problem and
because it wants to play a role in attack-
ing that problem, it therefore must direct
all the details of the attack. The genius of
the Federal system is that it offers a way
of combining local energy and local
adaptability with national resources and
national goals. We should take full ad-
vantage of that capacity as we address the
urban challenge.
HOW THE NEW PROGRAM WOULD
OPERATE
The $5 billion program for General
Revenue Sharing which I proposed to the
Congress on February 4th was designed
to give greater resources to hard-pressed
States and localities. But a lack of re-
399
