[240] July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
who have reached high ranks, labeled,
certain favorite terms apply. One will be
called "Mr. Republican." Another may be
called "Mr. Democrat." And somebody
will be called "Mr. Conservative." Some-
one else will be called "Mr. Liberal." The
main thing is to be sure you call them the
same thing at the right time and the right
place.
So, the real question then, and that is
what it seems to me that the unveiling of
these portraits brings to mind, is: What
would one call the chairman of the Ap-
propriations Committee or the ranking
member of the Appropriations Commit-
tee? I would not call him "Mr. Republi-
can" or "Mr. Democrat." I know that
both George Mahon and Frank Bow will
speak up to any President, Democrat or
Republican; that they speak up to any
partisan, Republican or Democrat; that
they look upon their role as being bigger
than party, as big as all of America itself,
because they represent all of the American
people.
No, I would not call the chairman of
this committee or his colleague, the rank-
ing member, "Mr. Republican," "Mr.
Democrat," "Mr. Liberal," or "Mr. Con-
servative." I would call him "Mr. Respon-
sible." Responsibility may not be popular
always, but it is enormously necessary,
ab-
solutely indispensable for the future of this
country.
So, this gives me an opportunity to ex-
press on behalf of all the American people
our thanks to the people through the years
that have served on this committee; that
have kept us on a steady course; that have
seen to it that those things that should
not be funded are not funded, to see to it
that money that should not be wasted is
not wasted, and to see to it that our policy,
whether it is under a Democratic or a
Republican President, to the greatest ex-
tent possible will be one that will not raise
the taxes of the people unless the people
are in a position where they want them
raised—and they usually don't-and will
see to it that our policy will not have the
effect of raising their prices by reducing
the value of their money.
I would simply close this by saying that
I remember only two things that have
not been mentioned up to this point
about the descriptions of John Taber and
Clarence Cannon. When John Taber in
the 80th Congress was cutting budgets,
they said he was "Taberizing" the budget,
and Clarence Cannon "Cannonized" the
budget after that.
I would say in tribute to George Mahon
and to Frank Bow that they are trying to
bring the budget back to earth again.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. in
National Statuary Hall at the Capitol.
Representative John W. McCormack was
Speaker of the House 1962-70.
Representative Clarence H. Cannon of Mis-
souri served in the House from 1923 until his
death in 1964. He was a member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations for 35 years and was
chairman 1941-46, 1949-52, and 1955-64.
The late Representative John Taber of New
York served in the House from 1923 to 1963.
A member of the Committee on Appropria-
tions for 40 years, he was chairman 1947-48
and 1953-54.
830
