[383] Dec. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
the happiness of the great American Nation
which was born and which has been prospering
under the aegis of freedom.
On December 9, 1971, at the conclusion of
President Médici's meetings with President
Nixon, an agreed-upon statement was read by
Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler at his regular
news briefing. The agreed-upon statement read
as follows:
The visit of President Médici to Washington
provided an excellent opportunity for conver-
sations in depth between the Heads of State of
two of the largest and most populous nations
on the Western Hemisphere. Talks between
President Médici and President Nixon were
conducted in an atmosphere of warm friend-
ship, and both agreed that recent world devel-
opments made their frank exchanges most
timely and mutually profitable.
Their discussions covering the broad aspects
of the international situation were particularly
significant and timely in the light of President
Nixon's upcoming meetings with other world
leaders.
There was an exchange of evaluations and
views on many of the issues of world signifi-
cance affecting, as they do, the interests of
both nations. They reviewed action taken and
contemplated to bring greater order to the
international monetary system to further in-
ternational trade and development.
The two Presidents consulted closely on im-
portant hemispheric issues, recognizing the need
for continuing and intensified cooperation
among the nations of the region with respect to
economic and social development, as well as
their common security interest. They agreed
that the primary goal of an era of peace
and prosperity for the region can be achieved
only by cooperation which in turn must be
founded on the principles of freedom and
self-determination.
The Presidents extensively reviewed rela-
tions between the United States and Brazil.
Bilateral relationships embracing all facets, in-
cluding common security interests, and politi-
cal, economic, military, scientific and cultural
matters were discussed in the spirit of the tradi-
tionally close and friendly ties between the two
countries.
The meetings provided an excellent basis for
continued and intensified cooperation between
the two nations over a wide range of matters
which both Presidents considered of primary
importance.
The two Presidents also discussed the im-
pressive economic progress made by Brazil un-
der the leadership of President Médici, progress
which has marked Brazil as one of the most
rapidly developing nations of the world.
The conversations were particularly marked
by the two Presidents' mutual grasp and under-
standing of problems and issues facing both
nations. Their talks provided not only an op-
portunity for a review of past and present rela-
tions, but importantly established a firm basis
for continuing consultations in the future of
world, hemispheric, and bilateral problems of
mutual concern.
384 Special Message to the Congress on a Pension
Reform Program. December 8, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Self-reliance, prudence and independ-
ence are qualities which our Government
should work to encourage among our peo-
ple. These are also the qualities which are
involved when a person chooses to invest
in a retirement savings plan, setting aside
money today so that he will have greater
security tomorrow. In this respect, pension
plans are a direct expression of some of
the finest elements in the American char-
acter. Public policy should be designed to
reward and reinforce these qualities.
The achievements of our private pen-
sion plans are a tribute to the coopera-
tion and creativeness of American labor
and management. Over 4 million retired
workers are now receiving benefits from
1168
