Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 8 [326]
for the first time since we had 50 States, a
President of the United States has visited
every one of the States of the Union. West
Virginia is number 50.
When Governor Arch Moore came to
talk to me about coming here, he, along
with Congressman Staggers and the two
Senators were also speaking on that sub-
ject, I reminded him that it would be the
50th State. He said, "We don't mind your
coming to West Virginia as the 50th State,
but remember, we are not the 50th State;
we are the first State in this country."
It is that kind of State pride, that kind
of competitive spirit, that has made this
country great, that makes this State great,
that makes the people of these hills and
these mountains have the character and
the strength that you have had from the
time you were a State.
I want you to know that in all of my
travels to 50 States, I have seen many
beautiful days, many great crowds, but I
can say without fear of contradiction-
and all the members of the press, of the
White House corps who are traveling with
me, will agree- that never in any one of
the 50 States have we seen a more beau-
tiful day, a more beautiful court, or more
beautiful country than we have here in
West Virginia today.
Could I also on this occasion pay tribute
not only to the queen and her court, those
lovely ladies, but also to those who have
served with me and are serving with me
at the present time, working for
your State
and for this country: to your Governor,
who is in my office on so many occasions
working for what West Virginia needs and
for what it is entitled, a man that I have
great respect for and one who has demon-
strated on so many occasions that he is one
who is extremely effective in advocating
what the people of his State need and
what they should have in terms of Federal
cooperation; to your two Senators.
I know that Senator Jennings Randolph
once taught at this school, and as I stand
here on this campus I am reminded some-
what of my own college. I attended a
small college, a coeducational college like
this, with a religious background, a college
on a hill. And I have always been very
happy that I went to that college, a small
college; proud of it. I agree that much can
be learned and gained from going to a
large school. I took my graduate work at a
large school, Duke University, but I can
assure you that those who have the tradi-
tion of smaller colleges and I will in-
clude in that not only Davis-Elkins but
also Marshall University, the alma mater
of our queen-let's give a hand to small
colleges today, as well as to the large ones.
Also, when we refer to our queen, I feel
very fortunate and very close to this par-
ticular festival because Mrs. Nixon's top
administrative assistant in charge of her
staff was the queen of this festival-and
you can't tell it from looking at her, she
doesn't look nearly that old—in 1959,
Connie Stuart. We are happy to have one
of your
alumni working on our White
House Staff.
Now a word about your two Senators.
They are members of a different party
than I happen to belong to, but I can tell
you that when the problems of West Vir-
ginia are involved, there are no differences
between Arch Moore, Jennings Randolph
and Senator Byrd and Harley Staggers
and Richard Nixon. We agree in attempt-
ing to work on and to solve those problems.
I can also say, speaking of your two
Senators particularly, and I will have
more to say about the Congressman in a
moment, that when the great issues of na-
tional defense are involved, the security
1027
