Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 25 [303]
suasive item for me to mention to Mr.
Bridges and to Mr. Flynn. So, it did have a
very good influence on this meeting.
SUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, have you seen
any need for any change in
any change in your consulta-
tive practices with respect to the Senate on
the appointment of successors to the Su-
preme Court?
THE PRESIDENT. Consultation with the
Senate with regard to appointments of
judges to the Supreme Court has been a
problem that has afflicted many Presi-
dents, as you know. I have it as well. That
responsibility, however, is, in my case,
properly left with the Attorney General.
The Attorney General is having broad-
based consultations, particularly with the
members of the Senate Judiciary Commit-
tee, with regard to these appointments.
We are anxious, one, that the appoint-
ments be made as soon as we can find
qualified people that I can nominate; two,
that those appointments will be ones that
the Senate will approve quickly. Now, the
reason for their approving them quickly
and for me to nominate quickly is that we
are going into the fall term two judges
short, and some very important matters
will be coming before that Court. So, I
think our consultative procedure is better
this time than it has been before. I would
hope that the Senate would act as quickly
on these two appointments as it did with
the confirmation of the Chief Justice, Mr.
Burger, and Mr. Blackmun; if so, they
will do well.
PHASE 2 CONTROL MACHINERY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, can you dis-
cuss some of the alternatives under con-
sideration about the machinery for con-
trols under Phase 2?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I could discuss it,
but it would be premature to do so. I
think I can best answer the question by
saying that by the 30th of September all
of the various recommendations with
regard to machinery from government,
from labor, from business, from Congress,
et cetera, will be in, and then I will make
the decision, and it will be announced well
in advance of the 30 days before the freeze
ends.
I can only reiterate what I have said
previously. In order to be effective there
must be a Government role. The wage and
price restraints that follow the freeze
across the board will depend primarily
upon voluntary action on the part of both
labor and management and depend also
to a great extent upon public support.
There must be, in addition to that-in
order for it to be effective with recal-
citrants-there must be the possibility of
Government action to back up what our
private or public exhortations may be.
I realize that is a general answer, but
for me to, at this time, indicate the direc-
tion of our thinking, I think might com-
promise our ability to make the right
decision with all the options in front of us.
QUALIFICATIONS FOR SUPREME COURT
JUSTICES
[11] Q. Mr. President, referring to the
Supreme Court appointments, the AP
quotes Mrs. Nixon this morning as saying,
"The trouble is, the best qualified women
are too old." Do you share her thinking,
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. As Secretary Morton
knows, any politician that says a woman
is too old is nuts.
991
