Richard Nixon, 1971
June 25 [210]
older Americans, it is not that kind of a
home, but it is the substandard nursing
home, and there are some. Some are un-
sanitary. Some are ill-equipped. Some are
overcrowded. Some are understaffed.
I am going to be quite blunt. Many of
our nursing homes in this country, as I
have indicated, are outstanding, like that
Presbyterian home that I saw, and like
others I have seen in California. My 90-
year-old aunt, my mother's older sister,
still living, is living in one in Riverside,
and it is a wonderful home.
But I have been to others that are not,
and you have been to some. You have seen
them. That is why many of these, the sub-
standard ones, are described as little more
than warehouses for the unwanted-that
is blunt language, but it is true-as
dumping grounds for the dying. I have
even heard of doctors who refuse to visit
some nursing homes because they get too
depressed.
Too often it seems that nursing homes
serve mainly to keep older people out of
sight, out of mind so that no one will
notice their degradation and despair. Just
think, if a doctor gets depressed visiting
the home, how depressing it must be for
the patients that are in it.
I believe we should take notice of this
problem. I am confident that our Federal,
State, and local governments, working to-
gether with the private sector, can do
something to transform the nursing
home, for those who need it-and of
course, there are millions who do not need
it, who do not want it—but for those who
need it, we must transform that home
into an inspiring symbol of comfort and
hope.
This is a goal. I have asked the White
House Conference to give particular con-
sideration to it. One thing you can be
sure, I do not believe that Medicaid and
Medicare funds should go to substandard
nursing homes in this country and sub-
sidize them.
The ancient Greeks said that we could
count no man's life happy until the end
of it. For if any man is to live a good life
in the most complete sense, then his later
years must also be years of fulfillment. As
we pursue this goal, as we break away the
barriers to full participation for those who
are old today, we will also break them
away for those who will be old tomorrow.
Our Nation has a high obligation to a
generation which has given so much to
its service. I think of so many in this
audience who have given. I have men-
tioned this wonderful teacher, 42 years of
teaching. You can think of, frankly, some
of the students she probably had to teach.
They probably were as difficult as I was,
and I was not very good at music.
I think, for example, of the mother of
George Romney, who is here, and what
she has contributed in raising a son who is
now a member of the President's Cabinet,
and has been Governor of a State. I think
of what others have contributed, in your
various capacities, to this Nation.
The Nation's commitment to its older
citizens also grows out, however, of a
more selfish consideration, and that is
this: We need you. We need your experi-
ence. We need your perspective. And
above all, we need your sense of value.
Because, you know, this can be a strong
nation militarily, it is the strongest in the
world; it can be a strong nation eco-
nomically, it is—we are the richest nation
in the world. And it can be an empty shell
if we forget that those moral and spiritual
values, to which your generation is so
deeply committed, are also there.
I have always felt rather fortunate,
781
