[176] May 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
ress are far greater now than they were
before this joint announcement was made,
and we will continue to give all possible
support to this initiative that has now been
taken at the highest levels in the Soviet
and American Governments.
But having moved in that field, I now
come to the recipients of the day. Once
we have peace in this world, peace in the
sense of absence of war, we have then only
the beginning of not just problems, but
opportunities that go far beyond, and the
question is: What do we do with the
peace?
Here, again, the men of science, the
men of reason, will have the answer, be-
cause for us simply to think of peace as the
absence of war, of standing still, would
not be worthy of our people, and it would,
in the end, be self-destructive. So we think
of peace in a creative sense.
Here I would like to refer to our Nobel
prize winner, Dr. Borlaug, who was here
a few days ago on our Salute to Agricul-
ture Day. He spoke movingly of the mil-
lions of people that he had seen in India
and parts of Southeast Asia, and in Mexi-
co and Latin America, and of the great
progress that had been made, as a result
of developing new strains of wheat and
rice, in reducing famine in those areas of
the world.
He told those of us who were gathered
in a small meeting that that progress
would not have been possible except for
science, and that also it would not have
been possible except for certain chemicals.
Then he made the point that we are now
going through a process, which all of us
can well understand, where many raise
questions about the use of chemicals in
the field of agriculture, because the use of
a chemical may produce a reaction which
can be detrimental to the human body.
Then, speaking as a scientist—and he is
a scientist-he said what we must, how-
ever, always weigh is the benefit that we
get, on the one hand, by going forward
with the scientific initiative and applying
it, and what would happen in the event
that we did not go forward—famines
sweeping the world, and particularly those
areas of the world that have had such
enormous difficulties in this respect in the
past.
you
So to the men in science and the women
of science today, I would say we honor
for exploring the unknown, for mak-
ing progress possible, and we ask you to
help create among the people of this Na-
tion an understanding of your disciplines;
to remove the fears, the unreasonable fears
that some people may have of any kind
of progress, recognizing that there is not
always all good in any advance, scientifi-
cally or otherwise, that this is a problem
of balance, because the men and women
of science, above everything else, are men
of balance, men who can think rationally,
men who can think reasonably.
This world, and this Nation, needs that
kind of leadership, that kind of thinking,
that kind of education, at this time when
we tend to go overboard one way or an-
other because of "hypo-ing" a particular
issue that may be in the public press or
the public mind at a particular time.
During the French Revolution, the
great French chemist Lavoisier was put on
trial, and chalked on the wall just above
his head was the slogan "The Republic
has no
use for scientists." He was
guillotined.
In every age there are men of violence
and men of fury and men of ignorance
who say, "The nation, the world, has no
use for the men of science and the men
of reason." This is not such a time in this
650
