[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
To promote Latin American trade I
will:
-soon submit legislation to implement
generalized tariff preferences.
-assure special attention in trade poli-
cies for commodities of particular in-
terest to the region.
from non-governmental sources, which
are more directly responsive to social
problems as perceived by the people of the
region. To meet this need, we created in
1970
the Inter-American Social Develop-
ment Institute. Directed by a board with
a majority from the private sector, the
new Institute will provide funds primarily
to non-governmental organizations in the
U.S. and Latin America-such as univer-
sities, credit unions, and foundations-to
help them share their expertise.
ISSUES FOR THE FUTURE
We have only begun. Implementing our
new approach will require difficult ad-
justments, for ourselves and for our part-
ners. Together we must:
-respect and protect the independence
of all members.
-provide for the peaceful resolution of
disputes.
-make a better life for our peoples.
-embrace our diversity in a framework
of partnership.
In such an association will the nations
of this hemisphere share a stake. There
will be unity not so much in common
domestic structures as in mutual support
for independence and mutual respect for
diversity.
Our self-interest requires our creative
contributions to the development of such
a community, but three sets of problems
constrain us:
The need to balance our Western
Hemisphere interests against other do-
mestic and foreign policy considerations.
To reflect this concern in the councils of
government, I again urge Congress to es-
tablish an office of Under Secretary of
State for Western Hemisphere Affairs.
-continue to press for elimination or
reduction of non-tariff barriers, espe-
cially those which harm the exports
of Latin America and other develop-
ing areas.
To maintain an equitable share in our
new bilateral assistance programs for
hemisphere development, I will establish
guidelines for the resources to be provided
to the region through the new develop-
ment institutions.
To free the use of bilateral aid we will
seek final agreement among industrial
countries in 1971 to untie the bulk of de-
velopment assistance.
The present limitations of inter-
American machinery. The United States
will seek further reform of inter-
American instrumentalities. Two factors
limit their current effectiveness-out-
dated methods, and some members' con-
cern that stronger institutions could
become devices for U.S. domination. The
system will be increasingly tested by the
pervasive change and instabilities in the
region. Together with our partners, we
must resist efforts to weaken our regional
system. Together we must provide it with
financial support, reshape its institutions,
and participate in a spirit of mutual
respect.
The forces of nationalism and extre-
mism. The United States must accom-
modate diversity and seek to maintain the
fabric of hemispheric unity. We cannot
afford to withdraw out of frustration or
248
