Richard Nixon, 1971
[82]
Mar. I
THE PRESIDENT. Would you give me
the-
CAPTAIN SHEPARD. I am sorry, the
shade is a secret, sir.
Mr. President, you do us a great honor
this evening by presenting us with these
medals. And we are truly grateful for
that.
I think you do us an even greater honor
by assembling these people that you have
assembled here tonight. I see so many
familiar faces in the crowd. And as so
many of these familiar faces went through
the receiving line, I was reminded of the
successes and failures that we have had
in the manned space effort since 1959.
As you and I were remarking earlier
this evening, in 1959, they thought that if
a man were to fly on a ballistic trajectory
in a missile and be weightless for a period
of 5 minutes or so that he would come
back completely irrational.
This remark prompted one of our din-
ner partners to say, "Yes, I have been
wondering what happened to you.”
Fortunately, for me at least, my irra-
tionality led me to the moon. And I think
it is most important to me, because of
the group assembled here, we don't have
to talk about the benefits and the advan-
tages of the program. We don't have to
talk about the prestige and posture which
we have gained. These things are intui-
tively known when we look at you and
say, "Apollo 14 was a good one. We have
a lot of momentum, and the three of us
are very happy to be a part of it."
Thank you.
Mr. President, we, as you know, used
our lunar module, Antares, as part of an
experiment. It was directed to impact on
the lunar surface to further add to the
knowledge we have of seismic history and
seismic response on the moon.
Most of it went down. Fortunately, we
were able to salvage a few pieces for our-
selves and for our very dear friends. One
of the pieces we salvaged happens to be
the eyepiece from the telescope which I
used to sight on the stars to check our
position during orbit and also to check our
position after landing.
This eyepiece we have mounted to-
gether with our patch, and from the
members of Apollo 14 we would like to
present it to you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I accept with very
much gratitude the presentation that has
just been made. And also, I would like to
add something with regard to our space
program which I think everyone in this
room will thoroughly agree.
When we think of that chart that I saw
along with President Eisenhower back in
1957 or 1958, and those 10 items that were
on it and wondering what was the one
thing or two or three that we would not
find, perhaps we all may have overlooked
the most important of all.
What has impressed me has been the
extraordinary quality of our astronauts,
the men who have made space flights, who
have gone to the moon or around the
moon or on other parts of our various
programs in space.
They have traveled all over this coun-
try. They have traveled all over the world.
They have spoken eloquently and articu-
lately as these men have spoken tonight.
In my view, they represent the very
finest in American life today. We can be
very proud of what our spacemen are
doing.
371
