[84] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
CONCLUSION
The changes provided in the LEAA
legislation are not extensive. But I believe
they will have a profound effect. They
are designed to improve a good program
which already has many of the elements
we seek to obtain in other programs. Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing will permit the
needed improvements. And by further
freeing State and local governments, both
from the restrictions of onerous Federal
control, and from the administrative and
fiscal restrictions which accompany or re-
sult from much of our Federal assistance,
we can release the creative capacities of
each level of government in these areas of
national concern.
The White House
March 2, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased three fact sheets on the message and the
Law Enforcement Assistance Administration.
On April 6, 1971, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Edwin L.
Harper, Special Assistant to the President, on
the hold harmless base line figures for States
and localities under special revenue sharing,
and a fact sheet on the figures for law enforce-
ment special revenue sharing.
85 Memorandum About the Combined Federal Campaign.
March 3, 1971
Memorandum to Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
You are aware of my deep personal
interest in strengthening and encourag-
ing voluntary action in the United States.
The concept of people voluntarily work-
ing together to better the lives of their
neighbors and to improve the quality of
life in their communities and the nation
is deeply rooted in our American tradi-
tion. One of our great needs now is to
enlist the energies of American citizens
committed to voluntary action.
This administration has made progress
in developing a better understanding and
awareness of the unique capabilities of the
voluntary movement in the United States
and of the benefits it can provide to all of
our people, and we have begun the proc-
ess of strengthening organizations which
carry out voluntary actions.
As one step in this process, the Chair-
man of the Civil Service Commission,
Robert E. Hampton, has recently initiated
several changes in the Combined Federal
Campaign which should strengthen the
support of voluntary charitable organiza-
tions by Federal employees and military
personnel. For the first time, the Com-
bined Federal Campaign will become the
uniform fund-raising method for the Fed-
eral service. Every Federal employee in
the United States, regardless of location,
will now have the opportunity to par-
ticipate in a Combined Federal Cam-
paign. In addition, a new Loaned Execu-
tive program will permit, in appropriate
circumstances, the temporary assignment
of Federal employees to work directly with
the voluntary organizations in conducting
the combined campaign within the Fed-
eral service.
During the past six years, the Com-
bined Federal Campaign has demon-
strated a significant potential for bolster-
ing voluntary organizations in this coun-
try, including the local United Funds, the
American National Red Cross, the Na-
378
