Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [182]
just don't make the first lead on television
or a front page today in the newspapers
due to the overwhelming interest in for-
eign policy, why that domestic policy is
so important for the future.
I begin with the developments in for-
eign policy with which you are all famil-
iar. While it must seem at times that the
more things change in foreign policy, the
more they remain the same, I think that
a sophisticated observer would have to
agree that historians in the future will
look to this period, and they will probably
write that the American people-and
through the American people, through
their relations with other people in the
world-were going through a very historic
change insofar as our relations with other
nations in the world were concerned.
The word "new era" is overused. I will
only say that if there was ever a new era
in the field of foreign policy, we are now
in the middle of it. We are on the thresh-
old of it.
I think the most significant changes in
American foreign policy and the most
significant changes in the relations be-
tween major nations in the world are tak-
ing place now than at any period since
World War II.
Now this is not because we made it so.
I speak of "we" in terms of this Adminis-
tration. We played a role, but what has
happened here is that we see a number of
developments coming together contem-
poraneously. The one that of course is
first and foremost in your minds, and
should be, is the war in Vietnam.
There is argument about how that war
should be ended, when it should be ended.
There is no argument, however, among
any sophisticated observers on the point
that the war in Vietnam, after a long
period-5 years-in which no end was in
sight, in which more and more Americans
went to Vietnam, and in which more and
more casualties occurred in Vietnam, that
now the situation is changed. Americans
are coming home. Casualties are going
down, and we can say confidently today
that the war in Vietnam will be ended.
You know the arguments, and I will
not go into them now, why we cannot, in
our national interest, accept the proposi-
tion of setting a deadline as far as our
own withdrawal is concerned. I will only
say that there is no question but that this
Administration's policy is succeeding and
bringing the war to an end and bringing
it to an end in a way which I believe will
contribute to our goal of discouraging that
kind of war, that kind of aggression that
brought this war on, in the future, and
thereby bringing it to an end in a way
that will not guarantee-we can never
guarantee anything in world events-but
that will give us a chance to have a more
peaceful Southeast Asia, a more peaceful
Pacific.
Now, if we are able to accomplish this
goal-and I am confident that we are
accomplishing it and that we can see it
now in sight-this is in itself, by itself-al-
though by itself it is not the major devel-
opment which we are presently seeing-
but this by itself has enormous signifi-
cance, because both World War II and
the Korean war, as far as the United
States was concerned, did come from the
Pacific, and so did Vietnam.
So a peaceful Pacific and an end to this
conflict in a way that will maintain the
position of confidence of the United
States in the Pacific is enormously impor-
tant in terms of achieving our broader
goal of peace in the world.
The second point, of course, that has
been much in the news this past week is
665
