Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 19 [364]
economy, and it was an action which was
in perfect harmony with previous de-
mands by many labor leaders to establish
wage-price controls.
At the end of that first phase of the new
economic program, I think we can fairly
evaluate the effect of what was under-
taken then.
We sought to check the rise in prices.
The Wholesale Price Index dropped 0.3
percent in September. It dropped another
0.1 percent last month.
We tabulated 3,885 prices in the five
largest U.S. cities. Eighty-seven percent of
the prices tabulated showed no change
from August to September. Less than 8
percent showed an increase, and almost 6
percent actually declined.
The price freeze was successful. That
means the consumer, including 60 mil-
lion American wage earners, benefited.
What about employment?
Since June total employment has in-
creased by 1.4 million jobs; from Septem-
ber to October employment increased by
more than 300,000 jobs. In the category
of married men, which is a very critical
component of the total unemployment
figures, the percentage unemployed has
dropped to 3 percent-the lowest in a
year.
New interest rates, housing starts, and
retail sales all reflect similar success for
this policy, but the price index and the
employment index are of greatest inter-
est to labor. We can legitimately say that
they reflect the benefits of the wage-price
freeze to labor. To put it another way-
the only thing that went up during the
freeze was jobs. For those who have main-
tained that the freeze was intended as a
plum to business, let me point out that
corporate profits declined during the
freeze.
The new economic program has dem-
onstrated its promise of economic prog-
ress for all Americans. The past record of
the Nixon Administration on behalf of
labor reflects a sincere concern for the
best interests of labor-not because such a
record is politically useful, but because
whatever serves the best interests of labor
serves the best interests of America, and
whether or not that is politically useful,
it is absolutely essential to the progress
and the well-being of this Nation in the
last third of this century.
With these credentials, I am asking the
support of organized labor; I am asking
the support of the AFL-CIO for the
critical second phase of this effort to re-
store economic stability to this Nation.
In the months ahead we will have dis-
agreements on the direction of Phase 2.
But there are mechanisms established to
resolve those disagreements. They will in-
sure a fair resolution of the differences and
disputes which may arise. What there can
be no disagreement about is the need to
provide more jobs for more Americans;
the need to provide a dollar that doesn't
decrease in value every time you get a
pay raise; the need to increase produc-
tion-and production did increase during
Phase I of the new economic program; the
need to increase trade with other nations
of the world and stop subsidizing foreign
industry with American jobs; and the
need, generally, to establish a sound and
stable economic base which will give us
prosperity in the time of peace that we
are working so hard to achieve and which
now seems so nearly within our grasp.
We do not differ on these objectives. We
do disagree on some aspects of the means
by which we hope to achieve these objec-
tives. But if we work together to resolve
these disagreements, we can have what
1127
