Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [180]
State of Tennessee; Governor Nunn, who
is the present President of the project;
Governor Williams of Mississippi; and
Governor Askew of Florida, the State
from which I have just come.
We think, too, of others that are rep-
resented on this platform and how they
speak to the whole country in a sense.
Only one, except for myself, is here from
the national administration, and I am
proud that our Postmaster General is from
the State of Alabama, and that "Red"
Blount could be here with us.
But when we think of the Members of
the Senate, the two distinguished Mem-
bers of the Senate from this State, Sena-
tor Sparkman, Senator Allen; the
Members of the House of Representa-
tives, and what they have contributed,
and particularly your own Congressman,
Jack Edwards, who, I can tell you,
has
been in beating my desk day after day for
this project.
Let me say that when they suggested
remarks for me, they said, "You ought to
give credit to this one or that one or this
one or the other one." All that I can say is
that when there is a success, there is plenty
of credit for everybody, and we give credit
to all on this platform for supporting this
project in the interests of this State and
this region and the Nation.
What does this project mean? Well, it
means a lot to this city, because it means
that this port, already a great port, will
now have a waterway that will connect it
with the Ohio and with the Missouri and
the Mississippi, but it means, therefore,
that there will be more traffic coming in
and through the port of Mobile.
It means something to all the States in
the area, because as a waterway like this
is constructed, it means that all of those
States will have more job opportunities;
it means that all of those States will have
more business that means progress.
And also, I would suggest I am con-
fident that we can carry this out with due
respect for the problems of maintaining
the beauty of this part of the country, and
it has so much natural beauty. We can
and we will do that, because the two must
go together.
So we think of those prospects, what it
means in terms of more jobs and more
prosperity for this part of the country,
which has such a great, it seems to me,
hope for the future.
But in a larger aspect, let's not just
think of this Tennessee-Tombigbee proj-
ect as a great engineering feat, which it
will be; as a feat that will join together
five States and all five States will benefit
from it, and that is the case; but let's think
in terms of what this project means as far
as America is concerned.
Here I would like to go to a little more
historical perspective, if I may. When-
ever I visit a city for the first time, I al-
ways check to see when the last time was
when a President of the United States
was there, and I find that the last time
that a President of the United States spoke
in Mobile was the year I was born, in
1913, when President Wilson spoke in
Mobile. And let me say that is too long a
time for Presidents to stay away from
Mobile.
President Wilson, on that occasion-
remember the year was 1913 at the very
beginning of his term-made a major for-
eign policy speech in which he talked
about the end of imperialism in the world.
Since that time, let's see what has hap-
pened. We have had, as far as the United
States is concerned, four occasions when
young Americans have gone abroad to
fight in wars-World War I, World War
659
