Richard Nixon, 1971
[333]
Oct. 15
and have seen the columns, the ruins in the
Roman Forum. I think of walking on the
Acropolis and seeing the great Grecian
columns of the ancient civilization of
Greece. I think of Samarkand in what is
now a part of Russia, what was then part
of the Persian Empire, and the magnifi-
cent blue columns rising up over a dead
civilization.
I read the history of those civilizations,
and I find that in the case of Greece, in
the case of Rome, in the case of ancient
Persia, that their civilizations died not
when they were weak and not when they
were poor, but when they were rich, when
they were the best educated, and also when
they thought they were strong militarily.
They died because as they became
wealthy, they became soft; as they became
better educated, without principle, they
became weak. And as a result, other
civilizations, not as well-educated, not as
wealthy, not really as strong, overran
them.
And so the lesson of the past for
America today is that we need, of course-
and we can be thankful that we do have
a country that is wealthy-we need cer-
tainly education for all of our people, and
better education, and opportunity in the
years ahead, because without wealth and
without education we cannot do the great
things for our people at home and provide
the leadership abroad that we can pro-
vide. But we must also remember that
those things alone are not enough.
It is the character of a nation that
determines whether it survives. It is the
spiritual and moral strength of its people
that determine whether it survives. Where
does that come from? We have here dis-
tinguished Members of the Senate and of
the House of Representatives and the
Governor of this State and the President
of the United States and the Secretary of
the Treasury. We, as Government officials,
cannot decree that a nation shall be
morally and spiritually strong. Legislators
cannot legislate it.
The moral and spiritual strength of our
country must come from each individual
American. It comes from his home, it
comes from his school, but most of all, it
can and it must come from his church,
from his religious faith.
We in this Nation have the great herit-
age of different religious faiths. Each
chooses his own way. But what is impor-
tant is that we have it. And what Billy
Graham has done for millions of Ameri-
cans is to inspire in individuals that reli-
gious faith which means moral strength
and character, without which a nation, no
matter how rich it is or how strong it is,
cannot be great.
So today, this afternoon, I want to say
to Billy Graham's friends here in this city
and in this county and in this State which
did so much for him, where his roots are,
who helped to build his character, I want
to say to you that when the history of this
last third of this century is written, and
the contribution that America made-and
I am confident it will make it—to peace
in the world and freedom for most of the
world, when that history is written, it will
be written about what Presidents did and
what Generals did and about what busi-
nessmen did or legislators did. But it is
very possible that what will have been
most important in making sure that
America meets the great challenge of
leadership, leadership for peace and
freedom in the world, will be because of
what a man from this county, Mecklen-
burg County in North Carolina, did-his
message, simple, direct, moving, inspiring
in young people, in older people, that
1049
