[363]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Nov. 19
building in Washington and in the Cabi-
net Room in the White House, I have
asked him and his associates to support us
on strong national defense on close votes
where a margin of one in the United
States Senate determined whether the
United States would have a defensive
weapons system that the Soviet Union
already had. We won it; we would not
have won it without the support of or-
ganized labor. And I am grateful for that.
I want to tell you why that support was
given-two reasons. I know that many
others who will appear before you may
indicate, maybe not before this audience,
but they have certainly indicated in the
United States Senate, that we ought to
cut our defense spending. They say we
ought to cut our defense spending so that
we can spend more for welfare and more
for housing and more for education and
more for the environment.
My friends, I'm for better housing and
better welfare and better environment,
and all of you are, but if we don't spend
enough to defend America we are not
going to have any environment to enjoy
in this country, and that is what we have
to do.
So, under these circumstances, I ap-
preciate the fact that I have had, from
organized labor, strong support for an
adequate national defense.
Now, the other line is very amusing,
amusing to a group of people who know
what hard bargaining is and how impor-
tant it is to be strong at the bargaining
table. That line is that what we ought
to do is, unilaterally on our part as an
exercise of our good faith and the demon-
stration of it, cut our defense spending in
the hopes that that will lead our oppo-
nents in the world to cut theirs.
My friends, just let me say one thing.
You know from collective bargaining
never go to that bargaining table, if you
can, in a position of weakness. I say to
you: Never let the President of the United
States, whoever he is, go to a negotiating
table representing the second strongest
power in the world. That is what we
need. It is that position that organized
labor well understands, and on that issue
I am most grateful for your support. Be-
cause a strong America, negotiating from
strength, may be able to negotiate-this
era of negotiation rather than confronta-
tion, this era in which we will talk about
our differences rather than fight about our
differences. But a weak America, negotiat-
ing from weakness, will lead the world
either to surrender or to war, or both. You
understand that. I am grateful that on this
area we agree.
Now, let me turn to the other side of
the coin. I said that we needed a period
of prosperity without war. We are work-
ing toward that. I said also that we needed
prosperity without inflation. We are work-
ing toward that.
We have just completed the 90-day
freeze. Now, I understand there has been
some disagreement about whether that
freeze worked. Well, let's look at the
numbers. It was a remarkable success.
Because the figures are in. In 2 months
the Wholesale Price Index went down
rather than up, and that is the first 2
months in 5 years that that has happened.
Look at your morning papers. The Con-
sumer Price Index: a rise of one-tenth of
1 percent. That rise was the lowest in 4
years. And so it was worth doing. And if
you don't think so, go home and ask your
wives who go to the grocery. Go home
and ask others.
You will find that as far as prices are
concerned, what they want, rather than
I122
