Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 13 [394]
the President of France, the President of
the United States, and the Prime Minister
of Portugal been so honored at a dinner
of this type, and I join President Pompi-
dou in expressing our very warm apprecia-
tion to our host for giving us such a
generous welcome on Portuguese soil.
President Pompidou and the Prime
Minister have both spoken eloquently of
the historical backgrounds of our various
countries. I come from what is usually de-
scribed as the New World, but it has just
occurred to me how much that New
World, the American hemisphere, owes to
the Old World, and particularly to the two
countries represented at this table from
that Old World.
For example, last week I met in Wash-
ington the President of the largest country
in South America and the Prime Minister
of the largest country in North America.
The President of Brazil spoke Portuguese,
and his great country represents the enor-
mous contribution that was made by the
Portuguese settlers in that part of the
world.
The Prime Minister of Canada spoke
English, but he came from the French
part of Canada, and his presence and what
he spoke of indicated the enormous con-
tribution that France has made not only
to Canada but to the United States and all
the New World.
We, of course, in the United States owe
so much to France from the time that we
became a nation during our Revolution—
and speaking as a native of the State of
California, I am aware of the fact that my
State was first discovered by a Portuguese
captain, Cabrillo.
So what the New World is and what it
may become is due to the ability, the ex-
ploration, the genius that we have inher-
ited from the Old World, and particularly
from these nations that are represented
here tonight.
Now, as we meet, we find that some-
times we are competitors, we in the New
World and those in the Old World, in
Europe particularly.
When I arrived at the airport on the
Spirit of '76, a Boeing 707, I saw parked
in front of me a Concorde which had car-
ried the President of France.¹ Our Ambas-
sador to France, Mr. Watson, pointed out
that he had come from France at a speed
three times as fast as we had come from
the United States. I do not speak in envy;
I only wish we had made the plane
ourselves.
We do live in a time, a fortunate time,
when the competition between our great
countries is competition which builds
progress for all of our people that can be
shared in a peaceful way. It is inevitable
that there will be problems arising in trade
and monetary affairs, in all those areas
where advanced societies may compete.
But where those problems can be settled
peacefully, as they always will between our
countries, it can only mean that the whole
world benefits from the competition that
each gives to others.
A nation or a people that lives as an
island unto themselves inevitably will fall
behind the rest of the world. There are
some voices in our country who speak of
turning inward, of turning away from re-
sponsibilities in the world. But those are
not the voices that will make the future of
America. The future of America will be
made by a people who will welcome the
opportunity to compete with other nations
in the world, and to play our role, bear
¹On December 14, 1971, prior to his de-
parture from Lajes Field, the Azores, the Presi-
dent inspected the French supersonic aircraft
Concorde.
1185
