[358] Nov. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
be sharply reduced during the coming
generation. And because it can be, it must
be. These are my conclusions after con-
ferring this morning with the members of
the President's Committee on Mental
Retardation.
Encouraging progress is already being
made, both in our efforts to open better
lives for the mentally retarded and in our
ability to prevent the occurrence of retar-
dation. Federal spending in this field has
increased by more than one-third during
the past 3 years, to an estimated $668
million in fiscal year 1972.
Today, I pledge continuing expansion
of such support, and I invite all Ameri-
cans to join me in commitment to two
major national goals:
• To reduce by half the occurrence of
mental retardation in the United
States before the end of this century;
• To enable one-third of the more than
200,000 retarded persons in public
institutions to return to useful lives in
the community.
These goals are realistic and achievable.
We already have most of the knowledge
and many of the techniques they will re-
quire, and the rest are within reach of
research.
Improved prevention will require much
wider application of recent biomedical
advances which can help obstetricians
avoid prematurity, a prime cause of
retardation; immunization against the
rubella and measles so dangerous during
pregnancy; and new diet therapy for
metabolic disorders. It will also call for
improvement in the delivery of medical,
nutritional, and educational services to
expectant mothers and young children,
especially those exposed to a high risk of
retardation. And it will take further re-
search in methods of screening, referral,
and treatment. But beyond any question,
the effort is worth making: for at the
present rate of occurrence, more than 4
million of the 142 million children whom
demographers estimate will be born in
America between now and the year 2000
would grow up retarded. Their future is
in our hands.
Unlocking the door to new opportu-
nities for today's institutionalized retarded
is an equally worthy challenge, and it is
possible in the immediate present. Here
State and local governments bear the prin-
cipal responsibility, but strong Federal
leadership can also be important. Within
institutions, review procedures aimed at
identifying persons ready to enter the
community must be improved. Counsel-
ing, job training and placement services,
and suitable living arrangements must be
made available in the community. One
measure of the distance we have to go on
this front is that nearly half the Nation's
school districts still offer no special educa-
tion classes for the mentally retarded.
To launch this coordinated national
effort at reducing mental retardation and
ministering more effectively to its victims,
I am today initiating a review process
throughout the Federal Government. All
executive departments and agencies will
evaluate their programs-medical, legal,
educational, social service, and environ-
mental-with a view to providing
maximum support to the President's
Committee on Mental Retardation, and
will report to Secretary Richardson,
Chairman of that Committee.
I am also directing that the Depart-
ment of Justice take steps to strengthen
the assurance of full legal rights for the
retarded; that the Bureau of the Census
take steps to develop more complete data
on the extent of mental retardation; and
III2
