[37] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
pollution and adequate health care.
Where inadequate market arrangements
are delaying our advance toward full em-
ployment with price stability, we have a
responsibility now to correct them.
In our market-oriented policy, our
domestic goals and our international goals
are interrelated. Success in our struggle
against inflation will help to safeguard our
international economic strength, and al-
low our highly productive enterprises and
workers to compete in world markets. The
liberal policy with respect to international
trade to which this Administration is com-
mitted will help keep price increases in
check here while giving our farms, fac-
tories, and banks a profitable market
abroad. At the same time we have to make
sure that the burden of adjustment to
changing conditions in world markets
does not fall entirely on a few exposed
industries.
With the cooperation of the private sec-
tor, an expansionary public economic
policy will achieve a goal we have not
seen in the American economy in many
years: full prosperity without war, full
prosperity without inflation.
In the record of progress toward that
new prosperity, I am convinced that eco-
nomic historians of the future will regard
1970 as a necessarily difficult year of turn-
around-but a year that set the stage for
strong and orderly expansion.
February 1, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President's message, together with
the Annual Report of the Council of Economic
Advisers, is printed in "Economic Report of
the President, Transmitted to the Congress
February 1971" (Government Printing Office,
1971, 306 pp.).
On January 30, 1971, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
Economic Report by Paul W. McCracken,
Chairman, and Hendrik S. Houthakker and
Herbert Stein, members, Council of Economic
Advisers.
38 Remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast.
February 2, 1971
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, Senator
Jordan, all of the distinguished guests at
the head table, and all of the distinguished
guests in the audience:
Senator Jordan very, it seemed to me,
efficiently introduced all of those at the
head table, except one. The lady on my
left is Mrs. Jordan.
When Senator Jordan indicated those
who were present at this breakfast, I was
reminded of a letter I received right
after the State of the Union Message from
a very disturbed listener who had viewed
it on television. He did not comment up-
on the content of the speech, but he com-
mented upon his fear as to what might
have happened had some madman or
somebody even deliberately come into the
Chamber and detonated an explosive, be-
cause as he very properly pointed out, all
of the power of government was there,
as far as the National Government was
concerned the Congress, the Cabinet, the
Supreme Court, with, of course, a few
listeners in the very, very limited space
provided in the galleries.
As I heard the list of those who were
present at this breakfast this morning, I
thought what would really happen if
an explosive were detonated in this room,
102
