Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
My Administration shares with the
Government of Japan the conviction that
our relationship is vital to the kind of
world we both want. We are determined to
act accordingly. But the future will re-
quire adjustments in the U.S.-Japanese
relationship, and the issues involved are
too important and their solutions too com-
plicated to be viewed with any com-
placency on either side.
Fortunately, they are not. Both the
Japanese and the American Governments
regard each other with profound goodwill
and mutual respect. Both are determined
to show the greatest possible understand-
ing of the interests of the other. The main-
tenance of that spirit of cooperation and
goodwill is not only the goal of our policy
toward Japan. It is also the best assurance
that the policy will succeed.
In recognition of our growing inter-
dependence and Japan's own increased
stature, Prime Minister Sato and I agreed
in November 1969 to enter into negotia-
tions for the return of Okinawa to Japa-
nese administration by 1972. I can now
report that negotiations on this question,
including the retention of our Okinawa
bases, are progressing steadily. Our aim is
to reach the specific agreements this
spring, allowing us to obtain the necessary
legislative support to proceed with rever-
sion in 1972.
Last December, we and the Japanese
agreed to significant realignments in our
military bases in Japan, which will result
in a reduction of some 12,000 U.S. mili-
tary personnel over the next several
months without adversely affecting our
ability to meet our commitments to Japan
or other Asian allies. The Japanese have
announced plans for continuing qualita-
tive improvements of their own self-
defense capabilities, enabling them to
provide for substantially all of their con-
ventional defense requirements.
The United States and Japan have
everything to gain from a further expan-
sion of already close and profitable eco-
nomic ties. Japan has for many years been
America's largest overseas customer, and
I am pleased to report that in 1970 our
exports to Japan grew by some 35% to
approximately $4.5 billion. This included
more than $1 billion worth of products
from America's farms, equivalent to the
production of 10 million acres and the
labor of more than 100,000 farmers.
American purchases from Japan are even
larger. The United States takes some 27%
of Japan's exports, amounting in 1970 to
almost $5.9 billion. I am glad to note that
Japan has accelerated its program of lib-
eralizing its restrictions on imports, and
is also easing its restrictions on foreign
capital investment. Despite the barriers
Japan still maintains, direct American in-
vestment in Japan presently amounts to
more than $1 billion. I expect this figure
will increase as recognition grows within
Japan that its own self-interest lies in pro-
viding wider investment opportunities.
The friendly competitive relationship,
which properly characterizes this greatest
transoceanic commerce in the history of
mankind, is not without difficulties. An
example is the protracted negotiations
over the question of Japan's textile ex-
ports to the U.S., but I am confident we
can find a solution which will be in our
mutual interest.
In the important area of foreign aid,
cooperation rather than competition is
the watchword. Japan announced during
the
year that it intended by 1975 to raise
its foreign assistance contribution to one
275
