[303] Sept. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
said, “Let's go to Kalispell," I said,
"Fine." But then people from Billings and
Bozeman and Butte said, "Why didn't
you come to our towns?"
Here, of course, it is expected that Port-
land, being the news center that it is,
would be the logical place to go, but I
could imagine that Eugene and a few
other places might say, "Why not there?"
Actually, in this case, I welcome that
we are going to Hanford, because it is
the center for a significant announcement
that we are going to make in the nuclear
area, and it is an area where there is great
interest statewide in what future pro-
grams will be.
The Chairman of the Atomic Energy
Commission, Dr. Schlesinger, is coming
there for the purpose of participating in
the briefing. And I believe that what is
good for Hanford is good for the whole
State of Washington.
I would add, finally, this is not the last
trip I will make to the Pacific Northwest,
I trust, while I am in office, and certainly
I would hope to visit Seattle on another
occasion.
is. As a matter of fact, we have been dis-
cussing this matter with various Indian
leaders for some time. As the Secretary
of the Interior—I don't know whether he
responded to this question himself---may
have told you-maybe he felt that he did
not have the right to-I have told him
that we should look at the whole bureauc-
racy with regard to our handling of In-
dian affairs and shake it up, and shake it
up good.
That is what he is doing at this point.
So to answer your question: We are
not satisfied. We are working on the prob-
lem, and we hope to do better. Frankly,
when you look at how we have handled
the Indian problem over the history of this
country, it is a disgrace. And much of it is
due to the fact that the bureaucracy feeds
on itself, defends itself, fights for the status
quo, and does very little, in my opinion,
for progress in the field.
That doesn't mean there are not some
good people in the Indian affairs depart-
ment. It just means that bureaucracy it-
self has not been effective in this area.
INDIAN AFFAIRS
[7] Q. A great number of American
Indian leaders, while still expressing sat-
isfaction with your announced Indian
policy last year, are extremely upset
with the BIA [Bureau of Indian Affairs],
and I know Chairman MacDonald of the
Navajo tribe was in Washington last week
to present the idea that the BIA should be
moved from the Interior Department to
direct jurisdiction of the White House.
Would you comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, frankly, I have
not been satisfied with the BIA, and I
don't think the Secretary of the Interior
MONTANA CONCERN OVER DOCK STRIKE
DISCUSSIONS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, you noted the
concern in Montana over the dock strike.
Does that concern in Montana from the
farmers have any bearing on what you
told the strike principals here this
afternoon?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it certainly does.
It was only coincidental, the fact that, out
in Montana, that farmers there, and, as a
matter of fact, Senator Mansfield, who
is a very powerful leader, the Democratic
leader of the Senate-that they hit that
issue very hard with me was a very per-
990
