Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
elected leaders of the present Government
but the disruption of all organized non-
Communist forces.
The fundamental question in the nego-
tiations, in short, is the means of allocating
political power in South Vietnam. The
other side wants to negotiate in Paris
an allotment of power that would assure
their dominance. Our proposals call for a
fair competitive process that would con-
sult the will of the South Vietnamese peo-
ple and reflect the existing relationship of
political forces.
We recognize that finding an appro-
priate and equitable means of expressing
South Vietnamese political will is a com-
plex task. There is little guidance to be
drawn from Vietnamese history. Never-
theless, if our adversaries ever make a
political decision to negotiate seriously,
believe we could find a way to reach a
solution fair for all parties. We know that
after we leave, the other side will still be
there. We know that for a settlement to
endure all parties must want it to endure.
We remain prepared to make a major
effort in the shaping of such a settlement.
Vietnamization
Although committed to a maximum ef-
fort to reach a negotiated end to the war,
we needed an alternative.
For negotiations were not entirely in
our hands. North Vietnamese history and
doctrine did not make for encouraging
prospects. Their calculus of the situation
in South Vietnam, and more particularly
in the United States, probably made them
believe that time was on their side. And
even if a settlement did come through
negotiations, it might take a long period.
At home we did not have the option of
continuing as we had-and the enemy
knew it. So we chose a policy that we be-
lieved would gain the sustained support
of the American people and thus give us
a chance both to fulfill our objectives in
Vietnam and to demonstrate to the other
side that time was not necessarily with
them. Such a policy seemed the only
chance of giving the South Vietnamese a
fair chance, and the best hope of inducing
the North Vietnamese to negotiate.
Thus the alternative, and hopefully the
spur, to negotiations, is Vietnamization
that I have described on several occasions.
This policy fulfills our objective of re-
ducing American involvement. It cannot,
except over a long period, end the war
altogether. Still, if Vietnamization leads
to perpetuating the war, it is not by our
design but because the other side refuses
to settle for anything less than a guaran-
teed takeover.
In last year's report I described the
successes of this program during its first
months, and attempted to determine the
depth and durability of this progress. We
posed four central uncertainties for the
future:
-the enemy's capability to mount sus-
tained operations and undo our
gains.
-the actual improvement in allied ca-
pabilities, particularly Vietnamese
leadership, logistics, tactics, and po-
litical sensitivity.
-the alternative strategies open to the
enemy, including protracted war-
fare, in which they could wait out
our withdrawals and then, with rein-
vigorated efforts, once again seize
the initiative.
-most importantly, the attitudes of
the Vietnamese people toward both
sides and the likelihood that pacifi-
cation gains would stick.
These issues certainly cannot be re-
255
