[195] June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Legislation enacted in recent months
permits the Federal government, for the
first time, to prepare for a leasing pro-
gram in the field of geothermal energy.
Classification of the lands involved is al-
ready underway in the Department of the
Interior. I am requesting the Secretary of
the Interior to expedite a final decision
on whether the first competitive lease sale
should be scheduled for this fall-taking
into account, of course, his evaluation of
the environmental impact statement.
3. NATURAL GAS SUPPLY
For the past 25 years, natural gas has
supplied much of the increase in the en-
ergy supply of the United States. Now this
relatively clean form of energy is in even
greater demand to help satisfy air qual-
ity standards. Our present supply of nat-
ural gas is limited, however, and we are
beginning to face shortages which could
intensify as we move to implement the
air quality standards. Additional supplies
of
gas will therefore be one of our most
urgent energy needs in the next few
years.
Federal efforts to augment the avail-
able supplies of natural gas include:
-Accelerated leasing on Federal lands
to speed discovery and development
of new natural
gas fields.
-Moving ahead with a demonstration
project to gasify coal.
-Recent actions by the Federal Power
Commission providing greater in-
centives for industry to increase its
search for new sources of natural gas
and to commit its discoveries to the
interstate market.
-Facilitating imports of both natural
and liquefied gas from Canada and
from other nations.
-Progress in nuclear stimulation ex-
periments which seek to produce nat-
ural gas from tight geologic forma-
tions which cannot presently be util-
ized in ways which are economically
and environmentally acceptable.
This administration is keenly aware of
the need to take every reasonable action
to enlarge the supply of clean gaseous
fuels. We intend to take such action and
we expect to get good results.
4. IMPORTS FROM CANADA
Over the years, the United States and
Canada have steadily increased their
trade in energy. The United States ex-
ports some coal to Canada, but the major
items of trade are oil and gas which are
surplus to Canadian needs but which find
a ready market in the United States.
The time has come to develop further
this mutually advantageous trading re-
lationship. The United States is therefore
prepared to move promptly to permit
Canadian crude oil to enter this country,
free of any quantitative restraints, upon
agreement as to measures needed to pre-
vent citizens of both our countries from
being subjected to oil shortages, or threats
of shortages. We are ready to proceed
with negotiations and we look to an early
conclusion.
5. TIMELY SUPPLIES OF NUCLEAR FUELS
The Nation's nuclear fuel supply is in
a state of transition. Military needs are
now relatively small but civilian needs are
growing rapidly and will be our dominant
need for nuclear fuel in the future. With
the exception of uranium enrichment, the
nuclear energy industry is now in private
hands.
I expect that private enterprise will
eventually assume the responsibility for
uranium enrichment as well, but in the
meantime the Government must carry
710
