Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 21 [148]
tion and employment in peaceful progress
rather than in revolution.
Third, we must be able to provide
prompt and effective assistance to coun-
tries struck by natural disaster or the
human consequences of political up-
heaval. Our humanitarian concerns for
mankind require that we be prepared to
help in times of acute human distress.
THE NEED FOR REFORM
We cannot effectively pursue these ob-
jectives in the 1970s with programs
devised for an earlier period. The world
has changed dramatically. Our foreign
assistance programs-like our overall for-
eign policy-must change to meet these
new conditions.
In my September special message to
the Congress I spelled out the major
changes in the world which require new
responses. Let me summarize them here:
-Today the lower income countries
are increasingly able to shoulder the
major responsibility for their own
security and development and they
clearly wish to do so. We share their
belief that they must take the lead
in charting their own security and
development. Our new foreign assist-
ance programs must therefore en-
courage the lower income countries
to set their own priorities and develop
their own programs, and enable us to
respond as our talents and resources
permit.
-Today the United States is but one
of many industrialized nations which
contribute to the security and devel-
opment of the lower income coun-
tries. We used to furnish the bulk
of international development assist-
ance; we now provide less than half.
The aid programs of other countries
have grown because they recognize
that they too have a major stake in
the orderly progress which foreign
assistance promotes, and because
their capabilities to provide such as-
sistance have grown enormously since
the earlier postwar period.
-Today the international institutions
can effectively mesh the initiatives
and efforts of the lower income coun-
tries and the aid efforts of all of the
industrialized countries. We can thus
place greater reliance on such in-
stitutions and encourage them to play
an increasing leadership role in the
world development process.
Our ideas on the reforms needed in the
world of the 1970s have evolved signifi-
cantly since I received the Report of my
Task Force on International Develop-
ment, chaired by Mr. Rudolph Peterson,
and since my special message of last Sep-
tember, as the result of our own delibera-
tions and our further consultations with
the Congress, the business community and
many other sectors of the American pub-
lic, and our friends abroad. Before spelling
out a new blueprint for our bilateral
assistance program, however, I wish to
report to you on the gratifying progress
achieved since last September in reorient-
ing our assistance policies.
PROGRESS TOWARD REFORM
First, the Congress in December passed
supplemental assistance legislation for FY
1971 which represented a major step in
implementing the security assistance com-
ponent of the Nixon Doctrine. This legis-
lation authorized additional funds for
military assistance and supporting eco-
nomic assistance for countries in which
71-234-72-39
565
