Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 9 [351]
people here, all of you who have con-
tributed so much, who have bought these
tickets. What you have done is to have
made this event, these dinners across this
Nation, the biggest event of its kind in a
nonelection year in America's history in
either party.
1
I congratulate the chairmen of the
committees, John Rollins, Bunny Lasker ยน
here in New York, all over America, and
all of you who have helped to work on
the dinner and, of course, those of you
who have purchased the tables, the tickets
to make this event a success.
Now let me speak about the event, if I
can. This is a great event. It is also a great
time in the history of a country. As you
know, we have just entered the Bicen-
tennial Era of the United States of Amer-
ica. In 1776, and now in 1976, 200 years
later, we celebrate the 200th anniversary
of America's birth as a nation.
At such a time, it seems to me--and at
even an event like this, when ordinarily
we would talk in more partisan terms-
that this is a time to look to the future,
rather than to the past. This is a time in
which we speak not just of the next elec-
tion, but more of the next generation.
This is a time when we do not speak of a
Republican agenda or a Democratic
agenda, but the agenda of America for
the future of America. This is the time for
that.
As we think of this event and this time,
we realize that such a time and such an
event deserve a great cause. I submit to all
of
you in this room, all of you on tele-
vision, that we have such a cause tonight.
Three years ago I recall speaking in
New York during the election campaign
1 John W. Rollins, Sr., was national chairman
of the dinners and Bernard Lasker was chair-
man of the New York dinner.
at such a dinner as this. At that time the
challenge that we confronted was a very
great one: It was to end a war in which
there was no end in sight. And now we
have a different challenge: It is to win
a peace in which peace is in sight. And
that is a great challenge for Americans
and a very different one for us.
Governor Rockefeller has spoken very
generously of the initiatives that we have
undertaken for peace. You know our goal.
It is more than simply peace in the sense
of the absence of war. It is more than
simply ending one war and trying to avoid
another one. But it is to build something
that Americans have not had in this cen-
tury: a full generation of peace, and then
beyond that.
This, in truth, is a great goal. The first
step toward that, of course, is to end the
war in which we are presently engaged,
and we are doing that in a way that will
contribute to that lasting peace. And then
we are taking other steps, other steps that
look far beyond, beyond the elections,
beyond even the turn of the century.
Governor Rockefeller referred to the
trips to Peking and to Moscow. No one
should be so naive as to assume that these
two journeys are going to settle great
philosophical differences between our na-
tion and theirs. Those differences will re-
main, and peace will not be a reality
simply because there has been a meeting
at the highest level.
But I think we can say this with regard
to such meetings between the leaders of
the United States of America and the
leaders, on the one hand, of the Soviet
Union and, on the other hand, of the
People's Republic of China: With con-
tinued confrontation between the United
States and the Soviet Union and the
People's Republic of China there would
1087
