Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 14 [397]
domestic wage-price stability and produc-
tivity would make toward international
equilibrium and the defense of the new
dollar exchange rate.
The Presidents agreed that discussion
should be undertaken promptly in appro-
priate forums to resolve fundamental and
interrelated issues of monetary reform.
NOTE: The joint statement was released at
Angra do Heroísmo on Terceira Island, the
Azores.
On December 13, 1971, the White House re-
leased the transcript of remarks by Secretary
of State William P. Rogers and French Minister
of Foreign Affairs Maurice Schumann on trade
and foreign policy matters following their meet-
ing in the Azores. The remarks are printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 7, p. 1656).
397
On the same day, the White House also
released the transcript of a news briefing by
Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally on
economic and monetary affairs following his
discussions in the Azores with French Minister
of Economy and Finance Valéry Giscard d'Es-
taing. The briefing is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
7, p. 1658).
On December 15, the President met with the
bipartisan leadership of the Congress to brief
them on the monetary and financial aspects of
his trip to the Azores. Following the meeting,
Senators Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott,
Speaker of the House Carl Albert, Representa-
tives Hale Boggs and Gerald R. Ford, and Clark
MacGregor, Counsel to the President for Con-
gressional Relations, held a news conference.
A transcript of it was released by the White
House and is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p.
1666).
Remarks at Andrews Air Force Base on Returning
From the Azores. December 14, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
As you know, we have just returned
from an historic meeting in the Azores
with President Pompidou. President Pom-
pidou and I agreed, at the conclusion of
our meeting, that our joint statement that
has been issued to the press and some brief
oral statements that we made would be
the only statements we would make at this
time. However, Secretary Connally, on the
international economic front, and Secre-
tary Rogers, on the international issues
other than economic, will give you a brief
fill-in of the other matters that were cov-
ered. I will say nothing more because of
our understanding with the President that
we would both at this point stand on what
we have already said.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
4:15 p.m. at Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally
spoke as follows:
Thank you. With respect to the international
monetary affairs, I would simply like to say
that the communiqué that was issued by the
two Presidents was not specific in its treat-
ment of the many items that were discussed.
This was partially, deliberately so designed for
the simple reason that our international mone-
tary problems encompass the actions and the
reactions of a great many more countries than
just the United States and France. Conse-
quently, we are not in a position to divulge
all of the details of the discussion. I think it is
fair to say that the meeting between the two
Presidents resulted in a very significant step
forward-looking toward the settlement of the
international monetary problems that exist. The
Group of Ten meeting which will occur here
this weekend hopefully will bring us even closer
to a solution. I would not now predict that
we will finally settle it this weekend because I
can't prejudice the actions of other nations. I
will say that, beyond any question, the very
significant step that results from the meeting
of the two Presidents will contribute enor-
mously toward an alternate solution and an
early solution.
I 191
