[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
on two measures which seek to achieve the
same goal of job creation through two
quite different approaches.
One meets the test. Another does not.
I hope the two Houses of Congress will
soon vote final passage of the Emergency
Employment Act of 1971 (S. 31), on
which the Conference Committee has now
completed its report, which would create
new job opportunities in the public sec-
tor. However, I am returning without
my approval S. 575, which among its
other provisions would attempt to deal
with unemployment through a $2 billion
program of accelerated public works.
The administration has been working
closely with Congressional leaders on the
Emergency Employment Act of 1971 in
an effort to ensure its adoption in a form
permitting States and localities to move
quickly, and on a sound and responsible
basis, to create new job opportunities in
the public sector. In the form agreed to
by the Conference Committee, it would
do so. Like the provision for 200,000 pub-
lic service jobs in the welfare reform bill
passed by the House, it would mark a use-
ful addition to the existing programs―
including Operation Mainstream and the
administration's own Public Service Ca-
reers program—which are currently pro-
viding public service job opportunities for
the unemployed.
In December of last year I disapproved
a manpower measure passed by the Con-
gress, because in the form in which it was
passed it would have created dead-end
jobs amounting to a system of perma-
nent subsidized public employment. How-
ever, I have made it clear that the ad-
ministration considers that our unmet
needs in the public sector provide an
opportunity to combat joblessness by
bringing unemployed men and women
into the labor force in selected areas and
appropriate circumstances. We have
stressed one key point: that these created
jobs must be transitional—that is, they
must be a bridge to permanent, produc-
tive jobs, not a substitute for them.
The action taken thus far this year by
the Congress on the Emergency Employ-
ment Act of 1971 deals effectively with
these concerns. Public employment is de-
fined as "transitional." It is targeted on
locally-supported jobs of proven need.
Moreover, the bill, as it has been agreed
to in Conference, would be limited to two
years and would be triggered when na-
tional unemployment exceeds 4.5%.
I am particularly gratified that the
Emergency Employment Act as currently
drawn extends special consideration to
recent veterans. The level of unemploy-
ment among veterans who have served
their country so well and so bravely is un-
conscionable. The Emergency Employ-
ment Act would be an installment on re-
paying the debt that we owe them.
Furthermore, leaders in both bodies of
the Congress have indicated that, as soon
as action on the Emergency Employment
Act of 1971 is completed, they will move
with dispatch to hold hearings, and then
make every effort to obtain favorable ac-
tion, on broader manpower reform legis-
lation this year. They will include in these
deliberations the administration's pro-
posal for Manpower Special Revenue
Sharing.
In terms of its capacity for generating
new jobs quickly, the accelerated public
works approach-as embodied in S. 575-
at best comes out a poor and distant
second. Among its deficiencies are these:
Construction projects have notori-
ously long lead times. Experience
under the original Public Works Ac-
786
