[204] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
sions, it will give people a chance to have
something to say, more to say, about their
government-what is done with their tax
money, what programs they want, rather
than what programs some bureaucrats in
Washington may want.
Now we come to the problem of drugs,
which I know has probably already been
fairly well covered and it has been more
recently covered in your newspapers and
television and radio programs last night
and this morning since I presented it to
the bipartisan leaders and then to the
press yesterday.
I would like to summarize briefly the
attitude with regard to the traffic in illegal
drugs by knocking down some miscon-
ceptions.
First, that drug addiction is a ghetto
problem.
It used to be. However, the fastest rising
use of drugs now is not in the ghettos, but
in the suburban, higher income neighbor-
hoods, and among groups in many of the
so-called better families, and particularly
those families with children in high school
and some of the better colleges and univer-
sities, if we are able to select between
better and not better.
Second, it has been assumed that the
drug problem was primarily a nonwhite
problem.
It used to be. However, the fastest rise
in drug addiction is not at the present
time among blacks. It is among whites.
And whites have now substantially passed
blacks in terms of the use of drugs-still
it is a very serious problem among blacks.
As Congressman Rangel, who is
the Congressman, as you know, from New
York, very eloquently said when I met
with the Black Caucus, this, he thought,
was the major problem in his particular
district that we could deal with.
Nevertheless, we must not sit here and
believe that it is simply a primarily non-
white problem.
And, finally, the idea that, as far as the
drug problem is concerned, it is one that
has simply arisen because of the involve-
ment in Vietnam.
It is true that young men who go to
Vietnam are able to purchase heroin at
lower prices than they could in their envi-
ronments at home. But a recent study
indicated-and these statistics, of course,
are not as complete as they might be--
it is estimated that 50 percent, approxi-
mately, of the young men who
who go into the
armed services and go to Vietnam, or
Europe for that matter, before they go
into the service have tried drugs of one
kind or another. Of course, what this
indicates is that the problem is national in
scope. It is one that crosses all lines of the
economy, the poor as well as those that are
not poor, black and white, primarily
young, and, therefore, it is one, since it
works primarily on the young, that can be
so destructive to the character of the
country.
As you know, we have a four-point
program. One that will deal with the
supply. And I have instructed the Am-
bassadors that they should have, of course,
great concern about foreign policy; but
that we can have the most successful
foreign policy in the world, good relations
with any country in the world, and if we
destroy the character of our young people
in this country it isn't going to make any
difference. Therefore, we have got to put
stopping the drug traffic, stopping the
source of supply, first in the various coun-
tries where it is a problem, and we are
doing that.
Second, in the field of enforcement,
here the Secretary of the Treasury has a
754
