Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 4 [43]
1
make it the healthiest nation in the world.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:26 a.m. in the
Sheraton Park Hotel.
Following the President's remarks, Dr. Wil-
liam A. Sodeman presented the College's 1971
Humanitarian Award to the President. The
text of the citation read as follows:
Richard Milhous Nixon
First Citizen of The United States,
Dynamic Aggressive Leader of Our Country,
In appreciation of your successful role as
defender of the civil and personal rights of man,
at home and abroad,
As effector of programs to remove poverty,
hunger, and environmental factors detrimental
to the health of man,
As instigator of activities to better social
welfare for those citizens deprived of such
benefits,
As advocate of means and measures to ex-
pand and make more effective health and medi-
cal education in our country,
As champion of measures to elevate health
and medical care for all in our Nation, and
As the moving spirit in bringing to our
Nation peace, with honor,
The Board of Trustees of the American Col-
lege of Cardiology has directed me, as its Presi-
dent, to present to you the
1971
Humanitarian Award
of the
American College of Cardiology
Given this Fourth Day of February, in the
Year of our Lord, One Thousand Nine Hun-
dred Seventy-One, in the One Hundred Ninety
Fifth year of the founding of our Country and
in the Twenty Second year of the College.
William A. Sodeman, M.D., F.A.C.C.
President of the College
43 Special Message to the Congress Proposing a General
Revenue Sharing Program.
To the Congress of the United States:
One of the best things about the Amer-
ican Constitution, George Washington
suggested shortly after it was written, was
that it left so much room for change. For
this meant that future generations would
have a chance to continue the work which
began in Philadelphia.
Future generations took full advantage
of that opportunity. For nearly two tur-
bulent centuries, they continually re-
shaped their government to meet chang-
ing public needs. As a result, our politi-
cal institutions have grown and developed
with a changing, growing nation.
Today, the winds of change are blow-
ing more vigorously than ever across our
country and the responsiveness of govern-
ment is being tested once again. Whether
our institutions will rise again to this chal-
February 4, 1971
lenge now depends on the readiness of our
generation to "think anew and act anew,"
on our ability to find better ways of
governing.
BETTER WAYS OF GOVERNING
Across America today, growing num-
bers of men and women are fed up with
government as usual. For government as
usual too often means government which
has failed to keep pace with the times.
Government talks more and taxes more,
but too often it fails to deliver. It grows
bigger and costlier, but our problems only
seem to get worse. A gap has opened in
this country between the worlds of prom-
ise and performance—and the gap is be-
coming a gulf that separates hope from
accomplishment. The result has been a
113
