Richard Nixon, 1971
May 7 [161]
II, and the brothers of those who were
in World War II fought in Korea, and
the sons of those who were in World War
II fought in Vietnam.
Now the question is whether that
dreary, dreary practice of the past is to
be repeated? It is our responsibility in
positions of foreign policy leadership to do
all that we can diplomatically to end this
war and to build the structure of peace
so that Americans can have real peace,
and lasting peace, a generation of peace
in this last third of a century. That is one
side of it.
But peace is something more than sim-
ply the absence of war. Peace means creat-
ing, giving, making a contribution to the
betterment of our own people and to the
betterment of people throughout the
world. And who better understands that
than the men and women of American
agriculture?
Dr. Borlaug received the Peace Prize
and I would provide certainly the peace
prize for hundreds of thousands, yes, mil-
lions, of farmers and farm families who
will make it possible in this last third of
a century, after the world is at peace in
terms of absence of war, for us to be crea-
tive, creative and helpful, in helping other
nations to develop the capacity to feed
themselves and to remove what would
otherwise be a time bomb which would
explode and involve us and all other na-
tions in the world, if those who do not
have enough to eat lose faith, lose hope
that they will ever get it.
That need not happen. It will not
happen. It will not happen because I
think we are going to play that role. And
I think you are going to help play that
role.
So in a sense today I am saying to you:
Thanks to American agriculture for mak-
ing us the best fed, the best clothed peo-
ple in America; thanks to American
agriculture for providing the basic indus-
try that is essential for any nation to be
strong in many other fields. We are the
richest nation in the world. And thanks to
American agriculture for providing for the
Government of the United States the op-
portunity to play a role in peace, to build
a peace, a peace that will last.
You are playing a role that is far more
important than simply how many bushels
of wheat, or corn, or what is the price of
this or that or the other thing. All of those
things are naturally important in terms of
the day-to-day or month-to-month or
year-to-year decisions that you make.
But American agriculture plays a
fundamental role in this great objective
that all of us Americans want to achieve,
and that is that the United States in this
last third of a century—once we have
brought peace, as far as we are concerned,
to that area of the world in which we are
involved-will be able to build a stronger
peace, a more lasting peace among people
who will finally appreciate that America,
from the time of its beginning, has not
been interested in conquest, that America
now is not concerned about expanding in
terms of our domination over others, but
that the American people, despite our fail-
ures, despite our mistakes, that we are a
generous people, we are an idealistic peo-
ple. We want, of course, to take care of
ourselves, but we also welcome the op-
portunity to help others.
And it is the idealism, it is the character
of the heartland of America represented
here today to which I particularly want to
pay tribute. America owes a great deal
for what you have done. And, looking to
the future, as peace comes and as we build
a stronger basis for peace, I can assure you
627
