[156] May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
about the economy up to this point, made
a statement recently to the effect that he
thought those who were criticizing the Ad-
ministration on the economy might find
that they might not have an issue next
year.
Now, I am not making any predictions
about what is going to happen each
month, but I do believe that we are on
the right track as far as the economy is
concerned.
I do believe that what we are doing has
now checked the rise in unemployment.
There may be zigs and zags, up and down,
but the long-range goal of the Admin-
istration is one that is achievable. I
will also point out that this is an activist
Administration, as my answer to Mr.
Oberdorfer's [Don Oberdorfer, Wash-
ington Post] question a little while ago
indicated. Where I think that action can
be taken to stimulate the economy, we are
going to take it. And if I find, as we look
at the April figures and then the May
figures and the June figures, that this
economy is not moving as fast as it should
move to deal with the unemployment
problem, then we will act. We will act
on the tax front and other fronts.
I do not see anything to be gained by
calling a conference on the problem. We
are quite aware of it, and I can only say
that we are doing something and achiev-
ing something that was not achieved in the
8 years while we were not in Washington.
And that is that we are achieving an econ-
omy that is strong, and we trust one in
which we will have a strong economy and
a prosperous economy, but without having
it at the cost of war.
We want to remember we did not have
low unemployment except at the cost of
war in the 8 years between 1961 to 1969.
It is that that this Administration is work-
ing on.
SUBPOENAS OF NEWSMEN'S NOTES
AND FILMS
[5] Q. Mr. President, in the back-
ground of this question is the effort of a
Congressional subcommittee to subpoena
film which was made for, but never used
in a news documentary.
THE PRESIDENT. By CBS.
Q. By CBS. Also NBC. Also in the
background of the question, of course, are
various pressures and counterpressures
which some of us believe we see from your
own Administration.
In December 1969, the Republican U.S.
Senate Policy Committee issued the fol-
lowing statement as a matter of their
policy. The question is whether you agree
or disagree with this, and also I would
like to get your comments on this general
area of subpoenaing newsmen's notes and
unused film. The Policy Committee state-
ment was, "Whether news is fair or
unfair, objective or biased, accurate or
careless, is left to the consciences of the
commentators, producers and network of-
ficials themselves. Government does not
and cannot play any role in its
presentation."
THE PRESIDENT. Let me address myself
first to the quotation. I think the quota-
tion states a principle that most Ameri-
cans would support. However, I do not
believe that that means that network
commentators or newspaper reporters, as
distinguished from editorial writers who,
of course, have a right to every bias and
should express such bias, are above criti-
cism, and they shouldn't be sensitive
about it.
608
