Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
-pledged financial support to increase
the capabilities of the Inter-Ameri-
can Development Bank and CIAP
to prepare projects for financing by
development lenders.
-permitted CIAP to participate in the
planning of U.S. bilateral develop-
ment loans for the hemisphere.
-eased restrictions so that our neigh-
bors may now spend aid dollars else-
where in Latin America or the de-
veloping world.
-supported the expanded technical
assistance programs of the OAS Sec-
retariat General and Specialized
Organizations.
-extended financial assistance to
the Central American Common
Market and the Caribbean Free
Trade Area.
Inter-American mechanisms for non-
economic problems were improved as
well. Several important revisions in the
OAS Charter took effect last February:
the creation of an annual OAS General
Assembly; the upgrading of the IA-ECO-
SOC and the Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Council; and the assignment of
peaceful settlement functions to the OAS
Permanent Council.
POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION TO
DEVELOPMENT
The United States has a great interest
in furthering economic and social develop-
ment in Latin America. If frustration
continues to grow, radical forces will de-
pict us as an obstacle to national devel-
opment. We could become increasingly
alienated from our hemisphere neigh-
bors. Instead, our resources, knowledge,
and influence in the world community
can provide the margin of support which
helps make progress possible.
Exports represent the most reliable
long-term source of foreign exchange for
our friends. To help them increase their
exports is to help them reduce depend-
ence and enhance self-respect.
Latin American countries face discrim-
ination in many trading markets in which
industrialized nations offer preferential
tariffs to other developing countries, such
as the European Common Market's spe-
cial treatment for African and Mediter-
ranean exports. In 1970, on behalf of our
hemispheric partners, we pressed hard in
the Organization for Economic Coopera-
tion and Development and in the UN
Conference on Trade and Development
for a generalized scheme of preferences
which all developed countries would ap-
ply to all developing countries. We
achieved agreement among the developed
nations to go forward with comparable
systems of generalized preferences. These
would significantly reduce discrimination
now faced by Latin American countries
as well as give them preferential treat-
ment in our market. And our own prefer-
ence list pays attention to items of par-
ticular interest to Latin America.
To further help our partners earn for-
eign exchange, we made available di-
rect technical assistance for export de-
velopment and for the promotion of
tourism.
In some Latin American countries a
serious debt service burden eats up for-
eign exchange. Heavy borrowings for es-
sential development funds may reach a
point at which the repayments absorb a
disproportionate share of their earnings.
With our strong support, CIAP elicited
the cooperation of other creditor nations
71-234-72-19
245
