Richard Nixon, 1971
June 17 [203]
of the drug equation-to halt the drug
traffic by striking at the illegal producers
of drugs, the growing of those plants from
which drugs are derived, and trafficking
in these drugs beyond our borders.
America has the largest number of
heroin addicts of any nation in the world.
And yet, America does not grow opium-
of which heroin is a derivative-nor does
it manufacture heroin, which is a labora-
tory process carried out abroad. This
deadly poison in the American lifestream
is, in other words, a foreign import. In
the last year, heroin seizures by Federal
agencies surpassed the total seized in the
previous ten years. Nevertheless, it is esti-
mated that we are stopping less than 20
percent of the drugs aimed at this Nation.
No serious attack on our national drug
problem can ignore the international im-
plications of such an effort, nor can the
domestic effort succeed without attacking
the problem on an international plane. I
intend to do that.
A COORDINATED FEDERAL RESPONSE
Not very long ago, it was possible for
Americans to persuade themselves, with
some justification, that narcotic addiction
was a class problem. Whether or not this
was an accurate picture is irrelevant to-
day, because now the problem is universal.
But despite the increasing dimensions of
the problem, and despite increasing con-
sciousness of the problem, we have made
little headway in understanding what is
involved in drug abuse or how to deal
with it.
The very nature of the drug abuse prob-
lem has meant that its extent and se-
riousness have been shrouded in secrecy,
not only by the criminal elements who
profit from drug use, but by the drug users
themselves the people whom society is
attempting to reach and help. This fact
has added immeasurably to the difficulties
of medical assistance, rehabilitation, and
government action to counter drug abuse,
and to find basic and permanent methods
to stop it. Even now, there are no precise
national statistics as to the number of
drug-dependent citizens in the United
States, the rate at which drug abuse is in-
creasing, or where and how this increase
is taking place. Most of what we think we
know is extrapolated from those few
States and cities where the dimensions of
the problem have forced closer attention,
including the maintenance of statistics.
A large number of Federal Government
agencies are involved in efforts to fight
the drug problem either with new pro-
grams or by expanding existing programs.
Many of these programs are still experi-
mental in nature. This is appropriate. The
problems of drug abuse must be faced on
many fronts at the same time, and we do
not yet know which efforts will be most
successful. But we must recognize that
piecemeal efforts, even where individually
successful, cannot have a major impact on
the drug abuse problem unless and until
they are forged together into a broader
and more integrated program involving
all levels of government and private effort.
We need a coordinated effort if we are to
move effectively against drug abuse.
The magnitude of the problem, the na-
tional and international implications of
the problem, and the limited capacities of
States and cities to deal with the problem
all reinforce the conclusion that coordina-
tion of this effort must take place at the
highest levels of the Federal Government.
Therefore, I propose the establishment
of a central authority with overall respon-
sibility for all major Federal drug abuse
741
