[362] Nov. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
tan development in the years ahead. I
strongly urge the Congress, therefore, to
take appropriate action at once to end the
present delay and to prevent any more
such derailments of METRO progress.
We have come to a critical juncture.
Obedience to the law is at stake. A huge
363
investment is at stake. The well-being of
the Capital area is at stake. It is time for
responsible men to join in responsible ac-
tion and cut this Gordian knot.
NOTE: On the same day, Representative Joel T.
Broyhill of Virginia met with the President at
the White House to discuss Washington metro-
politan area highways and the METRO.
Remarks to the AFL-CIO Ninth Constitutional
Convention in Bal Harbour, Florida. November 19, 1971
President Meany, all the other presidents
on the platform, and the vice presidents in
the audience:
I am very honored for the first time as
President of the United States to speak
before the AFL-CIO Convention. In
speaking on this occasion, I have brought
with me a prepared text. I have given that
text out to the press. I am not going to
read that text to you today.
I want to say to all the press, though,
who have already written their stories,
that they can print it, and I stand behind
it. The text contains the usual laundry
list that a President of the United States
is supposed to go over when he appears
before the AFL-CIO or any other labor
convention. I am very proud of this list.
Secretary Hodgson will be covering some
of these items in his address.
The record of this Administration, in
terms of safety, in terms of unemployment
insurance, in other areas that don't re-
ceive the great publicity, is well-known to
the leaders on this platform and to the
leaders in this audience. We are proud
of the record in those areas, areas where
we agree. But rather than reading that
text, I am going to do something that I
believe President Meany will appreciate,
and all of the others here that I have met
so often in the Cabinet Room over the
past
3 years. You like it straight from the shoul-
der. I am going to talk to you about our
differences, and I am also going to talk
to you about some areas where we agree,
and there are several of both, as you
know.
In talking about those differences and
where we agree, I would like to address
myself first to a question that I noticed
has been speculated on in the press, and
it was one, as a matter of fact, that was
raised by some of my own advisers in the
White House.
Putting it quite bluntly, one of them
said, "Why are you going?" They said,
“You know a majority of those that are
going to be at this great convention are
against you politically, a majority of those
who are going to be there at this conven-
tion are against your party. Why do you
go?"
I will tell you why I came here: Be-
cause while some of you may be against
me politically, and some of you may be
against my party, I know from the experi-
ence over the past 3 years that when the
chips are down organized labor is for
America, and that is why I am here before
this convention today.
I could give you a number of examples
where that has been true. President
1118
