[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
taking the initiative in diplomacy. Chan-
cellor Brandt pursued West Germany's
Eastern Policy, seeking reconciliation with
Germany's neighbors in Central and East-
ern Europe; Prime Minister Heath, in
his Guildhall address on November 16,
declared his intention to see that British
policies are determined by British
interests.
Our allies' new spirit of independence,
reflecting as it does their vitality as na-
tions, can be a source of strength. But
our cohesion, too, is a source of strength,
which makes possible the freedom of ac-
tion of individual allies. We must learn to
reconcile autonomy and unity. This is
America's commitment, and the Alliance's
challenge.
But the necessary transition to an equal
partnership is still in progress.
In the postwar period of American
predominance, Americans became accus-
tomed to view Alliance issues in largely
technical terms, for we were in a position.
to devise strategies and programs uni-
laterally. Our partners often automatically
accepted our prescriptions, as a way to
win influence over our actions. This di-
minished their sense of involvement, and
encouraged a sense of dependency.
Today their attitudes are ambivalent.
They still look to America for leadership
in European diplomacy and defense even
while they assert their autonomy. They
still presuppose a strong American mili-
tary presence in Europe even while they
no longer act as dependent. It is not sur-
prising that many of the assumptions of
1949 should no longer apply to our rela-
tionship in 1971. But how should we de-
fine our respective roles today? This is
the key question which we and our allies
must face openly and frankly together in
the period ahead.
When I came into office, I made a per-
sonal commitment to strengthening the
ties of the West:
-My first foreign trip at the start of
my term was to Western Europe, to
seek the benefit of our allies' wisdom
and experience in world affairs. My
first stop was to meet with the North
Atlantic Council in Brussels, and I
then conferred in turn with the heads
of state and government of Belgium,
Great Britain, West Germany, Italy,
and France.
-In 1970, I sought the views and coun-
sel of Prime Ministers Wilson, Heath,
and Baunsgaard, President Pompi-
dou, Chancellor Brandt, and Allied
foreign ministers, who paid official
visits to Washington. In January
1970, Prime Minister Wilson became
the first foreign head of government
to attend a meeting of our own Na-
tional Security Council, as he took
part in our deliberation on policy
toward Europe.
-Last fall, I travelled to Europe again,
visiting Britain and Italy and
NATO's Southern Headquarters in
Naples, where I met with NATO
Secretary General Brosio and senior
Allied military commanders. Because
peace in the Mediterranean-one of
the focuses of my trip-is not a con-
cern of NATO alone, I called on our
valued friends in Spain, conferred
at Naples with all our Ambassadors
to Mediterranean countries, and vis-
ited non-aligned Yugoslavia-to
deepen my understanding of the
views and concerns of countries be-
yond the Alliance who all have a
stake in peace in the region.
-The United States has consulted con-
tinuously in NATO on the status and
230
