Appendix B
February
26 The national commander of Disabled
American Veterans, Cecil W. Stevenson,
met with the President to present an
album of stamps commemorating the
DAV's 50th anniversary and honoring
prisoners of war and those missing and
killed in action.
26 Bonnie Cook, 1971 Poster Child of the
National Association for Retarded Chil-
dren, called on the President at the White
House.
March
2 Ambassadors Abdessadek el Glaoui of Mo-
rocco and Orlando Letelier of Chile pre-
sented their credentials to the President
in a ceremony in the Blue Room at the
White House.
2 Rudolph A. Peterson, chairman of the
executive committee, Bank of America, met
with the President at the White House.
2 Turgut Menemencioglu, Secretary Gen-
eral of the Central Treaty Organization,
called on the President at the White House.
2 Peter Jon Heltemes, 6, of Rockville, Md.,
National Easter Seal Child, called on the
President at the White House to present
the first issue of 1971 Easter Seals. He was
accompanied by Robert Young, National
Easter Seal Chairman.
2 Kenneth T. Lyons, president of the Na-
tional Association of Government Em-
ployees, called on the President at the
White House.
3 The White House announced that Dr. Ed-
ward E. David, Jr., Science Adviser to the
President, chaired a working conference
with representatives of private industry,
university and college faculties, and Gov-
ernment, to discuss employment problems
of scientists and engineers in the aerospace
and defense industries. The meeting was
called at the initiative of the President.
5 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York
met with the President at the White House
to discuss revenue sharing programs and
Government reorganization.
March
8 President Zalman Shazar of Israel met with
the President at the White House.
8 Representatives of Research To Prevent
Blindness, Inc., met with the President at
the White House. The President presented
the organization's first membership plaque
to Dr. A. Edward Maumenee, director of
the Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute at
Johns Hopkins University Medical Center.
8 The National Farm Family of the Year,
Mr. and Mrs. Gerritt Boerema and their
four children, of Hyde County, N.C., called
on the President at the White House. They
were selected in the first annual Farm
Family of the Year contest sponsored by
the Farmers Home Administration.
9 Richard Dusterberg of Cincinnati, Ohio,
presented a copy of his book, "The Official
Inaugural Medals," to the President at
the White House. He was accompanied
by Senator Robert Taft, Jr., of Ohio.
9 A delegation from Whately, Mass., accom-
panied by Representative Silvio O. Conte,
met with the President to present a com-
memorative coin in honor of the town's
200th anniversary.
9 Representative Manuel Lujan, Jr., of New
Mexico called on the President to present
a ticket for the World Series of the Babe
Ruth League in Albuquerque, N. Mex., on
August 21-28.
9 Representatives of the Legislative Coun-
cil of Retired Persons were greeted by the
President at the White House.
10 The President has acted to resolve split
decisions by the United States Tariff Com-
mission in two cases: one relating to ampi-
cillin and one regarding the availability of
adjustment assistance benefits for H. H.
Scott, Inc., of Maynard, Mass., a high
fidelity equipment manufacturing firm.
II Ambassador Gerard C. Smith, chief of the
United States delegation to the strategic
arms limitation talks, met with the Presi-
dent prior to his departure for Vienna for
resumption of the talks.
1250
