[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Puerto Vallarta in August will, when
ratified, resolve all existing border prob-
lems and establish procedures for treat-
ing future ones. Our countries' relations
have never been closer. They were fur-
ther cemented by my two meetings with
Mexico's President and one with her then
President-elect. They reflect a mutual
respect and cooperation that is our object
throughout the hemisphere.
In moving toward this goal, we seek
to develop positive collaboration suited to
the realities of this decade. It is a change
in concept and style, not in commitment.
We will offer ideas and leadership, but our
common programs will need the ideas and
leadership of our partners as well. Work-
ing with our friends on a joint agenda,
our new approach will stress:
-sharing responsibility within the
inter-American community.
-positive U.S. support of development
efforts.
-respect for national dignity and ac-
commodation to diversity.
-humanitarian concern.
SHARING RESPONSIBILITY
With our great material and technical
resources we have often been tempted to
do for others what we thought was best
for them. But the modernization process
takes hold only when other countries have
the incentive to commit their talents fully
for purposes they consider their own. In
the past two years, we have moved from a
predominant role to shared responsibility
by helping to reshape inter-American in-
stitutions and by modifying our participa-
tion in them.
A milestone was the gathering of
twenty-two Latin American governments
in Vina del Mar, Chile, in May 1969 to
formulate and pool their ideas on devel-
opment and particularly how the U.S.
might help. Their proposals-the Con-
sensus of Vina del Mar-were then pre-
sented to me. Together with the Rocke-
feller Report and our own studies, they
formed the essential ingredients of our
policy review in the National Security
Council.
Thus the measures we announced in
October 1969 responded to their ideas and
their concerns as well as to our own
interests.
We then negotiated the details of many
of the proposals in meetings of the Inter-
American Economic and Social Council
(IA-ECOSOC), the principal forum of
the Organization of American States for
development and trade. It was a new ex-
perience and a difficult adjustment. We
deliberately concentrated on eliciting their
contributions rather than taking most of
the initiatives ourselves. Together we
reached agreement on steps to improve
development assistance, increase the trans-
fer of technology, and expand trade. The
results were more meaningful because
they were jointly formulated.
In 1970, for the first time, the United
States submitted its economic policies af-
fecting the hemisphere for review by the
Inter-American Committee for the Al-
liance for Progress (CIAP), as other
hemisphere nations have done for many
years. This symbolized our commitment
to equal partnership, increased Latin
American understanding of our policies,
and heightened our sensitivity to the great
impact of our economy on the region.
To foster collaboration in planning and
managing development assistance, we:
-provided financial support for the
staff of CIAP to play a greater role
in setting development priorities.
244
