Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
costs can be sharply curtailed. Physicians
benefit from the stimulation that comes
from working with fellow professionals
who can share their problems, appreciate
their accomplishments and readily offer
their counsel and assistance. HMO's offer
doctors other advantages as well, includ-
ing a more regular work schedule, better
opportunities for continuing education,
lesser financial risks upon first entering
practice, and generally lower rates for
malpractice insurance.
Some seven million Americans are now
enrolled in HMO's-and the number is
growing. Studies show that they are receiv-
ing high quality care at a significantly
lower cost as much as one-fourth to one-
third lower than traditional care in some
areas. They go to hospitals less often and
they spend less time there when they go.
Days spent in the hospital each year for
those who belong to HMO's are only
three-fourths of the national average.
Patients and practitioners alike are
enthusiastic about this organizational
concept. So is this administration. That is
why we proposed legislation last March
to enable Medicare recipients to join
such programs. That is why I am now
making the following additional
recommendations:
1. We should require public and pri-
vate health insurance plans to allow bene-
ficiaries to use their plan to purchase
membership in a Health Maintenance
Organization when one is available.
When, for example, a union and an em-
ployer negotiate a contract which includes
health insurance for all workers, each
worker should have the right to apply the
actuarial value of his coverage toward the
purchase of a fixed-price, health main-
tenance program. Similarly, both Medi-
care and the new Family Health Insur-
ance Plan for the poor which I will set
out later in this message should provide
an HMO option.
2. To help new HMO's get started-
an expensive and complicated task-we
should establish a new $23 million pro-
gram of planning grants to aid potential
sponsors-in both the private and public
sector.
3. At the same time, we should provide
additional support to help sponsors raise
the necessary capital, construct needed
facilities, and sustain initial operating
deficits until they achieve an enrollment
which allows them to pay their own way.
For this purpose, I propose a program of
Federal loan guarantees which will enable
private sponsors to raise some $300 million
in private loans during the first year of
the program.
4. Other barriers to the development
of HMO's include archaic laws in 22
States which prohibit or limit the group
practice of medicine and laws in most
States which prevent doctors from dele-
gating certain responsibilities (like giving
injections) to their assistants. To help
remove such barriers, I am instructing
the Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare to develop a model statute which
the States themselves can adopt to correct
these anomalies. In addition, the Federal
Government will facilitate the develop-
ment of HMO's in all States by entering
into contracts with them to provide serv-
ice to Medicare recipients and other
Federal beneficiaries who elect such pro-
grams. Under the supremacy clause of
the Constitution, these contracts will oper-
ate to preempt any inconsistent State
statutes.
Our program to promote the use of
HMO's is only one of the efforts we will
be making to encourage a more efficient
175
