Richard Nixon, 1971
May 29
29 [187]
ored at a luncheon at the White House.
King Faisal responded to the President's
welcome in Arabic. His remarks were trans-
lated simultaneously by an interpreter, as
follows:
In the name of God, the Merciful and the
Beneficient, Mr. President, it is a great pleasure
for me to meet with Your Excellency in this
great country. Undoubtedly I am no stranger to
this country. But I do believe that our meet-
ing under these circumstances will prove fruit-
ful, particularly as a result of Your Excellency's
contribution to them.
The good relations between our two coun-
tries and the close and friendly relations be-
tween us do not need a great effort for them
to remain the way they are.
We hope that this good relationship which
exists between our countries will be in the
interest of all and in the interest of the world
at large. And I hope that the friendship of
the United States will not be restricted only
to our country, and that relations, good rela-
tions, will not exist only between our two
countries.
We hope that these good relations and this
friendship will exist not only between this
great country and its great President and its
great people and ourselves, but also between
you and the Arab and Islamic countries of
the Middle East.
If certain factors, powers, and circumstances
have succeeded in disrupting the relations at
times between your great country and ours
and between your country and the Arab and
Islamic countries of the world, we hope that
through your efforts, Mr. President, these good
relations will be reestablished and that there
will always be a condition, a situation of good
relations and friendship between your country
and ours and the countries of the Middle East.
The aggression which our countries are sub-
jected to at the present time certainly requires
the attention of you, Mr. President, and your
great nation.
This aggression, which exemplifies itself in
the occupancy of parts of our country [nation]
and our holy places and the subjugation of one
of our peoples is one which has brought about
some disagreement, a disruption of the good
relations between your country, your good
country, and ours.
But the qualities which Your Excellency, Mr.
President, and which the American people are
characterized by, the love for goodness and
for justice and for right, make us hope that
we will be able to overcome these difficulties
and that we will eventually be able to establish
justice and peace in that part of the world
and throughout the world.
And I am pleased, Mr. President, to ex-
change with you talks which will help us to
be able to achieve these objectives for the
interest of your country and ours.
I am pleased, Mr. President, to reiterate my
gratitude for the reception and the warm wel-
come which I and the members of my party,
of my delegation, have been accorded by you,
Mr. President, and by your Government, and
by your great people.
And I would like to thank you again for
this reception on this occasion.
187 Remarks to the Corps of Cadets at the United States
Military Academy in West Point, New York.
May 29, 1971
General Knowlton, honored guests, gen-
tlemen of the Cadet Corps:
I am honored to be with you here today
on my first visit as President of the United
States. And feeling the spirit of this Corps
of Cadets, I recall with deep gratitude and
pride General MacArthur's tribute: "The
Long Gray Line has never failed us"—I
am certain you never will.
It has been 9 years now since a Presi-
dent last came to West Point, and on that
commencement day in 1962, President
Kennedy told the Corps that the decade
ahead would challenge our professional
683
