[218] June 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
But more important, this progress in the
battle against crime couldn't be made
unless it was for the frontline soldiers,
those who are the law enforcement offi-
cials in the cities, in the counties, all
across this great country of ours.
And, therefore, I want to give a per-
sonal message to the 100 graduates of this
class. It is one that I am really trying
to give to all law enforcement officials
wherever they may be, any place in the
United States. When you go home, tell
your colleagues that the era of permissive-
ness with regard to law enforcement is at
an end in the United States of America.
Tell your colleagues that not only in terms
of the laws of the land at the national
level, in terms of our LEAA programs, in
terms of the support of the FBI, but more
particularly in terms of support of the
President of the United States and the At-
torney General, that we back law enforce-
ment officials in their attempts to reestab-
lish respect for law, in their attempts to
enforce the law with justice, in their at-
tempts to [bring] freedom from fear and
[end] terrorizing of our citizens through-
out this country by criminal elements.
They have the backing of the President,
of the Attorney General, of their Federal
Government and their Federal officials,
and will continue to.
May I also say in that connection that
we not only speak in terms of backing from
a moral standpoint, but I want to assure
you that as I travel throughout the coun-
try-don't get discouraged by some of
the talk to the effect that the man who
wears the badge or the man who is in
law enforcement is one who isn't backed
in his community. There are some who do
not back you. It has become somewhat
fashionable, or had become somewhat
fashionable in recent years, to make at-
tacks on law enforcement officials. But let
me say that the great majority of the
American people in this country do pro-
vide backing for the men who are willing
to sacrifice their lives or to risk their lives
in order to save the lives of others.
You have our backing. You have the
backing of the American people. And this
particular ceremony provides an opportu-
nity for us to state it again, and state it for
all of the American people on this
occasion.
Also on this occasion I am provided an
opportunity to say a personal word with
regard to my longtime friend and the man
who is responsible for this Academy-Mr.
Hoover.
I have known him for 24 years. As a
young Congressman I worked with him
and with others in the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in major investigations of
various subversive elements in this
country.
Mr. Hoover during my period of
knowing him, over 24 years-has served
under five Presidents. Three of them were
Democrats; two were Republicans. In
that period of 24 years that I have known
him, I can say from personal knowledge
that he is a man who has never served
a party, he has always served his country,
and he deserves credit for that.
Now incidentally, they say sometimes
that Mr. Hoover is controversial. Let me
tell you something. Anybody who is
strong, anybody who fights for what he
believes in, anybody who stands up when
it is tough is bound to be controversial.
And I say that insofar as he is concerned,
there may be controversy, but the great
majority of the American people back
Mr. Hoover and they back our law en-
forcement officials like yourself through-
out this country.
792
