[292] Sept. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
friendship and alliance between the
United States and Japan is indispensable.
So what we are trying to do-and this
was why these discussions were helpful—
what we are trying to do is to work out a
new system that will recognize the realities
so that we can reduce these tensions that
have developed, the number of crises that
have come up over and over again in the
international monetary field in the future.
The other point that I would make
with regard to the United States: I know
that some have raised the question as to
whether in my message to the Congress I
was really announcing to the world that
we were by looking to our own inter-
ests going to now be isolationists. On
the contrary, a weak America will in-
evitably be isolationist. An America that
is unable to maintain its military
strength and, incidentally, in the whole
free world the United States pays two-
thirds of the military bill today—a weak
America that is unable to have its eco-
nomic policies abroad, our economic, our
foreign aid programs, the rest, inevitably
will withdraw into itself.
We have to have a strong America,
strong economically and strong in the
sense of its competitive spirit if the United
States is to continue to play a vigorous,
activist role in the world. That is why I
addressed myself to that problem and that
is why we moved as drastically, as we had
to do, at home and abroad to deal with
the basic problems that hurt America to-
day economically.
PREJUDICE AND VOTING
[12.] Q. Mr. President,
President, Senator
Muskie had some comments about the
political climate for a black vice presiden-
tial candidate. What is your thinking on
that subject?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you gentle-
men know, I have stated and I will state
again that I will not use presidential press
conferences in 1971 to discuss '72 politics,
and I will follow that rule today and in
the future with regard to similar questions
that come up.
With regard to the general proposition
of prejudice in the United States as it
affects politics, I will be glad to reiterate
my own position that I stated quite often
in 1960, as some of you who had to follow
me remember, and again in 1968: I be-
lieve that it is frankly a libel on the Amer-
ican people to suggest that the American
people who do have prejudices just like
all people, and we must agree to that—
but that the American people would vote
against a man because of his religion or
his race or his color.
Now, having stated that general propo-
sition, there are occasions when that hap-
pens, I am sure. But the American people
are very fairminded people, and they
tend to bend over backwards when they
are confronted with this problem.
Before the '60 elections it was said that
America could not elect a Catholic as
President, based on the Al Smith case in
1928. Nineteen hundred and sixty dis-
pelled that, as I well know and as the
country knows.
I think the example of Ed Brooke in
Massachusetts is eloquent demonstration
of the fact that the American people,
when confronted with a superior man,
will not vote against him because of his
race.
Only 2 percent of the people of Massa-
chusetts are of the same race as Ed
Brooke, yet he won overwhelmingly for
958
