[182] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
tively quiet, very significant revolution.
Oh, it is not over, there are problems-
there was one in Chattanooga, I under-
stand, the last couple days; there will be
more. But look what has happened in the
South. Today 38 percent of all black chil-
dren in the South go to majority white
schools. Today only 28 percent of all black
children in the North go to majority white
schools. There has been no progress in the
North in the past 2 years in that respect.
There has been significant progress in the
South.
How did it come about? It came about
because farsighted leaders in the South,
black and white, some of whom I am sure
did not agree with the opinions handed
down by the Supreme Court which were
the law of the land, recognized as law-
abiding citizens that they had the respon-
sibility to meet that law of the land, and
they had dealt with the problem—not
completely, there is more yet to be done.
The recent decision of the Supreme Court
presents some more problems, but I am
confident that over a period of time those
problems will also be handled in a peace-
ful and orderly way for the most part.
But let's look at the deeper significance
of this. As I speak today in what is called
the Heart of Dixie, I realize that America
at this time needs to become one country.
Too long we have been divided. It has
been North versus South versus West;
Wall Street versus the country and the
country versus the city and the rest. That
does not mean we don't have differences
and will not continue to have them, but
those regional differences, it seems to me,
must go. Presidents of the United States.
should come to Alabama and Mississippi
and Georgia and Louisiana more than
once, more often than every 50 years or
every 100 years as the case might be, to
some of the cities, and they should come
because this is one nation, and we must
speak as one nation, we must work as one
nation.
Second, and here this is difficult, but
we have made enormous progress, and we
are going to make more. The problems of
race can be and must be solved. They
must be solved in an orderly way recog-
nizing we will continue to have differences,
but recognizing that unless they are solved,
this destructive force, this division over an
issue of this type is going to weaken this
part of the country in a way that could
be very, very detrimental to the national
interest and weaken other parts of the
country where there are also racial
problems.
What I am simply suggesting is this: I
am suggesting that we are at a period in
our country when America needs to be
strong militarily, it must be strong eco-
nomically, and it must be strong in its
spirit, strong in its heart.
I think the South traditionally has con-
tributed to the military strength of this
country. More Southerners voluntarily
serve in the Armed Forces than any
other part of the country. I think the New
South has a greater contribution to make
in terms of economic growth than perhaps
any other section of the country, because
the South starts from a lower base and
now is moving up, not evenly, but moving
up very significantly and will continue to.
So, you have a great role to play in that
respect. I think, too, that this part of the
country has a very significant role to play
insofar as the spirit of this country is con-
cerned. I speak of such square things as
patriotism; I speak of such things as reli-
gious faith. I also speak of such things as
respect for law, even those laws that you
don't like. And if this great and power-
674
