[329] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
sented to you, Director Shultz and I have
been in conference, and we have also con-
sulted with Secretary Connally by phone.
Director Shultz will brief the press on
the record after I read this statement,
which is in response to the statement
made by Mr. Meany and which sets forth
the position of the Administration. As
Director Shultz makes his statement, let
me say that it represents the views of the
Cost of Living Council, of Secretary Con-
nally, and, of course, it represents my
views as well.
"I welcome the participation of or-
ganized labor in the work of the Pay
Board and in helping make the Nation's
efforts at wage and price stabilization
succeed. Bringing the cost of living under
control requires the public-spirited co-
operation of all Americans, and, in giving
such cooperation, the leaders of organized
labor have acted in the best interests of
their own members and the best interests
of the Nation.
"I also, at this time, want to reaffirm
my concern that the economy expand
and attain full employment. Prompt ac-
tion in the Senate on my tax proposals,
which will create over 500,000 new jobs,
is essential in attainment of this objective."
I will add to this formal statement these
remarks: The question that inevitably
arises after a discussion of this sort is,
"Who won? Did labor win or did the
Administration win?" And the answer is,
"The country won."
There was a misunderstanding as to
what the original position of the Cost of
Living Council was when we announced
the setting up of the Pay Board and the
Price Commission. That misunderstand-
ing now has been removed as a result of
the statement that I have issued and as
a result of Mr. Meany's statement, in
which he agrees to have organized labor
participate on the Pay Board.
When I say the country wins, I mean
very simply that the experience in other
countries which have tried programs of
wage-price restraints has been that, with-
out the support and cooperation of orga-
nized labor, such programs inevitably
break down.
Director Shultz is quite familiar with
that and has briefed me on it today and
yesterday with regard to the experience in
other countries. And he feels that the ac-
tion, therefore, is extremely important in
terms of the success of our program, the
fact that organized labor in the United
States has now, by its action, assumed
responsibility for helping to keep down the
cost of living by keeping the wage com-
ponent of the wage-price spiral within
reasonable limits.
Director Shultz will answer any of the
technical questions you may have.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:22 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the AFL-
CIO decision by George P. Shultz, Director,
Office of Management and Budget.
The summary statement, referred to by the
President in his opening remarks, on the respec-
tive roles of the Cost of Living Council, the
Pay Board, and the Price Commission is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 7, p. 1394).
1038
