Richard Nixon, 1971
July 12 [228]
do not require long lead times before their
job impact is felt, such as are character-
istic of public works construction projects.
per-
A very important feature of the act, too,
is that the jobs will be "transitional." This
means that they will lead people into
manent jobs, and not be a substitute for
them. The employment will be real and
steadying; it will not be a dead end entrap-
ment in permanent public subsidy. Local
programs will be designed with a view
toward career advancement and toward
developing new non-subsidized careers for
the worker.
The Emergency Employment Act of
1971 carries authorization for 2 years and
will be triggered when the rate of national
unemployment is at 4/2 percent or above
for 3 consecutive months. In addition, the
act authorizes a separate program for local
areas which may suffer from continuing
high unemployment. This means that a
given city which experiences unemploy-
ment of 6 percent or above for 3 months
will receive added assistance for its extra
needs from a special $250 million
authorization.
The Emergency Employment Act of
1971 is an addition to existing manpower
work and training programs such as Pub-
lic Service Careers program and Opera-
tion Mainstream.
In the longer term, the welfare reform
program, which has passed the House and
is about to be taken up by the Senate, in-
cludes two provisions directly relating to
jobs. The public service employment pro-
vision would allocate $800 million for
public service jobs, giving employment to
some 200,000 persons. The manpower
training provision would provide $540
million for job training opportunities and
for the upgrading of skills of persons now
working in low-paying jobs. Together,
these two provisions of the welfare reform
program would yield in excess of $1.3
billion for jobs and job training.
This Administration has also strongly
urged passage of manpower revenue shar-
ing. Under this program $2 billion would
go to State and local governments in the
first full year for manpower training.
Matching local funds would not be re-
quired. Further, the money could be used
for public service jobs, if the jobs are
transitional in character. I am pleased
that leaders of the Senate and House labor
committees have agreed to hold hearings
on this important measure and report out
a bill before the end of this year.
The prevailing curse of securing funds
from the Federal Government by the
States and localities is "grantsmanship."
Manpower revenue sharing would elimi-
nate grantsmanship. As I have repeatedly
stressed, existing programs are overcen-
tralized, bureaucratic, remote from the
people they serve, overguidelined, and far
less effective than they might be in help-
ing the unskilled and the disadvantaged.
I earnestly recommend that the Con-
gress act favorably and with dispatch on
the appropriations request of $1 billion
for the Emergency Employment Act of
1971. I also urge early and favorable ac-
tion on the welfare reform program and
manpower revenue sharing.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
817
