Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 10 [92]
Once the farm people had left their
homes-often the homes of generations
in their families-the opportunities often
did not exist in rural America to keep
them close to those roots. While some jobs
began to open up in agricultural service,
supply, and processing enterprises, usually
known as "agri-business," the number of
openings was not nearly enough to match
the number of people cast adrift by tech-
nological progress.
Migration began toward where people
thought opportunities existed-the cities.
Not only were there more jobs in the cities,
but they paid more. For most decades in
this century, the gap between median
income in the cities and that in non-
metropolitan areas has been wide. Even
though income gains outside the metrop-
olis have been almost half again as great
as those in the cities during the last dec-
ade, median family income in non-metro-
politan areas is still 22 percent below that
in metropolitan areas.
While the people who have been leav-
ing rural America by the millions have
often improved their own and their fam-
ilies' situations by leaving, the trend they
represent has had several disturbing
effects.
First, in rural America itself, the loss
in human resources has compounded the
problems of diversifying the economy and
fostering a vigorous and progressive com-
munity life. Those who have chosen to
stay have found it harder and harder to
pay for and provide services such as good.
schools, health facilities, transportation
systems, and other infrastructure attrac-
tive enough to keep people in rural Amer-
ica, or to lure jobs and opportunity to
rural America. Many of the small towns
which dot the countryside have to strug-
gle for existence; they often have difficulty
attracting good school teachers or phy-
sicians; many fight stagnation while most
of the economy is expanding; they can-
not give the older, the disadvantaged, the
less educated people needed assistance
and care.
THE URBAN STAKE IN RURAL
DEVELOPMENT
At the same time the urban effects of
migration have been profound. While the
explosive growth in the proportion of
Americans living in cities has not been
fed solely by the influx of people from
rural America-immigration from other
countries has also been massive-the mil-
lions who have moved from the South and
the Midwest to the North and the West
have been a major factor in making a
nation that was 75 percent rural a century
ago, 73 percent urban today.
Many of these people pouring into the
cities in search of opportunity have expe-
rienced difficulties in adapting to urban
life and have required supportive services.
Some made the transition successfully-
but others have remained tax users rather
than taxpayers.
Furthermore, the very size and density
of many of our largest cities has produced
new problems: whereas in the most rural
areas it is hard to achieve economies of
scale in public activities, the most heavily
urban areas have grown far past the size
range in which a community can function
most economically. It often costs far more
per capita to provide essential services,
such as police protection, sanitation col-
lection, and public transportation in our
dense urban areas than in less congested
smaller and medium-sized cities. Many of
409
