[245] July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
your area to all of America, let me return
again to those three Americans on the
moon.
We can think of them now on the
moon, two of them on the moon, riding
in the golf cart. And they look down on
earth, what does it look like? Well, we
have had descriptions from other astro-
nauts, and often they have remarked
about the fact that from far out there
the earth looks like a very peaceful planet.
So, I speak a moment on that subject
because I know that here in the heartland
of this country you are concerned not just
about your rural development, not just
about your economic development, but
you are concerned about peace for Amer-
ica and peace for the world.
I can tell you that at this time I believe
the prospects for America-and particu-
larly the young children that I see here in
such great numbers to enjoy a full
gen-
eration of peace are better than they have
been at any time since the close of World
War II.
I can tell you first that we are ending
the longest and most difficult war in
which America has been engaged, and we
are ending it in a way that will contribute
to a lasting peace.
Also, as you have heard, I am planning
a journey to Mainland China. The pur-
pose of that journey involves not just
peace for my generation, but even more,
it affects peace for generations to come,
because looking far to the future we can-
not have a peaceful world if 800 million.
of the most creative, able people in the
world, one-fourth of all the people in the
world, are isolated from the rest of the
world.
So that is why I believe the President of
the United States should take the first
step to establish a new communication
with that one-fourth of the world's peo-
ple who live in Mainland China, so that
we can have a better chance for peace in
the generations to come.
Getting peace is not easy; keeping the
peace is not easy. But I can assure you
that we are dedicated to that proposition.
It is a goal that I think we have a very
good chance to achieve.
But as we get the peace and we keep
the
peace the question then comes: What
do we do with it? I think all of us in
America must recognize that as the world
becomes more peaceful, it will become far
more competitive. That is what we are
learning today.
We are learning that Western Europe,
the Soviet Union, the potential of Main-
land China, Japan, not to mention the
other great areas of the world, more and
more are developing the ability to com-
pete with the United States of America.
Let me put it in its clearest context:
Today America is the strongest nation in
the world. Today America is the richest
nation in the world. But in order to re-
main number one, the first nation in the
world in strength and the first nation in
the world in wealth, America is going to
have to develop all of its resources.
No part of the country, like this part
of the country, can be left out of that de-
velopment. No group of Americans can be
left out of that development. Every
American must have a chance to make
his contribution to the development of
America's greatness.
In addition to that, if we are going to
maintain our position, it is essential that
this Nation have the drive and the pur-
pose and the dedication to do so. I am
sometimes asked, what difference does it
make? Why do we care whether America
is number one economically in the world?
844
