[179] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
insights into a critical period of this Na-
tion's history. And on behalf of all the
people of the United States, I am hon-
ored and privileged to accept it for Amer-
ica. The American people have reason to
be doubly grateful to you today, first for
your long period of service to the Nation,
and now for this collection that can take
the scholars of future generations behind
the scenes of that service, as you have
indicated in your remarks.
One of the first rules of statecraft is
that we can successfully chart the future
only if we can understand the past. Li-
braries such as this can be among our best
keys to that understanding. With its more
than 31 million documents, this contains
more items by far than any other Presi-
dential library yet established; and
through its connection with a great uni-
versity, it promises both to enrich the uni-
versity and to be enriched by the
university.
Often I am asked what it feels like to
sit in the President's Oval Office-to
know, in President Truman's famous
phrase, that "the buck stops here," and
to experience the weight of history that
hangs over that office.
Just a few minutes ago, as President
Johnson was throwing me [laughter]—
showing me through the library-I am
coming back later when I have more time
[laughter]-we visited what I think may
prove to be the most exciting and popular
room in the whole library for the visitor,
a replica of the Oval Office. As we were
there in that office, furnished as it was
during the period that he served as Presi-
dent, I reflected, as I am sure he did, once
again on the answer to that question.
President Johnson sometimes used to
comment, in speaking about the Presi-
dency, that "the problem is not doing
what is right; the problem is knowing
what is right."
Sitting in the Oval Office in Washing-
ton the other day, I found myself reflect-
ing on its shape-on the fact that it is built
as an oval, without corners, and with walls
that might be said to have no sides or an
infinite number of sides-and on the fact
that there is a certain parallel with the
shape of that office and the Presidency
itself. For the President of the United
States cannot approach a question from
one side or the other; on each issue that
comes to the Oval Office there normally
are an infinite number of sides and of
competing considerations to be resolved
or chosen among.
This reflects the fact, of course, that the
easy questions are not the ones that come
to the President; those are decided at
other levels. The ones that he must decide
are the ones on which there are disagree-
ments, even among members of his own
administration who share his own goals
but who have different perspectives or
different judgments about the best way to
achieve those goals. They deal not simply
with right versus wrong but with varying
degrees of right and wrong, with various
balances of legitimate but competing in-
terests, and with varying judgments about
how best to accomplish what is right. And
so the study of the Presidency is a study,
in the final analysis, of the difficult deci-
sion, the close question. But I have found
that the more deeply I study the Presi-
dency, the more firm I become in my faith
that throughout our history, the basic high
principle of those who have been called
upon to govern has been one of the great
sustaining strengths of America.
I believe this has been true because the
office inhabits the man, just as the man
inhabits the office. No one holds that office
656
