[33] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
33 Annual Budget Message to the Congress, Fiscal
Year 1972. January 29, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In the 1971 budget, America's priorities
were quietly but dramatically reordered:
For the first time in 20 years, we spent
more to meet human needs than we spent
on defense.
In 1972, we must increase our spending
for defense in order to carry out the Na-
tion's strategy for peace. Even with this
increase, defense spending will drop from
36% of total spending in 1971 to
34% in 1972. Outlays for human re-
sources programs, continuing to rise as a
share of the total, will be 42% of total
spending in 1972.
The 1972 budget has a historic identity
of its own.
•
•
•
It provides a new balance of respon-
sibility and power in America by pro-
posing the sharing of Federal reve-
nues with States and communities
on a grand scale-and in a way that
will both alleviate the paralyzing
fiscal crisis of State and local govern-
ments and enable citizens to have
more of a say in the decisions that
directly affect their lives.
It introduces a new fairness in Amer-
ican life, with the development of
national strategies to improve the
health care of our citizens and to
assure, with work incentives and re-
quirements, an income floor for
every family in this Nation.
It adopts the idea of a "full employ-
ment budget," in which spending
does not exceed the revenues the
economy could generate under the
existing tax system at a time of full
employment. In this way, the budget
is used as a tool to promote orderly
economic expansion, but the impact
of the resulting actual deficit is in
sharp contrast to the inflationary
pressure created by the deficits of
the late sixties, which were the result
of excessive spending that went far
beyond full employment revenues.
The full employment budget idea is
in the nature of a self-fulfilling
prophecy: By operating as if we were
at full employment, we will help to
bring about that full employment.
The 1972 budget reaffirms the deter-
mination of the Federal Government to
take an activist role in bringing about the
kind of prosperity that has rarely existed
in the American economy-a prosperity
without war and without runaway infla-
tion. In the 1972 budget, the Government
accepts responsibility for creating the cli-
mate that will lead to steady economic
growth with improving productivity and
job stability.
Of course, our objective of prosperity
without inflation cannot be achieved by
budget policy alone. It also requires:
-the monetary policy adopted by the
independent Federal Reserve System
to provide fully for the growing needs
of the economy; and
-increased restraint in wage and price
decisions by labor and business-in
their own and the Nation's interest
and as a matter of common sense.
Only by working together can the
budget, monetary policy, and common
sense in the private sector make orderly
expansion the order of the day.
The full employment 1972 budget-
expansionary but not inflationary-does
its full share to provide a defense strong
80
