Richard Nixon, 1971
June 2 [190]
our membership. We will attempt to get
the dues in arrears paid by the Congress.
We will have to have considerable sup-
port in order to accomplish that.
But also, we are going to see to it that
American labor, and free labor through-
out the world, gets a better voice in the
ILO than it has had previously.
The reason that Mr. Meany, a top free
world trade union leader, opposes the ILO
is because free trade unions have received
a very bad deal in ILO meetings, and we
are going to have to have better treatment
in that way or American support for the
ILO is going to go right down the drain.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's seventeenth news
conference was held at 8:30 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House on Tuesday, June 1,
1971. The news conference was broadcast live
on radio and television.
190 Statement About Summer Job and Recreation
Opportunities for Youth. June 2, 1971
THE SUMMER of 1971 will be a sum-
mer of expanded opportunity for the dis-
advantaged youth of our country—due in
no small measure to a large number of
summer jobs which are being made avail-
able to them.
I am pleased to report that more than
824,000 job opportunities will be available
this summer: 674,000 through Federal
Government programs and 150,000
through the efforts of the National Alli-
ance of Businessmen which works with the
Government but does not receive public
monies. Altogether, job opportunities this
summer are 30 percent greater than a
year ago and are at the highest level in
the 7-year history of this program.
The Federal Government will invest
over $303 million in its summer job pro-
grams in 1971. Of the 674,000 federally
provided jobs, the Neighborhood Youth
Corps will provide more than 609,000. An
additional 63,000 of the jobs are in the
Federal Summer Employment Program
for Youth and 2,000 are in the newly es-
tablished Youth Conservation Corps.
I am also pleased to report the ex-
pansion of Federal summer recreation
programs for even younger Americans.
We expect that some 2 million young peo-
ple will participate in programs designed
to build physical fitness, improve health,
and provide educational and cultural
opportunities.
I believe this expanded program repre-
sents a positive and promising approach to
the problems of disadvantaged youth in
every part of our country. It provides
them with a chance to do useful work
and learn useful skills. Surely this is one
of the wisest investments a nation can
make an investment in the lives of its
young.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on
summer opportunities for youth by James D.
Hodgson, Secretary, and Malcolm R. Lovell,
Jr., Assistant Secretary for Manpower, Depart-
ment of Labor.
697
