[220] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
to the future rather than to the past. What
kind of country do we want to be 5 years
from now on America's third century as
it begins?
Above all, we want the world of 1976 to
be one in which Americans can live in
peace with all the peoples of the world,
and at peace with themselves.
We are already taking the first long
step toward that goal by ending the diffi-
cult war in which we are engaged, in a
that will contribute not only to peace
way
in the Pacific but to peace in the world,
not only to peace for our generation but
to peace for the next generation. But we
can reach that goal after Vietnam only if
America continues to meet its responsibil-
ities of leadership in building a structure
of lasting peace in the world.
The stakes are much higher for us than
they were for the Founding Fathers. One
hundred and ninety-five years ago, what
America did or did not do could have lit-
tle effect on the peace of the world. But
today we hold the high trust of free world
leadership, and if we fail to meet our
trust the danger of war will be enormously
increased.
The future of the peace of the world
is in our hands. We cannot and we shall
not fail.
Whatever mistakes we have made in
foreign policy, we can be proud that in
four wars in this century Americans have
sacrificed their lives not for domination
or conquest, but always to help others to
enjoy the freedom which we ourselves
gained in 1776. We shall never betray that
tradition. We shall always use our strength
to keep the peace, not to break it, to de-
fend freedom, not to destroy it.
The peace we seek is not merely the
absence of war, but the building of an
open world-a world of open borders,
open hearts, open minds, where people
with different cultures and different sys-
tems of government can live side by side
and draw strength from their diversity; a
world where all men can devote their en-
ergies to the works of peace rather than
to the weapons of war. This is the world
our foreign policy, a foreign policy in
which we emphasize negotiation rather
than confrontation, seeks to build.
And what of our Bicentennial goals for
America at home? Here, too, we must
aim high, for we already have achieved
beyond the dreams of many other nations
in the world. Americans today have by
far the highest standard of living in the
world, but even more important, we enjoy
more freedom, we have more opportunity
than any people in the world's history.
Even the man who is poor by America's
standards would be rich in most other na-
tions of the world today.
And yet we have no room for self-satis-
faction. There is still so much to achieve
in this country. Over the next 5 years we
can confidently hope to achieve these
high goals:
-Full employment without the cost of
war.
-The restoration of our heritage of
clean air and water which our fore-
fathers enjoyed two centuries ago.
-A nation in which we again have re-
spect for law and freedom from fear.
-Better education, health, and housing
for all Americans.
-Reforms of our Government to make
our Government more responsive to
the needs of our time.
-Unlimited opportunity for every
American citizen, whatever his back-
ground.
796
