Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 29 [33]
ton and away from elected officials in
State and local governments. Towards the
end of the decade it became apparent
that, despite new programs and massive
Federal expenditures, government at all
levels was not working well.
When this administration took office, I
directed that an intensive review of our
governmental system be made. We found
that State and local governments were
breaking down under an incredible fiscal
burden. We also found that the red tape
involved in the narrow categorical grant
system made it almost impossible for the
Federal Government to be effective and
responsive to the needs of individuals in
different localities.
The financial squeeze on State and local
governments is acute, and shows no sign
of becoming less painful. These govern-
ments rely mainly on receipts from con-
sumer and property taxes, which have not
grown nearly as fast as the demand for
State and local government services. As a
result, combined State and local debt has
increased by over 600% since 1948.
The Federal Government helped meet
some of this demand by increasing its
financial aid, largely through grant pro-
grams, which now accounts for 18% of
State and local revenues.
The results of grant programs have
been impressive in some cases. But the
grant structure has become a haphazard
collection of hundreds of separate pro-
grams, each with its own policies, its own
requirements and procedures, and its own
funding.
Such a complicated method of provid-
ing Federal assistance is not only ineffi-
cient, but it:
-restricts the freedom of State and
local governments to spend funds in
accordance with their priorities;
-is unresponsive to the needs of specific
local situations because the funds are
distributed and regulated by guide-
lines that do not-perhaps cannot-
sufficiently take account of differences
among local communities; and
-separates resources and responsibility,
because State and local governments
have the responsibility for providing
services, but, all too often, they do
not have the money to provide those
services. The Federal Government
dominates the field of income taxa-
tion, and its redtape restricts the dis-
cretion of State and local govern-
ments over the services they provide.
Clearly, not enough authority over the
use of resources for federally assisted pro-
grams is now lodged at the State and
local level. More of the power-and the
responsibility for using federally col-
lected funds must be given to elected offi-
cials in these governments.
The need for remedying this situation.
is urgent. The time for reform is now.
Local freedom of action.-I propose a
revenue sharing plan to give State and
local governments the money they need
to deliver the services that can best be
performed by government closest to the
people.
This is how the new "freedom of ac-
tion" plan will work:
In the first full year of the plan, $16
billion will be directed to the States and
localities, in a way that will enable them
to decide as never before how that money
will be spent.
Of this amount, $5 billion will be in
the form of general revenue sharing, with-
out restrictions. This will all be "new"
money, without matching requirements
and with the decision on how it is to be
used exclusively a State and local matter.
83
