Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [134]
As I said in transmitting last year's
Manpower Report, full opportunity for
all citizens remains a central goal for this
Nation. The present report is concerned
with the progress we have already made
toward this goal and the distance we still
have to travel. The report provides im-
portant new information clarifying the
obstacles in the way and pointing to the
new legislation and other public and pri-
vate action essential to overcome them.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
April 7, 1971
NOTE: The report is entitled "Manpower Re-
port of the President Including a Report on
Manpower Requirements, Resources, Utiliza-
tion, and Training by the United States De-
partment of Labor-Transmitted to the
Congress April 1971" (Government Printing
Office, 328 pp.).
134 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on Marine Resources and Engineering Development.
April 7, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Creation last year of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) and the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency (EPA) has given us the ca-
pacity to manage our Federal oceanic,
atmospheric and environmental responsi-
bilities with substantially greater effective-
ness and efficiency.
The United States' marine science pro-
gram was marked in 1970 by a number
of sound accomplishments and new
departures.
Internationally, we worked successfully
with other nations to produce a seabed
arms control treaty. We proposed devel-
opment of a treaty governing the ex-
ploration and exploitation of seabed re-
sources and submitted a working draft of
such a treaty to the United Nations. And
we are also joining forces with others in
earnest efforts to preserve the quality of
the marine environment.
A major step toward more rational use
of the oceans was taken in December,
1970, when the nations of the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization resolved to
achieve by 1975, if possible, and by the
end of the decade at the latest the elim-
ination of intentional discharges of oil and
oily wastes into the oceans. We are earn-
estly pursuing this worthy objective. It is
my hope that the Senate, as part of this
effort, will soon give its advice and con-
sent to the international oil spills conven-
tions and amendments which were
transmitted last May.
I have also asked the Congress to enact
the Ports and Waterways Safety Act,
which would increase the Coast Guard's
authority to protect against oil spills, and
the Wholesome Fish and Fishery Prod-
ucts Act, which would provide for the
inspection of fish and fishery products
during their harvesting, processing and
transport.
These accomplishments are reported
in detail in the annual report of the Na-
tional Council on Marine Resources and
Engineering Development, "Marine Sci-
ence Affairs," which I am today trans-
mitting to the Congress. During 1970, the
Council, which is chaired by the Vice
President, has continued to assist me in
521
