Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
This year my message will be supple-
mented by two major documents: the
Secretary of State's review-the first of its
kind-and the annual Defense Report by
the Secretary of Defense. Both of these
will be comprehensive and detailed ac-
75
counts, filling out the basic framework and
philosophy set forth in this Presidential
message.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
February 25, 1971
Second Annual Report to the Congress on United
States Foreign Policy. February 25, 1971
INTRODUCTION
"No goal could be greater than to make
the next generation the first in this cen-
tury in which America was at peace with
every nation in the world."
Address on the
State of the Union
January 22, 1970
In the first year of this Administration
we outlined a new American role. In
1970, we implemented policies which em-
body our new purpose.
This year, as any year, saw crises. We
dealt with them without new war and
while winding down the war we inherited.
But our fundamental goal is deeper. It is
to get at the roots of crises and to build
a durable structure of international
relationships.
This second annual report to the Con-
gress and the Nation, therefore, like the
first, is more than a recital of events. It re-
views the premises and philosophy of our
foreign policy and discusses events in the
context of purposes. It explains why we
have done as we have, and sets forth our
hopes and concerns for the years to come.
A PERIOD OF TRANSITION
This Administration must lead the na-
tion through a fundamental transition in
foreign policy.
As I explained in last year's report, we
are at the end of an era. The postwar or-
der of international relations-the con-
figuration of power that emerged from
the Second World War-is gone. With it
are gone the conditions which have deter-
mined the assumptions and practice of
United States foreign policy since 1945.
No single sudden upheaval marked the
end of the postwar era in the way that the
World Wars of this century shattered the
prewar orders of international relations.
But the cumulative change since 1945 is
profound nonetheless:
-Western Europe and Japan, nations
physically or psychologically debili-
tated by the war, have regained their
economic vitality, social cohesion,
and political self-assurance. Their
new vigor transforms our relation-
ship into a more balanced and dyna-
mic coalition of independent states.
-New nations have found identity and
219
