Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [261]
been standing here. Thank you very
much for coming.
Governor Curtis, of course, is here to
welcome us, and Congressman Hathaway,
and then, also, I have two members of
our family who are here. When we told
them we were coming to Maine they said
they wanted to come. I will say a word
about one of them in a moment. But Julie
and David Eisenhower are here.
Now, Governor, if you don't mind, be-
fore your own very fine people here in
Maine, could I reminisce a bit about
Maine in a very nonpartisan way, if you
don't mind? I see so many young people
here, and so I will remind you of our
first visit and our second and our third.
Our first visit, as a matter of fact, was
back in the year 1942. In that year, just
before going overseas, we had a little time
off, we had a vacation period. So, my wife
and I came up to Maine. A friend said
the best place to go in Maine-now in-
cidentally, anybody from any other place
in Maine, remember, the friend said it
was the best place in Maine-he said,
Kennebunk Beach. So, we went to Kenne-
bunk Beach and Kennebunkport and
stayed in a little place in Goose Rocks. Do
you know where that is? It that still there?
Right. We had wonderful water there,
and I will never forget, there was a little
restaurant on what is called Cape Por-
poise. We have been back since and that is
gone,
the restaurant is gone. They have a
lighthouse there at the present time, or a
Coast Guard station.
One thing that that has done, it has
cost me a lot of money since then, because
my wife became so attached to boiled
Maine lobster that I have to buy it ever
since. To show you that that runs in the
family, just night before last we were up
in New York, and we had an opportunity
to visit our daughter, Tricia, and her hus-
band, Eddie Cox. And what did they
serve but Maine lobster. So we did that,
too.
That was the first trip, we remembered
that vacation. Little did we know that we
would be returning again in another
capacity.
I returned as a Congressman and made
a couple of speeches. Years ago, your
predecessor, Charlie Nelson, of course,
had one of the districts there, since
deceased.
But then, in the year 1952, Maine at
that time-the Governor and all the po-
litical people will remember-used to
have its elections early, your Congres-
sional elections, in September. And So, all
the candidates, the national candidates,
the candidates for President and Vice
President, they would all come to Maine
because that was the test to see whether
as the Nation went how ever Maine went.
So, I came there, and for 4 days my
wife and I traveled all over Maine. I was
a Senator then, nominee for Vice Presi-
dent. I will never forget the wonderful
people that we met on that occasion.
Now we come to what all the young
people will understand. In 1954, after I
was elected Vice President, I wanted to
take a vacation. So, we went to Ogunquit,
Maine, on that occasion. And our two
daughters were with us. At that time,
Tricia was 8 and Julie was 6. They fell in
love with the Maine water and Maine
lobster, and that has cost me more ever
since.
So, those were the occasions that we re-
member through the years, and, of course,
other visits as well.
2 The late Charles P. Nelson, United States
Representative from Maine 1949-57.
883
