[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
agreement about the relation of Arab
states to each other in the quest for
unity in the Arab world.
-The conflict between the interests of
the Soviet Union and the United
States, each of which is now more
deeply than ever engaged in the
Arab-Israeli conflict. Events sur-
rounding the hostilities in Jordan in
September showed how fragile are
the barriers to direct great power
confrontation in the Middle East.
America's interest in the Middle East-
and the world's interest-is that the global
structure of peace not be allowed to break
down there. But this objective has to be
pursued in a situation in rapid flux:
-The relationship between Middle
East countries and outside powers has
changed. The system of outside con-
trol that characterized the nineteenth
and first half of the twentieth cen-
turies is gone; the peoples of the Near
East have achieved national inde-
pendence. There is a continuing
search for a new balance between the
strong nationalisms of the area and
outside forces.
-The character of the outside influ-
ences has changed. The nations of the
Middle East must now come to terms
on various levels with the technologi-
cal, capital, political, and military
presence of the United States; with
a new projection of Soviet power;
and with a new Europe establishing
economic association through the
Common Market with a number of
nations in the area.
-The relationship among the outside
powers has changed. With lines be-
tween the U.S. and the Soviet Union
firmly drawn in Europe, their contest
has spilled over to the south where no
such lines exist and where local con-
flict and rapid change draw them
into new competition. This takes
place against a background of
changes in their own global strategic
relationship and changes in their re-
spective national postures toward
global involvement.
THE ARAB-ISRAELI CONFLICT
This protracted and bitter struggle lies
at the heart of the Middle East crisis. Its
harmful potential is, to be sure, enhanced
by great power involvement. But the sim-
ple fact remains that the continuation of
this conflict grievously damages the inter-
ests of all concerned:
-It has drawn the Soviet Union and
the United States into close military
association with the combatants, with
all the danger that poses to world
peace.
-It has caused the disruption of nor-
mal U.S. relations with a number of
Arab countries. This, in turn, has in-
creased the already excessive Arab
dependence on Soviet support, and
therefore their dangerous vulnera-
bility to excessive Soviet influence.
-It has provided an issue which has
been exploited and manipulated by
radical elements to undercut the in-
ternal stability of the Arab nations.
-It has, for two decades, kept the 50
million people of Israel and the ad-
joining Arab nations in a permanent
state of hostilities, and in constant
fear of attack.
-It has forced both the Arab states and
Israel to divert a tragically dispro-
portionate share of their resources to
the instruments and activities of war.
-It has condemned to squalor and to
286
