[108] Mar. 18 Public Papers of the Presidents
a single problem with many interrelated
parts.
purposes. The Federal Government now
pays 90 percent of the costs for a new
interstate expressway, for example, but
only 67 percent of the costs for a new
mass transit system and only 50 percent
of the costs of building an airport. It is
little wonder that State and local planners
are encouraged to cover the landscape
with ribbons of concrete. Such distortions
of local priorities are among the major
problems that this administration is seek-
ing to correct.
EXCESSIVE FEDERAL CONTROL
But local priorities are not only dis-
torted by Federal requirements concern-
ing matching funds. Local determinations
of what is needed most must constantly
yield to Federal judgments about what a
local community should do with the
money it receives from Washington.
The Federal Government has a great
influence on the particular mixture of
transportation spending in any locale, for
it carefully allocates so much of its money
for one kind of transportation and so
much for another. Each program
is
funded separately-and even at the State
and local level, different agencies fre-
quently administer monies which are des-
ignated for different purposes. As a result,
it is extremely difficult to achieve sound
intermodal planning of comprehensive
transportation systems. There is no single
place where sufficient resources and
authority are available for making wise
choices between various transportation
alternatives. Nor can anyone effectively
coordinate investments in any one mode
of transportation with efforts in other
transportation fields. We err, in short, by
treating the transportation challenge as a
series of separate problems rather than as
The hard fact is that the best mixture of
transportation modes is not something
that remote officials in Washington can
determine in advance for all cities, of all
sizes and descriptions, in all parts of the
country. Nor do the Federal officials who
grant money for specific projects under-
stand local needs well enough to justify
their strong influence over how local proj-
ects should be planned and run.
As I have contended in a number of
messages to the Congress in the past two
years, our society has become too complex
and too diversified to profit from such
highly centralized control. This is not to
deny that improving our transportation
systems is a national concern. It is a na-
tional concern and that is why it should
continue to be funded in part from Fed-
eral tax resources. But the specific man-
ner in which any city or metropolitan area
goes about achieving this goal is not some-
thing that can be most effectively deter-
mined at the Federal level. In fact,
transportation needs are among the social
and economic factors that vary most
widely from one place to another. That is
why many of our Federal transportation
programs can profit so much from con-
version to the Special Revenue Sharing
approach.
Community organizations, concerned
individuals and local units of government
should not have to shout all the way to
Washington for attention. Community
standards and community transportation
goals are changing and some of those who
only five years ago welcomed the prospect
of a new highway or airport are now pro-
testing in front of bulldozers. Transpor-
tation planning and appropriations mech-
anisms must be flexible enough to meet
442
