[61] Feb. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
I will not indicate anything further
than that. I will have something more
to say when I get the recommendations
from the Attorney General and from
HUD.
With regard to what you call, and what
I have called-I think you did not say
this-but what I have called forced in-
tegration, let me just spend a moment
indicating what I believe is the law in
this country and where I think the law's
limits are.
First, this Administration will enforce
the law of the land which provides for
open housing. Open cities, open suburbs,
open neighborhoods are now a right for
every American.
Second, however, this Administration
will not go beyond the law or in violation
of the law by going beyond it by using
Federal power, Federal coercion, or Fed-
eral money to force economic integration
of neighborhoods.
Now what we will do, however, and
what we are doing, is to try to give every
American, and particularly Americans in
minority groups, black Americans for ex-
ample, a greater opportunity to exercise
a right. A right, for example, to live in any
neighborhood means nothing unless you
have got a job or a position which
pays
you enough to afford the house.
That is the position that we have.
FURTHER QUESTIONS ON SOUTHEAST
ASIA
[10.] Q. Mr. President, if the Army
of South Vietnam sought to cross the
DMZ in force, would you be of a mind to
restrain such action?
THE PRESIDENT. If the excuse me, the
Army of South or North Vietnam?
Q. South Vietnam.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, South Vietnam.
Q. If the ARVN sought to cross the
DMZ in violation-
THE PRESIDENT. I will not speculate
on what South Vietnam may do in de-
fense of its national security. South Viet-
nam now, as we withdraw, has an ever
increasing responsibility to defend itself.
South Vietnam will have to make deci-
sions with regard to its ability to defend
itself. I will only speak with regard to
what the American action will be.
The American action will be, according
to the guideline I laid down a moment
ago, the use of airpower where I believe
that North Vietnam's action may threaten
our forces.
Q. Mr. President, if the Laos opera-
tion goes according to your expectations
and is as much a success as you hope, is
it likely to be followed by any new diplo-
matic initiative in an effort to get the
Paris talks going?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Potter
[Philip Potter, Baltimore Sun], the mat-
ter of diplomatic initiatives is something
that we have been discussing constantly
within the Administration. As a matter
of fact, I have been talking to the Secre-
tary of State, and the Secretary of De-
fense, Dr. Kissinger, and others, both
informally and in formal meetings.
I have nothing to report today, but I
do want to say this: that we will continue
to pursue the diplomacy for a primary
reason, the primary reason being to
negotiate some settlement of the POW
issue.
We have to realize that as far as a
negotiation affecting a political settlement
for South Vietnam is concerned, time is
running out for the North Vietnamese if
they expect to negotiate with the United
States. Because as our forces come out of
164
