Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 23 [70]
fense budget-which means that inflation.
in the construction industry can make it
harder adequately to fund programs
which are vital to our national security.
All levels of government together ac-
count for almost one-third of total con-
struction expenditures. It is crucial, I
believe, that taxpayers get their money's
worth for all this spending and that it not
be used to accommodate-and further
accelerate-inflationary pressures.
But the person who is hurt most by this
pattern of inflation is the construction
worker himself. For as the cost of building
increases, the rate of building is slowed-
and the result is fewer jobs for the work-
ingman. The rate of unemployment in the
construction trades last year was substan-
tially higher than in any other major
industry and double the national average.
It stood at 11.2 percent this past January.
Moreover, those workers who do find jobs
also find that as costs rise and the number
of projects declines, they are working
fewer hours.
The average worker in the building
trades is therefore caught in a vicious
cycle. His rate of pay goes up but often his
overall income does not, since his oppor-
tunities to work have gone down. As a
result, he is inclined to demand an even
higher hourly wage which can have the
effect, in turn, of further reducing avail-
able employment. By curbing inflation in
the construction industry, we hope to
break this cycle, expand employment, and
improve the overall position of the con-
struction worker.
During the past 2 years, this Adminis-
tration has taken a number of steps to help
the construction industry. We have made
considerable progress in bringing down the
cost of money. We have worked to stabi-
lize the cost of materials and to increase
productivity. We are planning to expand
Federal construction programs--espe-
cially in housing--and we are making
additional efforts to assist private
construction.
We are now on the threshold of a new
economic expansion. That expansion must
be a genuine expansion, one that is meas-
ured by rising purchasing power and not
by an accelerating cost of living; by more
new homes and apartments and not by
ever-accelerating rents and housing
prices; by more new public facilities ur-
gently needed to combat pollution and
meet other pressing social needs. We are
counting on the construction industry to
make a significant contribution to our ex-
panding economy. We have great confi-
dence in the potential of the construction
industry, and we want this potential to be
fully realized.
But the construction industry cannot
realize its potential-and it cannot make
its full contribution to the stable growth
of our entire economy-unless it can over-
come its present handicaps of chronic in-
stability, frequent strikes, and excessive
wage increases. Insofar as the Government
is a party to these conditions—as it is
under the Davis-Bacon Act-it can serve
both the public and the industry best by
correcting that situation.
I have suspended the Davis-Bacon Act
because of emergency conditions in the
construction industry. The purposes of the
Davis-Bacon Act can once again be
realized when construction contractors
and labor unions work out solutions to
the problems which have created the
emergency.
In the final analysis, those who are
directly involved in the construction in-
dustry must assume the leadership in find-
ing answers to these complex problems.
201
