[197] June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
197 Statement About the Death of Audie Murphy.
June 7, 1971
WHEN challenged to defend their free-
dom, Americans have always stood ready
to defend it with courage and daring-
and each war in which the Nation has
been engaged has produced its own special
heroes. As America's most decorated hero
of World War II, Audie Murphy not only
won the admiration of millions for his
own brave exploits; he also came to epit-
omize the gallantry in action of America's
fighting men. The Nation stands in his
debt, and mourns at his death.
NOTE: Mr. Murphy, 46, died in an airplane
crash near Roanoke, Va., on May 28, 1971.
The President was represented at the burial
service at Arlington National Cemetery by
George Bush, United States Representative to
the United Nations, and Lt. Col. Vernon
Coffey, Army Aide to the President.
198 Remarks to Members Attending the 1971 Symposium
of the American Committee on Italian Migration.
June 8, 1971
THANK you very much, Father Cogo.¹
I wish, first, to say to this very distin-
guished group that I only hope the
warmth of my remarks will equal the
warmth of the weather here in the Rose
Garden. Congressman Rodino said,
"Don't worry about these people, they are
all from southern Italy, they won't mind."
I, too, want you to know that the senti-
ments that were expressed in the State of
the Union Address, I think, are very ap-
propriate when referring to your group.
President Eisenhower met with you first,
and since that time you have met with
President Kennedy, and now I have that
high privilege and that great honor.
Let me speak to you about why it is
so important for us to be the land of the
open door, why, not simply from the
standpoint of wanting our country to pro-
vide a haven for people who are distressed,
people who need assistance from other
1
¹ The Reverend Joseph A. Cogo, Executive
Secretary, American Committee on Italian
Migration.
lands, but why America needs those peo-
ple, why they add to America.
One of the great problems that any
society has as it becomes older, as it be-
comes richer, is that it tends to become
more complacent; it tends to lose its
drive, its dynamism, its imagination,
frankly-its character. That is the history
of civilizations over the past.
And one mark of the American civiliza-
tion has been that we have never fallen
into that fault due to the fact that we have
always had the infusion of new people,
new people who come here with great
idealism, with great determination. In a
sense, as somebody would put it, they are
people that are still trying to make it, that
aren't thinking in terms of having it made.
And what they contribute are not simply
the skills to which Father Cogo has
referred-they are there, of course—but
even more, they contribute character and
strength and drive, and that is what this
country needs and that is what particu-
larly our friends of Italian background
720
