[154] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
the trade area, looking to the future.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: President Nixon's fifteenth news con-
ference was held at 9 p.m. in the East Room at
the White House on Thursday, April 29, 1971.
It was broadcast live on radio and television.
155
Remarks on Awarding the Presidential Unit
Citation to the First Marine Division at
Camp Pendleton, California. April 30, 1971
General Chapman, Secretary Warner, all
of the distinguished guests on the plat-
form, officers and men of the First Marine
Division, and my fellow Americans here
in attendance, and those listening on tele-
vision and radio:
This is one of the proudest moments of
my service as President of the United
States-to be here for this ceremony; to
award this Unit Citation, the eighth Unit
Citation this division has received in its
long and proud history, to the First Ma-
rine Division; and to welcome home the
major elements of that division from
Vietnam.
As I welcome you home, I can say to
you
that the Nation is proud of you. I can
say to you, you come home mission
accomplished.
When you went to Vietnam 5 years ago,
you found a country there with millions
of South Vietnamese under Communist
rule, and the whole country threatened by
a Communist takeover.
As you return, you left a South Viet-
nam with the South Vietnamese now as-
suming the major burden of their own
defense, and soon developing the capabil-
ity for their complete defense without the
assistance of American fighting men.
Because of your service and the service
of other Americans, we can now say that
Americans can continue to be withdrawn
at approximately or almost at a division
a month. And because of your service and
the service of other Americans, we can
set as our goal-and achieve the goal-of
a total withdrawal of all Americans; that
goal to be achieved when the South Viet-
namese have developed, as they will
develop, the capability of defending them-
selves, and when we have returned all of
our prisoners of war wherever they may
be in Southeast Asia.
And now to the many of these marines
who are young marines, and most of you
are young marines, may I refer a bit to
the history of this division going clear
back to World War I, when the Fifth
Regiment, which later became part of the
First Marine Division, served them. It is
a proud and distinguished history. The
names are proud in the history of the Ma-
rine Corps and they are very proud in the
history of this Nation: Belleau Wood, in
World War I; Guadalcanal in World
War II; Inchon, in Korea; and now
Vietnam.
The question that I am sure must be in
your minds is: What will the verdict of
history be about your service in Vietnam?
Certainly in terms of personal heroism
there is no question about the verdict of
history. Forty-eight members of the First
Marine Division were awarded the Medal
of Honor. It is the most decorated Marine
division of all. This is the second Unit
Citation in this war.
602
