[182] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
And certainly my predecessors, Presi-
dent Eisenhower, President Truman,
President Kennedy, President Johnson,
were all dedicated to that proposition, as
I am.
At this time I think we could say that
because of these significant developments,
one, the end of the American involvement
in Vietnam, which we know is coming,
and on a basis which, in my view, will
contribute to a more peaceful rather than
a less peaceful era in the Pacific.
Second, a significant change in the re-
lation between the Soviet Union and the
United States-still a long way to go, but
still a significant change at the highest
level with the leaders involved.
Third, a change, not as significant, as
far as our relations with the Mainland
Government are concerned in China, but
nevertheless looking down the road, with
great historical possibilities.
Fourth, the situation in the Mideast
that I have just referred to.
With all of these developments occur-
ring, what we in the United States may
be facing and may be confronted with-
and this is something I guess we would
all like to be confronted with-is an era
in which we could have peace for a
generation.
Now having said that, that will also
carry with it enormous problems for this
country-enormous problems because
once you have peace, what do you do with
it? How do you maintain it? How do you
keep it?
Here I think that we have to be-as
opinion leaders in the South, I would
commend these thoughts to you as they
have been commended to me by my ad-
visers-here we must recognize that there
will be no instant peace in any part of
the world. Once these different relation-
ships occur, if they do, if progress is made
with the Soviet Union, later with China,
the People's Republic, in the Mideast and
in Vietnam and the rest, this does not
mean that as a result of these develop-
ments that the differences between nations
end, that their interests will be the same,
and that the need for a continued, strong
American presence in the world and
strong defense will have evaporated.
On the contrary, we must recognize the
fact that we are going to continue to have
differences, very significant and deep dif-
ferences with other nations in the world.
And looking again at a very difficult
and explosive part of the world, the Mid-
east, no matter what kind of arrangement
is made there, no matter what kind of an
agreement is agreed to, because of the
historical differences that have existed
there for centuries, there is not going to
be a period when people are going to have
a relationship that can be a completely
comfortable one.
But on the other hand, we are entering
that period when there is a chance to have
a live-and-let-live attitude, a settlement of
differences by peaceful means, peaceful
competition, so on down the road.
Now, what must the United States do
in this period? First, it is almost a cliche
to say that we must maintain our strength.
That does not mean we maintain our
strength out of any sense of jingoism, but
it does mean that we only reduce our
strength on a mutual basis.
Now there are many well-intentioned
people who constantly-whether in the
Senate or sometimes in columns in the
press or on radio and television—suggest
that the way that the United States can
demonstrate its interest in disarmament,
and thereby in peace, is to discontinue our
ABM system, reduce our offensive capa-
668
