[204] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
means vitality; but plays it also with the
spirit, a spirit of idealism which was ours
in the beginning and which I believe deep
down in the American character is still
here.
There are many forces that would erode
that strength, forces like drugs, forces like
division between the races and the genera-
tions, forces like national defeatism, nega-
tivism. All that I would suggest to the
media leaders in this room is that we need
your criticism, and we will try to react
responsibly to it.
We need your constructive suggestions.
But the Nation needs, at times, to be re-
assured that with all of our faults we
have played a useful role in the world
and will continue to, and must continue
to, and that with all of our faults this
Nation, to billions in the world, is the
land where there is more opportunity,
more wealth more reasonably shared, than
any nation of the world. The lacking in-
gredient could be whether America, as it
has become rich and strong, has become
poor in spirit. It is the American spirit that
you and I really have in the palm of our
hands, and it is that area that we must
constantly, of course, nurture, because we
will be responsible if that spirit should
fail.
NOTE: The President spoke at I p.m. in the
Tudor Room at the Flagship Hotel.
Later the same day, the President met with
a committee of New York State citizens in-
terested in revenue sharing. Lists of partic-
ipants at both the briefing and the meeting
were released by the White House.
205 Remarks on Arrival in Atlantic City, New Jersey.
June 22, 1971
WE WANT to express our very great ap-
preciation for your warm welcome. I un-
derstood the meeting was inside, but I
am glad it is out here. I think, too, that
you know Mrs. Nixon and I celebrated our
31st wedding anniversary yesterday. We
consider this a celebration. You should
come to Atlantic City.
And we have a lot of distinguished
guests with us who will be with us on
Air Force One: your two Senators, Sen-
ator Case, Senator Harrison Williams--
we will let
you all take a bow so they can
see you-Senator Case and Senator Wil-
liams; Governor Cahill; Congressman
Sandman; Congressman "Doc" [Durward
G.] Hall, from Missouri, one of the few
doctors in the United States Congress;
and then, of course, I mentioned the other
Senators, but the senator here is "Hap"
Farley.ยน Do you know what he said to
me? Hap said a very nice thing when we
came in. He said, "You know, Dick, you
are in home territory in Atlantic City."
We are glad to be here.
I would just like to say this one word
before we go into the meeting: I realize
that in this great crowd here many of
you are vacationing-I hope you are, and
I hope the water is good, and I hope you
enjoy the sun as I did in Florida a few
days ago but also I want you to know
that for one who has the responsibility
to serve as the President of this country,
there is nothing that is more heartwarm-
ing than to come into the country to see
a great crowd like this, people who are
Republicans and Democrats, young peo-
ยน State Senator Frank S. Farley.
760
