Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
We assume that international rights and
obligations will be observed. We also
recognize that the Chilean Government's
actions will be determined primarily by
its own purposes, and that these will not
be deflected simply by the tone of our
policy. In short, we are prepared to have
the kind of relationship with the Chilean
government that it is prepared to have
with us.
Ferment in the region provides open-
ings for exploitation. Cuba continued to
exclude itself from the inter-American
system by its encouragement and support
of revolution and its military ties to the
Soviet Union. The latter meanwhile at-
tempted to expand its influence and its
military presence.
We do not seek confrontations with any
government. But those which display un-
remitting hostility cannot expect our as-
sistance. And those which violate the
principles of the inter-American system,
by intervening in the affairs of their neigh-
bors or by facilitating the intervention of
non-hemispheric powers, cannot expect to
share the benefits of inter-American coop-
eration. We will work constructively with
other members of the community to re-
duce the disruptive effect of such actions.
Many governmental disputes flow from
pressures against foreign private invest-
ment. Such investment plays a construc-
tive role in development, for
for no
government or public agency has the vast
resources required for even basic develop-
ment goals. It is clearly for each country
to decide its conditions for foreign invest-
ment, just as it is for each investor to de-
cide what conditions provide adequate
security and incentives. The challenge for
governments and investors is to develop
new approaches which satisfy the needs of
both. We ask only that our citizens be
treated fairly in accordance with inter-
national law.
In some tragic cases, the forces of
change take on extreme forms-hijacking,
kidnapping, and terrorism. These are acts
of desperation, morally bankrupt. The
nations of the inter-American community
recently signed a convention dealing with
their prevention and punishment. We
hope that others will join in this commit-
ment, and that its coverage will reach be-
yond the hemisphere.
In
CONCERN FOR PEOPLE
my October 1969 speech I made it
clear that our fundamental concern re-
mains people:
66
. . . a dedication to improving the
quality of life in this new world of ours-
to making people the center of our con-
cerns, and to helping meet their economic,
social, and human needs."
When a calamitous earthquake struck
Peru last June, the United States re-
sponded immediately with both public
and private assistance. As a gesture of our
concern, Mrs. Nixon visited Peru, bring-
ing relief supplies to the victims of the
tragedy. Her warm reception was tribute
to the profound ties between the peoples
of Peru and the United States.
Friendship with the peoples of Latin
America transcends fluctuations in gov-
ernmental relations. In this spirit we
maintained our people-to-people pro-
grams in Chile despite the uncertainty of
our official relations.
Our Latin American programs also look
toward local efforts in social development.
Government-to-government programs in
this area have been hampered by their
political sensitivity. The need is for in-
novative ideas and programs, particularly
247
