Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
importance, however, the USSR has a
vital strategic desire to secure herself and
her territories against a China whose cur-
rent enmity and potential growth make
serious, indeed, the possibility of a future
policy of irredentism.
The Soviet Union wishes to see our in-
fluence diminished, and yet fears that
diminution as enhancing the possibility
of expanded Chinese influence. At the
same time, it has to consider that a lesser
American influence could contribute to a
normalization of relations between our-
selves and Mainland China, and might
permit and encourage a focus of Chinese
energies not possible under the present
realities.
There need be, in all this, no irrecon-
cilable conflict between Soviet interests
in Asia and our own. We intend in our
actions to keep Soviet concerns in mind,
without letting them dominate our course.
We seek a stable and peaceful Asia, and
there is no necessity in that concept for a
clash between the U.S. and the Soviet
Union.
In Asia, in the coming years, we will
need great flexibility. The policies of the
Asian states, both great and small, are
now in an historic process of adjustment.
As their decisions are made, we will need
to adjust our policies to them, not only
with flexibility but with virtuosity. And
flexibility is not always the strongest
virtue of a system dependent upon public
participation for its sanction and con-
tinuity. We must meet this challenge, for
otherwise our policies will be forced into
a rigidity ill-adapted to the problems we
will face in the changing Asia of the
1970's.
SOUTH ASIA
"It is in the world interest to avoid
drifting into a widening division between
the have and have-not nations."
Address to the United Nations
General Assembly
October 23, 1970
American policy toward the great sub-
continent of South Asia parallels that to-
ward the East Asia and Pacific region.
Our aim is a structure of peace and sta-
bility within which the people of this re-
gion can develop its great potential and
their independent vision of the future.
Our policy is to help these nations deal
with their own problems, and to bring
our activity into a stable balance with
that of the other major powers with in-
terests in the area.
In the pursuit of that goal in South
Asia, however, both the nature of our in-
terests and the condition of the region
permit a sharper focus of our efforts.
South Asia's fundamental problems are
two: to meet the challenges of economic
and political development and to turn
the relationship between India and Pak-
istan from hostility to cooperation.
More than elsewhere in Asia, the sub-
continent entered the postwar period with
an established institutional structure, with
a considerable reservoir of trained per-
sonnel, and with a commitment to demo-
cratic self-government and independent
policies which strengthened the world's
sympathy and interest in its success.
Against these assets, however, were sub-
stantial liabilities. Our effort to assist the
countries of the area in overcoming these
liabilities has determined and still deter-
mines the structure of our policy toward
South Asia.
279
