Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [255]
cosmetics. In order to show that you are
for women, the argument goes, you have
got to appoint women to government posi-
tions or see that they are elected.
But that is not the most important
reason. The most important reason is that
in any society there are only a limited
number of people who have capacities for
leadership. That doesn't mean that other
people are not people worth our respect,
who do not have dignity, and who do not
make great contributions. But all of the
analyses of societies—and this is true of
the American societies and the societies
in all other parts of the world-show that
around 5 to 6 percent is usually the pro-
portion of the people who have real capac-
ities for leadership.
Yet leadership is an enormously im-
portant ingredient for the success of any
society. Without good leaders, you can't
make it.
So where do you find them? Here we
come to the key point. Leadership does
not come in colors. It may be white or
black or brown. One thing you must learn
as you travel around the world as I have
done, is that an individual's religion, his
political philosophy, his racial background
is no indication of whether he or she is a
leader.
Neither does leadership come in terms
of whether one happens to be a man or a
woman. It is true that around the world
today most people in political leadership
are men. That has been the tradition, and
only recently have women gotten the vote
and begun to be recognized as leaders.
Nevertheless, there are in the world
women who have great capacity
for leadership-and their capacity is
recognized.
The story of India, the most populous
democratic nation in the world, is, of
course, well known to you. When Mrs.
Gandhi first got the job as Prime Minister
of India everybody thought (with some
reason) that she got it because she was
the daughter of Nehru, who was sort of a
folk hero. My wife and I remember meet-
ing her back in 1953; she was very attrac-
tive and very intelligent, and we were not
surprised when she got that position after
Nehru died.
But then they had an election in India,
and she was elected. Now people may
disagree with Mrs. Gandhi. Many people
may say, "Why should a woman have the
job?" But 400 million people who live in
that country apparently felt she should,
because she won that election. They
selected her not because she was a woman,
but because she had capacity for
leadership.
Then in a very small country we see a
different thing. Take Golda Meir in
Israel. Now, I would say, having met her
on several occasions and knowing, also,
the enormous competition in that coun-
try, which perhaps has as many leaders
as you could possibly find in any small
country of 2 million, she would win in
any event, not because she is a woman,
but because she is a very strong, vigorous
advocate of her point of view. And that is
why she is the leader of her country.
The point is this, basically: In the
United States today we have got to have
the best people in positions of leadership.
We have got to look beyond all of the
usual tests that we make, and if a woman
has that capacity, we want her. We want
women in the House; we want them in the
Senate; we want them in government
positions; we want them in elected posi-
tions everywhere. That is one of the
reasons why Girls Nation is so important,
because it is eliciting from the girls of
865
