[73] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
in their own defense but in adding
their moral and spiritual strength to
the creation of a stable world order.
-Today our adversaries no longer pre-
sent a solidly united front; we can
now differentiate in our dealings with
them.
-Today neither the United States nor
the Soviet Union has a clear-cut
nuclear advantage; the time is there-
fore ripe to come to an agreement on
the control of arms.
The world has changed. Our foreign
policy must change with it.
We have learned in recent years the
dangers of over-involvement. The other
danger-a grave risk we are equally de-
termined to avoid-is under-involvement.
After a long and unpopular war, there is
temptation to turn inward-to withdraw
from the world, to back away from our
commitments. That deceptively smooth
road of the new isolationism is surely the
road to war.
Our foreign policy today steers a steady
course between the past danger of over-
involvement and the new temptation of
under-involvement.
That policy, which I first enunciated in
Guam 19 months ago,¹ represents our
basic approach to the world:
We will maintain our commitments, but
we will make sure our own troop levels or
any financial support to other nations is
appropriate to current threats and needs.
We shall provide a shield if a nuclear
power threatens the freedom of a nation
allied with us or of a nation whose survival
we consider vital to our security.
But we will look to threatened countries
and their neighbors to assume primary re-
sponsibility for their own defense, and we
¹ See 1969 volume, Item 279.
will provide support where our interests
call for that support and where it can
make a difference.
These principles are not limited to secu-
rity matters.
We shall pursue economic policies at
home and abroad that encourage trade
wherever possible and that strengthen
political ties between nations. As we
actively seek to help other nations ex-
pand their economies, we can legitimately
expect them to work with us in averting
economic problems of our own.
As we continue to send economic aid to
developing nations, we will expect coun-
tries on the receiving end to mobilize their
resources; we will look to other developed
nations to do more in furnishing assist-
ance; and we will channel our aid in-
creasingly through groups of nations
banded together for mutual support.
This new sharing of responsibility re-
quires not less American leadership than
in the past, but rather a new, more subtle,
form of leadership. No single nation can
build a peace alone; peace can only be
built by the willing hands—and minds—
of all. In the modern world, leadership
cannot be "do-it-yourself"-the path of
leadership is in providing the help, the
motive, the inspiration to do it together.
In carrying out what is referred to as
the Nixon Doctrine, we recognize that we
cannot transfer burdens too swiftly. We
must strike a balance between doing too
much and preventing self-reliance, and
suddenly doing too little and undermin-
ing self-confidence. We intend to give our
friends the time and the means to adjust,
materially and psychologically, to a new
form of American participation in the
world.
How have we applied our new foreign
policy during the past year? And what is
214
