[338] Oct. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
President, it was not at all." She said,
"Every stitch in that flag represents some-
thing right about America."
Then yesterday, while you were taking
your tour of the White House, another
lovely lady came to see me. She was from
Cincinnati, Ohio-Mrs. Ruth Voss, the
mother of eight children. She worked for
the Cincinnati Enquirer. Incidentally,
whenever I get discouraged with the
Washington Post, I read the editorials in
the Cincinnati Enquirer. But she works
as their teenage editor. Over the past few
years, this woman, with eight children, has
given over 50 percent of her time work-
ing on projects for teens. Her present proj-
ect is to develop in Cincinnati a halfway
house for girls who have gone to correc-
tional institutions and then come back
into productive life and, of course, need a
chance, a chance to get some hope, a job,
and so forth.
As she described what she was doing,
not in a boasting way because I was prob-
ing her to find out what she was doing, I
realized what a perfectly remarkable
woman she was. I also realized that across
this country there are hundreds of thou-
sands of women like her doing volunteer
work, with young people, with older peo-
ple, with those who have not had a
chance, with those who were disabled.
I think of the volunteer spirit of Amer-
ica, and I think what a good country
this is.
Mrs. O'Donnell, I simply want to say
that I am proud to appear here, to be
before you, to thank all of you in this
room for the support you have given, not
just to our party but to the cause for
which we stand over the past years. But
most of all, I want to thank you for
having faith in this country, for believing
in America. I want to thank you for hav-
ing as the theme of your convention “The
Spirit of '76."
The spirit of 1776 is going to mean that
in 1976 America will still be strong and
good, the best country in the world.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. in the
International Ballroom of the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel to delegates attending the Federa-
tion's biennial convention.
339 Veterans Day Address.
October 24, 1971
Good evening:
When Pericles was asked to speak in
honor of those men of Athens who were
the first to fall in the Peloponnesian War,
he spoke not of their deeds, but of Athens
herself. He spoke of the life there and the
people, and of the glory of Athens. He
spoke of the Athenian warriors and of all
they had fought to maintain.
It is appropriate, on this Veterans Day,
to recall the origins of our own Nation-
because it was established by the first
American veterans-and to recall the
purposes of our own people, for they con-
tinue to be protected by those fighting
men who all of us wish might be the last
American veterans.
The United States was conceived in
the quest for freedom and born to a peo-
ple committed to the preservation of their
God-given rights-life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness. They neither cov-
1062
