[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
some responsibility to make their own de-
cisions about how to clean up New York
City, how to revise State government, you
are going to get better Governors, you are
going to get better mayors, you are going
to get better county officials.
And incidentally, on that point let me
say that I have just met with the Nation's
Governors. They are a pretty first-rate
group of people—I mean, we are getting
some fine Governors in this country, and
we can get better Governors, better may-
ors, better county officials, by giving them
more responsibility, not by taking respon-
sibility away from them.
SUBURBAN INTEGRATION
[18.] MR. SMITH. Let me ask you just
one question on civil rights.
It is clear after a generation of trial
that the greatest block to integration of
any form is segregated suburbs. Now, I
have asked you about that before, and
your answer has been that you oppose
forced integration.
But does that not mean, in effect, the
perpetuation of discrimination in hous-
ing, and is that not against the law?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith, when you
have basically a situation that is caused by
economic considerations rather than by
racial decisions, I do not believe that
you
can say that that is a violation of the law,
or certainly not of the law or of the Con-
stitution, either in spirit or in letter.
Let's understand that as far as any
urb is concerned they all must be open.
Any individual must have a right, a con-
stitutional right, to buy a house, rent a
house or a home or an apartment, any-
place in this country, without regard to
what his race or religion may be. That
sub-
constitutional right now is guaranteed,
and we will see that it is enforced.
On the other hand, if you have a situa-
tion where people are living in a certain
area, people, say, who have purchased
their homes-let us say they are $20,000
to $25,000 homes-then for the Federal
Government to come in and say, we are
going to insist that we will, in effect, break
up this community, break it up from an
economic standpoint, because those
homes are too expensive for some people
to move into—it may happen that some of
those people may be black people, they
may be other minority people, they may
be white people, but because they are too
expensive we are going to put lower-a
low-cost Federal Government project in
there-I do not believe that that kind of
forced integration is either constitutional,
and it certainly is not required by the law.
Until it is required by the law, we are not
going to do it.
CHANGES IN THE PRESIDENT
[19.] MR. SMITH. Mr. President, we
have got just a short time left. This is a
very unfair question to put to you in a
short time. But I have noticed so many
of your opinions have changed lately—
in favor of deficit spending. When some-
body attacked Mr. Yost for allegedly
having a relationship with Alger Hiss,³
you defended him.
Do you think you have changed
greatly? Whatever happened to the jut-
3 Charles W. Yost, U.S. Representative to
the United Nations 1969-71, and Alger Hiss,
former State Department official who was
convicted of perjury following investigations
into Communist activities by the House
Un-American Activities Committee.
464
