[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
from the insurance system-and with it an
incentive to experiment and innovate.
Under a nationalized system, only the
Federal Government would lose when in-
efficiency crept in or when prices esca-
lated; neither the consumer himself, nor
his employer, nor his union, nor his
insurance company would have any
further stake in controlling prices. The
only way that utilization could be effec-
tively regulated and costs effectively re-
strained, therefore, would be if the Fed-
eral Government made a forceful, tena-
cious effort to do so. This would mean-as
proponents of a nationalized insurance
program have admitted that Federal
personnel would inevitably be approving
the budgets of local hospitals, setting fee
schedules for local doctors, and taking
other steps which could easily lead to the
complete Federal domination of all of
American medicine. That is an enormous
risk-and there is no need for us to take it.
There is a better way-a more practical,
more effective, less expensive, and less
dangerous way-to reform and renew our
nation's health system.
CONFRONTING A DEEPENING CRISIS
"It is health which is real wealth," said
Gandhi, "and not pieces of gold and
silver." That statement applies not only to
the lives of men but also to the life of
nations. And nations, like men, are judged
in the end by the things they hold most
valuable.
Not only is health more important than
economic wealth, it is also its foundation.
It has been estimated, for example, that
ten percent of our country's economic
growth in the past half century has come
because a declining death rate has pro-
duced an expanded labor force.
Our entire society, then, has a direct
stake in the health of every member. In
carrying out its responsibilities in this field,
a nation serves its own best interests, even
as it demonstrates the breadth of its spirit
and the depth of its compassion.
Yet we cannot truly carry out these re-
sponsibilities unless the ultimate focus of
our concern is the personal health of the
individual human being. We dare not get
so caught up in our systems and our
strategies that we lose sight of his needs or
compromise his interests. We can build an
effective National Health Strategy only if
we remember the central truth that the
only way to serve our people well is to
better serve each person.
Nineteen months ago I said that Amer-
ica's medical system faced a "massive
crisis." Since that statement was made,
that crisis has deepened. All of us must
now join together in a common effort to
meet this crisis-each doing his own part
to mobilize more effectively the enormous
potential of our health care system.
The White House
February 18, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet outlining the major fea-
tures of the national health strategy and the
transcript of a news briefing on the message by
Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary, Dr. Roger O.
Egeberg, Assistant Secretary for Health and
Scientific Affairs, Lewis H. Butler, Assistant
Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, and
Robert E. Patricelli, Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Interdepartmental Affairs, Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
186
