[285] Sept. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
need for real wage increases that actually
lead to a better life rather than wage in-
creases which are completely eaten up by
price increases, the need for steady em-
ployment, the need for a safe and clean
place to work, the need for medical care
and a secure retirement.
In our quest for a better environment,
we must always remember that the most
important part of the quality of life is the
quality of work. And the new need for job
satisfaction is the key to the quality of
work.
As the American economy moves to-
ward meeting the new needs of the Amer-
ican worker, what should it look for in
return? The answer can be summed up
in a single, often misunderstood word:
productivity.
That word, productivity, puzzles and
sometimes frightens people. It sounds like
the old "speedup" or some new efficiency
system that drives people harder.
Productivity really means getting more
out of your work.
When you have the latest technology to
help you do your job, it means you can
do more with the same effort. That's
why we say investment in modern equip-
ment will increase productivity.
When you
have the training you need
to improve your skills, you can do more.
That's why we say job training will im-
prove productivity.
When you are organized to do away
with redtape and duplicated effort, you
can do more. That's why we say better
management techniques will increase
productivity.
And when you have your heart in what
you're doing, when it gives you respect
and pride as well as a good wage, you
naturally do more. That's why we say job
satisfaction is a key to productivity.
And so these are the four elements of
productivity: investment in new tech-
nology, job training, good management,
and high employee motivation. Taken to-
gether, they raise the amount each worker
actually produces.
Think about what rising productivity
means to you and to your family. It means
that the individual worker gets a real in-
crease in his wages, and not just a pay
raise eaten away by inflation. It means
that the consumer gets more for his
money, the investor gets a greater return,
and more money is available to help those
who cannot help themselves in this
country.
Think about what rising productivity
means to our country.
Nations, like people, never really stand
still. As change accelerates, they compete
successfully and move ahead, or they relax
and they fall behind.
This Nation is not going to turn inward.
We are not going to build protective walls
to shelter us from fair competition. We
are not going to live in our own cocoon
while the rest of the world passes us by.
On the contrary, the nation that built
its reputation over two centuries for keen
competition will compete even more vig-
orously in the years ahead. By exporting
more goods and services, we will create
more jobs for our expanding work force.
We welcome fair competition-because
it keeps us on our toes, because that alert-
ness leads to increased productivity, be-
cause that in turn leads to a better life
for the American workingman and for his
family.
Our success in rising to the challenge of
936
