Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 19 [145]
gives you the satisfaction of providing for
your children and lets you look everyone
else in the eye, I don't think that it is
menial. But it is just this attitude that
makes others, particularly low-income
workers, feel somehow that certain kinds
of work are demeaning. Scrubbing floors,
emptying bedpans-my mother used to do
that it is not enjoyable work, but a lot of
people do it. And there is as much dignity
in that as there is in any other work to be
done in this country, including my own.
In the course of reforming the welfare
system, we have to reestablish the recogni-
tion of that fact-the dignity of work, any
work, which will enable an individual to
take care of his responsibilities without
going on welfare.
I do not think we can tolerate a system
under which working people can be made
to feel like fools by those who will not
work.
On the contrary, I think those who re-
fuse to register for work and accept work
or training should be ineligible for wel-
fare payments. We have written such a
stipulation into our welfare reform
proposal.
In addition, we have urged including
in this proposal the language of section
208 of the Social Security Act, which
clearly defines fraud and establishes fines
and other appropriate criminal punish-
ment for abuses of the new welfare system.
These are two new, stronger proposals
that we have put into the law, into our
recommendations for the law, I would
say in great part because Governors
around this table, mayors, and others, out
on the firing line, have told us we have
to have better proposals with regard to
work requirements.
Now let me speak quite candidly about
a subject that I know must come to your
attention even more than mine, because
you are out on the firing line, and you
do hear from those who resent it whenever
any change is made in a system in which
they have a vested interest, whether they
are administering the system or whether
they are the recipients of what are called
its benefits.
The moment that you suggest that an
individual must work, if an opportunity
is provided for him to work, or he doesn't
get welfare, or the moment you suggest
that you are going to enforce a law which
clearly defines fraud and establishes fines
and other punishments for abuses, then
you are charged-and I know that prob-
ably every Governor in this room who has
tried to reform his system has been
charged with this—you are charged with
being hardhearted, unkind. You don't
care about the poor children; you don't
care about those who can't take care of
themselves.
Let me give you the answer, my answer
and yours. I know every one of the
men around this table, every one of
you, has been in public life because you
believe in this country, because you want
your government to be the very best pos-
sible government it can be, and because
rather than being hardhearted you want
to have a country strong enough and rich
enough and generous enough that we can
do an even better job in taking care of
those who cannot help themselves. What
we want to do, in other words, is, if we
possibly can in this great, rich, good coun-
try of ours, provide greater benefits for
those Americans, and there are many, who
cannot take care of themselves.
But I also suggest, and this is our prin-
ciple, the way to be able to provide more
generously for those who are unable to
help themselves is to quit helping those
555
