[84] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
basis of what they know is necessary. This
eliminates many of the problems of the
categorical grants. The block grant does,
however, retain other shortcomings: re-
quirements for matching funds, mainte-
nance of effort, and prior approval by
the Federal Government. I believe the
time has come to further reform our sys-
tem of providing financial assistance, and
to streamline, where we can, the system
of grant aid by adopting a system of Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing which provides the
benefits of Federal assistance without the
burdens of assistance built into the present
grant programs.
The purposes of 130 of our narrowly
based categorical grant programs now in
existence can be reduced to six broad
areas of national concern. In a series of
special messages, of which this is the first,
I will propose that funds be made avail-
able to States and localities to assist them
in meeting their problems in the areas of
law enforcement, manpower training,
urban development, transportation, rural
development and education, by convert-
ing these grants to Special Revenue Shar-
ing. Funds for assistance in these areas, as
I proposed in my State of the Union mes-
sage, will include more than $10 billion
of the money allocated for the narrow-
purpose grants plus $1 billion of new
funds. Special Revenue Sharing would
require no matching funds, no mainte-
nance of effort, no prior project approval
and, within the six broad areas, recipients
would have the authority to spend these
funds on programs which are of the high-
est priority to them.
I am proposing today legislation for the
first of these six Special Revenue Sharing
programs. This legislation is directed to
matters of primary concern in our na-
tional life: the control of crime and the
improvement of this nation's system of
criminal justice. Much has been accomp-
lished in combatting these problems, but
much remains to be accomplished.
Part of the marked progress of the
past two years can be attributed to the
Law Enforcement Assistance Administra-
tion (LEAA). The LEAA was created by
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 to aid State and local
law enforcement agencies in funding pro-
grams for police, courts, corrections, con-
trol of organized crime, civil disorders,
and other related crime problems. This
is a national problem-but the basic re-
sponsibilities for solving this problem rest
at the State and local level and the LEAA
provides for Federal assistance to these
levels of government.
This program is based on the assump-
tion that those who bear responsibility at
the State and local level are best qualified
to identify their enforcement problems,
and to set the priorities and develop the
means to solve these problems. It is de-
signed particularly to encourage and pro-
vide for experimentation and innovation
in the search for more effective solutions
to the crime problem. With LEAA as-
sistance each State has developed, in
partnership with local governments, a
comprehensive statewide approach to im-
proving law enforcement and reducing
crime. Each State is receiving funds under
this program, and is moving to execute its
plans.
The program is effective. In the District
of Columbia, LEAA assistance has played
a role in achieving encouraging reductions
in various categories of crime. With
LEAA assistance, Oakland, California,
has launched a unique effort against
street crime using citizen-police coopera-
tion. A feature of this effort has been more
376
