Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [65]
Some of Woodrow Wilson's most elo-
quent speeches were made on the trip that
he took to Europe immediately after
World War I. On that trip, crusading for
a League of Nations, he made the point
vividly in the Mansion House in London.
He told the story of a great Englishman
of letters, Charles Lamb, who once casu-
ally said about another man, "I hate that
fellow." And one of Lamb's friends re-
plied, "I didn't know that you knew him."
And Lamb said, "Oh, I don't. I can't hate
a man I know."
And that is how Wilson made his point.
He said, "When we know one another,
we cannot hate one another."
Knowing one another in its deepest
sense means far more than becoming ac-
quainted or improving the atmosphere in
relations between nations. It means that
we must recognize our differences and
come to grips with reality of conflicting
national interests.
History has taught us that we do not
know one another better by glossing over
the substance of disagreements. We know
one another better when we understand
why nations disagree.
Then, and only then, can we act to-
gether to harmonize our differences.
When we truly know one another we can
have differences without hating one
another.
I suggest that the greatest single
achievement of Woodrow Wilson was in
opening the heart of America for the
world to see.
Since Wilson, the world better under-
stands that America does stand for self-
determination of all nations, that Ameri-
cans fervently believe in a world living in
freedom and peace.
Wilson died convinced he was a failure.
He was wrong. The Wilsonian vision, the
American passion for peace with freedom,
did not die. Through all the years of war,
through all the setbacks of isolationism
and weakness toward aggression, that vi-
sion has persevered-until now it is on the
verge of triumph.
When we know one another, we can-
not hate one another. In this still imper-
fect world, I am convinced that realistic
understanding is on the rise and mindless
hatred is on the decline.
The strong likelihood exists that there
will be no need for a war to end wars, that
instead, by taking one careful step at a
time, by making peace for one full genera-
tion, we will get this world into the habit
of peace.
The time will come when Woodrow
Wilson will be remembered not as a man
who tried and failed, but as one of those
Americans who saw the truth before his
time and whose vision became the reality
of the generation he inspired.
By his example, Woodrow Wilson
helped make the world safe for idealism.
By following that example, by not fear-
ing to be idealists ourselves, we shall make
the world safe for free men to live in
peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:50 p.m. in the
Great Hall at the Smithsonian Institution
Building, where the Woodrow Wilson Inter-
national Center for Scholars is located.
S. Dillon Ripley was Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution.
71-234-72--16
189
