[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
conscious of the special problems of the
least developed countries-most of which
are in Africa-which will continue to need
the more traditional types of technical as-
sistance since they have traveled less dis-
tance along the road to economic
self-sufficiency.
The Institute would be managed on a
businesslike basis, and it would carry out
its projects largely through the private sec-
tor. I propose that it be governed by a
Board of Trustees including outstanding
citizens from the private sector. It would
stress evaluation of past projects to deter-
mine their payoff and to help guide future
project development; there has been too
little followup in these programs in the
past. We would seek top flight technical
managers, development specialists and
scientists for the small staff of the Insti-
tute. This new approach would permit a
major reduction in the number of U.S.
government personnel operating abroad.
To achieve these goals, the IDI should
have financial continuity. I therefore pro-
pose that the Congress authorize an ap-
propriation of $1,275 million for a 3-year
period.
In short, the International Develop-
ment Institute would provide a new di-
mension to our foreign assistance effort.
It would enable us to focus some of our
finest national resources-our capabilities
in management, research and technol-
ogy-on the critical bottleneck problems
of development. Its style of operation
should enable us to forge a new and more
mature partnership with the lower income
countries, with the rest of the industrial-
ized world, and with our own private sec-
tor. It holds promise of becoming one of
the most significant additions to our na-
tional capability to engage meaningfully
in the world of the 1970s.
Overseas Private Investment Corporation
and Inter-American Social Development
Institute
The new International Development
Corporation and International Develop-
ment Institute would join two develop-
ment assistance institutions already
created by the Congress: the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation and
the Inter-American Social Development
Institute.
OPIC is already at work promoting the
role of private investment in the interna-
tional development process. The record of
economic development shows that suc-
cessful growth is usually associated with a
dynamic private sector, and we therefore
look to private investment-primarily
domestic but foreign as well-to play an
increasing role in the development proc-
ess. It must do so, since no government or
public agency has the resources or tech-
nical skills which are necessary to meet
the vast needs of the lower income
countries.
OPIC's guarantees and insurance of
U.S. private investment in lower income
countries which seek such investment are
already serving effectively the interests of
both the U.S. investor and the host coun-
tries. Its early activities suggest that an
independent corporation, directed by a
joint public-private Board of Directors,
can effectively manage a development as-
sistance program; it thus augurs well for
the structures which I propose today for
the Development Corporation and De-
velopment Institute.
OPIC is operating within one of the
574
