Appendix B
January
with the bipartisan leadership of the Senate
and House of Representatives.
From Tuesday, January 26, through Fri-
day, January 29, he breakfasted each day
with Republican Members of Congress. In-
vitations to the four breakfasts included the
entire Republican membership.
As his schedule permitted during the
week, he also joined in a series of briefings
by White House staff members for the chair-
men and ranking minority members of sev-
eral Congressional committees.
26 Terence Cardinal Cooke, Archbishop of
New York, met with the President at the
White House to discuss his Christmas visit
with the troops in Vietnam.
26 The President addressed a message to Amer-
icans of Chinese origin celebrating the Year
of the Boar, 4669 on the Chinese calendar.
27 The President participated in two White
House briefings for executive directors and
presidents of various business associations.
The briefings dealt with revenue sharing and
Government reorganization.
28 The President met with 11 college news-
paper editors who were participating in a
series of Department of State briefings on
foreign policy and the operations of the
Department.
28 The President hosted a reception for new
Members of Congress.
February
2 W. T. "Shorty" Smith, the American Truck-
ing Association's 1971 Driver of the Year,
called on the President at the White House.
2 The President received the Honorary Big
Brother of the Year Award for 1971, from
officers of the Big Brother Organization,
Inc., in a ceremony at the White House.
2 Representatives of the National Student
Coordinating Committee for Freedom in
Vietnam and Southeast Asia met with the
President at the White House.
February
2 Speaker of the House Carl Albert received
the American Heart Association's "Heart
of the Year Award" from the President in a
ceremony at the White House.
2 In the sixth of a series of "Evenings at the
White House," coloratura soprano Beverly
Sills entertained the President and the First
Lady and their guests.
3 Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and her
children were the guests of the First Family
at a private dinner at the White House.
During their visit, they viewed the por-
traits of President John F. Kennedy and of
Mrs. Onassis, which have become a part of
the White House collection.
5 Senator John G. Tower of Texas met with
the President at the White House to dis-
cuss domestic legislation, including revenue
sharing and Government reorganization.
5 The President sent a telegram to Mayor
C. E. Haskins of Woodbine, Ga., to express
his sympathy following an explosion at the
munitions plant at Woodbine.
8 Ambassadors Antonio Sanchez de Lozada
of Bolivia, José Juan de Olloqui of Mexico,
and the Earl of Cromer of the United King-
dom presented their credentials to the Presi-
dent in the Blue Room at the White House.
8 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
reception at the White House for members
of the diplomatic corps.
9 Fourteen Boy Scouts and Explorers pre-
sented the Scouts' annual report to the
President in a ceremony at the White House.
9 Mayor and Mrs. J. P. (Rory) Liddy of
Limerick, Ireland, called on the President
at the White House.
9 In connection with the observance of Negro
History Week, a group of Negro publishers
and authors called on the President to pre-
sent 21 volumes for the White House
Library.
1248
