Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 29 [154]
Congress is, or probably will be, consid-
ering either cutting off funds for fighting
in Vietnam, or war powers of the Presi-
dent, limiting the war powers. If you were
in the Senate now, how would you vote
on those two things?
THE PRESIDENT. I guess it would de-
pend on who was President. [Laughter]
Seriously, I understand the concern of
the Senate on this, and I have talked, for
example, with Senator Mansfield, for
whom I have enormous respect and who
disagrees with me on our plans in Viet-
nam-not in all respects, but believes we
should move more quickly. But I believe
that limiting the President's war powers,
whoever is President of the United States,
would be a very great mistake.
We live in times when situations can
change so fast internationally that to wait
until the Senate acts before a President
can act might be that we acted too late.
As far as the Senate is concerned, how-
ever, I would like also to correct another
impression. I think some of the people
on television may have gotten the impres-
sion, when they saw some of the demon-
strations down at the Senate-and Barry
Goldwater's door had red paint on it, I
understand, and his office door was
locked-that Washington is somewhat in
a state of siege.
Well, let me just make one thing very
clear: The Congress is not intimidated;
the President is not intimidated. This
Government is going to go forward.
It doesn't mean that we are not going
to listen to those who come peacefully,
but those who come and break the law
will be prosecuted to the full extent of the
law.
In the meantime, however, I, as Presi-
dent, have my obligation to consider what
they say and all of the other things that
I know, and then to make the decision
that I think will be in their best interests,
as well as the best interests of other people
in this country.
LT. JONATHAN ROSE
[12.] Q. Sir, according to published
reports, Army Lieutenant Jonathan Rose,
who is the son of a former high Eisen-
hower Administration official, and a Re-
publican Party campaign contributor, is
serving on duty here in the White House
at your request and has served for 2 years,
rather than being assigned to active duty.
Now the Pentagon will not tell us why,
but I wondered whether you could tell us,
sir, what his expertise is that makes him
so valuable to the White House?
THE PRESIDENT. First, he is a very
competent lawyer, but we have other
competent lawyers-excluding, of course,
the President [laughter]-in the White
House. But the other reason, I think, in
fairness to Mr. Rose-and I am sorry that
such a personal thing has to be brought
up, but I know he would want the record
clarified--he has a physical disability, an
injury to his shoulder, which disqualifies
him from active combat duty.
Consequently, it was felt that the best
service he could perform in a civilian ca-
pacity was in the White House. That is
why he is there. And I am very glad that
a man with that kind of disability-there
is nothing wrong with his brain-is avail-
able in the White House as one of our
best young lawyers.
LIEUTENANT CALLEY
[13.] Q. If I may follow up on a ques-
tion on Lieutenant Calley. I am not a
lawyer, but I inferred from what you said
599
