[79] Mar. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
But we know it's true. And here are
the reasons: They are fed up with gov-
ernment because they think it costs too
much; they think it doesn't work; and
they think they can't do anything about it.
What I have proposed is designed to
meet these needs-to cut the cost of gov-
ernment, to make it work, and to give the
people a greater chance to determine
what kind of government they want.
Now that is a goal above partisanship.
It is the goal that I submit to the Iowa
Legislature and ask for your support. Peo-
ple know that we need a change. They
know that what may have been right 20
years or 30 years or even 40 years ago
may not be right today.
They know that like any living thing,
government in America has to change and
develop; it has to adapt itself to new cir-
cumstances. It has to be made to meet the
demands of our people, as those needs
exist in today's America, so that the
farmer, the worker, the taxpayer, the
housewife for everyone in America-
government can do a better job.
America's great strength lies precisely
in its great diversity-in the fact that our
States and communities are different, that
we don't all fit in the same mold, and
that each of us has his own ambitions,
his own desires, his own individuality. The
essence of freedom is to give scope to that
individuality, respect to that diversity.
And when I talk about returning power
to the people, I am talking about just
that about letting people make their
that—about
own decisions in their own lives and in the
lives of their own communities.
Because, you see, I have faith, as I am
sure you have, I have faith in the people
of America, and faith in people is what
the American system of government was
all about in the beginning. And it is what
it is all about today.
Here in the heartland of America, we
can see the heart of America is good, that
the people deserve our faith. We became
a great nation because the Nation's
founders had the courage to place their
faith in people, because, having that faith,
they established institutions that allowed
the people to prove themselves worthy of
it.
And now the time has come, one of
those great watershed periods in the his-
tory of a nation when we return to that
faith, we return to renew those institutions
and, by so doing, to lead America to a
new birth of greatness-a greatness not
simply as the richest nation or the strong-
est nation but a greatness that springs
from the unshackling of people them-
selves.
We meet today at a time when Amer-
ica's involvement in the longest and most
difficult war in our history is coming to
an end. It is time to turn the great energies
of our people to the works of peace in this
last third of the 20th century.
And at this time, I invite you to join
with me in beginning a national renewal,
in fitting our government to the times we
live in, in strengthening our government
at the State and local level, in forging a
new partnership that can give us prosper-
ity with peace, progress with unity, and
freedom with diversity.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:34 a.m. in the
State Capitol.
Lt. Gov. Roger W. Jepsen was president of
the Iowa State Senate; William H. Harbor was
speaker of the House of Representatives; and
Theodore G. Garfield was chief justice of the
State Supreme Court.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
360
