Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 5 [89]
by-year basis rather than through com-
mitments extending many years into the
future.
Other programs were also created over
the years for a variety of other purposes,
including the rehabilitation of private
buildings and the construction of water
and sewer facilities and other public
works. The tangle of separate Federal
programs became so frustrating that when
a new Model Cities program was added
in 1966, it was expressly designed to pro-
vide general, flexible support for coordi-
nated development programs, though
only in a limited number of targeted areas.
The proliferation of separate grant pro-
grams has created a difficult situation for
local governments that wish to utilize Fed-
eral development money. For each com-
munity must now make a series of sepa-
rate applications to a series of Federal
officials for a series of separate grants, each
of which must be spent for a stipulated
purpose and for nothing else. Ideally,
all of these grants should fit into a single
comprehensive development program, tai-
lored to each community's particular
needs. But it is extremely difficult for any
community to create an overall strategy
for development when each element in
that strategy must be negotiated sepa-
rately by officials who cannot be sure
about the outcome of all the other
negotiations.
To make things even worse, some of
these Federal programs require local com-
munities to work through semi-autono-
mous local officials-often bypassing the
elected local leaders. Thus, even if one
leader, a mayor, for example, does man-
age to create a comprehensive develop-
ment plan for the money he controls, he is
often unable to include in his plan that
Federal assistance which goes directly to
an urban renewal agency or a local sani-
tary district. Often, mayors are unable
even to calculate the overall level of Fed-
eral development aid that is coming into
their communities.
These categorical programs, in other
words, are separated not only on the giv-
ing end in Washington, but also on the
receiving end in the local community.
And there is no one, anywhere, who can
plan so that all the various parts will fit
into a comprehensive whole.
The fragmentation which afflicts the
planning process continues after the
grants are made. Each program is sur-
rounded by its own wall of regulations and
restrictions and coordination between
programs is often very difficult. Some-
times programs work at cross-purposes
and sometimes they needlessly duplicate
one another. For example, the Federal
Government, working through two dif-
ferent agencies, has been known to fund
two different local authorities to build
two sewer systems to serve the same
neighborhood.
The inflexibility of the present system
often means that money cannot be used
where the need for money is greatest.
If a city suddenly finds that it must put
in new street lights, it cannot use funds
that are earmarked for demolition or re-
habilitation. Geographic restrictions are
also a problem. Money for an urban re-
newal project which has been approved
for one carefully defined neighborhood,
for example, cannot be used at a closely
related site just across the street, if that
street happens to be the boundary of the
renewal area.
The result of these fragmented and in-
flexible grant programs has been a highly
irrational pattern of development in many
urban communities. Rather than focusing
397
