[323] Oct. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
323 Statement About Congressional Action on the Proposed
October 6, 1971
Revenue Act of 1971.
TODAY'S vote by the House of Repre-
sentatives in favor of the tax bill reflects
an overwhelming national will for prompt
legislative measures to stimulate the econ-
omy, create jobs, and halt inflation. I am
deeply grateful for this timely action by
both the House and its Committee on
Ways and Means.
The scheduling of hearings on the tax
bill tomorrow by the Finance Committee
of the Senate is another welcome indica-
tion of the bipartisan Congressional sup-
port for the new economic program. I am
confident that, with Senate cooperation,
the American people will soon have an
effective tax bill enacted into law.
324 Statement About Congressional Action on Deferment
of Federal Pay Raises. October 7, 1971
I AM most gratified by today's Senate
vote supporting the deferral of the sched-
uled wage increase for Federal employees.
As a result of the support voted by the
House 3 days ago and by the Senate today,
I feel sure that Federal employees will
better understand the necessity for this
delay, and the integral part that it has in
our efforts to achieve a new prosperity for
all Americans.
NOTE: The legislation was introduced as
H. Res. 596 and S. Res. 169.
325 Address to the Nation on the Post-Freeze Economic
Stabilization Program: "The Continuing Fight
Against Inflation." October 7, 1971
Good evening:
Seven weeks ago I announced a new
economic policy to stop the rise in prices,
to create new jobs, and to protect the
American dollar.
Tonight I want to report to you about
how that new policy has been working and
to describe how that policy will be
continued.
On the international front, I am glad
to report substantial progress in our cam-
paign to create a new monetary stability
and to bring a new fairness to world trade.
This Nation welcomes foreign competi-
tion, but we have a right to expect that
our trading partners abroad will welcome
American competition.
It is a healthy development that the
world has come to understand that Amer-
ica believes in free trade as long as it is
fair trade. This will mean more sales of
American goods abroad and more jobs for
American workers at home.
Further on the job front, the House of
Representatives just yesterday passed a tax
program based on my recommendations
that will create an additional half-million
jobs in the coming year. I call upon the
United States Senate, which has begun
hearings on this bill today, to act as
1022
