[332] Oct. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
ica's businesses. And these businesses, in
turn, account for less than 1% of our
Nation's gross business receipts.
In my statement on school desegrega-
tion of March 24, 1970, and again in my
statement on equal housing opportunity
last June 11, I committed this adminis-
tration to the untiring pursuit of a free and
open society, one which gives all citizens
both the right and the ability to control
their own destinies. I emphasized that
such a society should be diverse and
pluralistic, affording all of its members
both a range for personal choice and the
mobility which allows them to take ad-
vantage of that range of choice. Both in
law and in practice, I argued, we owe
every man an equal chance at the starting
line and an equal opportunity to go as
high and as far as his talents and energies
will take him.
Throughout our history, one of the most
effective ways in which we have advanced
these goals has been by expanding the op-
portunity for property ownership and in-
dependent business activity. On many
occasions our Founding Fathers spoke
eloquently about the close relationship
between property rights and human
rights, and the wisdom of their words has
been abundantly demonstrated through-
out our national experience.
One of the most effective means now
available for advancing the cause of hu-
man dignity among minority Americans is
by expanding managerial and ownership
opportunities for minority entrepreneurs.
On March 5, 1969, in one of my first
executive orders [11458] as President, I
established two new mechanisms for pro-
moting expanded minority business activ-
ities: an Office of Minority Business
Enterprise within the Department of
Commerce to coordinate and oversee all
Federal efforts in this field and to stimu-
late private sector initiatives; and an Ad-
visory Council for Minority Business
Enterprise to study this complex subject
and recommend further action. Since that
time, both of these units have been dili-
gently carrying out these assignments.
The further steps which I am announcing
today have grown in large measure from
their suggestions and their experience.
THE RECORD TO DATE
The record of this administration in
promoting minority enterprise is a record
of which we are proud. The aggregate
total of Federal business loans, guarantees
and grants to minority enterprises and
purchases from them has increased almost
three-fold over the last three fiscal
years from nearly $200 million in Fiscal
Year 1969 to an estimated $566 million
in Fiscal Year 1971. Federal purchases in-
volving minority businesses alone have in-
creased more than eleven-fold-from $13
million in Fiscal Year 1969 to $142 mil-
lion in Fiscal Year 1971. Our program to
stimulate minority banking, which began
just one year ago this month, has sur-
passed its goal of generating $100 million
in new deposits in minority banks; firm
commitments have been received for more
than $35 million from the Federal Gov-
ernment and $65 million from the private
sector.
In addition, the Small Business Admin-
istration has licensed 39 Minority Enter-
prise Small Business Investment Com-
panies (MESBICs), with an aggregate
capitalization in excess of $10 million.
When Federal monies available to these
39 MESBICs are fully utilized, they
1042
