Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 6 [46]
for all Americans. The role of govern-
ment in this area, as I emphasized last
year, should be one of stimulating private
giving and encouraging private initiative.
I am therefore happy to report that the
work of the National Endowment for the
Humanities attracted 125 gifts from pri-
vate sources totalling over $2 million dur-
ing fiscal year 1970, more than matching
Federal funds available for that purpose.
It is my hope that the 92nd Congress
will recognize the innovative and vital role
of the National Endowment for the Hu-
manities as described in this Fifth An-
nual Report.
The White House
February 5, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 107-page report is entitled "Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities, Fifth
Annual Report."
46 Statement About Memorandums Recommending
Proposals for Executive Reorganization.
February 6, 1971
IT IS my hope that as they are formally
submitted to the Congress, the proposals
I announced in this year's address on the
State of the Union will generate a con-
structive and far-reaching discussion on
the best way to organize many of the
domestic activities of the Federal Govern-
ment. As a contribution to such discus-
sion, I have decided to make available to
the Congress and to the American people
these two memoranda that were prepared
for me last year by the President's Advis-
ory Council on Executive Organization
(the Ash Council). One concerns the De-
partment of Natural Resources, and the
other concerns organization for social and
economic programs.
The earlier memorandum reached
me on May 12, 1970 and the latter on
November 19, 1970. I withheld action
on the earlier document until I had had a
chance to see the full scope of the Coun-
cil's proposals for the reorganization of
related domestic departments and their
functions.
These memoranda are basic to the pro-
posed changes that I outlined in my ad-
dress on the State of the Union, but they
are not the only sources for my proposals.
Consequently, there will be differences
between the specific legislation which I
will recommend to the Congress and the
proposals made by the Ash Council. The
differences will reflect conclusions I have
reached as a result of my own experience
in government, as well as proposals for
executive reorganization made earlier in
this Administration and in previous
administrations.
For example, one department which
was not touched by the Ash Council's pro-
posals, the Department of Transportation,
will be included in the reorganization leg-
islation I will send to the Congress be-
cause I believe that the principles which
underlie the Ash proposals justify this
inclusion.
The Congress and the American peo-
ple, in my view, should have the benefit
of the relevant studies of the Advisory
Council on Executive Organization in or-
der that they may better evaluate the leg-
123
