Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 24 [112]
Action is functioning now to fill a vital
need in the private voluntary sector. Now
we must turn our attention to bringing
government volunteer programs into line
with new national priorities and new op-
portunities for meeting those priorities.
We must take full advantage of the les-
sons of the past decade, and we must build
on the experience of that period if we are
to realize the full potential of voluntary
citizen service. This is no longer a matter
of choice. We cannot afford to misuse or
ignore the considerable talents and ener-
gies of our people. In the coming years,
the continued progress of our society is
going to depend increasingly upon the
willingness of more Americans to partici-
pate in voluntary service and upon our
ability to channel their service effectively.
One matter of consequence to the prob-
lems of properly channeling volunteer
services and expanding government's role
in the development of volunteer resources
is the proliferation of government volun-
teer programs. It was perhaps inevitable
that these programs would be generated
almost at random across the spectrum of
government concern for human needs.
This occurred in a period when the Fed-
eral Government was still attempting to
define its relationship with, and its pur-
poses in, the area of voluntary service.
Now the role of government has been
confirmed and its responsibilities and ob-
ligations are clear. Meeting these respon-
sibilities and obligations will be a long,
difficult, and challenging adventure. But
it is an adventure we can look to with ex-
citement and with the knowledge that
the only sure source of failure can be a
failure of the will of the American people.
I do not believe it will fail.
The foundation for a greatly expanded
government contribution to volunteer
service already exists. Now we must con-
solidate that foundation in order to build
on it. To accomplish this, I propose a re-
organization of the present volunteer serv-
ice system. Accordingly, I herewith trans-
mit to the Congress Reorganization Plan
No. 1 of 1971, prepared in accordance
with chapter 9 of title 5 of the United
States Code. Reorganization would bring
together within a single agency a number
of voluntary action programs presently
scattered throughout the executive branch
of the Federal Government. The new
agency would be called Action.
COMPOSITION
Under the reorganization plan Action
would administer the functions of the fol-
lowing programs:
-Volunteers in Service to America:
VISTA volunteers work in domestic
poverty areas to help the poor break
the poverty cycle.
-Auxiliary and Special Volunteer Pro-
grams in the Office of Economic Op-
portunity: At present the National
Student Volunteer Program is ad-
ministered under this authority. This
program stimulates student volun-
tary action programs which deal
with the problems of the poor.
---Foster Grandparents: This program
provides opportunities for the elderly
poor to assist needy children.
-Retired Senior Volunteer Program:
RSVP provides opportunities for re-
tired persons to perform voluntary
services in their communities.
-Service Corps of Retired Executives:
SCORE provides opportunities for
retired businessmen to assist in the
development of small businesses.
-Active Corps of Executives: ACE
467
