[204] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
ernor or his mayor or his county official.
He is more concerned about the crisis of
his own budget rather than the budget of
the Federal Government or the State
gov-
ernment or the city government. And
property tax is the one that gets to him.
Consequently, we emphasize that as one
of the major reasons for moving in this
particular area.
I pointed out, too, that the property
tax not only is the most unpopular; it is
the fastest rising. It is the most unfair.
It is the most unfair because it hits the
people in the lower income brackets the
hardest. We all know that if an individual
is moving up in the income area, his ability
to deduct property taxes from his gross
income means that the burden of prop-
erty tax, while still significant, is not all
that important.
On the other hand, for the lower in-
come taxpayer, the individual who per-
haps takes the standard deduction, as
those property taxes escalate, the burden
is much, much greater upon him. And
also, all surveys show that the lower a
family's income, the larger a proportion
of his income goes to housing and, par-
ticularly if he is a homeowner, to his
property tax.
One personal anecdote that brings this
home: I met the other day with a group
of leaders of older or what we call senior
citizens from around the country. They
were competing groups. Some were for
one idea, some were for others. The one
thing that they were unanimous on was
this: They pointed out that 75 percent of
all senior citizens in this country own their
apartments or their houses, and they said
the one greatest interest they have is in
getting some method of stopping the rise
in property taxes which was proving to
be confiscatory and a burden which they
would not continue to be able to bear.
So in terms of revenue sharing, then, I
believe that we could put it this way: The
chairman of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee in the House opposes it. The rank-
ing Republican in the House [Committee]
also opposes it.
On the other hand, we find that a ma-
jority of Governors favor revenue shar-
ing. A majority of county officials favor
it. A majority of city officials favor it.
A majority of the people favor it. And our
polls indicate-and we have made some
polls of Members of Congress and the
Senate that while the Members differ
as to the form, if the bill were to come
to the floor, the House and the Senate
Members would reflect the country and
a majority will vote for it.
When you have that much for a par-
ticular proposal, you can be confident that
it will be acted upon, and that the com-
mittee chairmen, those who have, of
course, the responsibility in this area, will
move in response to what is obviously an
overwhelming public mandate.
I turn now to welfare reform. It makes
no sense to have revenue sharing unless
we reform the institutions of government,
because otherwise all we are doing is to
put more money into obsolete institutions,
costly, inefficient institutions that are
wasting, in many cases, the taxpayers'
money.
Now, how does revenue sharing, and,
therefore, welfare reform-how do the
two come together? They are closely re-
lated because when we look at the rea-
sons for escalating costs of local and State
government, increasing welfare costs is
one of the major. Consequently, we must
do something about the welfare program,
not only in human terms, a point that we
have emphasized in our family assistance
752
