Richard Nixon, 1971
May 19 [173]
173 Remarks at the Annual Convention of the American
National Red Cross. May 19, 1971
Chairman Kenney, all of the distinguished
guests who are delegates, and those at-
tending the convention of the American
Red Cross:
I wish first to tell you that I am very
appreciative and grateful of the invita-
tion that I have received to address this
organization, which I am proud to serve
as Honorary Chairman. In fact, it is the
only organization, as President of the
United States, in which I have that dis-
tinguished title.
in
I want you to know, too, that I am glad
that before you left the city of Washing-
ton that I was able to come before you
this session to address you very briefly, but
from the heart, about the work that you
have done and the pride that I have as
your Honorary Chairman, and also as the
President of this country, in working with
you in great and good causes.
I was not sure that I was going to be
able to come to this convention on Mon-
day and Tuesday-we have a few prob-
lems at the present time in this country.
Tuesday, as you know, we had the
problem of the railway strike. At 10:30
last night, I signed the bill that the
Congress passed. So the trains will run,
and you will all be able to go home,
in case anybody rides the trains anymore.
But late yesterday, when it appeared that
the strike would go on through today, I
called in my Appointments Secretary and
said, "It doesn't look as if I may be able
to get to the Red Cross on Wednesday
morning, because if the strike is still going
on, consultations would have to take place
with Congressional leaders, and other
matters of importance would have to come
before me."
And I said, "When will they be back to
Washington for a convention?" And so
he checked the record, and he said, "Well,
the last time they were here was in 1957,
and President Eisenhower addressed the
convention on that occasion." He said,
"The next time they will be in Washing-
ton will be in 1981. Maybe they will in-
vite you, but you can't do it as President
of the United States."
Then I noted, however, that E. Roland
Harriman is going to serve his eighth term
as Chairman of the American Red Cross.
And if I followed in his footsteps, maybe
we might be able to make it, but I won't
take that chance.
I did not want the American Red Cross
to meet in Washington on this historic
occasion without having the opportunity
to come before you. And so I am here, and
I want to cover briefly those points that
anyone who serves as President of the
United States would want to make to this
organization, because perhaps no one in
this country knows better than I do how
much we depend upon you, your 2,400,000
members, and the millions who contribute
to the American Red Cross for the works
that
you participate in.
I think back through my own term of
office, over 2 years, and I think of those
occasions when the American Red Cross
has come to the assistance of our Govern-
ment and of the American people.
I know that you have expressed deep
concern in this convention about the
plight of our prisoners of war, missing in
action, throughout all of Southeast Asia.
I am grateful for the work that you have
done and the great tradition of the Red
Cross, a tradition which recognizes that
643
