[121] Mar. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
the first of a series of announcements that
will be made over the next few months in
which, in all sections of the country, in
northern California as well as in southern
California, in the East, the North, the
South, announcements will be made
whereby we will declare excess property
that presently is being used by the Federal
Government or some agency of the Fed-
eral Government, but in a way that we
have determined is not the best use.
That means that then the State, in this
case, gets the opportunity to use this as
parkland. In other cases, it may be deter-
mined that property, for example, that is
in the middle of a city may be turned over
to the tax rolls, and the funds that are
acquired thereby can then be used to
develop parks.
In any event, this is an indication of
the scope of this program. I say that it
probably wouldn't have happened unless
I had taken a walk on the beach 2 years
ago at San Clemente and walked an extra
mile and saw the great possibilities and
decided that the time had come for Presi-
dential initiative, Presidential initiative
which has overridden, I must say, very
deep and understandable bureaucratic
opposition and very deep and understand-
able opposition in some segments of the
Congress, only because Members of the
Congress at times were reflecting the
views of the bureaus. Most Members of
the Congress, I am sure, will applaud this
decision.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:55 a.m. at
the Western White House in San Clemente,
Calif. Shortly after his remarks, the President
boarded his helicopter for an aerial inspection
of the Camp Pendleton beach front property.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the Camp Pendleton property
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's action by John D. Ehrlichman, As-
sistant to the President for Domestic Affairs.
I22
Statement About Plans To Make Land in Camp
Pendleton, California, Available for Public
Recreational Use. March 31, 1971
CAMP Pendleton, California, is part of
the legacy which the World War II era
left for the seventies. For 30 years these
18 miles of choice coastal land have served
as an important training center for the
U.S. Marine Corps. During that same
period, California has become the Na-
tion's most populous and most urban
State; several million people now live
within an hour's drive of Camp Pendleton
in the San Diego-Los Angeles metro-
politan complex.
For these people, as for all Americans,
we must seek to leave a legacy that goes
beyond good housing, vital industries, and
strong defense. We must also provide an
endowment of parklands and recreational
areas that will enrich their leisure oppor-
tunities and make the beauties of the earth
and sea more accessible to them. As an
important step toward creating such a
legacy for the people of southern Cali-
fornia, I am pleased to announce today
that fully one-third of the beach front
area within Camp Pendleton will soon be
made available for recreational use by the
general public.
I recently requested the Secretary of
Defense to initiate proceedings which will
offer approximately 6 miles of the Camp
494
