[132] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
of capital and management skills so that
economic development opportunities do
not go begging as they have sometimes
done in the past.
Washington has been called, not too
kindly but with a measure of truth, a
"company town." Inevitably the Federal
Government will remain a dominant fac-
tor in the metropolitan economy, but one-
industry communities all over the Nation
are seeing the wisdom of diversifying, and
often it is the major employer in the
community which takes the lead in broad-
ening the economic base to create new
jobs and a wider prosperity. Certainly
that should be the case in Washington,
and can be if we move to establish the
Development Bank.
PREPARING FOR THE BICENTENNIAL
The bicentennial of American inde-
pendence, now only five years away, is a
natural focal point for our hopes and
plans of what the Nation and the Na-
tion's Capital can become. Many cities
will take part in this great observance as
we celebrate our heritage and map our
third century that lies ahead. Boston as
the cradle of liberty, and Philadelphia as
the scene of the bold political strokes lead-
ing to independence and union, will both
play leading roles. But Washington, truly
the child of the American Revolution, will
have an especially exciting chance to show
the world how that child has come to full
maturity.
We must give urgent and continuing at-
tention to enhancing the Nation's Capital
as "the city of magnificent distances"-
the gracious description a Portuguese dip-
lomat gave it when it was little more than
a village in the wilderness. To insure vig-
orous Federal participation in the work
of readying Washington's public build-
ings, avenues, and open spaces for the
bicentennial year, I have asked Robert
Kunzig, the General Services Adminis-
trator, to serve as my Special Assistant for
District Bicentennial Development Proj-
ects. I have also resubmitted to the Con-
gress legislation to create a Federal City
Bicentennial Development Corporation
which would exercise leadership in public
and private efforts to realize the develop-
ment potential of the Pennsylvania Ave-
nue area.
A number of construction projects in-
cluded in my budget for fiscal year 1972
also point to an attractive new look for
Federal Washington by 1976. These in-
clude the Smithsonian Institution's plans
to build a new National Air and Space
Museum on the Mall and a new display
area for cultural and technological ad-
vances of the past two centuries in the
National Museum of History and Tech-
nology; the National Sculpture Garden
which the National Park Service will build
on the Mall; new buildings for the De-
partments of Labor and Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, and the United States
Tax Court; and the James Madison
Memorial Library addition to the Library
of Congress. I ask the Congress to appro-
priate the necessary funds for these
projects.
As we work to beautify the official face
of the city, we will not neglect the task
of healing its residential heart. The
wounds of anguish inflicted on portions
of Washington in the tragic aftermath of
Martin Luther King's assassination three
years ago this week are still far too evident,
depressing the lives of residents and scar-
ring their neighborhoods. The riot-torn
areas, as well as those suffering from blight
and decay, deserve accelerated urban re-
518
