Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 24 [72]
Federal agencies would identify product
characteristics that should be tested and
would approve and develop, where neces-
sary, testing methods to assess those char-
acteristics. Suppliers of goods would be
permitted to advertise their compliance
with government approved testing stand-
ards. In addition, interested private or-
ganizations may receive accreditation
indicating their competence to perform
the approved tests, and the use of an
accredited organization in testing a prod-
uct may be advertised.
NATIONAL BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR
CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Most businessmen recognize and accept
their responsibility to the consumer, and
in many cases they have voluntarily un-
dertaken efforts to assure more fully that
these responsibilities are met throughout
the business community.
To emphasize and encourage such
voluntary activity, a National Business
Council for Consumer Affairs will be or-
ganized by the Secretary of Commerce. It
will work closely with my Special Assistant
for Consumer Affairs, the Federal Trade
Commission, the Justice Department and
others as appropriate in the further de-
velopment of effective policies to benefit
American consumers.
The Council will be a vehicle through
which Government can work with busi-
ness leaders to establish programs for ac-
complishing the goal I stated in my 1969
message on consumer protection of foster-
ing "a marketplace which is fair both to
those who sell and those who buy." And
it will encourage everyone who does busi-
ness to do an even better job of establish-
ing competitive prices for high quality
goods and services.
CONCLUSION
In submitting the foregoing proposals,
I want to emphasize that the purpose of
this program is not to provide the con-
sumer with something to which he is not
presently entitled; it is rather to assure
that he receives what he is, in every way,
fully entitled to. The continued success of
our free enterprise system depends in large
measure upon the mutual trust and good-
will of those who consume and those who
produce or provide.
Today, in America, there is a general
sense of trust and goodwill toward the
world of business. Those who violate that
trust and abuse that goodwill do damage
to the free enterprise system. Thus, it is
not only to protect the consumer, but also
to protect that system and the honest men
who have created and who maintain it
that I urge the prompt passage of this
legislative program.
The White House
February 24, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet outlining major features of
the consumer protection program and the trans-
cript of a news briefing on the message by
Virginia H. Knauer, Special Assistant to the
President for Consumer Affairs; Lewis A. Eng-
man, General Counsel, Office of the Special
Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs;
and Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary, and Patri-
cia R. Hitt, Assistant Secretary for Community
and Field Services, Department of Health, Ed-
ucation, and Welfare.
211
