Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
have shown only those men in the four
ARVN battalions of 22 that were in trou-
ble. They haven't shown people in the
other 18 battalions. That is not because it
has been deliberate. It is because those
make news.
Finally, the pictures have not shown at
all what has happened to the enemy, and
their losses by conservative estimates are
five times as large as the losses of the
ARVN.
So, under the circumstances I am not
saying here that what we are looking at
is an operation which at this time can be
judged a great success or, by the same
token, I say we cannot say that this is an
operation that should be judged a failure.
I do say that based on the progress that has
been made to date, the two things that the
American people can judge it on mean a
great deal to them: One, that the Ameri-
can withdrawal will continue; two, that
the danger to America's remaining forces
has been reduced. Of those two things I
am sure, and for that reason the operation
was worthwhile as far as we are concerned.
[7] MR. SMITH. I think one of the
problems of you and your critics is you are
looking at the same set of facts from a
different angle. You say the war is wind-
ing down, and you can prove it by the
troop withdrawals and by the drastic de-
crease in casualties. They say the war is
expanding, and they can prove it geog-
raphically by pointing to new nations
where our side was not fighting before.
How do you compose these conflicting
viewpoints?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith, I know
you were stationed in Europe for a while
and when you were there you probably
did what I did when I was there from
time to time. I sometimes picked up one
of the British or European papers. The
London Economist, for example, is a
pretty good objective paper. I don't think
it could be called a pro-Nixon Adminis-
tration paper necessarily. But they had a
very interesting piece the other day in
which they pointed out that when the
United States was criticized for expand-
ing the war by reason of our destroying
the sanctuaries in Cambodia and support-
ing the South Vietnamese effort to blunt
the North Vietnamese attack in Laos, it
said that kind of reasoning would have
said that, in effect, when Eisenhower
ordered the landings on D-Day, or the
landings in Italy in World War II, that
the purpose of that was to expand the war
into Europe.
Well, the purpose of that was not to
expand the war into Europe. The purpose
was to get the Germans out. The purpose
was to avoid what would otherwise be a
shattering defeat.
Let's understand. Let's look at Cam-
bodia for just a moment. I just saw a
summary of the 2 weeks' coverage by the
television networks and by the news-
papers, and I do not claim that this was
deliberate or distorted or anything. Let's
understand that. I am not here to bait the
press and you are not here to bait me. We
are just trying to get the facts. But for 2
weeks, and there were some notable ex-
ceptions that we don't need to go into-
but for 2 weeks the overwhelming
majority of the Nation's press and televi-
sion, after Cambodia, carried three
themes: One, the Chinese might inter-
vene; second, American casualties would
soar, the war would be expanded; and,
third, there was a danger that the Ameri-
can withdrawal would therefore be
jeopardized.
Now, none of those things happened.
The Chinese did not intervene. American
453
