Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
pand nationwide the current MEDIHC
program-an experimental effort to en-
courage servicemen and women with
medical training to enter civilian medical
professions when they leave military duty.
Of the more than 30,000 such persons who
leave military service each year, two-thirds
express an interest in staying in the health
field but only about one-third finally do so.
Our goal is to increase the number who
enter civilian health employment by 2,500
per year for the next five years. At the
same time, the Veterans Administration
will expand the number of health trainees
in VA facilities from 49,000 in 1970 to
over 53,000 in 1972.
D. A SPECIAL PROBLEM: MALPRACTICE
SUITS AND MALPRACTICE INSURANCE
One reason consumers must pay more
for health care and health insurance these
days is the fact that most doctors are pay-
ing much more for the insurance they
must buy to protect themselves against
claims of malpractice. For the past five
years, malpractice insurance rates have
gone up an average of 10 percent a year-
a fact which reflects both the growing
number of malpractice claims and the
growing size of settlements. Many doctors
are having trouble obtaining any mal-
practice insurance.
The climate of fear which is created by
the growing menace of malpractice suits
also affects the quality of medical treat-
ment. Often it forces doctors to practice
inefficient, defensive medicine-ordering
unnecessary tests and treatments solely
for the sake of appearance. It discourages
the use of physicians' assistants, inhibits
that free discussion of cases which can
contribute so much to better care, and
makes it harder to establish a relation-
ship of trust between doctors and patients.
The consequences of the malpractice
problem are profound. It must be con-
fronted soon and it must be confronted
effectively--but that will be no simple
matter. For one thing, we need to know
far more than we presently do about this
complex problem.
I am therefore directing-as a first step
in dealing with this danger-that the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare
promptly appoint and convene a Com-
mission on Medical Malpractice to under-
take an intensive program of research and
analysis in this area. The Commission
membership should represent the health
professions and health institutions, the
legal profession, the insurance industry,
and the general public. Its report—which
should include specific recommendations
for dealing with this problem-should be
submitted by March 1, 1972.
E. NEW ACTIONS TO PREVENT
ILLNESSES AND ACCIDENTS
We often invest our medical resources
as if an ounce of cure were worth a pound
of prevention. We spend vast sums to
treat illnesses and accidents that could
be avoided for a fraction of those expendi-
tures. We focus our attention on making
people well rather than keeping people
well, and as a result-both our health
and our pocketbooks are poorer. A new
National Health Strategy should assign
a much higher priority to the work of
prevention.
As we have already seen, Health Main-
tenance Organizations can do a great deal
to help in this effort. In addition to en-
couraging their growth, I am also recom-
mending a number of further measures
through which we can take the offensive
179
