Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 20 [21]
that will be spelled out in considerable
detail not only in the State of the Union
but in our legislative program.
What I present this year in the State of
the Union and in the legislative program
will be by far the most comprehensive, the
most far-reaching, the most bold program
in the domestic field ever presented to an
American Congress. I could not have done
it, obviously, by myself. I couldn't have
done it with my small group of associates,
like John Ehrlichman and George Shultz
and Cap Weinberger and others who
come in day to day. It could only have
been done because out through the Gov-
ernment—in all the departments and here
in the White House Staff, particularly
over in the Executive Office Building, in
the Bureau of the Budget, or the Office of
Budget and Management as it is now
called, in John Ehrlichman's Domestic
Council, in all of the other activities that
are represented here-there has been a
great deal of midnight oil burned over not
just the past 2 or 3 weeks-because this
has been developing, as you know, for at
least the past year and a half.
We began to pour the coal on 6 months
ago after we met in San Clemente and I
made the basic decisions. As you know,
they were made then. That was a pretty
well-kept secret. I didn't read it until the
p.m. papers. [Laughter]
But since that time I know that you
have been working in a way that we really
couldn't compensate you. You know, they
talk sometimes-I say "they," I mean
critics of government, people—about
the fact that people in government are
drones, they don't work long enough,
they are overpaid and all that. All that I
say is that they haven't been on this White
House Staff. There is not one person here
that I could possibly employ on the basis
of how much you are being paid, on the
hours of work, and, despite how John
describes it, on the basis of all the extras
you are supposed to get. This is hard
work. It is work that is certainly one that
takes you away from your families a great
deal. I know some of your wives call me
from time to time just to be sure. I am
never sure, but I always tell them the
right thing, I can assure you. [Laughter]
Although, I really am sure. Your wives
might hear what the TV says, then you
would be in trouble. [Laughter]
And, Virginia,¹ I am not slighting you
either, when I say that.
I want to say that we look at what you
have done and we know those hours that
have come in. And now, 2 days from
now-if I can just get through the next 2
days, and now I have to kind of go into
solitary and sit and struggle with all the
drafts that are before me with regard to
the final aspects of the State of the
Union—and we will get it ready—I usu-
ally do get the speeches ready and deliver
them. But when it is delivered you will
see then the unveiling of the program
that you have been working on all these
years. It will be, however, only a begin-
ning because then come the legislative
proposals.
This State of the Union-and this could
happen only because we now have been
here 2 years and we have the experience
and we have quite a backlog—this State
of the Union as distinguished even from
last year when we did, as you know, in the
first 2 weeks send in a great deal of legis-
lative material, in the first not only 2
weeks but even 2 months after the State of
the Union; this State of the Union will
¹ Virginia H. Knauer, Special Assistant to
the President for Consumer Affairs.
45
