[152] Apr. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
proving God's good earth-but their ef-
forts at keeping and preserving it have
been scant. Now, all around the world,
people are awakening to the urgent need
of protecting the fragile life-balance and
of setting aside for the future such wild-
ness and natural beauty as still remains
to us.
The preservation of wilderness is not,
like the control of environmental pollution
in its many dangerous forms, an impera-
tive for human survival. All the same,
wilderness is a precious and irreplaceable
resource of human society. Its beauty and
solitude are wellsprings of refreshment for
the spirit of man; its grandeur and bal-
ance teach us our place in the harmony of
the universe; and without it we would all
be poorer-however well provided with
the material essentials of life.
Keeping, as well as dressing, the land
is an especially important responsibility for
us as Americans, for our country was in
time past especially endowed with wilder-
ness. As the great American naturalist
John Muir saw it, "The whole continent
was a garden, and from the beginning it
seemed to be favored above all the other
wild parks and gardens of the globe."
In 1872, with the establishment of Yel-
lowstone National Park, this Nation em-
barked on a systematic effort to preserve
our greatest natural treasures. Other parks
and forest preserves followed, and by 1901
Muir could write with a measure of satis-
faction, "When, like a merchant taking a
list of his goods, we take stock of our wild-
ness, we are glad to see how much of
even the most destructible kind is still un-
spoiled." But civilization far outpaced
preservation in the first two-thirds of this
century, and by the early 1960's Ameri-
cans surveying the land were alarmed to
find how little of even the most indestruct-
ible kind of wildness was still unspoiled.
Even within the National Park System,
which by then comprised hundreds of sep-
arate units, well-intentioned efforts to
make the forests and mountains a little
more hospitable to millions of city-bred
visitors had tended to mar the natural
face of the land.
In response to this accelerating trend,
the Wilderness Act of 1964 was enacted.
Defining wilderness as "an area where the
earth and its community of life are un-
trammeled by man, where man himself is
a visitor who does not remain . . . in con-
trast with those areas where man and his
own works dominate. . . ." the act set
aside some 9 million acres of federally
owned land as the nucleus of a National
Wilderness Preservation System, where
primitive areas would be kept forever in
their natural state. It also ordered an ex-
haustive 10-year review of all wild lands
within the national forests, National Park
System, and national wildlife refuges and
game ranges, with a view to bringing every
appropriate area into the Wilderness
System.
The inventory of wildness to which
John Muir had referred 63 years before
thus became part of the law of the land.
Since 1964 the statutory process of en-
largement has increased the extent of the
National Wilderness Preservation System
to more than 10.1 million acres at present,
with wilderness areas in 21 States from
New Hampshire and Florida to Alaska
and California. Thirteen more wilderness
proposals totaling over a million acres are
now pending before the Congress.
I am today transmitting to the Congress
14 new wilderness proposals. If approved,
they would expand our Wilderness System
by some 1.8 million acres, exceeding the
total of all other additions since its crea-
588
