[206] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is very important that a President of
the United States speak to this organiza-
tion. The Presidents of the United States
should, it seems to me, find more oppor-
tunities, perhaps, than four in 120 years
to come before this organization for rea-
sons that I will cover in my remarks to-
day, because this is a very important
organization.
I am referring to matters going far
beyond the special competence, the tech-
nical competence, represented in such de-
gree in this room. For example, just
yesterday, as some of you may have noted
in the press, my wife and I celebrated our
31st wedding anniversary. It was a very
inexpensive celebration. Normally we go
out on such occasions. In this case we
stayed in and watched television and
watched a rerun of our daughter's wed-
ding at the White House.
On that occasion, as I was thinking of
that 31st wedding anniversary and pull-
ing together my remarks today, I was re-
minded of a story which is probably very
old to an organization of doctors, about a
doctor who is celebrating one of his wed-
ding anniversaries. He was trying to get
out of the house for his weekly bridge
game. And he told his wife that he just
had a call from a patient and he would
have to leave. She said, “But, dear, is it
serious? Is it important?" And he said,
"Oh, it is very serious and very important.
There are three doctors there already."
[Laughter]
What that, of course, brings home to
us is, when you have any gathering of doc-
tors, it is a very serious occasion and a
very important occasion. So this gathering
of far more than four, of thousands of doc-
tors from all over America, is important.
It is important for reasons that I think,
perhaps, we can find as we study the his-
tory of America and go even further back
than that.
Disraeli once said that "the health of
the people is really the foundation upon
which all their happiness and all their
powers as a state depend."
That profound statement is one that
we should consider today, and we should
think of health in a much broader con-
text than simply the physical health to
which you
have devoted your lives. I am
happy for this opportunity to salute this
profession which has contributed so much
to the health of the American people and
to the strength of this Nation.
America is a strong country. It is a good
country. And one of the reasons it is a
strong and a good country is because it is
a healthy country, and we appreciate what
you have done to make it a healthy
country.
You should take pride in those accom-
plishments-all Americans should. For we
can never hope to repair any weaknesses
that may exist in American medicine un-
less we fully appreciate its towering
strengths.
One of the strengths of American medi-
cine has always been that it has had a
restless and inquiring spirit. All of you
are aware of this. This spirit was sum-
med up in a statement which the distin-
guished physician Charles Mayo made
years ago about his equally distinguished
brother, Will. He was "filled," said
Charles, "with the genius of finding op-
portunities." The same point was made
more recently by Dr. Jonas Salk when he
said, "The greatest reward for doing is
the opportunity to do more."
As we look at the current picture of
health care in this country, we see many
762
