Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
-to define our new policy to the Amer-
ican people and to elicit their
support.
This transition from bearing the prin-
cipal burdens to invoking and supporting
the efforts of others is difficult and
delicate.
Some vestiges of the past consist of es-
sentially sound relationships and valid
practices. They should be preserved.
Others must be liquidated, but the
method is crucial. Clearly, we could not
have continued the inherited policy on
Vietnam. Just as clearly, the way in which
we set about to resolve this problem has a
major impact on our credibility abroad
and our cohesion at home. The same is
true in other areas where our military
presence remained too large, or our eco-
nomic burden disproportionate, or our
attitude paternalistic.
The challenge is not merely to reduce
our presence, or redistribute our burden,
or change our approach, but to do so in a
way that does not call into question our
very objectives.
Others judge us-and set their own
course-by the steadiness of our perform-
ance as well as the merit of our ideas.
Abrupt shifts in our policies-no matter
how sound in concept-are unsettling,
particularly for those who may have com-
mitted themselves to past practices at
United States urging. For their own polit-
ical future is involved. If we acquired a
reputation for unsteadiness, we would iso-
late ourselves. We must avoid practicing
either consistency or novelty for its own
sake.
For the mood among many of our
friends is ambivalent. They seek autonomy
but still presume American initiative.
They at once realize the need for their new
independent role, welcome it, and are
apprehensive about its responsibilities.
The Nixon Doctrine recognizes that we
cannot abandon friends, and must not
transfer burdens too swiftly. We must
strike a balance between doing too much
and thus preventing self-reliance, and
doing too little and thus undermining self-
confidence.
This balance we seek abroad is crucial.
We only compound insecurity if we modi-
fy our protective or development respon-
sibilities without giving our friends the
time and the means to adjust, materially
and psychologically, to a new form of
American participation in the world.
Precipitate shrinking of the American
role would not bring peace. It would not
reduce America's stake in a turbulent
world. It would not solve our problems,
either abroad or at home.
The need for steadiness overseas has a
domestic corollary. While striking a bal-
ance in the world it is also necessary, and
in some ways even more difficult, to find
the proper balance at home.
For the American people have grown
somewhat weary of 25 years of interna-
tional burdens. This weariness was coming
in any event, but the anguish of the Viet-
nam war hastened it, or at least our aware-
ness of it. Many Americans, frustrated by
the conflict in Southeast Asia, have been
tempted to draw the wrong conclusions.
There are lessons to be learned from our
Vietnam experience-about unconven-
tional warfare and the role of outside
countries, the nature of commitments, the
balance of responsibilities, the need for
public understanding and support. But
there is also a lesson not to be drawn: that
the only antidote for undifferentiated in-
volvement is indiscriminate retreat.
225
