Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 6 [8]
in social security to provide perma-
nent protection to old-age recipients
from the rages of inflation
-trade legislation, giving the Adminis-
tration authority over textile quotas,
providing incentive programs for
American exports, and repealing the
American Selling Price
-electoral college reform
-national bail reform legislation
-wagering tax amendments
-authority to tax airline tickets to pay
for protection against hijackings
-additional legislation to deal with the
distribution of pornographic and
obscene materials
-proposals to assist those who are per-
haps America's most needy minority,
the American Indian
-the proposal for establishment of a
Federal City Bicentennial Develop-
ment Corporation.
These are but some of the measures.
All of them were worthwhile; none of
them was enacted.
8
Congress' failure to enact them, how-
ever, in no way diminishes the desirability
of the Administration's commitment.
When the 92d Congress convenes, these
and others will be presented for action, as
the first order of Administration business.
Further, the Congress may wish to con-
sider revision of the "turn-of-the-century"
work schedules and procedures that now
obtain on Capitol Hill. While there are
many excuses for Congressional inac-
tion-there are no good reasons.
Hopefully, the 92d Congress will pick
up where the 91st faltered; hopefully, it
can succeed where the 91st did not; hope-
fully, it will become the Great Congress
that the 91st Congress did not become.
To the Members of the 92d Congress I
say: Let us open the New Year in a new
spirit. Let us mutually commit ourselves
to work, and work hard, for the record of
achievement which we all can share. Let
us thereby build the kind of society we all
desire for our children and grandchildren.
To that end, I pledge the full cooperation
of this Administration.
Statement on Signing the District of Columbia Revenue
Act of 1970. January 6,
IT IS with special satisfaction that I have
signed the District of Columbia Revenue
Act of 1970. This legislation represents a
significant step forward in making the
District truly a city of which all Americans
can be proud.
While the Congress did not enact the
formula approach that I recommended
for determining the Federal payment, it
did enact a substantial and appropriate
increase which will enable the District to
meet its obligations and to move ahead in
improving vital government services.
1971
These additional funds were especially
needed in such important areas as nar-
cotics treatment and the fight against
crime, a struggle that has now reached a
welcome turning point in our Nation's
Capital.
I also note with approval the granting
of authority to the City Council to fix rates
for water and sewer services. This carries
forward on the commitment I made last
year to see greater responsibility delegated
to the District Government. The bill also
contains additional measures to promote
25
