[54] Feb. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
cerned and affected, including consumer
and user groups familiar with the indus-
tries involved.
I urge all concerned to respond with
their comments or criticisms by no later
than April 20 in order to help us restruc-
ture the regulatory process to make it real-
ize the expectations of the American
public. Following an evaluation of these
views, I will recommend to the Congress,
as may be appropriate, those reforms that
appear desirable and in the public interest.
NOTE: The report is entitled "A New Regula-
tory Framework: Report on Selected Inde-
pendent Regulatory Agencies-The President's
Advisory Council on Executive Organization,
January 1971" (Government Printing Office,
198 pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the Council's report.
55 Remarks at the Signing Ceremony of the Seabed
Arms Control Treaty. February 11, 1971
Mr. Secretary, Your Excellencies, ladies
and gentlemen:
It has been very properly pointed out
that the seabed is man's last frontier on
earth, and that frontier can either be a
source of peril or promise.
By the signing of this treaty, we have
pledged to seek its promise and to remove
its peril. And as has been pointed out by
the Ambassador from the United King-
dom and the Ambassador from the
U.S.S.R., while this is a modest step
among many in the field of control of
armaments, it is an indication of progress
that has been made and continues to be
made toward the goal that we all seek:
the control of instruments of mass destruc-
tion, so that we can reduce the danger of
war.
Certainly, speaking for the United
States of America, I pledge that as we
sign this treaty in an era of negotiation,
that we consider it only one step toward a
greater goal: the control of nuclear weap-
ons on earth and the reduction of that
danger that hangs over all the nations of
the world as long as those weapons are
not controlled.
And as our representatives go back to
Vienna in just a few weeks, we certainly
hope that they will make progress. I can
assure all of those gathered here that we
seek, as does the Soviet Union and other
nations, we seek an agreement there which
will reduce the danger of nuclear war
which hangs over the world and reduce it
by controlling the nuclear arms, both as
far as the Soviet Union is concerned and
the United States.
So on this occasion I reiterate that
while the Ambassador from Great Britain
quite properly said this was a modest
step, it is an important step when we con-
sider it in all of the aspects of the progress
that has been made beginning in the
sixties, now continuing in this decade.
We hope that we will be meeting, per-
haps in the future, perhaps in this room,
perhaps in some other room in some other
capital, for the final great step in the con-
trol of nuclear arms: the control of
nuclear arms on earth.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 a.m. in the
International Conference Room at the Depart-
ment of State.
Secretary of State William P. Rogers and
Ambassador James F. Leonard, head of the
U.S. Delegation to the Conference of the Com-
mittee on Disarmament, formerly the Eighteen-
150
