Appendix B
April
26 Gordon Wetmore, a young artist from Signal
Mountain, Tenn., called on the President
at the White House to present a portrait of
the President which he had painted. He was
accompanied by Senator Howard H. Baker,
Jr., and Representative LaMar Baker of
Tennessee.
26 The All Ohio State Fair Youth Choir per-
formed for the President in the Rose Garden
at the White House. Present at the per-
formance were Senators William B. Saxbe
and Robert Taft, Jr., and Representatives
Clarence J. Brown, Clarence E. Miller, and
Chalmers P. Wylie of Ohio.
26 William Kuhfuss, president, and Roger
Fleming, secretary and treasurer, of the
American Farm Bureau, called on the Presi-
dent at the White House.
26 John G. Gorton, Defense Minister of Aus-
tralia, met with the President at the White
House.
26 Senators Russell B. Long and Wallace F.
Bennett met at the White House with the
President, Secretary of Labor James D.
Hodgson, and Secretary Elliot L. Richard-
son and Under Secretary John G. Vene-
man, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, to discuss the Administra-
tion's welfare reform legislation.
27 The President attended the swearing in of
James C. Fletcher as Administrator of the
National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration, at a White House ceremony.
27 Ambassadors El Hadj Mory Keita of Guinea
and Shaykh Salim Al Sabah of Kuwait pre-
sented their credentials to the President in
a ceremony in the Blue Room at the White
House.
27 The President hosted a reception at the
White House in honor of the Board of Di-
rectors of the National Center for Voluntary
Action.
28 Winners of the White House News Photog-
raphers Association contest called on the
President at the White House to display
their awards.
April
28 Dr. Gerhard Schroeder, leader of the Chris-
tian Democratic Union in the Federal Re-
public of Germany, called on the President
at the White House.
28 The President announced the designation
of Emil Mosbacher, Jr., Chief of Protocol,
Department of State, and Lloyd B. War-
ing, vice president of Kidder, Peabody &
Co., Boston, Mass., to be his personal rep-
resentatives with the rank of Special Ambas-
sador, to attend the Coral Sea Commemo-
rative Ceremonies to be held in Australia
and New Zealand, May 2-13, 1971.
29 The President met at the White House with
Barbara H. Franklin, Vicki L. Keller, Jayne
Baker Spain, Sallyanne Payton, and Dr.
Valerija B. Raulinaitis, new appointees in
the Administration.
30 The President breakfasted at the White
House with Harold Wilson, former Prime
Minister of Great Britain.
May
5 Robert D. (Bob) Lee, director of sales at
Goodwill Industries of San Antonio, visited
with the President at the White House.
6 Charles S. Rhyne of Washington, D.C.,
called on the President to present a copy
of his book on international law. The Presi-
dent and Mr. Rhyne were classmates at
Duke University Law School.
6 Members of the Commission on Financial
Structure and Regulation met with the
President at the White House.
7 The President announced the transfer of
11.7 acres of Federal land in Redondo
Beach, Calif., to the city for camping and
conservation use. The land was formerly a
Nike-Ajax site.
7 Ernest V. Siracusa, United States Ambas-
sador to Bolivia, called on the President.
Ambassador Siracusa is in Washington for
consultations.
7 Participants in the Salute to Agriculture
activities were guests of the President and
Mrs. Nixon at dinner at the White House,
with after-dinner entertainment by Glen
Campbell.
1254
