Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 21 [22]
the Administration did these things-and he
said I feel we will make progress and great prog-
ress on them all-this would be a record to
point to with pride. He said, however, these
are goals that any Administration would work
for and want to achieve.
He said, however, he thinks this is the time
to do more even than solving and dealing with
these problems. He said as well as doing all of
this, he thinks this is a time for a revolutionary
approach to government relevant to our times
which will leave a legacy to be proud of, not for
just the immediate future but for generations
to come.
He went on to conclude that he feels that
he has a group of devoted, dedicated, and
22
strong people who will put something forward
they believe in, and who, by so doing, will start
a process of change.
Those are the notes that I was able to pull
out of what he said. He spoke for about 35
minutes. Some of the things I cannot refer
to here, where he referred specifically to the
new programs and made reference to the
budget, and so forth. But I think this gives
you a general feeling as to what he said and the
tone of what he said.
I think I can conclude that the President
is very optimistic. He was very optimistic with
the staff as to what can be accomplished next
year.
Statement About a Summary Report on Progress in
Nutrition and Health.
Health. January 21, 1971
WE HAVE MADE great strides in im-
proving the incomes and nutrition of
millions of Americans.
One year ago, I convened a White
House Conference on Food, Nutrition,
and Health. I promised the participants
that we would review what had actually
been accomplished a year later.
The Nutrition Subcommittee of the
Domestic Council has prepared a sum-
mary report of major achievements dur-
ing this time, and they make an impressive
record indeed:
-New figures indicate that the food
stamp program will assist over 10
million people by the middle of this
year, nearly triple the number helped
just 18 months earlier.
All but 10 of the Nation's 3,129 coun-
ties and independent cities have now
moved to implement a family food
program. A year ago there were 300
counties with no plans for such a
program.
---Monthly expenditures on food
stamps have quintupled in only 1 year
I
to a current level of more than $125
million per month.
This Administration will soon provide
free food stamps to the very poorest fam-
ilies under a proposal recently approved
by the Congress.
We have committed greatly increased
funds to child feeding programs—almost
50 percent more this year than last. The
money to assist with free or reduced-price
lunches for needy children has been in-
creased eightfold since 1969. We are feed-
ing hundreds of thousands of additional
needy children each month.
The Food and Drug Administration is
working to establish guidelines which will
help Americans become better informed
in food selection.
The Federal Trade Commission has
created a division of food enforcement to
assure that families are fully protected
from deceptive or misleading claims or
advertisements.
Those who administer our food and
nutrition programs can be justly proud of
the accomplishments described in this
47
