[269] Aug. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yet Lincoln, this man who could see
beyond war and beyond strife and beyond
weakness to the periods ahead, stood tall
and said America is man's last, best hope
on earth.
So the lesson for us becomes quite clear.
This Nation, at this time when it is the
strongest and the richest nation in the
world, when the responsibility does lie
upon us as to whether we grow up in a
world of peace, whether we have a gen-
eration of peace, or whether we continue
to have, as we have had every generation
of this century, war after war-this Na-
tion needs to remember the Lincoln
legacy. It needs to revitalize in ourselves,
in our young people, that sense of destiny
that he had, and it needs that competitive
spirit which he had in such enormous
degree.
Let me address myself briefly to that
point in relation to a statement I made
just a couple of days ago. I spoke to the
Nation about some actions that we were
taking with regard to the American
economy: the need to revalue the cur-
rencies of the world, to have a monetary
system that would be more stable, the
need also, on a temporary basis, to pro-
vide a surcharge on imports from abroad
of 10 percent.
Some who read my remarks, and heard
them, interpreted them incorrectly along
these lines: "Well, finally America is
going to build a wall around itself. We
have got these competitors abroad, but we
are really not able to compete with them,
and so we will erect a wall around this
country so that we can still go on, not
competing, not trying quite as hard, not
producing quite as much."
I can tell you that could be a very popu-
lar theme unless we thought as Lincoln
would have thought. For this great
Nation, at this time, to build a wall
around itself; for it to withdraw from the
competition of the world; for the United
States of America to quit trying to be
number one would be a very grave error,
not because being number one in itself is a
goal that we try to achieve, but because
once an individual or once a nation ceases
to try to do its best, to be number one,
then that individual or that nation ceases
to be a great individual, a great nation. It
ceases to realize its total capabilities.
At this time in our history if the United
States of America is to be able to provide
the world leadership, to have the strength
that we will need in the last quarter of
this century, to keep the peace that we
all want, it means that America must con-
tinue to have the economic strength and
the economic power on which that mili-
tary and diplomatic strength is based.
It also means that the United States of
America and the American people must
not resign ourselves at this time-must
not take that easy way of saying that now
that we have other great peoples in the
world who were not our competitors 25
years ago, but now that they are compet-
ing with us, we will withdraw from the
race; we will build a wall around ourselves
and live as an island in the world
community.
Let us remember: That would serve,
perhaps, the moment; it would not be
worthy of the destiny of this country that
Lincoln spoke of so eloquently during his
Presidency and before as well. Beyond
that, let us also remember that the United
States of America, at this time in history,
not because we wanted it, not because we
sought it, but because of the accident of
history, is the only nation in the free world
that has the potential capability and
strength to provide the leadership that
900
