[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the European Community. We still do.
We welcome cohesion in Europe because
it makes Europe a sturdier pillar of the
structure of peace. Regional cohesion con-
tributes to world stability. And America's
and Western Europe's fundamental inter-
ests are parallel in most areas of policy.
For years, however, it was believed un-
critically that a unified Western Europe
would automatically lift burdens from the
shoulders of the United States. The truth
is not so simple. European unity will also
pose problems for American policy, which
it would be idle to ignore.
For our closest friends are now develop-
ing a collective identity and collective pol-
icies separate from us. And unity happens
to be coming fastest in the economic
sphere-the area of policy in which com-
petition seems to have the least immediate
penalty and our common interest will take
the most effort to insure. Each of us main-
tains restrictions on agricultural trade
which limit the export opportunities of the
other. America's main restrictions are on
dairy products; the European Commu-
nity's Common Agricultural Policy re-
strains our exports of grains. The Com-
munity's preferential trading arrange-
ments with Mediterranean countries are
a problem for American citrus exports.
The common interest requires the pros-
perity of both Western Europe and the
United States. This means freer and ex-
panded trade and restraint in protecting
special interests. We must negotiate a re-
duction in our trade restrictions. We must
work toward a more equitable worldwide
trading system which is based upon most-
favored-nation treatment among all in-
dustrial nations and in which all of them
accord the same tariff preferences to the
entire developing world. In short, we must
define our self-interest in the widest terms
and fix our sights on our fundamental
rather than tactical purposes.
Both sides have a heavy responsibility,
therefore, as we meet in the informal reg-
ular consultation which began in 1970
between the Commission of the European
Community and the United States. There
have been suggestions for expanding our
consultation, including the possibility of
higher-level Community representation in
Washington. We would welcome the im-
plementation of any such suggestion the
Community might propose-because of
the importance of close consultation.
In political and military relations as
well, wisdom and statesmanship will be re-
quired on both sides of the Atlantic as
Europe moves toward unity.
The further evolution of European
unity into other areas of policy is logical
and natural; its supporters, including our-
selves, have never regarded economic
cohesion as an end in itself. In November,
foreign ministers of Community members
began semi-annual formal political con-
sultations looking toward common posi-
tions. Ultimately we may see a single
entity making policy for Western Europe
in all fields, including diplomacy and de-
fense. We would welcome this, because we
believe that Western European and
American interests in defense and foreign
policy are complementary:
-In defense, geographic proximity
makes the linking of our allies' de-
fense systems logical and feasible;
their collective power makes it ad-
vantageous. But a coherent strategy
of European defense, today and as far
into the future as I can see, will re-
quire mutual support across the
Atlantic.
-In diplomacy we share basic objec-
tives: Western security, European
232
