Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 16 [16]
man of the Advisory Committee, Justice
Tom Clark.
Even a brief examination of the report
indicates the enormous investment of time
and thought it represents, and the value
of this vast work of 4 years. Because of its
scope and its various approaches to con-
troversial problems, it would be premature
at this time for me to render judgment on
the substance of the recommendations.
What is apparent, however, is that the
92d Congress has been given what the 89th
Congress had requested-a broad compre-
hensive framework in which to decide the
issues involved in reform of the Federal
criminal code.
I have directed the Attorney General to
create and staff a team of experienced Jus-
tice Department attorneys to undertake
their own evaluation of the Commission's
many suggestions and, further, to make
the results of their evaluation available
to the appropriate committees of the Con-
gress. Further, I have directed the De-
16 Memorandum to the Attorney
of Federal Criminal Laws.
THE FEDERAL Criminal Code reflects
our national growth. It has continuously
been amended to meet new problems.
However, this evolution has resulted in
conflicting and overlapping criminal
statutes. The entire Code is in dire need of
comprehensive reform.
I have recently received the Report of
the National Commission on Reform of
Federal Criminal Laws, which was created
in 1966 to make a thorough and complete
review of the statutory and case laws con-
stituting the Federal system of Criminal
Justice. The Report provides a useful
partment to work with Congress in the
same close and cooperative spirit that
marked the evolution and passage of the
District of Columbia Court Reform and
Criminal Procedure Act of 1970.
Certainly, the need for clarification and
modernization of Federal criminal law is
as great as was the need for reform of the
criminal law and procedures of the Dis-
trict of Columbia. Just as in the latter,
so in the former, procedural reform must
go hand-in-glove with substantive re-
form-as the Chief Justice recommended
himself in the State of the Judiciary
message.
Further, if the same spirit of bipartisan
cooperation prevails in this new en-
deavor, as it did in the last, our success is
assured.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Final Report of
the National Commission on Reform of Fed-
eral Criminal Laws' (Government Printing
Office, 364 pp.).
General About Reform
January 16, 1971
framework for considering the issues in-
volved in reform of the Federal penal law.
Because reform of the Federal Criminal
Code should be among the highest of
priorities of your Department, I am re-
questing you to take the following actions:
1. Establish a team of experienced at-
torneys within the Department of Justice
to work full-time on a comprehensive
reform of the Federal Criminal Code, and
make sufficient deployment to that team
of other personnel with specialized
expertise.
2. Prepare a thorough evaluation of the
39
