[88] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Council, if it maintained its position in
the United Nations, if you would favor
seating Communist China?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a moot ques-
tion at this time, because Communist
China or the People's Republic of China,
which I understand stirred up people in
Taiwan-because that is the official name
of the country-but Communist China
refuses even to discuss the matter. There-
fore, it would not be appropriate for me
to suggest what we might agree to when
Communist China takes the position that
they will have no discussion whatever
until Taiwan gets out. And we will not
start with that kind of a proposition.
escalating costs, and the fact that neither
power can gain an advantage over the
others, I think that this means that there
will be an agreement eventually between
the United States and the Soviet Union.
Yes, sir.
Q. On both offensive and defensive
weapons?
THE PRESIDENT. I should add that I
know that the suggestion has been made
that we might negotiate a separate agree-
ment on defensive weapons alone. We
reject that proposal. We will negotiate an
agreement that is not comprehensive, but
it must include offensive as well as defen-
sive weapons, some mix.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION TALKS
[15.] Mr. Warren [Lucian C. Warren,
Buffalo Evening News].
Q. Mr. President, a few months back,
you were quite optimistic about the suc-
cessful conclusion of SALT talks. Are you
less optimistic now?
THE PRESIDENT. I am just as optimistic
now as I was then about the eventual suc-
cess. As you will note from our world
policy report, the two great super powers
now have nuclear parity. Neither can gain
an advantage over the other if the other
desires to see to it that that does not occur.
Now, under these circumstances, there-
fore, it is in the interest of both powers to
negotiate some kind of limitation, limi-
tation on offensive and defensive weapons.
We will be stating a position on that on
March 15 when the new talks begin in
Vienna. As far as when an agreement is
reached, I will not indicate optimism or
pessimism. As far as the eventuality of an
agreement, my belief is that the serious-
ness of the talks, the fact that there are
great forces, the danger of war, the
TROOP WITHDRAWAL SCHEDULE
[16.] Mr. Kaplow [Herbert Kaplow,
NBC News].
Q. Mr. President, I would like to go
back for a moment to your first answer in
which you said that what has happened
in Laos has already assured more troop
withdrawals.
Were you saying that on the basis of
what you obviously consider a success in
the Laotian operation will allow you to
withdraw American troops at at least the
present rate, twelve and a half thousand
men a month for 12 months?
THE PRESIDENT. What I am saying,
Mr. Kaplow, is that our troop withdrawal
schedule will go forward at least at the
present rate. It will go forward for at
least the present rate.
And when I make the announcement
in April, that, of course, will cover several
months in advance. More important,
however, is the troop withdrawal sched-
ule for next year because, as you will note
in my foreign policy report, at least the
oral report I made, I pointed out that the
394
