Appendix B
May
8 The President met with Mayor Walter E.
Washington and Police Chief Jerry V. Wil-
son of the District of Columbia, Lt. Gen. H.
M. Exton, Director, Military Support, De-
partment of the Army, Maj. Gen. Charles
L. Southward, Commanding General, D.C.
National Guard, and Maj. Gen. R. M.
Gleszer, Commanding General, Military
District of Washington, to express his ap-
preciation for their work during the protest
demonstrations in Washington.
8 The President attended the annual dinner
of the White House Correspondents As-
sociation at the Sheraton Park Hotel.
10 M. M. Ahmed, Economic Adviser to the
President of Pakistan, called on President
Nixon at the White House.
II At a meeting of the Cabinet presided over
by the President, Dr. Edward E. David, Jr.,
Science Adviser to the President, presented
a report concerning water desalinization.
II The President met at the White House
with the following new members of the
Administration: John W. Barnum, Gen-
eral Counsel, Department of Transporta-
tion; Richard S. Bodman, Assistant
Secretary for Administration, Department
of the Interior; Stephen Kurzman, Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare; Wil-
liam N. Letson, General Counsel, Depart-
of Commerce; and Phillip V.
Sanchez, Assistant Director, Operations,
Office of Economic Opportunity.
II The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
following international agreements:
The Protocol to the International Con-
vention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisher-
ies Relating to Amendments to the
Convention, dated October 6, 1970.
The convention between the United
States of America and Japan for the avoid-
ance of double taxation and the prevention
of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on
income, signed at Tokyo on March 8, 1971.
May
The convention between the United
States and 12 other member states of the
Organization of American States, designed
to deal with the problem of kidnaping and
other crimes against foreign officials, signed
at Washington on February 2, 1971.
II The President went to Capitol Hill to at-
tend a luncheon hosted by Representative
William M. Colmer, chairman of the House
Committee on Rules.
12 The President attended the swearing in of
Jerris Leonard as Administrator of the Law
Enforcement Assistance Administration,
Department of Justice, in a White House
ceremony.
12 University of Maryland students Charles
H. Blocher, Jr., and David H. Simpson met
with the President at the White House.
13 Dr. Merlin K. DuVal, Jr., who has been
nominated as an Assistant Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, met with
the President at the White House. He was
accompanied by Secretary of Health, Ed-
ucation, and Welfare Elliot L. Richardson.
13 The President designated Robert C. Tyson
of New York City to be Chairman of the
United States Delegation to the World
Administrative Radio Conference for Space
Telecommunications, with the personal
rank of Ambassador. The Conference will
be held in Geneva, June 7-July 17, 1971.
14 Members of the Advisory Committee on
Voluntary Foreign Aid met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
14 A sequoia tree was planted by the President
and the First Lady in a ceremony on the
South Grounds at the White House.
18 John N. Frank, who was selected from 37
regional winners as the National Small
Businessman of the Year, called on the
President at the White House. Mr. Frank,
who operates Frankoma Pottery, Inc., in
Sapulpa, Okla., was accompanied by
Thomas S. Kleppe, Administrator of the
Small Business Administration.
1255
