[154] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
capability to have a chance to defend I believe that setting a date is not in our
themselves against a Communist takeover.
interests.
TROOP WITHDRAWAL DATE
[9.] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Against that background, Mr. Presi-
dent, would you consider setting a troop
withdrawal date so far in advance that it
might be considered safe from our stand-
point, such as the end of 1972?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no gain from our
standpoint to set a troop withdrawal date
by the end of 1972 or the end of 1973 or
the middle of 1972, when we get nothing
for it.
Once you set a date-in other words,
when we say in effect to the enemy, "We
quit, regardless of what you do," then we
destroy any incentive the enemy might
have to negotiate. And there is still some
incentive. It gets less as months go on,
and as our presence becomes less. And we
destroy, of course, also our bargaining
position with regard to POW's.
Even more important, once we set a
date we give the enemy the information
that the enemy needs to launch attacks
on our rapidly diminishing forces at their
greatest point of vulnerability.
Therefore, the setting of a date is not
something that is in our interest. It is only
in the enemy's interest.
What I will do is simply to say what I
have said previously—and I have kept my
word throughout on this-we are with-
drawing from Vietnam. Our goal is a total
withdrawal. We do not plan to have a per-
manent residual force such as we have
practically in Korea at the present time.
But I am not going to set a date, because
CONDITIONS FOR A RESIDUAL FORCE
[10.] Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chi-
cago Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, may I ask a follow
question on the conditions for the residual
force? You have stated that it will be
there until we get our prisoners released.
You have also stated that it will be there
until the South Vietnamese have at least
a reasonable chance to defend themselves.
Are both of these conditions for the resid-
ual force, one of them or the other? Could
you clarify that for us?
THE PRESIDENT. The residual force, I
think, first, Mr. Lisagor, with regard to
the POW's, will be indefinite. In other
words, if the North Vietnamese are so
barbaric that they continue to hold our
POW's, regardless of what we do with
regard to withdrawal, then we are going
to keep a residual force no matter how
long it takes.
Second, however, with regard to the
ability of the South Vietnamese to defend
themselves is concerned, we have a very
good idea when that will occur. And as
soon as that eventuality occurs, we will be
able to move on that.
So, I think I am answering your ques-
tion by saying, in effect, that the two are
separable. One will occur before the other,
unless the North Vietnamese do move on
the POW's.
WAR POWERS OF THE PRESIDENT
[11.] Q. Mr. President, the demonstra-
tors last week focused on Capitol Hill, on
Congress, rather than the White House.
598
