Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
allow ourselves to become isolated. We
shall be prepared to negotiate pragmat-
ically to prevent or resolve bilateral dis-
putes. And we shall avoid actions which
foster or reinforce anti-U.S. nationalism.
The experience of 1970 confirmed the
judgment of October 1969: "Partner-
ship-mutuality-these do not flow nat-
urally. We have to work at them." But
the year also signalled that a more bal-
anced relationship is taking root. In a
turbulent age, the mandate for our hemi-
spheric policy is to act compassionately, to
work cooperatively, and to strengthen the
bonds of a maturing partnership.
INDOCHINA
VIETNAM
"There are many nations involved in
the fighting in Indochina. Tonight, all
those nations, except one, announce their
readiness to agree to a cease-fire. The
time has come for the Government of
North Vietnam to join its neighbors in a
proposal to quit making war and to start
making peace."
Address to the Nation
October 7, 1970
"The allied sweeps into the North Viet-
namese and Vietcong base areas along
the Cambodian-South Vietnamese
border:
-will save American and allied lives
in the future;
-will assure that the withdrawal of
American troops from South Viet-
nam can proceed on schedule;
--will enable our program of Vietnam-
ization to continue on its current
timetable;
-should enhance the prospects for a
just peace."
Report to the Nation
June 30, 1970
These passages concern the two most
important events of our Indochina policy
during 1970. The first refers to our initia-
tive for a ceasefire-in-place throughout
Indochina, the centerpiece of the compre-
hensive peace proposals that I set forth
on October 7. These proposals could end
the war rapidly for all participants
through negotiations.
The second describes the purposes of
the allied operations last spring against
enemy bases in Cambodia which helped
to assure the progress of Vietnamization
and our withdrawal program. These op-
erations were crucial to our effort to re-
duce our involvement in the war in the
absence of negotiations.
The Cambodian operations have borne
immediate fruit while our Indochina
peace proposals have not yet done so.
These two events thus symbolize what has
been true in Vietnam since this Admin-
istration took office: The South Vietnam-
ese have made great progress in assuming
the burdens of the war, a process which
is in their hands and ours, but we have
made little progress toward a negotiated
peace, a process which requires Hanoi's
participation.
After two years of the mandate from
the American electorate, we can look back
with satisfaction on the great distance we
have travelled. This is my tenth major
report on Indochina to the American peo-
249
