[417] Dec. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
course, being somewhat of a sports fan.
Let me say, if I am not there, I will be
watching some of it on television, I am
sure. I think it will be a very, very exciting
Olympics, though, because Munich is an
ideal city. It is a big enough city to take
it, and yet it has a feeling of hospitality.
Have I met all of the Germans here?
[At this point, the President spoke with various
members of the German press corps. He then
resumed speaking.]
Well, we certainly wish you all the best,
and at least I will keep the Munich invi-
tation on the list. Whether I get away de-
pends on other things.
Q. Mr. President, how many German
correspondents do you intend to take with
you to Peking, do you know?
MR. ZIEGLER. We will let you know
on that.
THE PRESIDENT. Do we have anybody
who wants to go?
Q. Oh, yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, it is
interesting. The Federal Republic has a
considerable amount of trade with Main-
land China; in fact, next to Japan, among
the non-Communist countries, it has the
most. It is a subject which we discussed,
so I was interested in knowing that.
Let me say, that as far as I am con-
cerned, I would take you all, but Ziegler is
very hard. [Laughter] He is going to work
it out. I don't know whether he will get
out or not, but we will see.
Thank you very much. The Chancellor
will be out fishing today. That will make
him happy.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:12 p.m. at
his home in Key Biscayne, Fla.
418 Statement on the Death of Former Associate Justice
John M. Harlan. December 29, 1971
JUSTICE Harlan was one of the 20th
century's giants on the Supreme Court of
the United States-a man whose lucid in-
tellect and consistently clear reasoning
won him the highest respect of his judicial
colleagues, of the legal profession at large,
and of the Nation he served with such
selfless dedication.
His contribution was enormous, and he
will be deeply mourned and enormously
missed.
Mrs. Nixon and I join the Nation in
expressing our sympathy to the family of
this splendid American.
NOTE: Justice Harlan, 72, died of cancer in
George Washington University Hospital, Wash-
ington, D.C. He served on the Supreme Court
from 1955 until his retirement in 1971.
The statement was made available to the
press at Key Biscayne, Fla.
419 Statement About the Emergency Unemployment
December 30, 1971
Compensation Bill.
YESTERDAY I signed into law H.R.
6065, which in its major provision enacts
the Emergency Unemployment Compen-
sation Act of 1971. Additionally, it makes
technical changes in the way certain un-
employment insurance funds can be used
by State governments.
The major provision extends unemploy-
1216
