Richard Nixon, 1971
May 19 [173]
governments, we always respond to hu-
manitarian concern as a government, but
even more important, we have throughout
this country organizations like the Red
Cross who, when there are problems
abroad, when there is human suffering,
whatever the political differences there
may be between our country and that
country, we come to their assistance.
I can assure you that that very per-
sonal reaction that Mrs. Nixon found
among the people of Peru proved to me,
demonstrated to me, something I had
known before, but what we always need
to be reminded of: that what we do as a
government is very important-but other
nations can also do things as a govern-
ment, people with a different standard
than we have-but what we do as people,
what we do voluntarily, that comes from
the heart; that comes from one person
having a concern about another person,
and that really gets through.
So I express appreciation to the Amer-
ican Red Cross not only for what you did
in the earthquake in Peru but for human
suffering in the United States, abroad,
wherever the case might be. This serves
the cause of peace. It serves the cause,
eventually, of good will which we hope
will permeate the governments as well as
the people of the world more than it is
the case today.
Let me perhaps bring that message
home in terms that people here in the Red
Cross, who know this long and distin-
guished history of this organization much
better than I, and also to update it in
terms of a personal experience that Mrs.
Nixon and I had in 1953 in Hong Kong.
Everybody who has studied the Red
Cross record knows of that moving ex-
perience on the terrible battlefield of Sol-
ferino in the year 1859 when Henri Dun-
ant, with three Austrian doctors, and
some English tourists, an Italian priest,
walked among the wounded and, regard-
less of which side they had fought on, gave
them water. As they moved among the
wounded, the word began to be heard over
and over again from group to group:
"Tutti fratèlli," all are brothers.
Nothing, perhaps, more symbolizes the
spirit of the Red Cross, your humanitarian
concern for distress wherever it may be,
than that "tutti fratelli," all are brothers.
I saw it in a very different sense in
1953. We visited Hong Kong immediately
after the truce had been agreed on in
Korea, which ended the fighting in that
war-torn country. We were driving in an
automobile in an area called the New
Territories, which is on the other side of
the bay from Hong Kong city proper.
As we drove along, we had a little bit of
water in our schedule, and we saw an ele-
mentary school in which the schoolchil-
dren were apparently at recess and
were in the schoolyard. We stopped
the car, we got out, we walked into the
schoolgrounds.
As soon as the word was around that
the Vice President of the United States
and his wife were there, the little Chinese
children swarmed around, just as Ameri-
can children would swarm around some
stranger or some VIP from another coun-
try who had happened to visit their
schoolgrounds.
We talked to them. Mrs. Nixon went
into the first grade room, having been a
former teacher, and talked to them, signed
her name with a brush, Chinese style.
After 25 or 30 minutes, it was time for us
to go on to make our next appointment.
I talked to the principal of the school,
who was also the teacher of English, and
I asked him at the next assembly to speak
645
