Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
or accelerate an arms race.
In the 1970's, it is important that South
Asia be able to rely on the steadiness of
our policy. We will do what we can to help
the countries of the area meet their eco-
nomic and social needs. Recognizing that
the success of that effort will be diminished
by a continued failure of India and
Pakistan to establish normal relations, we
will, without trying to dictate to those
directly concerned, encourage more nor-
mal relations between them.
We will try to keep our activities in the
area in balance with those of the other
major powers concerned. The policy of
the Soviet Union appears to be aimed at
creating a compatible area of stability on
its southern borders, and at countering
Chinese Communist influence. The Peo-
ple's Republic of China, for its part, has
made a major effort to build a strong rela-
tionship with Pakistan. We will do nothing
to harm legitimate Soviet and Chinese
interests in the area. We are equally clear,
however, that no outside power has a
claim to a predominant influence, and
that each can serve its own interests and
the interests of South Asia best by con-
ducting its activities in the region
accordingly.
AFRICA
"Our stake in the Continent will not rest
on today's crisis, on political maneuver-
ing for passing advantage, or on the
strategic priority we assign it. Our goal is
to help sustain the process by which Africa
will gradually realize economic progress
to match its aspirations."
U.S. Foreign Policy For The 1970's
Report to the Congress
February 18, 1970
Africa is a continental experiment in
nation building. The excitement and en-
thusiasm of national birth have phased
into the more sober period of growth.
Our historic ties with Africa are deeply
rooted in the cultural heritage of many
of our people. Our sympathy for Africa's
newly independent states is a natural
product of our traditional antipathy for
colonialism. Our economic interests in the
continent are substantial, and growing.
And our responsibilities as a global power
inevitably give us an interest in the stabil-
ity and well-being of so large a part of the
world.
Reflecting these close ties, Secretary
Rogers last year became the first Secretary
of State to visit Africa. His personal ob-
servations and experiences in Morocco,
Tunisia, Ethiopia, Kenya, Zambia, the
Congo, Cameroon, Nigeria, Ghana, and
Liberia
gave a new dimension at the high-
est level to our knowledge and under-
standing of Africa. A major result of that
visit was the basic policy statement issued
with my warm approval in March 1970.
In that statement Secretary Rogers sum-
marized our aim in Africa as "a relation-
ship of constructive cooperation with the
nations of Africa-a cooperative and
equal relationship with all who wish it."
We recognize that it is not for us to
attempt to set the pattern of relationships
among the states of Africa. Only the
Africans can forge national unity. Those
problems having to do with the building
of stable national institutions are neither
appropriate for, nor amenable to, much
of a contribution from us. Only the Afri-
cans themselves can do such work.
The promise of the newly independent
African nations is great. But they face all
the normal problems associated with inde-
pendence, and some special ones stemming
from historic reliance on tribal organiza-
tions not always reflected in national
281
