Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 16 [292]
whether they are governors, or for that
matter prime ministers, or maybe even
presidents, cannot give in to demands for
ransom, as was the demand made in this
instance.
PHASE 2 OF THE NEW ECONOMIC POLICY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, we are told that
you have not made any decisions on
Phase 2, but on the basis of the consulta-
tions you have had so far, have you been
able to accumulate any impressions or any
insight that you could share with us that
would sort of indicate what might hap-
pen after the freeze dies?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kaplow [Herbert
Kaplow, NBC News], I do not want to
give advance notice at this point as to
what thinking we may be doing in this
field-well, thinking is all right, but the
direction of that thinking-for the reason
that we still have consultations to take
place.
I am meeting right after this confer-
ence with the representatives of Gov-
ernors, State legislatures, cities, and
counties. We will meet tomorrow with
Congressional leaders, and there are other
meetings that are scheduled before Sep-
tember 30, when I have asked that all the
evidence be brought in.
I can, however, give you an indication,
generally, of how we are going to come
out. First, let me say that the statement
that was made by Secretary Stans repre-
sented as Mr. Ziegler pointed out this
morning, or at least implied this morn-
ing-represented what is a strongly felt
view primarily in the business community.
'On September 16, 1971, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on
the meeting about Phase 2 by Gov. Arch A.
Moore, Jr., of West Virginia.
It does not represent that we have fore-
closed the matter as far as our own
thinking is concerned.
On the other side of the spectrum, on
the labor side of the spectrum, there is a
desire for voluntary restraints only, a tri-
partite board, so to speak, and in between
you have various suggestions that have
been made.
These are my tentative conclusions
with regard to the direction: First, there
will be a strong, effective follow-on pro-
gram. The American people overwhelm-
ingly support the wage-price freeze. The
American people overwhelmingly want it
followed. They don't want to have a
freeze followed by a thaw in which we get
stuck in the mud, and we are not going
to have that kind of thing.
Phase 2 will be strong. It will be effec-
tive. Now, it will deal with the problem of
wages and prices and will restrain wages
and prices in major industries.
Second, it will require the cooperation
of labor and management.
But third, and this is vitally important
to mention, it will have teeth in it. You
cannot have jawboning that is effective
without teeth.
Now, this is the direction that I have
given to those working on the programs,
and we are pulling together the evidence.
I will make the announcement in mid-
October, 30 days before, at least 30 days
or more, before this freeze expires, so that
people can plan for it.
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO CHINA
[9.] Q. A two-part question.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. Have you decided in your own mind
when you are going to China; if not, why
not? [Laughter] That's only the first half
955
