[124] Apr. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the light of the Agreement's benefit
to American consumers in 1970, its un-
doubted value to the developing coffee
producing countries, and the resolution of
our problem with Brazil, I urge timely
Congressional action to extend the neces-
sary implementing legislation until Sep-
tember 30, 1973, when the 1968 Interna-
tional Coffee Agreement terminates.
Prompt passage will reaffirm to the Agree-
ment's 41 exporting members the strength
of our commitment to their economic de-
velopment. Expeditious approval will,
moreover, remove any uncertainty on the
part of our own industry as well as foreign
countries concerning the future of inter-
national coffee cooperation.
The White House
April 1, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message, dated April 1, 1971, was
transmitted to the Congress on April 2. The
text of the message was released at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
The report, entitled "1970 Annual Report
of the President to the Congress on the Inter-
national Coffee Agreement" (13 pp. plus an-
nexes), was published by the Department of
State.
125 Letter to Governors Urging Their Cooperation
in the Observance of Earth Week. April 2, 1971
IN A special message to the Congress on
February 8, I proposed a series of meas-
ures whose prompt adoption will provide
a cleaner, healthier environment for every
living being. Apart from a number of spe-
cific proposals for legislation, the message
emphasized the need for enlisting active
participation in this effort by all of our
fellow Americans.
I have proclaimed the week beginning
April 18 as Earth Week, and I ask for your
cooperation in making this period a time
when all of us work together to clean up
the nation. Because a better environment
depends ultimately on the wishes of a
citizenry deeply concerned and fully in-
formed about the choices before us, the
critical role of our system of education
cannot be overemphasized. The difficult
decisions before us must be wise ones, and
I hope that Earth Week will see educa-
tional institutions of all levels considering
ways in which the learning process can
best foster understanding of environmen-
tal needs and opportunities, for the chal-
lenges of the future clearly require that
each and every week be Earth Week so
that we may achieve the quality of life
we seek.
With best personal regards,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of identical letters addressed
to the Governors of the States and Territories
was released at San Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the President signed
Proclamation 4042, Earth Week, 1971.
498
