[338] Oct. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
from Lenore Romney. She is a fine and
eloquent speaker. Second, she represents
a group of women that I am very proud
of and that the Nation, I think, should be
very proud of. She is one of our Cabinet
wives. I think the highest compliment
that I can pay to them is that they are in-
telligent. I know that because, for the first
time in history, Cabinet wives have at-
tended Cabinet meetings on occasion.
Second, she has, as the rest of our Cabi-
net wives have, not only an interest in
Government but they are loyal to their
husbands; they support them; they are
loyal to the Administration. And third,
they are ladies, and that is what, cer-
tainly, a Cabinet wife should be.
Second, I would like to have had the
opportunity to meet everybody here per-
sonally. However, since I did not have
that opportunity, you got the best of the
bargain, because I know my wife Pat said
that yesterday she shook hands with 2,700,
which is a record.
Third, I want to pay a tribute to your
outgoing president, Gladys O'Donnell. I
really helped to raise her, at least in
politics certainly, because I remember the
campaign of 1950, 21 years ago, when
Gladys O'Donnell headed a women's or-
ganization that went up and down the
State of California. If it had not been for
Gladys O'Donnell and that group of de-
voted women, I might not have been in
the Senate, and I would not be here to-
day. So, thank you, Gladys, for what you
have done.
Now, that admission indicates to you
how much power I think women have,
how much you can contribute to a cam-
paign, how much your support will count,
particularly in a hard-fought and close
election. I, however, am not going to talk
to you in partisan terms today. I am not
going to talk to you in terms of what the
issues will be next year when we go into
the great campaign of 1972.
I would prefer at this time, over a year
before the election of 1972, to talk about
the theme of your convention: "The Spirit
of '76."
Now, if the photographers would please
sit down so that the ladies in back could
see-thank you very much.
What does "The Spirit of '76" mean
to America? Why is it that you have
selected it for a theme? Let me put that
spirit in the context of great events that
are occurring on the world scene today,
events that I know you have heard about.
You have studied them. Some of you may
be concerned about them.
But I think by putting them in perspec-
tive, we can see how "The Spirit of '76” is
so needed in America today and may be
decisive in determining where America
will be in the last third of this century.
Obviously, the eyes of the world are on
the great events in the field of foreign
policy. When we look back to the year
1968 and early 1969, when this Adminis-
tration came into office, we see that we
had a war that had no end in sight, with
300 casualties a week, 550,000 Americans
were in Vietnam. There was no peace plan
on the table. There was a rather hopeless
feeling about foreign policy, a hopeless
feeling about ending that war in an
honorable way, and a hopeless feeling
about developing a policy that would
avoid other wars.
Because changes occur so gradually,
some of us fail to realize how much the
world has changed in those 3 years, and
changed for the better because it is not
hopeless now. We are ending the longest
and most difficult war in America's his-
tory, and in an honorable way. We are
1058
