[284] Sept. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
this great hall was constructed 3 years
ago, another fine hall was destroyed by
fire. And rather than be stopped by that,
here we have this splendid facility in
which we meet tonight.
As we consider those things, I think it
is well to put this great convention in the
context of the broader problems that the
United States faces in the world today.
You are, of course, milk producers, dairy
farmers; you are justly proud of your pro-
fessions. But you are also American citi-
zens deeply interested in this country,
interested as all Americans are, in what
the future holds for our children.
Are we to have a world in which we
have a better chance for peace than we
have had previously, a better chance for a
prosperity without war, a better chance
for prosperity without inflation?
These are questions that all Americans
are interested in, and you, as Americans,
are also vitally interested in.
What we must recognize at this time is
that we meet at a period of enormous op-
portunity and great challenge for Amer-
ica. On the one side, we find the most
difficult and the longest war in America's
history being brought to an end, and we
find, too, that we are beginning to build
the structure for a new era of peace
in
the world. It is not easy; it is not sure. But
the journey that I will take to the People's
Republic of China, the negotiations that
we are undertaking in various areas with
the Soviet Union, and the other initiatives
that we have undertaken in the field of
foreign policy, in my opinion, give us this
opportunity: I believe tonight that we
have the best chance since the end of
World War II for our children to have
what we have not had in this century in
America-a full generation of peace.
But the irony of that situation is that as
the danger of war recedes, the challenges
of peace increase. Not that we do not want
those challenges and would not much
prefer them to war; not, for example, that
Americans, as we consider the fact that 2
million men have been let out of the
Armed Forces since the year 1969 as a
result of the winding down of the Viet-
nam war, out of the Armed Forces and
defense plants, that they now are in our
job market, that this, therefore, makes it
necessary to develop new jobs, peacetime
jobs for those individuals. This is a chal-
lenge we accept.
But on the other hand, we must recog-
nize that as we look to the period ahead,
a period when we are going to use our
leadership as well as we possibly can to
create peace for America and peace for
the world, it will mean a new world of
much greater competition for America.
Let's look back just 25 years at the end
of World War II. You will recall then that
America, with 7 percent of the world's
people, produced 50 percent of the
world's goods. Not any nation in the
world even approached us in the major
areas of competition economically.
And in that period, the United States
of America was a generous nation, gen-
erous to its allies who had fought beside
us and generous to its enemies whom we
had defeated.
One hundred and fifty billion dollars in
foreign aid, military and economic, was
given by the United States to other na-
tions. And now, 25 years later this is what
we find: We find that the United States
is still number one in the world econom-
ically, but we find that we have competi-
tion such as we did not have 25 years
ago-competition from Japan, for ex-
928
