[233] July 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
understanding last year at the time of my
reappointment, when I expressed the desire to
return to my professorship at the University of
California at Berkeley.
I should want to have the date of my resig-
nation be at your convenience. I want to help
my successor in every possible way, including
the timing of the transfer of my responsibilities
to him.
It has been a rewarding experience to serve
you as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Com-
mission. Your personal interest in the Com-
mission's program has been a source of inspi-
ration to me and I have particularly valued
our fine personal relationship. I had no inkling
when we first met in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
nearly twenty-five years ago that we would,
years later, share in such an
an interesting
adventure.
Although we leave Washington with mixed
feelings after so long a stay, having served
under three Presidents, my family and I have
anticipated for some time our return to Cali-
fornia, and we look forward to our return
home.
Respectfully,
GLENN T. SEABORG
[The President, The White House]
234
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Seabed
Arms Control Treaty. July 21, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the
advice and consent of the Senate to rati-
fication, the Treaty on the Prohibition of
the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons
and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction
on the Seabed and the Ocean Floor and
in the Subsoil Thereof, opened for signa-
ture at Washington, London and Moscow
on February 11, 1971.
This Treaty is the product of intensive
negotiations during the past two years
at the Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament at Geneva and at the
United Nations. On December 7, 1970,
104 members of the United Nations voted
to commend the Treaty and urged that it
be opened for signature and ratification
at the earliest possible date.
In broadest outline this Treaty pro-
hibits the emplacement of nuclear weap-
ons and other weapons of mass destruc-
tion on the seabed beyond the outer limits
of a 12-mile coastal "seabed zone" defined
in the Treaty. The provisions of the
Treaty are described in detail in the ac-
companying report of the Secretary of
State.
The seabed is man's last frontier on
earth, and that frontier should be a source
of promise. This Treaty represents a prac-
tical and timely step toward helping pro-
tect this new environment. It is a signifi-
cant addition to the structure of multi-
lateral arms control agreements such as
the Limited Test Ban Treaty, the Antarc-
tic Treaty, the Outer Space Treaty, and
the Non-Proliferation Treaty, contribut-
ing to international security.
I consider this Treaty to be in the inter-
est of the United States and the entire
world community and recommend that
the Senate give its advice and consent to
ratification.
The White House
July 21, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the treaty and the report of
the Secretary of State are printed in Senate
Executive H (92d Cong., 1st sess.).
822
