[378] Dec. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
I know these meetings, particularly at
the highest level, with the leaders of the
Soviet Union and the leaders of the
People's Republic of China may lead some
to assume that the fact of a meeting means
the end of differences between our systems
and theirs.
That, of course, will not be the case;
we have basic philosophical differences,
basic foreign policy differences. But as we
look down the road to the end of the cen-
tury, what we have to realize is this: that
with 250 million people in the Soviet
Union and 750 million people in Main-
land China, for the United States not to
be in a position to talk to those leaders, in
the event there is a confrontation some
place in the world, could lead to a conflict
which would mean suicide for both sides.
And that is why we have taken these steps,
so that when we do have differences-and
we will have differences for many, many
years to come-we will talk about them
and not fight about them.
The world that is taking shape as a
result will be far less dangerous, I believe,
than the one you have grown up in, be-
cause you were born approximately at the
end of the Korean war. You have lived
much of your life through the Vietnam
war, and now the question: What con-
fronts you in the future?
I believe it will be less dangerous, but
it will be even more challenging. Because
as the danger of war recedes between great
powers, the challenges of competition be-
tween nations living at peace with each
other also greatly increases.
Political, economic, and military power
will be concentrated in many centers in-
stead of just a few. Look at the change,
for example, since World War II. Im-
mediately after that war, the United
States had no competitors in the world.
We produced half the world's goods with
7 percent of the world's people. And now,
today, there are five potential economic
giants in the world-the new Europe with
England in the Common Market, the
Soviet Union, Mainland China with 750
million people, and a resurgent Japan,
not to mention, of course, the potential
for the future from Latin America, Africa,
and other parts of Asia.
So competition in the works of peace
will be intense. America cannot maintain
its position of leadership unless we work
at the very best of our abilities, unless we
bring the best out of our young as well as
our older people. But there is something
else that we should see about this world,
something that I hope very much for you.
The world in which I have grown up
has not been an open world, not an open
world because so much of it was closed by
curtains-iron curtains, bamboo curtains,
call it what you will.
I want the world that you grow up in to
be an open world-not a world without
differences; that would be a very dull
world-but an open world in which there
will be a chance for anyone who wants to,
to know the other people of the world.
Yours will be an open world, I believe,
and it also will be quite literally a new
world, one in which more than 60 new
nations and 60 percent of the people living
in the world came into being since World
War II. It will be a world where America's
fabulous economic and technological ad-
vances which have gone into war in gen-
erations past can be turned more fully
to the service of mankind in the generation
ahead.
And what an appealing idea to young
people, with your idealism, to see that all
of this tremendous capacity that America
has so much capacity to do so much for
1150
