Richard Nixon, 1971
June 1 [189]
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kaplow, yes, I
believe the police in Washington did
handle the question properly with the
right combination of firmness and re-
straint in a very difficult siutation.
Let us separate the question into what
we are really dealing with.
First, there are demonstrators. The
right to demonstrate is recognized and
protected and, incidentally, has been rec-
ognized and protected by the Washington
police. Thousands of demonstrators have
come down here peacefully and have not
been, of course, bothered. They have been
protected in that right.
But when people come in and slice
tires, when they block traffic, when they
make a trash bin out of Georgetown and
other areas of the city, and when they
terrorize innocent bystanders, they are not
demonstrators, they are vandals and
hoodlums and lawbreakers, and they
should be treated as lawbreakers.
Now, as far as the police were con-
cerned, they gave those who were in this
particular area, and who were engaging
in these activities, approximately 15,000
in all, an opportunity to disperse. They
did not. They said they were there to
stop the Government from operating.
I have pledged to keep this Government
going. I approve the action of the police
in what they did. I supported it after they
did it. And in the event that others come
in not to demonstrate for peace, but to
break the peace, the police will be sup-
ported by the President and by the Attor-
ney General in stopping that kind of
activity.
This Government is going to go for-
ward, and that kind of activity which is
not demonstration, but vandalism, law-
breaking, is not going to be tolerated in
this Capital.
POSSIBILITY OF VISIT TO SOUTHEAST ASIA
[11] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Mr. President, there has been per-
sistent speculation that you might also
visit Southeast Asia this year. If you can
tell us anything about that, it would be
welcome, but specifically, are you ruling
out a visit to South Vietnam in advance
of the presidential elections there this fall?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Theis, I have no
plans to visit South Vietnam before the
presidential elections. As far as any other
travel to Southeast Asia is concerned, I
have no present plans. Naturally, I will
give all of you advance notice because I
know you have to have shots before you
go to Southeast Asia.
CIVIL RIGHTS
[12.] Mr. Morgan [Edward P. Mor-
gan, ABC News].
Q. Mr. President, last week in Birming-
ham you praised Southern progress in
civil rights. And you held in contempt
those northerners who you said used a
double standard on civil rights. However,
the Civil Rights Commission has in effect
accused your Administration of the same
thing. In its May 10th report for instance,
it
says that the Department of HUD ap-
pears to be withdrawing from the battle
for fair and desegregated housing.
Do you
have a response to that report?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Morgan, I have
read the report of the Civil Rights Com-
mission, and I respectfully disagree with
it in two areas: One, where they say that
this Nation, the American people do not
have a commitment to the cause of civil
rights. I believe that is an unfair charge. I
71-234-72-47
693
