[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
categories so that one side would
make larger cuts in one category in
return for larger cuts by the other
side in another category to create a
stable military equation at lower
force levels.
The first has the advantage of simplicity
but would tend to magnify the effects of
any imbalances which exist at the outset.
The second, because of its complexity,
would pose difficult analytical and nego-
tiating problems, but would have the ad-
vantage of providing a firmer basis for a
stable relationship between the two sides.
We are studying these questions with our
allies.
Our preliminary conclusions suggest
that the pattern of the SALT negotiations
might be valid as an approach to discus-
sions of mutual force reductions in
Europe. Rather than exchanging concrete
proposals at the outset, we could first
explore major substantive issues and their
relation to specific problems. Within this
common framework we could move to
more detailed discussion of individual
issues. This building block approach could
resolve the complex technical issues and
lead to an agreement.
CONCLUSION
It is essential that the United States
maintain a military force sufficient to pro-
tect our interests and meet our commit-
ments. Were we to do less, there would be
no chance of creating a stable world
structure.
But it is an illusion to think that the
ideal guarantee of security-for ourselves
or for the world-rests on our efforts
alone. While maintaining our strength,
therefore, we are also making a sustained
effort to achieve with the Soviet Union
agreement on arms limitations. Only a
designed balance of armaments can en-
sure security that is shared and equitable,
and therefore durable.
It is for that reason that we have de-
fined our security requirements in terms
that facilitate arms control agreements.
The doctrine of strategic sufficiency is
fully compatible with arms limitations. So
too are the role of our conventional forces
and the purpose of our security assistance.
Our goal is security-and if others
share that goal, it can be assured through
mutual design, rather than mutual exer-
tion. It will, in any event, be maintained.
PART V: THE WORLD INTEREST
-The United Nations
-Global Challenges
THE UNITED NATIONS
"As the United Nations begins its
next quarter century, it does so richer in
the experience and sobered in its under-
standing of what it can do and what it
cannot; what should be expected and
what should not.
"In the spirit of this 25th Anniversary,
the United States will go the extra mile
in doing our part toward making the UN
succeed. We look forward to working
together with all nations represented here
in going beyond the mere containment of
crises to building a structure of peace that
promotes justice as well as assuring
stability, and that will last because all
have a stake in its lasting."
Address to the United Nations
General Assembly
October 23, 1970
International cooperation has always
been both a human dream and a human
326
