[244] July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
with George Allen, who incidentally, as
you remember, coached at Whittier before
he went on to the Chicago Bears as a de-
fensive coach, and then on to the Rams,
and now to the Washington Redskins. I
have told him I am going to come out and
root for the Redskins. But let me say, that
when I am in Los Angeles, I am rooting
for the Rams or when I am in San Diego,
I am with the Chargers. You name it, and
I will be there.
MR. GIFFORD. Mr. President, I want to
thank you for joining us. I know I speak
for Mrs. Lombardi, Marie, all the induc-
tees. I know how terribly honored they
are to have you here.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it is nice
that she is going to be here tonight, and I
think also, Frank, speaking of the fact that
Vince Lombardi was such a wonderful
family man, a deeply religious man, that
this [July 30] is his 31st wedding anni-
versary. It would have been tonight. So,
the fact that he is in the Hall of Fame,
that she is here on this day which must
have meant so much to both of them, I
think, is very significant.
MR. GIFFORD. It could not have been
better put.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
MR. GIFFORD. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview was videotaped on Fri-
day, July 30, 1971, for broadcast on ABC
during the Professional Football Hall of Fame
game between the Los Angeles Rams and the
Houston Oilers in Canton, Ohio, on Saturday,
July 31.
245 Remarks at the Dedication of the Rathbun Dam
July 31, 1971
Near Centerville, Iowa.
Governor Ray, Senator Miller, Congress-
man Kyl, Congressman Smith, all of the
distinguished guests on the platform, and
all of those who have come to the dedica-
tion of Rathbun Dam:
I want you to know that for me this is
somewhat of a homecoming. It allows me
to tell you just a little bit out of my own
life, which has already been referred to by
Governor Ray in his introduction. As I
flew into the Ottumwa Air Base today, or
now the Ottumwa Airport, I thought back
to 29 years ago. I had just finished my in-
doctrination at Quonset Point, Rhode Is-
land. Like all others who went through
the indoctrination course, I was asked by
the personnel officer what duty would I
prefer. Well, coming as I did from Cali-
fornia, I put as my first choice, "sea duty."
When I got my orders it said, "Naval
Air Station, Ottumwa." I asked some-
body there, "Where is Ottumwa?" I found
out soon enough. So, we came to Ot-
tumwa, and I will never forget my first
visit to the Naval Air Station. It was in
the middle of a very cold Iowa winter.
We drove out to an old farmhouse out in
the middle of a great cornfield. The snow
was piled high. And believe me, there was
no body of water in which you could sail
a boat for miles around.
The standing joke among those of us
who were assigned to that Naval Air Sta-
tion in those early days when it was being
built was that here we were in the Navy,
in the middle of Iowa, but certainly, no
bodies of water big enough for boats of
any size.
Now, to come back 29 years later, and
to fly by helicopter over this magnificent
body of water, the largest body of water
not only in this State but in all the area
840
