Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 19 [147]
propriation action on the District's an-
nual budget request prior to enactment of
supporting D.C. revenue legislation. Be-
cause of the need to balance expenditure
requests with available revenues, the re-
sult of this Congressional timing was that
the D.C. appropriation requests were sub-
stantially reduced because of the lack of
needed revenues. This is neither an effec-
tive nor an efficient way to review the
city's fiscal requirements, and I urge that
147
the Congress act promptly on the D.C.
revenue proposals prior to the final appro-
priation action on the fiscal year 1972
D.C. budget requests.
April 19, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in "The Budget
of the United States Government, District of
Columbia, Fiscal Year 1972" (Government
Printing Office, 62 pp.).
Remarks at the 80th Continental Congress
of the Daughters of the American Revolution.
April 19, 1971
Madam President General, Mayor Wash-
ington, Dr. Elson, all of the distinguished
guests here on the platform and here at
this Congress today:
I first want to tell you how very much
Mrs. Nixon and I appreciated the fact
that you were able to visit the White
House today. We hope you enjoyed your
tour.
I knew you were there because I had
a rather long day, and about 6 o'clock, as
I finished a meeting in the Cabinet Room
with a group of men, we walked into the
Rose Garden, which is now a tulip garden
at this time of year, and I looked in the
window and you were all waving. So I
waved at all of you at that time.
And at this time, too, I know that this
is, of course, a special occasion because I
understand your president general, Mrs.
Seimes, finishes her 3-year term, and you
have a one-term tradition. So, I con-
gratulate her and her successor.
And I do want to say that, as I appear
here in Constitution Hall, that there are
a number of things I want to say to this
group, but particularly Mrs. Nixon asked
me to express appreciation for the many,
many occasions in which this great Con-
stitution Hall has been used for state
events.
Oh, we think, of course, of the sym-
phony. I remember the Inaugural Sym-
phony that was held here, but through
the years, the number of times that we
have been here. And the Nation is most
grateful and the Nation's Capital is most
grateful that you have made it available
so generously as you have.
I am sure you know this is a very spe-
cial day, not only for your organization
as it begins this Congress, but it is a very
special day for America, because in Massa-
chusetts, where the first shots of the Amer-
ican Revolution were fired just 196 years
ago today, April 19, today, is celebrated
as Patriots' Day.
So I think it is most appropriate for a
President of the United States to greet the
Congress of this great society of women
who are descended from revolutionary
patriots and who are patriots, all of you,
in your own right as well.
I addressed this Congress, some of you
559
