Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 7 [383]
and dear friends from the north, also re-
spect him for, and we, in our country, Mr.
President, welcome the opportunity to
work with this great giant of the south,
no longer sleeping, very much alive, with
its future so unlimited.
Working with you as the leader of that
country-because we know that as Brazil
goes, so will go the rest of that Latin
American Continent-the United States
and Brazil, friends and allies in the past,
and as this dinner tonight reaffirms,
strong and close personal and official
friends today, we shall work together for
a greater future for your people, for our
people, and for all the people of the
American family, for which we have a
special place in our hearts.
I know that in that spirit all of us would
like to reaffirm our affection for Brazil,
for its people, for the American family, by
raising our glasses to the health of our
distinguished guest, the President of
Brazil.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:51 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
President Médici responded in Portuguese.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter
as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
In the words of Your Excellency, I find not
only a gesture of fraternal welcome but also
the determination to preserve and to strength-
en the traditional solidarity that exists between
our homelands.
My wife and I, and all the members of my
party, shall always cherish unforgettable
memories of the fellowship that is prevailing
here this evening, of the joy that permeates
these moments, thanks to the generous hos-
pitality of Mrs. Nixon and yours, Mr. President.
Here we are, Mr. President, to engage in a
frank conversation between friends, to ex-
change views and share experiences, to
reminisce about the past of common struggles,
to discuss the problems of the present, and
particularly to formulate long-range plans for
the future. Here we are to carry out a joint
effort in establishing a new point of departure
mutually beneficial for the relations that have
always been peaceful between the two nations
which we represent.
We met at length this morning, fully aware
that our points of view are not always in coin-
cidence. We did not, however, lose sight for a
single moment of this objective of trying to
harmonize them and integrate them in the
broadest cooperation which is not only bene-
ficial for both countries, but it is also impor-
tant for the handling and the solving of the
problems, problems of the hemisphere as well
as worldwide problems.
Our friendship has undergone the tests of
both war and of peace, and the United States
always knows that it will find in Brazil a loyal
and independent ally. Brazil cannot display in-
difference and apathy in the presence of new
events and new circumstances, in the presence
of a reality which is ever changing and above
which we must rise in order to build a new
world order in the spheres of political, diplo-
matic, economic, financial, and monetary
activity.
We must approach this new world without
preconceived ideas and without inflexible posi-
tions. And what seems imperative to us is that
this new world order must also bring about an
entirely new phase of peace, justice, and prog-
ress for all the members of the family of nations.
The Brazilian and American voices which are
blending around this table are all imbued with
the same feeling of friendship, and they share
an equal yearning for achievement. These
voices do not find it difficult to make themselves
heard and understood and fully appreciated.
These are voices which are joining in common
purposes, still without giving up their own
identity, which is autonomous and spontaneous.
It is on the basis of reciprocal trust, of mutual
respect, and equality of rights that we are going
to preserve the great friendship, a friendship
which is indicated to us and imposed upon us
by the common interests.
It is in this spirit, and with these thoughts in
mind, that I ask all those present here to raise
their glasses in toasting the health of Mrs.
Nixon and the President of the United States
of America, and also toasting the greatness and
1167
