Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 26 [304]
they were each week when we came into
office in 1968-and they will continue to
go down.
Our goal of ending the American in-
volvement, of preventing a Communist
takeover, of obtaining the return of our
POW's, can be attained, in my opinion,
and will be attained, and the complete
American withdrawal, consistent with
that goal, will occur.
In the event, however, that as a result
of a change of policy, a change of policy
that might be brought upon the Adminis-
tration by Congressional action-I don't
anticipate this, but it has been speculated
about-we move more precipitately,
everything that we have fought for in
Vietnam could be lost.
So, I would simply say that we feel that
our policy of ending American involve-
ment in a way that would prevent a Com-
munist takeover and give the people of
South Vietnam a chance to develop a
democratic system which more closely
meets our standards-that goal can be
reached.
I would also point this out: I know
many Americans are concerned about the
failure of other countries that we aid
around the world, people like the people
of South Vietnam, to move as swiftly as
we think they should toward the demo-
cratic society that we have here or that
the British have, for example.
I note, for example, a very well-inten-
tioned resolution that some Congressmen
have put in, saying we should cut off aid
to South Vietnam unless they have a
leader elected in a contested, democratic
election. Let me say that if we adopted
that procedure and that policy, the United
States would have to cut off aid to 61
countries in the world today that we are
giving it to, because only 30 of the 91
countries to which we give aid have
leaders that were elected in a contested
election.
That doesn't mean that we like it that
way,
but it does mean that the road to-
ward democracy and contested elections
is a long and hard one. But the main
thing is to be on the road and give people
a chance to have it that way, rather than
to let those people end up on the kind of
a road where there is no election and no
hope of one in the future, which is the
case in North Vietnam.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. We are out of time.
It is 5:03. Thank
you, gentlemen.
NOTE: The session began at 4:30 p.m. in the
Mayfair Room at the Benson Hotel.
Participants in the briefing represented the
States of Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mex-
ico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
304 Remarks on Arrival at Walla Walla, Washington.
September 26, 1971
I JUST WISH that on this beautiful Sun-
day afternoon that Mrs. Nixon and I
could have the chance to meet everybody
that is here at the airport, but if so, we
would never get to Alaska in time to wel-
come the Emperor of Japan, so we cannot
do it.
I do, however, want you to know that
to receive such a welcome here at Walla
Walla, where I visited 15 years ago, is
995
