Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
TROOP WITHDRAWAL GOALS
I
[4.] MR. DEDMON. Mr. President, may
follow up with one more question?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I understand-
all follow up if you want to.
MR. DEDMON. I realize that you do
not wish to state a date at this time
at which we will withdraw, and that there
was some confusion in the press about
what Senator Scott said following a meet-
ing at the White House. Could I ask this
question: Is Senator Scott's use of the
date January 1, 1973, in your opinion, a
practicable goal?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Dedmon, that is
a very clever way to get me to answer a
question that I won't answer. [Laughter]
I would expect that from an editor as well
as from a reporter.
The date, let me say, cannot and must
not be related to an election in the United
States. Let's begin with that. I don't want
one American to be in Vietnam one day
longer than is necessary to achieve the two
goals that I have mentioned: the release
of our prisoners and the capacity of the
South Vietnamese to defend themselves
against a Communist takeover.
Now, as far as that date is concerned,
it will depend upon the circumstances. I
have announced a troop withdrawal
which takes us through November [De-
cember] 1. In the middle of October [No-
vember], I will make another troop
withdrawal announcement.
I will then analyze the training of the
South Vietnamese forces and particu-
larly their air force at that time. I will then
analyze enemy activity and, also, any prog-
ress in negotiation, particularly in nego-
tiation with regard to prisoners.
At that time, I will be able to make a
further announcement with regard to
what our withdrawal will be. But for me
to speculate about a date would not help
us; it would only serve the enemy, and I
am not going to do that even though it
might be politically popular to set a date.
I have to do what is right for the United
States, right for our prisoners, and right
for our goal of a South Vietnam with a
chance to avoid a Communist takeover,
which will contribute to a lasting peace in
the Pacific and the world.
THE CALLEY CASE
[5.] EUGENE V. RISHER (White House
correspondent, United Press Interna-
tional). Mr. President, I would like to ask
you about the Calley case.2 Captain
[Aubrey M.] Daniel, the prosecutor in the
case, has said that by publicly interjecting
yourself in it, you have undermined the
military system of justice and done a dis-
service to some of the people that are
fighting in Vietnam honorably. Can you
respond to this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Captain Daniel
is a fine officer. And, incidentally, the six
members of that court had very distin-
guished military records. Five of the six,
as you know, Mr. Risher, had served with
distinction in Vietnam. I respect the pros-
ecutor. I respect also the judicial process
under which they acted, and I respect
those that served on the court.
I acted as I did because one of my ca-
pacities is Commander in Chief of the
Armed Forces. There was enormous in-
On March 29, 1971, a court-martial jury
convicted 1st Lt. William L. Calley, Jr., of
premeditated murder of not less than 22 Viet-
namese noncombatant civilians and of as-
sault with intent to murder of one Vietnamese
noncombatant civilian in the village of Sonmy
at Mylai on March 16, 1968.
537
