[259] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
259 Statement About Actions To Improve the Quality of
August 6, 1971
Care in Nursing Homes.
THE VAST majority of Americans over
65 years of age are eager and able to play
a continuing role as active, independent
participants in the life of our country.
Encouraging them to play this role—and
providing greater opportunities for them
to do so-is a cornerstone of this
Administration's policy concerning older
Americans.
For almost one million of our 20 mil-
lion senior citizens, however, a dignified
and humane existence requires a degree
of care from others that can usually be
found only in a nursing home or extended
care facility. For those who need them,
the nursing homes of America should be
shining symbols of comfort and concern.
Many of our nursing homes meet this
standard most admirably. Day after day
and year after year they demonstrate the
capacity of our society to care for even
the most dependent of its elderly citizens
in a decent and compassionate manner,
It is the goal of this Administration to see
that all of our nursing homes provide care
of this same high quality.
Unfortunately, many facilities now fall
woefully short of this standard. Unsani-
tary and unsafe, overcrowded and under-
staffed, the substandard nursing home can
be a terribly depressing institution. To live
one's later years in such a place is
to live in an atmosphere of neglect and
degradation.
In my speech to the regional convention
of the National Retired Teachers Associa-
tion and the American Association of Re-
tired Persons in Chicago on June 25, I
pledged action to meet this challenge.
Members of my Administration have been
vigorous in their development of specific
plans to carry out that pledge. Today I
am announcing certain decisions which
we have already made in this important
area.
A PLAN FOR ACTION
Nursing homes presently receive over $1
billion or 40 percent of their total income
from the Federal Government-most of
it through Medicare and Medicaid pay-
ments. (An additional $700 million comes
from the States and localities, and $900
million comes from private sources.) As I
emphasized in my Chicago speech, "I do
not believe that Medicaid and Medicare
funds should go to substandard nursing
homes in this country and subsidize
them." This is not only a matter of per-
sonal belief, it is also the law of the land-
and has been since 1965.
The reason that many substandard
facilities have often continued to receive
such payments are many and complex. It
has been difficult to enforce the law that
requires participant homes to meet certain
standards. In the final analysis, however,
there can be no excuse for lax law enforce-
ment-and I therefore am taking a num-
ber of steps to improve enforcement
efforts.
1. I am ordering that the Federal pro-
gram for training State nursing home in-
spectors be expanded so that an additional
2,000 inspectors will be trained over the
next 18-month period. The major respon-
sibility for surveillance and regulation in
the field is now carried out by State gov-
ernments, and this action will enable them
to increase their effectiveness most
significantly.
One of three places in the country
878
