[81] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
tonight-those that are available. And so
to get back to Washington, to get dressed,
to get the dinner ready and so forth, of
course, requires a very short timetable.
But we have here a group of my col-
leagues in the Administration who will be
able to talk very candidly and, I think,
very helpfully and constructively to you
on some of our initiatives in the whole
field of rural development and the pro-
grams for rural America.
I think I can best introduce my own re-
marks here by putting what will follow in
perspective, first, by beginning with Amer-
ican agriculture.
Usually when an individual comes to
talk about rural America, he is expected
to talk only about the farmer. Now, of
course, the farmer is the most important
part of rural America. The farmer, and
American agriculture, is the foundation
upon which the balance of rural America
is built.
When we speak of rural America, how-
ever, in the conversations and briefings
that you have here today, we are speaking
of that part of America in which the cities
or towns are 50,000 or less, and where the
county in which the city or town is lo-
cated has a population density of 100 or
less [per square mile], including, of course,
the city.
This is done not from the standpoint
of any arbitrary number, but for the pur-
pose of attempting to get—as I will indi-
cate in my own remarks and as will be
further followed up by the other speak-
ers-attempt to focus on a problem that
has not adequately been focused upon in
previous years.
Second, when we look at rural America
in terms now of the most important aspect
of rural America, to wit, the farmer, and
all that he contributes, we realize, as I
tried to say to the Iowa Legislature today,
that American agriculture is, when we
consider this huge productive economy of
the richest nation in the world, it is in
truth our greatest asset. We hear so often
about the problems of American agricul-
ture. We hear so often about the fact that
the farm programs cost too much and this
and that and the other thing.
But let's look at a few figures, figures
that are worth repeating even to you
group
of experts.
First, we have a productivity commis-
sion that has just been set up, set up for
the purpose of getting better productivity
throughout the whole of American life, in
industry, in government, and in all of its
aspects.2
Sitting on that productivity commis-
sion, for example, are Secretary Romney
and Secretary Stans and Secretary Har-
din. All of us have had the chance to look
at the problems of industry and its various
aspects. Some of our industries, for ex-
ample, like the steel industry, finds itself
no longer as competitive as it used to be
because the most modern steel plants in
the world today, for example, are in Ger-
many and in Japan.
And other industries, like in the field of
radios, the thing that you are very inter-
ested in, we find there that foreign im-
ports are a very great problem. It is
significant to note that today there is not
2 The National Commission on Productivity,
established by the President in July 1970,
issued a policy statement on September 7, 1971.
A White House announcement of the policy
statement is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p.
1249). On the same day, the White House also
released the transcript of a news briefing on
the policy statement by George P. Shultz,
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget and Chairman of the Commission.
362
