[211] June 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
gram together with the increasing volume
of payments received under past long term
credit sales agreements, resulted in a con-
tribution of more than $300 million to
our balance of payments in 1970. In addi-
tion, this program has placed increasing
emphasis on helping recipient nations
develop their own economies and thus
become better export markets for the
United States.
Public Law 480 has now been extended
through 1973. As our efforts move for-
ward, we will continue to stress both trade
development and food assistance through
this highly esteemed program.
The White House
June 28, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "The Annual Re-
port on Activities Carried Out Under Public
Law 480, 83d Congress, As Amended, During
the Period January 1 Through December 31,
1970" (164 pp. plus tables).
212 Message to the Senate Transmitting
Convention on Psychotropic Substances.
June 29, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a copy of the Conven-
tion on Psychotropic Substances, signed
at Vienna February 21, 1971. I transmit
also, for the information of the Senate,
the report of the Secretary of State with
respect to the Convention.
Nationally and internationally, we are
faced today with a very serious problem
posed by a new group of dangerous
drugs-the psychotropic or "mind-bend-
ing" substances, such as LSD, mescaline,
amphetamines, barbiturates and tran-
quilizers. It is the purpose of this Conven-
tion to limit to medical and scientific uses
those substances that are liable to abuse
but not covered by the existing treaties
for the international control of narcotic
drugs. The Convention will close an im-
portant gap which now exists in interna-
tional drug regulations.
Nearly all of the psychotropic substances
are manufactured rather than derived
initially from plants, as are the narcotic
drugs-such as heroin-that are involved
in so much illicit traffic. As a major manu-
facturer of psychotropic substances, it is
important that the United States co-
operate with other countries in efforts to
limit the use of those substances to medi-
cal and scientific purposes. I urgently rec-
ommend, therefore, that the Senate give
early consideration to the Convention and
that it give its advice and consent, with the
reservation as proposed in the report of
the Secretary of State in accordance with
the provisions of the Convention.
The White House
June 29, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive G (92d Cong., 1st sess.).
784
