Richard Nixon, 1971
July 23 [236]
the needs of those farmers who are unable
to qualify for private credit. I also believe,
however, that we should continue to rely
primarily on private lenders to meet the
general credit needs of commercial agri-
culture, and I would point to various
measures which are recommended in this
report for improving the flow of private
credit to agricultural borrowers.
In addition to all of these decisions
and recommendations, I have also sup-
ported enactment of legislation to create
a Rural Telephone Bank which will soon
be able to provide substantially increased
credit assistance to small rural telephone
companies and cooperatives. This will
mean better telephone service for our
rural citizens. I have recently sent to the
Congress a budget amendment requesting
$30 million for the initial purchase of
capital stock in this Bank. My speech last
May also announced increased lending for
rural sewer and water projects in both
1971 (an additional $100 million) and
1972 (an additional $111 million)—a
nearly 60% increase over the level budg-
eted for the 1972 fiscal year.
I am confident that the actions already
taken by this administration-in conjunc-
tion with the new programs which I have
recommended to the Congress-can do a
great deal to bring about the renewal of
rural America. The achievement of this
goal is essential if the growth we experi-
ence in the years ahead is to be for us not
a curse but a blessing. All Americans have
a high stake in the success of rural
development.
The White House
July 23, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 47-page report is entitled "A Re-
port on Rural Financial Assistance-Prepared
Within the Departments and Agencies of the
Executive Branch for Transmittal to the Con-
gress by the President."
A White House announcement of the sign-
ing of the bill establishing the Rural Telephone
Bank (Public Law 92-12, 85 Stat. 29) was re-
leased on May 7, 1971. On September 15, the
White House released an announcement of the
appointment of 11 members of the Board of
Directors of the Bank. The two announce-
ments are printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, pp. 735 and
1279).
236 Statement on the Death of President William V. S.
Tubman of Liberia. July 23, 1971
IT WAS with profound sadness that Mrs.
Nixon and I learned today of the death
of President William V. S. Tubman of
Liberia. A leading African statesman for
a quarter of a century, President Tubman
was well known and highly respected in
the United States. During his years as
President of Liberia, the close and friendly
relations between the United States and
Liberia were continually strengthened.
The world will sorely miss his wise counsel
and effective leadership.
President Tubman will be long remem-
bered for his accomplishments in Liberia
and in Africa. During his tenure as Presi-
dent, he worked tirelessly for the unity of
Liberia's diverse peoples and for the eco-
nomic well-being of his country. Under
President Tubman's leadership, Liberia
played a vital role in the United Nations
and was a moving spirit in the Organiza-
tion of African Unity.
Liberia's sorrow at this sad time is
shared by the American people. On their
825
