Richard Nixon, 1971
May 22 [179]
ing my term as President of the United
States.
I want you to know that as I go to help
dedicate a library which will contain the
papers of former President Johnson, that
I will do so bringing the best wishes of all
the American people to a former President
of the United States.
As I dedicate that library I will say
there what I want to say to you now. Here
in this crowd we have people of both
parties, Democrats and Republicans. We
have a lot of young people, and we have
some older people. I am awfully glad to
see that wonderful group there on the
truck from the Texas School of the Deaf.
Isn't it fine that they could come out here
today?
But as I see this crowd and I think of
the responsibilities that whoever has the
office of Presidency must meet-and I
know that President Johnson felt this way
when he was President, I feel this way
now-it is very simply this: We see all of
these children; we think of their future;
and we want them to grow up in a world
in which we will be at peace with every
nation in the world.
We cannot do that unless this Nation is
strong. And this State of Texas, through
its Congressmen, through its Senators,
both Republican and Democrat, must be
credited with supporting a strong national
defense which will make it possible for
winning the kind of peace we want in
America and in the world.
Finally, we want to grow up in a world
where these young people will have a bet-
ter chance than we have had for a good
life. And this is a great country, make no
mistake about it, it is today. And we have
the opportunity to make it better and a
world in which they can travel to all parts
of the world and get to know the people
of all parts of the world where there will
be no barriers that divide us.
This is a great goal. It is not a Republi-
can goal; it is not a Democratic goal. It is
what you in this great State, made up, as
you are, with people from all parts of the
Nation, it is what you believe in; it is what
we believe in.
We will appreciate your support, and
we will appreciate your prayers as we
work toward that great goal for all
Americans.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:06 a.m. at
Bergstrom Air Force Base.
179 Remarks at the Dedication of the Lyndon Baines
Johnson Library in Austin, Texas. May 22, 1971
President and Mrs. Johnson, Mr. Vice
President, and all of the very distinguished
guests here on this occasion:
Mrs. Nixon and I are very honored to
be here deep in the heart of Texas. I can
say that the heart of America, today at
this moment, is in the heart of Texas as
this distinguished company so well
illustrates.
It is here to pay tribute to the life of
a man, and the life of his wife as well,
who has given 40 years of service to this
State and to this Nation.
The entire Nation is indebted to you,
President Johnson, and to this great uni-
versity, the University of Texas, to all
who have had a hand in assembling and
establishing this extraordinary treasury of
655
