Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. I [378]
good-is turned to the works of peace
rather than the works of war, because
then, when the manacles of war at last are
struck off the hands of the American giant,
think of what our potentialities will be.
Together we can work toward conquer-
ing hunger, poverty, disease, ignorance
here in America where it does exist, and
also even abroad. We can achieve a new
birth of vitality in our democracy, our
economy, our arts, and our culture. We
can strike a new balance between quan-
tity and quality in national growth, be-
tween dynamic cities and a healthy coun-
tryside in this wide land, with the heart-
land of this country revitalized, again
contributing as it can and as it will to the
growth and the balance of America.
We can rescue a threatened environ-
ment, a cause in which I know you are all
so deeply interested, and form a higher
partnership with nature. And we can
truly build a new America in a new world.
That is why I said at the outset that the
most exciting time and place to be young
and to be alive, in all the record of man-
kind, is right here in America, now in the
seventies.
From the very first, we have been a
people who set high goals, we dreamed
large dreams, we shared from the heart
with our brother men. You all remember
what Jefferson wrote when this was a
weak country and a poor country. He said
we act not just for ourselves alone, but for
all mankind. It was presumptuous for him
to
say it then, because there wasn't much
that that young, weak America could do
about the problems of mankind. But be-
cause he said it, and because there was an
idealism there, America did catch the
imagination of the world.
But compare the situation now to then.
If a Jefferson were to say today we act for
all mankind, he could be believed, and
believed because what sets these times
apart from any earlier period in our his-
tory is that we now have not only the will
to work miracles, but we have the means
to achieve them. The heavy responsibili-
ties of world leadership, the restless per-
fectionism that nags at our national life,
I know these seem burdensome at times.
Some of us must feel at times: Wouldn't it
be well not to have all these responsibili-
ties? Just live to ourselves as an island in
the world and let the rest of the world go
by.
It wouldn't be well. It wouldn't be good
at all. We can feel tempted to complain
about these things, but it is provincial and
craven to do so. The power not merely of
wishing good things but of doing good in
the whole history of mankind has been
granted sparingly to very few men and
women and nations, and that power, in
full measure, is what you have. It is des-
tiny's great gift to the United States
today-the power not only to wish good
things but the power, if we organize, if
we work, if we set our goals high enough,
to do good things in America and abroad.
Generations before could yearn for
peace. We can build peace, and we are.
They could feel compassion for the op-
pressed, the destitute, the refugees of the
earth. We can provide help for them sur-
passing all other nations, as we are.
For example, in the current tragic situ-
ation between India and Pakistan, the
United States provides more help for the
refugees there than all of the other na-
tions of the world put together.
We should be thankful that we have
that kind of ability and can help in that
way. We could not do it unless America
were the strong, economic, productive
people that we are. Others could specu-
1151
