Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
cil on Environmental Quality extensively
examined the problem of ocean dumping.
Its study indicated that ocean dumping
is not a critical problem now, but it pre-
dicted that as municipalities and indus-
tries increasingly turned to the oceans
as a convenient dumping ground, a vast
new influx of wastes would occur. Once
this happened, it would be difficult and
costly to shift to land-based disposal.
Wastes dumped in the oceans have a
number of harmful effects. Many are
toxic to marine life, reduce populations
of fish and other economic resources,
jeopardize marine ecosystems, and im-
pair aesthetic values. In most cases, feas-
ible, economic, and more beneficial
methods of disposal are available. Our
national policy should be to ban unregu-
lated ocean dumping of all wastes and to
place strict limits on ocean disposal of
harmful materials. Legislation is needed
to assure that our oceans do not suffer the
fate of so many of our inland waters, and
to provide the authority needed to pro-
tect our coastal waters, beaches, and
estuaries.
-I recommend a national policy ban-
ning unregulated ocean dumping of
all materials and placing strict limits
on ocean disposal of any materials
harmful to the environment.
-I recommend legislation that will re-
quire a permit from the Administra-
tor of the Environmental Protection
Agency for any materials to be
dumped into the oceans, estuaries, or
Great Lakes and that will authorize
the Administrator to ban dumping of
wastes which are dangerous to the
marine ecosystem.
The legislation would permit the Ad-
ministrator to begin phasing out ocean
dumping of harmful materials. It would
provide the controls necessary to prevent
further degradation of the oceans.
This would go far toward remedying
this problem off our own shores. However,
protection of the total marine environ-
ment from such pollution can only be
assured if other nations adopt similar
measures and enforce them.
-I am instructing the Secretary of
State, in coordination with the Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality, to de-
velop and pursue international
initiatives directed toward this
objective.
NOISE
The American people have rightly be-
come increasingly annoyed by the grow-
ing level of noise that assails them.
Airplanes, trucks, construction equip-
ment, and many other sources of noise
interrupt sleep, disturb communication,
create stress, and can produce deafness
and other adverse health effects. The
urban environment in particular is being
degraded by steadily rising noise levels.
The Federal Government has set and en-
forces standards for noise from aircraft,
but it is now time that our efforts to deal
with many other sources of noise be
strengthened and expanded.
The primary responsibility for dealing
with levels of noise in the general envi-
ronment rests upon local governments.
However, the products which produce the
noise are usually marketed nationally, and
it is by regulating the noise-generating
characteristics of such products that the
Federal Government can best assist the
State and local governments in achieving
a quieter environment.
-I propose comprehensive noise pol-
lution control legislation that will
133
