[61] Feb. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
try to handle each case on an individual
basis; naturally, take action where there
is a failure to use the funds properly, but
not to set up simply more government
guidelines.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[16] Q. Could you take a couple of
seconds on the Middle East, because it
has not been brought up and I think it
should be?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. Israel seems to be balking on the
Jarring proposal. If they continue to balk,
would you use your powers of persuasion
to get them to accept something along
that line?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it would
be helpful, Mr. Warren [Lucian C. War-
ren, Buffalo Evening News], to speculate
here that we would use powers of per-
suasion with Israel or, for that matter,
with Egypt or Jordan, on the Middle East.
Let me say this: that I have been en-
couraged-I am not overly optimistic and
not Pollyannaish because this is a terribly
difficult area of the world, as I have
pointed out in previous press conferences,
with hatreds that go back over centuries
and they are not going to be removed very
easily, the hatreds, maybe never. But a
live-and-let-live relationship may develop.
But I have been encouraged by the devel-
opments that have occurred so far.
Egypt has been more forthcoming than
we had expected, and I believe that Israel
has been somewhat more forthcoming. I
have hopes that when the present cease-
fire expires that it will be extended.
I will say that neither side will gain
anything by starting the fighting again.
It is a war in which either side will be a
loser.
So as far as the Mideast is concerned-
and I answered it in more detail simply to
give you the tone of it-as far as the Mid-
east is concerned it is a difficult area.
There are going to be day-to-day blasts
by one side or the other or concessions by
one side or the other before an eventual
settlement is reached.
But for the United States publicly to
move in and indicate what we think ought
to be done while these delicate negotia-
tions go on would not help.
DECISIONS IN SOUTHEAST ASIA
[17.] Q. Could I clear up what I think
is an important point on Laos? You sug-
gested that the Saigon regime is making
the decisions as to what it will do in its
own interest, particularly in reference to
crossing the DMZ.
Most Americans believe that the deci-
sion to go into Laos was made in Wash-
ington, and decisions like crossing the
DMZ would have, necessarily, to be made
here as well because of the use of Ameri-
can airpower.
Could you straighten out for us where
the line is between the decisions that the
Saigon regime will make and that this
Government will make?
THE PRESIDENT. Any decision, Mr.
Lisagor, that called for American par-
ticipation would have to be approved in
Washington. The decision with regard to
Laos was one that was approved in
Washington.
I approved the operation and I ap-
proved the decision to use American air-
power. The operation itself was jointly
developed, primarily by the South Viet-
namese, but with, of course, very close
cooperation and consultation with Gen-
eral Abrams and his staff.
168
