Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [182]
cumstances should a budget exceed what
the economy would produce at full capac-
ity, or full employment as some describe it.
On the other hand, having said that, on
simply having a limitation with regard to
what the Federal Government spends, it is
only part of the problem; there is the
problem of monetary policy. I will not get
into it except to say it must be also respon-
sible enough to fuel the growing economy
yet not so much as to reignite the fires of
inflation.
On the other side of the coin, there is
the very nagging problem of a wage-price
spiral. Here there is no reason to place
blame in any quarter except simply to say
that as the United States looks at its com-
petitive position around the world, we
must recognize that a wage-price spiral-
in other words very significant wage in-
creases which go far beyond increases in
productivity-will inevitably have the
effect not only of contributing to inflation
but of pricing those particular industries
out of the world market and, for that mat-
ter, out of the domestic market.
The upcoming steel negotiations are a
case in point. Without getting into those
negotiations specifically, we simply can
look at what the numbers are.
Back 20 years ago, in 1950, and you
have to go back only that far, Japan pro-
duced 5 million tons of steel and the
United States produced 50 percent of
all the steel in the world. Today Japan
produces 100 million tons of steel; the
United States produces only 27 per-
cent of all the steel in the world, and
within 2 years, Japan will pass the United
States in steel production.
That is not bad in and of itself, except
to point up the fact that the American
steel industry, and certainly we want a
steel industry, we need a steel industry—
here in this city, in Birmingham, we all
understand what steel means; it is a very
basic industry.
If the United States is going to continue
to have a strong steel industry, the wage
policies and the price policies—and the
productivity insofar as that is concerned
and affects it-of the American industry,
will have to be reexamined, because we
cannot continue to have a wage push and
then a price push with the United States
getting a continually decreasing share of
the world market.
Now, a third area that we should look
to, having covered both the defense area
and the economic area, relates to this
whole matter of the organization of
gov-
ernment. Since it has been covered so ex-
tensively by the previous speakers I will
simply summarize it this way: The Ameri-
can people, at the present time, feel that
we need some very significant changes in
government, and they are right. They are
fed up with government at all levels. They
think it costs too much; they think it does
not work; and they think they don't have
enough to say about it.
All of our plans in revenue sharing, gen-
eral revenue sharing, special revenue
sharing, Government reorganization, are
designed to get at those three nagging
questions that Americans want. We are
trying to make government cost less; we
are trying to make it work better, and we
are trying to give people who are affected
by government more of a voice in what
kind of government they want, how much
government they want.
Those who suggest that our general and
special revenue sharing, or either or both,
or reorganization, any of these programs,
would have the effect of having Washing-
ton have a bigger voice, of course, are 180
degrees wrong; because what has hap-
671
