[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
through the Senior Review Group and the
Defense Program Review Committee,
provided the National Security Council
with a realistic range of options for a U.S.
position on Allied strategy and on the size
of our own forces in Europe. After the
Council review, I reaffirmed our support
for the Alliance's present defense strategy,
and our intention to retain our present
strength in Europe and to strengthen our
NATO-committed forces.
Arms Control. The NSC Verification
Panel built on the base developed last
year in preparation for the Strategic Arms
Limitation Talks (SALT). It kept up-
to-date our technical analysis of the rela-
tive capabilities of specific weapons
systems and our capacity to verify dif-
ferent types of limitation. This gave us the
building blocks for assessing different
combinations of specific limits.
Our National Security Council and
NATO reviews of Alliance defense strat-
egy highlighted the need for more inten-
sive study of approaches to Mutual and
Balanced Force Reductions in Europe.
The Vertification Panel is treating this
question with the same careful analytical
approach which has served us well in pre-
paring for SALT.
The Middle East. The Near East Inter-
departmental Group and the Senior Re-
view Group reviewed the situation in this
troubled region continuously over the
past year. We sought an understanding of
the requirements for longer-term stability
in the area; we sought a range of choice
for near-term U.S. policy steps, such as
the major initiative of last summer which
led to the Middle East ceasefire.
When the situation in Jordan deterio-
rated in September and external interven-
tion threatened, the Washington Special
Actions Group followed the situation and
its implications for us closely. Realistic
options were developed to help contain
and end the crisis. Because the broader
issues of the Middle East had been under
continuing study, we were able to address
the issues in Jordan not solely in terms of
the immediate crisis but in the broader
context of the region and our longer-term
interests and objectives.
Procedures are meant to serve pur-
poses; they are not ends in themselves. We
believe the system helps us challenge old
ideas, deliberate thoughtfully, and coordi-
nate effectively. It has promoted creativ-
ity and orderliness without developing a
bureaucratic existence of its own.
We recognize that while inadequate
procedures can lead to bad decisions,
even good machinery cannot guarantee
good ones. History will judge us by the
wisdom of our policies, not the process
leading to them. But our strengthened
NSC system is providing crucial support.
CONCLUSION
Our new course of partnership in the
world can only be steered with the sus-
tained understanding of the American
people.
With our allies and friends, first of all,
we are deepening a partnership that pro-
vides the dignity and the stimulus of an
increased role.
To those who have been our adversar-
ies, we offer a partnership on the para-
mount world interest-to rid the earth
of the scourge of war.
For all nations, we visualize a partner-
ship that will make this planet a better
place to live.
And for the American people, we seek
a partnership of purpose.
Just as America will listen more to
344
