Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 28 [31]
recognition of the individual needs
and capabilities of all military per-
sonnel. These efforts will be con-
tinued and strengthened.
EXTENSION OF INDUCTION AUTHORITY
No one knows precisely when we can
end conscription. It depends on many
things-including the level of military
forces that will be required for our na-
tional security, the degree to which the
combination of military pay increases and
enhanced benefits will attract and hold
enough volunteers to maintain the forces.
we need, and the attitude of young people
toward military service.
Current induction authority expires on
July 1, 1971. While I am confident that
our plan will achieve its objective of re-
ducing draft calls to zero, even the most
optimistic observers agree that we would
not be able to end the draft in the next
year or so without seriously weakening our
military forces and impairing our ability
to forestall threats to the peace. Consid-
erations of national security thus make it
imperative that we continue induction
authority at this time.
Normally, the Congress has extended
induction authority for four year intervals.
I propose that this Congress extend in-
duction authority for two years, to July 1,
1973. We shall make every endeavor to
reduce draft calls to zero by that time,
carefully and continually reexamining our
position as we proceed toward that goal.
REFORM OF THE DRAFT
As long as we must continue to rely on
the draft to meet a portion of our military
manpower requirements, we must make
the draft as equitable as possible. To that
end I am proposing legislation to modify
the present draft law, including the resub-
mission of recommendations I sent to the
Congress last year. This proposed legisla-
tion would:
-Permit the phasing out of under-
graduate student deferments, and
also exemptions for divinity students.
-Establish a uniform national call, by
lottery sequence numbers each
month, to ensure that men through-
out the country with the same lottery
numbers have relatively equal lia-
bility to induction by their local
boards.
In addition, the legislation I am pro-
posing includes a number of other amend-
ments which will improve the adminis-
tration of existing law.
For the immediate future we will need
the draft and, moreover, even when the
draft has been ended, we will have to
maintain some form of a standby system
that could be re-activated in case of emer-
gency. Therefore, I urge favorable Con-
gressional action on these proposals to
reform the draft and make it as nearly fair
as we can for the time it is needed.
While the reforms proposed in our
existing draft system are essential, how-
ever, it must be remembered that they are
improvements in a system that will be
used only as long as the draft is necessary.
This Congress has both the power and
the opportunity to take an historic action.
As I stated in last year's message, with an
end to the draft we will demonstrate to the
world the responsiveness of our system of
government-and we will also demon-
strate our continuing commitment to the
principle of ensuring for the individual
the greatest possible measure of freedom.
77
