Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 28 [153]
(5) Shenandoah National Park, Vir-
ginia-73,280 acres. The scenic grandeur
of the Shenandoah's Blue Ridge is well
known. This area is one of the few re-
maining examples of the vast mountain
wildernesses that long ago stood as an
obstacle before pioneers pushing
westward.
(6) Breton National Wildlife Refuge,
Louisiana-4,420 acres. The Chandeleur
and Breton Islands of the northern Gulf
of Mexico, which comprise this wilder-
ness, are an important habitat for nesting
shore birds, sea turtles and wintering
waterfowl.
(7) Florida Keys National Wildlife
Refuge-4,740 acres. Tropical vegeta-
tion, rare bird species, and Key deer
native to this area are unique within the
United States.
(8) West Sister National Wildlife Ref-
uge, Ohio-85 acres. Located just nine
miles east of Toledo, this island refuge
serves as an important nesting area for
egrets, herons, swallows, warblers and a
host of other birds. The refuge is an ex-
ceptionally primitive landscape compared
to the intensive land uses found along
most of the Lake Erie shore.
(9) Chamisso National Wildlife Ref-
uge, Alaska-455 acres. Located in Kot-
zebue Sound, this island group contains
the largest marine bird nesting colony in
northwestern Alaska. During annual mi-
grations, the birds raised in this refuge
contribute significantly to the abundance
and variety of bird life along the coasts
of Alaska, Washington, Oregon and
California.
(10) Farallon National Wildlife Ref-
uge, California-141 acres. These islands
comprise an important sea bird rookery,
hosting some 150,000 to 200,000 birds
each
summer—including the largest
colony complex of cormorants in Cali-
fornia. Sea lions also inhabit the area.
(11) Izembek National Wildlife
Range and Aleutian Islands National
Wildlife Refuge, Alaska-301,451 acres.
The tremendous natural biological pro-
ductivity of this area supports a diverse
array of wildlife; it is best known for its
use by millions of waterbirds, its unique
mammalian fauna and its outstanding
salmon spawning waters.
(12) Cedar Breaks National Monu-
ment, Utah-4,370 acres. Situated on the
high Markagunt Plateau of southern
Utah, this monument includes a gigantic
eroded natural amphitheater whose steep
walls time has carved into fantastic
shapes of many colors. Subalpine mead-
ows and forests also add to the beauty of
the area.
(13) Capitol Reef National Monu-
ment, Utah-23,054 acres. This monu-
ment provides a striking example of the
Waterspocket Fold, a great doubling up
of the earth's crust. Its spectacular fea-
tures include a great cliff of brilliantly
colored rock layers and dome-like peaks
of gray and white sandstone.
(14) Arches National Monument,
Utah-15,703 acres. Carved from the
Jurassic sandstones of the Colorado Pla-
teau, the monument exhibits many no-
table examples of towers, fins, and deep
canyons, and 89 natural rock arches.
In addition to these new proposals, I
will also recommend an expansion of the
still unenacted Okefenokee National
Wildlife Refuge wilderness proposal from
319,000 acres to approximately 347,000
acres. This vast swampland, located in
Georgia, was originally proposed to the
goth Congress. Its designation as a wilder-
ness area would augur well for the con-
tinued existence of the nearly 400 species
591
