[356] Nov. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
eventually are going to have success in
getting our prisoners back.
Q. So there has been no progress,
either publicly or privately, on the ques-
tion of getting the release of our prisoners?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not want to give
any false encouragement to those who are
the next of kin or who are close relatives
of our prisoners. I can only say, however,
that we, on our part, have taken initiatives
on a number of fronts here. So the pos-
sibility of progress in the future is there.
As far as the enemy's position is con-
cerned, it is still intransigent.
through Cambodia into South Vietnam-
if we see that, we will have to not only
continue our airstrikes; we will have to
step them up.
That is why I have been quite cate-
gorical with regard to that situation, be-
cause as the number of our forces goes
down, their danger increases, and we are
not going to allow the enemy to pounce
on them by reason of our failure to use
airpower against increased infiltration, if
it occurs.
USE OF AMERICAN AIRPOWER
[9.] Q. Mr. President, with the con-
ditions that you know now in Vietnam
and Southeast Asia, can you foresee in the
near future a substantial diminution of
American airpower use in support of the
Vietnamese?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, airpower, of
course, as far as our use of it is concerned,
will continue to be used longer than our
ground forces, due to the fact that train-
ing Vietnamese to handle the aircraft
takes the longest lead time, as we know.
And we will continue to use it in support
of the South Vietnamese until there is a
negotiated settlement or, looking further
down the road, until the South Viet-
namese have developed the capability to
handle the situation themselves.
As far as our airpower is concerned, let
me also say this: As we reduce the num-
ber of our forces, it is particularly impor-
tant for us to continue our airstrikes on
the infiltration routes. If we see any sub-
stantial step-up in infiltration in the
passes, for example, which lead from
North Vietnam into Laos and, of course,
the Laotian trail which comes down
DISCUSSIONS OF INDOCHINA IN PEKING
AND MOSCOW VISITS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, do you expect
to discuss methods, possibly, to help alle-
viate the situation in Indochina in your
visits to Peking and to Moscow?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think it would
be helpful to indicate at this time what
we will discuss with regard to Indochina
when our visits to Peking and Moscow
take place. We are hopeful and continue
to be hopeful that we can make progress
on handling this problem ourselves, and
that it may not have to be a problem that
will have to be discussed in those areas.
Incidentally, I think it would not be
well to speculate as to what, if anything,
either Peking or Moscow can or will do on
this matter. All that I can say is that we
are charting our own course, and we will
find our own way to bring it to a halt.
We will, of course, welcome any assist-
ance, but we are not counting on it from
either source.
CAUSES OF NORTH VIETNAMESE
WEAKNESS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, is it not true
that at this particular point the North
1104
