Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 25 [116]
THE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN
RESOURCES
The price of obsolete organization is
evidenced with special force in those Gov-
ernment programs which are directly
designed to serve individuals and families.
In part this is because there has been so
much new legislation in the human re-
source field in recent decades; the old
machinery is simply overstrained by its
new challenges. But whatever the reasons,
human resource programs comprise one
area in which the Government is singu-
larly ill-equipped to deliver adequate
results.
I have already commented on the
broad dispersion of Federal health and
education activities. Similar examples
abound. Income support programs, in-
cluding those which administer food
stamps, welfare payments, retirement
benefits and other forms of assistance, are
scattered among three departments and
a number of other agencies. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, and the
Office of Economic Opportunity all han-
dle food and nutrition matters. Child care
programs, migrant programs, manpower
programs, and consumer programs often
suffer from similarly divided attention.
In one city, two vocational training cen-
ters were built three blocks apart at about
the same time and for the same purpose,
with money from two different Federal
agencies. And for every case of overatten-
tion, there are many more of neglect. Con-
sider the plight of a poor person who must
go to one office for welfare assistance, to
another for food stamps, to another for
financial counseling, to still another for
legal aid, to a fifth office for employment
assistance, to a sixth place for job train-
ing, and to a number of additional offices
for various kinds of medical help. The
social worker who might guide him
through this maze often works in still
another location.
Such situations are clearly intolerable,
yet the Federal Government—which
ought to be working to reform these con-
fused systems-actually is responsible for
much of the confusion in the first place.
I believe that we can take a major step
toward remedying such problems by estab-
lishing a new Department of Human Re-
sources which would unify major Federal
efforts to assist the development of in-
dividual potential and family well-being.
This Department would be subdivided, in
turn, into three major administrations:
Health, Human Development, and In-
come Security.
This new Department would incorpo-
rate most of the present Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare with the
following significant additions: a num-
ber of food protection, food distribution
and nutrition programs from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the College Housing
program from the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, the independ-
ent Railroad Retirement Board, various
programs from the Office of Economic
Opportunity (including nutrition, health,
family planning, alcoholism, and drug
rehabilitation efforts), and the Manpower
Administration, the Women's Bureau, the
Unemployment Insurance Program and
a number of other employment service
and training activities from the Depart-
ment of Labor.
THE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
One of the first things most students
learn about economics is that the mate-
483
