[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
actions against violations of stand-
ards by private citizens, as in the
new air quality legislation, in order
to bolster State and Federal enforce-
ment efforts.
-I propose that the Administrator be
empowered to require reports by any
person responsible for discharging ef-
fluents covered by water quality
standards.
-I again propose that Federal grants
to State pollution control enforce-
ment agencies be tripled over the
next four years-from $10 million to
$30 million-to assist these agencies
in meeting their expanded pollution
control responsibilities.
Control of Oil Spills
Last May I outlined to the Congress a
number of measures that should be taken
to reduce the risks of pollution from oil
spills. Recent events have underlined the
urgency of action on these proposals. At
the outset of this present Congress I re-
submitted the Ports and Waterways
Safety Act and the legislation requiring
the use of bridge-to-bridge radiotele-
phones for safety of navigation. Such
legislation would have decreased the
chances of the oil spill which occurred as
a result of a tanker collision in San Fran-
cisco Bay.
-I have provided $25 million in next
year's budget for development of
better techniques to prevent and
clean up oil spills and to provide
more effective surveillance. I am
asking the Council on Environmen-
tal Quality in conjunction with the
Department of Transportation and
the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy to review what further measures
can be developed to deal with the
problem.
-I also am renewing my request that
the Senate give its advice and con-
sent on the two new international
conventions on oil spills and the
pending amendments to the 1954
Oil Spills Convention for the Pre-
vention of Pollution of the Sea by
Oil.
The Intergovernmental Maritime Con-
sultative Organization (IMCO) is pres-
ently preparing a convention to establish
an International Compensation Fund to
supplement the 1969 Civil Liability Con-
vention. Our ratification of the 1969 con-
vention will be withheld until this sup-
plementary convention can also be
brought into force because both conven-
tions are part of a comprehensive plan to
provide compensation for damages caused
by oil spills. In addition, we have taken
the initiative in NATO's Committee on
the Challenges of Modern Society and
achieved wide international support for
terminating all intentional discharges of
oil and oily wastes from ships into the
oceans by 1975, if possible, and no later
than the end of this decade. We will con-
tinue to work on this matter to establish
through IMCO an international conven-
tion on this subject.
PESTICIDES
Pesticides have provided important
benefits by protecting man from disease
and increasing his ability to produce food
and fiber. However, the use and misuse of
pesticides has become one of the major
concerns of all who are interested in a
better environment. The decline in num-
bers of several of our bird species is a
130
