[156] May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
huana. Even if the Commission does rec-
ommend that it be legalized, I will not
follow that recommendation.
Now, with regard to the penalties on
marihuana, that is a matter which I do
think is open to a national recommenda-
tion with regard to more uniform stand-
ards. In some States they are extremely
strict, and in other States they are quite
lax. I believe that a penalty in some in-
stance can have a detrimental effect in
achieving our goal. But I do not believe
that legalizing marihuana is in the best
interests of our young people, and I do
not think it is in the best interests of this
country.
LOCKHEED MANAGEMENT
[11.] Q. Mr. President, let me follow
up on this possible action for Lockheed.
It seems a lot of its problems are from
mismanagement in the military sector,
and now these management problems in
the commercial 1011 sector.
Mr. Packard, at the Pentagon, has in-
dicated they could continue operating
these defense programs even if they were
in bankruptcy.
Where are you going to draw the line
about helping these multibillion dollar
corporations that end up in shaky finan-
cial condition because of mismanage-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is rather easy
to belabor a company as big as Lock-
heed-as you know, it is the biggest air-
frame producer in the world-belabor it
for its mismanagement.
There has been a lot of mismanagement
3 David Packard, Deputy Secretary of
Defense.
in military contracts, as you know. In my
view, however, looking at this precise case,
the airbus problem did not come as a re-
sult of Lockheed's mismanagement. It
was because of the failure of Rolls Royce
in Britain.
Under those circumstances, it seems to
me that this particular contract is one
that should be looked at separately. And
I will certainly when I make this deci-
sion next Wednesday,
Wednesday, Tuesday or
Wednesday, whatever day we finally get
together on it-I will have in mind all
these considerations.
But we are not going to damn the whole
company for some areas of mismanage-
ment, for some mistakes. We need a strong
airframe producer like Lockheed in south-
ern California, and if we can save the
company and, frankly, help it toward
better management, we will do so.
THE CALLEY CASE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, to go to the
Calley case for a minute, you said Thurs-
day night that you felt that the military
system of justice in this country was a
fair system. But don't you admit the possi-
bility that your repeated expressions of
sympathy for Lieutenant Calley, and your
decision to review the case, will inevitably
have the consequence of influencing the
judges, the military judges, who are going
to be reviewing this case up the line? And
don't you admit that there is a possibility,
at least, that this would actually thwart
the system of military justice?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I should point
out that what is important is that I am
the final reviewing officer. As far as I am
concerned, I am going to review the case.
I am going to review it fairly, having in
612
