[161] May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
that those who live in American agricul-
ture and work in American agriculture,
you should receive and you will receive
great credit for what you have
contributed.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:08 a.m. in
the Jefferson Auditorium at the Department of
Agriculture. His remarks were broadcast live
on radio.
On May 6, 1971, Dr. Norman E. Borlaug,
winner of the 1970 Nobel Peace Prize for his
role in developing a new wheat strain, joined
with the President in inspecting an exhibit of
the wheat on the South Lawn at the White
House. The exhibit was part of an agricultural
display in conjunction with the "Salute to
Agriculture."
162 Remarks to Reporters After Touring the Proposed
Gateway National Recreation Area in New York
and New Jersey. May 10, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
Secretary Morton will be briefing the
press on the project that I will refer to
very briefly in my remarks this morning.
I first want to say that this is, in my
opinion, one of the most significant steps
that the Federal Government has taken,
in cooperation with the State govern-
ments, on recreation perhaps in this cen-
tury, because it moves in the direction
that all people who have evaluated our
parks and recreation areas believe we
should move, and that is, to bring parks
to the people.
I remember as a young boy what a great
thrill it was for me to go to Yosemite, the
Big Trees, the Grand Canyon, and the
other great parks in the West.
When I moved to New York I remem-
ber a conversation that I had with an
elevator operator in our building. He was
about my age, and he had grown up in
New York. And he spoke of his love of the
outdoors and particularly of the hope
that some day he might be able to visit
some of those parks or parks like them
that I had grown up with in the West.
The point of this remark simply is to
bring home the fact that millions of Amer-
icans today do go to the great national
parks that are all over this country, and
particularly in the western part of the
United States.
But here in the New York area, for ex-
ample, 20 million people live. I would say
that perhaps less than a million have ever
had the opportunity to go to some of those
parks, and less than half of the 20 million
people that live in this area have auto-
mobiles. So what we need to do is to
bring to the 20 million people who live
in this area those recreational opportuni-
ties that they otherwise could not have.
This means not only an area of recrea-
tion-and we have that 23,000 acres, 10
miles of magnificent beach that we have
just flown over-but also the transporta-
tion, mass transit, a ferry, a subway, what-
ever is necessary so that people who do
not have automobiles may be able to come
to these areas.
We discussed a number of other things
on our trip, and I just would mention this
one that I think is particularly important.
There is emphasis in this particular
project on wildlife—and we hear some
of the wildlife, incidentally, in the hangars
today but I pointed out that to get
628
