[195] June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
budget in this field for Fiscal Year 1972.
We hope that work in this promising area
will continue to be expanded as scientific
progress justifies larger scale programs.
-Coal Liquefaction. In addition to its
coal gasification work, the Department of
the Interior has underway a major pilot
plant program directed toward converting
coal into cleaner liquid fuels.
-Magnetohydrodynamic Power Cy-
cles. MHD is a new and more efficient
method of converting coal and other fossil
fuels into electric energy by burning the
fuel and passing the combustion products
through a magnetic field at very high
temperatures. In partnership with the
electric power industry, we have been
working to develop this new system of
electric power generation.
-Underground Electric Transmission.
Objections have been growing to the over-
head placement of high voltage power
lines, especially in areas of scenic beauty
or near centers of population. Again in
cooperation with industry, the Govern-
ment is funding a research program to
develop new and less expensive techniques
for burying high voltage electric transmis-
sion lines.
-Nuclear Reactor Safety and Support-
ing Technology. The general research and
development work for today's commer-
cial nuclear reactors was completed sev-
eral years ago, but we must continue to
fund safety-related efforts in order to en-
sure the continuance of the excellent
safety record in this field. An additional
$3 million has recently been requested for
this purpose to supplement the budget in
Fiscal Year 1972.
-Advanced Reactor Concepts. The
liquid metal fast breeder is the priority
breeder reactor concept under develop-
ment, but the Atomic Energy Commission
is also supporting limited alternate reactor
programs involving gas cooled reactors,
molten salt reactors and light water
breeders.
-Solar Energy. The sun offers an
almost unlimited supply of energy if we
can learn to use it economically. The Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion and the National Science Foundation
are currently re-examining their efforts
in this area and we expect to give greater
attention to solar energy in the future.
The key to meeting our twin goals of
supplying adequate energy and protecting
the environment in the decades ahead will
be a balanced and imaginative research
and development program. I have there-
fore asked my Science Adviser, with the
cooperation of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality and the interested agen-
cies, to make a detailed assessment of all
of the technological opportunities in this
area and to recommend additional proj-
ects which should receive priority
attention.
2. MAKING AVAILABLE THE ENERGY
RESOURCES OF FEDERAL LANDS
Over half of our Nation's remaining oil
and gas resources, about 40 percent of our
coal and uranium, 80 percent of our oil
shale, and some 60 percent of our geo-
thermal energy sources are now located on
Federal lands. Programs to make these
resources available to meet the growing
energy requirements of the Nation are
therefore essential if shortages are to be
averted. Through appropriate leasing pro-
grams, the Government should be able to
recover the fair market value of these
resources, while requiring developers to
comply with requirements that will ade-
quately protect the environment.
To supplement the efforts already un-
708
