Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
out and makes effective speeches. They
get two sticks back with the corset ads.
They never get up there in the front page.
So, I guess you don't advertise corsets
anymore, though.
MR. DEDMON. No.
THE PRESIDENT. That is different.
Nevertheless, I am simply saying this: I
am simply saying that this old game-and
Frank Cormier and Gene Risher have
heard me say this often to the White House
press corps of having the President dis-
agree with his Vice President goes on and
on, but I am an expert at it and I am not
going to get into it. I defend my Vice
President.
[18.] Mr. Chandler.
MR. CHANDLER. Mr. President, could
I ask a followup question on the Vice
President? Do you think seriously, sir, in
his attacks on the press, that they have
been successful in causing any change, in
your opinion, for the better in the press?
In other words, have his attacks been suc-
cessful? Has the press reacted in a posi-
tive way, in your opinion and, if so, how?
THE PRESIDENT. I suppose that is the
dilemma, isn't it, of anyone who dares to
criticize the press or the television, that
if he does he is probably going to get worse
treatment than he thought he was getting
before? Of course, I am being very
guarded, as you noticed.
I will simply say this, Mr. Chandler:
You may recall that back in 1962, immedi-
ately after running for Governor of Cali-
fornia, after I was out of office and had no
visible prospects of success, I had some
things to say about the press. I have had
nothing to say about it since. That's my
answer.
SURVEILLANCE BY GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
[19.] MR. RISHER. Mr. President, I
would like to get back to Mr. Hoover and
the FBI. Is there any credence to the com-
plaints by some Congressmen, as far as
you know, that they are under surveillance
by the FBI?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Risher, let
me answer that question in terms of what
I know, because I checked this personally.
I was in the House, I was in the Senate,
and I am very jealous of the right of Sena-
tors and Congressmen, and every citizen
actually, not to have surveillance when he
is engaged in public activities. Particu-
larly, I can assure you that there is no
question in my mind that Mr. Hoover's
statement that no telephone in the Capitol
has ever been tapped by the FBI is cor-
rect. That is correct.
5
The case you referred to, the Dowdy
case, did not involve the tapping of a
Congressman's telephone.
The second point that I should make
is this: Let's get this whole business of
surveillance and the rest into some per-
spective. First, when we talk about police
states, there are 205 million people in this
country.
Did you know, even the Nation's edi-
tors, sophisticated as you are, that over
the past 2 years there were only 300 taps
by the FBI through court orders?
Do you know what was accomplished
from those taps? There were 900 arrests
and 100 convictions, and particularly con-
victions in the important area of narcotics,
where millions and millions of dollars
worth of narcotics that otherwise would
5 Representative John Dowdy of Texas.
549
