[361] Nov. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion goals will be furthered by the new
program of health manpower education
initiative awards for deserving institu-
tions. These awards will be used to stimu-
late a variety of improvements in the
supply, the distribution, and the efficient
utilization of health manpower. They will
be used, for example, to support more
training in out-of-hospital settings so that
the experience of students in clinical situ-
ations, in outpatient facilities, and in
ambulatory care settings will be broad-
ened. Under this authority, incentives will
also be given to schools of medicine and
dentistry for the training of paramedical
personnel such as dental therapists, nurse
midwives, family health nurses, and pedi-
atric nurse practitioners. In my message
last winter, I described the expanded use
of such allied health personnel as "one of
the most promising ways to expand the
supply of medical care and to reduce its
costs."
The actions I have been discussing to-
day demonstrate the Government's re-
sponse to the challenge of expanding
health manpower. But this response will
mean very little unless our health pro-
fession schools now move forward with
their own strong and aggressive programs
for increasing enrollment, reforming cur-
ricula, reducing the length of training,
and placing more health professionals in
scarcity areas. The Federal Government
will now be providing a much stronger
helping hand. But the central responsi-
bility still lies with health education
schools and those who direct them. The
American people are looking to them to
meet this challenge.
A sound and fair health care system
which meets the needs of the American
people will require the right kinds of
manpower, in the right amount, and in
the right place. With the signing of this
legislation, we have made great strides
toward meeting these requirements. And
further strides will be possible if my re-
quest for supplemental funds is approved
by the Congress.
It is also true, however, that an inte-
grated national health care system entails
more than adequate manpower. We must
now address ourselves in earnest to the
other important elements of the Admin-
istration's national health strategy.
Specific proposals for achieving these
goals have already been submitted to the
Congress, and I hope they, too, will re-
ceive prompt and favorable attention.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8629 and H.R.
8630 are Public Law 92-157 (85 Stat. 431)
and Public Law 92-158 (85 Stat. 465),
respectively.
On the same day, the White House released
two fact sheets and the transcript of a news
briefing on the acts by Dr. Merlin K. DuVal,
Jr., Assistant Secretary for Health and Scien-
tific Affairs, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, and Victor M. Zafra, Budget
Examiner, Office of Management and Budget.
1116
