[292]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Sept. 16
Do you want to take that first?
THE PRESIDENT. No, no. I want to see
what comes later.
Q. The second half is: Can you tell us
your plans?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I am going to
China.
Second, as far as the date of the trip is
concerned, and the agenda, the arrange-
ments, are concerned, all of those will be
announced at an appropriate time.
Beyond that, however, I do not think it
would be helpful at this point to discuss
the date that may be under consideration,
the agenda that may be under considera-
tion, and the rest. All I can say is that the
plans for the trip are going forward on
schedule, and you gentlemen will be the
first to know.
Q. Mr. President, have you decided in
your own mind when you are going?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a mutual de-
cision, and we are working it out in a
satisfactory way. In a case like this, where
two governments are involved, one doesn't
pick a date and another pick a date. It
is not that kind of operation. It is going
very well.
Q. Mr. President, on this China trip,
Premier Chou En-lai has done quite a bit
of talking since you announced your visit
was going to take place, particularly in
his interview with Mr. Reston of the New
York Times. He was quite hard-line and
quite firm on a lot of agenda issues or ob-
vious issues that we all assume are going
to come up.
I would like to ask you (a) to comment
on the fact that he took a hard stand on a
number of things, like two Chinas, like
entrance into the U.N., like the U.S. com-
mitment in Southeast Asia, your reaction
to that hard line; and secondly, did he tell
Mr. Reston anything that was a surprise
or news to you?
THE PRESIDENT. No, there was noth-
ing in the Reston piece that he had not
already told Dr. Kissinger in much
greater detail.
Second, for that reason we were not
surprised at all at the Reston piece. I think
one of the reasons that these talks may
be productive is that Premier Chou En-
lai, both publicly and privately, doesn't
take the usual naive, sentimental idea,
and neither do I, that, well, if we just get
to know each other all of our differences
are going to evaporate.
He recognizes and I recognize that there
are very great differences between the
People's Republic and the United States
of America. He recognizes and I recognize
that at this point it might serve our mutual
interest to discuss those differences.
I reiterate, however, as he has reiter-
ated to us, both privately and then re-
peated in his interview with Mr. Reston
in less detail, that while there are differ-
ences that we must recognize, that we
have agreed to discuss the differences.
That is all that has been agreed. There
are no other conditions.
Now that, in my view, is the proper way
to begin a conference between two coun-
tries that have not had any diplomatic
relations.
TIMING OF TAX ACTION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, do you an-
ticipate the Ways and Means Committee
will approve the tax package before you
unveil Phase 2?
THE PRESIDENT. Did you say do I
think the Ways and Means Committee
will approve it?
956
