[356] Nov. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
before the end of the
year, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. We have made signif-
icant progress in the arms limitation
talks. The progress, for example, with
regard to the hotline and the progress with
regard to accidental war is quite signifi-
cant. Also, we have made significant
progress in the discussions on the limita-
tions on defensive weapons, and we are
beginning to now move into the discus-
sions on offensive weapons.
Whether we are able to reach an agree-
ment by the end of the year, I think, is
highly improbable at this point. I say
highly improbable—not impossible. It
depends on what happens.
Our goal is—and I discussed this at
great length with Mr. Gromyko when he
was here our goal is, enforced at the
highest level, to urge our negotiators to
try to find a common basis for agreement.
But it must be a joint agreement. We can-
not limit defensive weapons first and then
limit offensive weapons. Both must go
together. It will happen.
say
I would this: I believe we are going
to reach an agreement. I believe we will
make considerable progress toward reach-
ing that agreement before the end of the
year. I think reaching the agreement
before the end of the
year is probably not
likely at this time, but great progress will
be made, and I think by the end of the
year we will be able to see then that our
goal can be achieved.
WAGE-PRICE GUIDELINES AND PUBLIC
SUPPORT
[16.] Q. Mr. President, are you satis-
fied with the guidelines laid down by the
Pay Commission and the Price Board,
and are you concerned about the effect of
a likely bulge of increases in wages and
prices after the freeze on public con-
fidence in Phase 2?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the possibility
of some bulge, of course, has always been
there, as you know, and also when I an-
nounced the freeze it was widely specu-
lated that once the freeze was off and once
we then moved to guidelines, that there
would be, therefore, some increase in wage
rates, some increase also in prices. The
freeze could not be kept on indefinitely.
However, I think the decisions of both
the Pay Board and the Price Board have
been very sound. They did not, in some
instances, perhaps, reach the goals that
some would have liked. I think some busi-
nessmen thought that the wage increases
should have been in the neighborhood of
3 to 4 percent. That would have been a
very good thing from their standpoint
perhaps. It would have been totally un-
realistic. It would have broken the Board
wide open.
I think the 5.5 percent is an achievable
goal, and that will be a very substantial
reduction insofar as the wage-price push
for 1971, as compared with 1970, 1969,
and 1968.
As far as prices are concerned, the
guidelines that have been laid down
would cut the rate of inflation approxi-
mately in half. That is real progress.
One other point I should make. I no-
ticed that many of you very properly have
written about the uncertainty with regard
to Phase 2. That is inevitable. It is in-
evitable in any free economy. We can
have total certainty only with total con-
trol of the economy. But with a totalitar-
ian economy we have no freedom as far
as our economy is concerned, and we
would destroy the major advantage the
United States has in its competitive posi-
tion in the world-in other words, the free
1106
