Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 30 [155]
And there are other heroes in this divi-
sion-heroes who received no medals;
heroes who had a kind of heroism that
was not required of your grandfathers
who served in World War I or your
fathers who may have served in World
War II-a kind of service that was special
to Vietnam: building a nation, building
schools and hospitals and clinics, and
helping people, and contributing thou-
sands of dollars of your own funds for
helping the people of Vietnam gain what
you wanted them to gain-the right to
build a nation free from outside control.
So there is no question about the ver-
dict of history so far as your heroism is
concerned.
The question which really remains is
whether this war is ended in a way that
will achieve our goal, and that goal is a
Vietnam with a chance to defend itself
from a Communist takeover.
If we fail to achieve that goal, if we
take the counsel of those who would have
us leave Vietnam, even if it means turn-
ing over the country to the Communists,
then your service and the service of thou-
sands of other Americans, 22 million in
fact, in Vietnam, will have been a failure.
But we are not going to fail. We shall
succeed.
We shall succeed because of your valor.
We shall succeed because of the support
of the American people as they realize
what the stakes are.
And as I stand here today I look back
again over the history of this country. The
marines and other Americans who fought
in World War I thought they were fight-
ing in a war to end wars, and then their
sons fought in World War II.
The marines and other Americans who
fought in World War II, after it ended
and the United Nations was formed,
thought that now at long last we can have
an era of peace. And then their younger
brothers fought in Korea, and their sons
fought in Vietnam.
Now the question is: What happens
after Vietnam? How do we end the war?
What kind of a peace do we want? And
we do want peace.
As I think of peace and as you think of
peace, I think of the hundreds of school-
children who are here today. I think that
the kind of peace we want-and this is
our goal-is just not peace in our time
but peace in their time.
By your service you have done your part
in trying to achieve that kind of peace,
and I pledge to you that in the conduct
of our foreign affairs we shall bring this
war to an end in a way worthy of your
service and the service of other Ameri-
cans to achieve a just and a lasting
peace; to achieve what Americans have
never had in this century: a full genera-
tion of peace.
So proudly today, as Commander in
Chief, as one who was proud to serve with
you and your predecessors in World War
II, I say, America welcomes you home
with pride, and we will not fail you in
winning the peace.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:32 p.m. on
the parade grounds.
John W. Warner was Under Secretary of
the Navy.
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement of the awarding of the Presi-
Idential Unit Citation. The text of the citation
read as follows:
By virtue of the authority vested in me as
President of the United States and as Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the
United States, I have today awarded
603
