Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 22 [367]
The Red Room has just been redecorated.
It is a very famous room. A decorator has
indicated-for those of you who are in-
terested in decorations-I noted in one of
our papers here, that the Red Room to-
day is considered to be the finest room of
its type in the world. Now that is quite a
high compliment to pay to any room in
the United States because, you know, we
are sort of supposed to be behind the
Europeans or the Asians or others in some
areas in this particular thing. So if
you are
interested in that, the Red Room is there
for you to see, and you will be among the
first visitors to have a chance to look at it.
But having said all of these things, we
have enjoyed having you here. We hope
you enjoy your visit to Washington, your
visit through the White House. And now,
let's get that picture so you can have that
to take home.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:59 a.m. at
the South Portico at the White House.
The President had invited the class to the
White House during a conversation with a
member of the class, Andrew Curtis, at the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts on Friday evening, November 19, 1971.
367 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Vienna
Convention on the Law of Treaties. November 22, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the
advice and consent of the Senate to ratifi-
cation, the Vienna Convention on the
Law of Treaties signed for the United
States on April 24, 1970. The Conven-
tion is the outcome of many years of care-
ful preparatory work by the International
Law Commission, followed by a two-
session conference of 110 nations con-
vened under United Nations auspices in
1968 and 1969. The conference was the
sixth in a series called by the General
Assembly of the United Nations for the
purpose of encouraging the progressive
development and codification of interna-
tional law.
The growing importance of treaties in
the orderly conduct of international rela-
tions has made increasingly evident the
need for clear, well-defined, and readily
ascertainable rules of international law
applicable to treaties. I believe that the
codification of treaty law formulated by
representatives of the international com-
munity and embodied in the Vienna Con-
vention meets this need.
The international community as a
whole will surely benefit from the adop-
tion of uniform rules on such subjects as
the conclusion and entry into force of
treaties, their interpretation and applica-
tion, and other technical matters. Even
more significant, however, are the orderly
procedures of the Convention for dealing
with needed adjustments and changes in
treaties, along with its strong reaffirma-
tion of the basic principle pacta sunt
servanda-the rule that treaties are bind-
ing on the parties and must be performed
in good faith. The provisions on judicial
settlement, arbitration and conciliation,
including the possibility that a dispute
concerning a peremptory norm of inter-
national law can be referred to the Inter-
national Court of Justice, should do much
to enhance the stability of treaty relation-
ships throughout the world.
1131
