Richard Nixon, 1971
June 28 [211]
This was in the year 1963. He was talking
about his own life, the fact that he had
led the Free French, kept up the spirit
of France when it was ready to die after
their defeat in World War II, after he
was then repudiated by the French people
and had gone into retirement, then called
back into service as President of France.
Then, and perhaps he was speaking to
me as my mother has spoken to me, he
said something about his favorite quota-
tion from Sophocles, the Greek poet. He
said, "One must wait until the evening
to see how splendid the day has been."
I want all of you in this audience to know
that we want the evening of your lives.
and the evening of all lives of older Amer-
icans to be good evenings, fine evenings.
We want you in the evening of your lives
to be able to look back and say, "How
splendid the day has been."
[At this point, Katherine Pearce, president,
National Retired Teachers Association, pre-
sented to the President a plaque with the in-
scription: In Recognition of Significant and
Valued Contributions to the Enrichment of
Retirement Living. The President then resumed
speaking.]
Thank
you very much, Mrs. Pearce. I
am most grateful for the award. I hope
that what we do, not what we say, will
make us deserving of this award that we
have received here. You have our com-
mitment, certainly, to do everything that
we can to carry out what I tried to out-
line in my remarks today.
Mrs. Pearce, I want to say to you, after
meeting you in the White House and after
hearing you here today, if you had been
my music teacher, I might have been—I
was just thinking I might have been lead-
ing the band, rather than making the
speeches.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:07 a.m. in
the Pick-Congress Hotel.
Fred Faassen was president, American As-
sociation of Retired Persons. Bernard E. Nash
was executive director of the National Retired
Teachers Association and the American As-
sociation of Retired Persons.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
211 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the Food for Peace Program. June 28, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress
the 1970 annual report on agricultural
export activities carried out under Public
Law 480. In a year which saw more than
its share of disasters around the world,
Public Law 480 concessional sales pro-
grams and donations once again reflected
the desire of the people of the United
States to try to help others improve their
own circumstances by improving the agri-
cultural foundation of their economies.
The Public Law 480 program demon-
strated its flexibility in 1970 both by re-
sponding quickly to the immediate needs
of countries in distress, and by using food
assistance to promote long range develop-
ment in developing countries. One impor-
tant example of the program's scope and
success was our aid to victims of the
earthquake in Peru-much of which was
channeled through voluntary relief
agencies.
The Public Law 480 program also pro-
vided increasing benefits to the United
States. Currencies generated by the pro-
783
