[70] Feb. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
this preferential arrangement does not
serve the best interests of either the con-
struction industry or the American public
at a time when wages are under severe
upward pressures. I am therefore using the
authority which the law gives to the Presi-
dent to suspend this provision. The procla-
mation [4031] I am issuing today also
suspends the wage determination provi-
sion of more than 50 other Federal laws
relating to federally involved construction
which incorporate the Davis-Bacon Act. I
am calling upon States and other govern-
mental bodies with similar statutes to take
similar action.
This action is the most appropriate of
the actions which are available to me at
this time. Nevertheless, I make this deci-
sion most reluctantly. It has been my hope
that the problem of excessive and infla-
tionary wage settlements in the construc-
tion industry could be met without such
measures. Yet on several occasions over
the past 2 years I have also made it clear
that I would take whatever further steps
were necessary if the inflationary pattern
did not end.
That pattern has not ended. In fact,
inflation in the construction industry has
grown worse. In 1970, the average con-
tract settlement in the building trades
called for a first year wage increase of 18.3
percent. On the other hand, the average
increase for the first year of new contracts
in manufacturing industries was 8.1 per-
cent-a striking contrast. And in the last
two quarters of 1970, wage settlements in
the construction industry went even fur-
ther out of control; new contract settle-
ments in the last 6 months of the year
called for nearly a 22 percent average first
year increase.
While some might wish to blame man-
agement or labor unions for this inflation-
ary syndrome, we must recognize that, in
fact, they are its victims. I have met with
construction contractors and labor leaders
on a number of occasions-including a
meeting last month. I know that many of
them have been doing their best to find an
answer to this situation. It is evident now,
however, that decisive Government action
is needed to protect the public interest
while labor and management continue
their efforts to attack the causes of this
problem.
Those causes are deep and complex.
They are rooted in the way the construc-
tion industry is organized-and particu-
larly in the highly fragmented nature of its
collective bargaining process. A craft-by-
craft, city-by-city negotiating pattern
makes competition between local unions
for higher wages particularly intense. It
makes strikes on particular projects more
likely since alternative work is often avail-
able nearby. One out of every three wage
negotiations in the building trades now
produces a work stoppage. When these
and other structural factors are combined
with a law like the Davis-Bacon Act
which, in effect, requires employers to
pass on to the Government the cost of high
local settlements, then the inflationary
problem becomes even more acute.
The results of this inflationary situation
are felt in every part of our society. As con-
struction costs go up, so does the price for
buying or renting new homes and apart-
ments. Because the entire economy is af-
fected by rising construction costs, other
prices are driven up also. The taxpayer
bears a particularly heavy burden since
the Government spends so much for con-
struction. The Federal Government alone
plans to spend some $13 billion for con-
struction in fiscal year 1972. A good part
of this spending will come from the de-
200
