[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
measures needed to protect the environ-
ment. A broad international approach is
therefore necessary.
In the United Nations, this country has
joined with most other nations of the
world in preparing for the 1972 Stock-
holm Conference on the Human Environ-
ment, which will consider the whole range
of environmental problems. We are also
participating in discussions on the en-
vironment with such diverse groups as the
United Nations Economic Commission for
Europe (the nations of both Eastern and
Western Europe), the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development
(the developed nations of the Free
World), NATO's new Committee on the
Challenges of Modern Society (our
Atlantic allies), and the Inter-Govern-
mental Maritime Consultative Organiza-
tion (the major shipping nations).
These activities are developing a con-
sensus, reflected last year in the call by
the NATO/CCMS Conference on Oil
Spills for an end to intentional dis-
charges of oil and oily wastes into the
oceans by the middle of this decade. The
Prague Conference, called by the Eco-
nomic Commission for Europe, will play
an important role in promoting East-West
cooperation on environmental problems.
The growing international concern is also
reflected in our bilateral discussions with
countries such as Canada, Japan, France,
Germany, Spain, and Sweden with whom
we have a variety of arrangements on en-
vironment matters.
The vigor of these efforts must increase,
however, for we consider it essential that
the international community take at least
the following measures within the near
future:
-identification of pollutants and other
ecological hazards which are dan-
gerous on a global scale.
-establishment of an effective world
monitoring network to keep track of
these environmental dangers.
-initiation of a global information
system to facilitate exchange of ex-
perience and knowledge about en-
vironment problems.
-establishment of internationally ac-
cepted air and water quality criteria
and standards.
-development of international guide-
lines for the protection of the
environment.
-achievement of comprehensive in-
ternational action programs to pre-
vent further environmental deterio-
ration and to repair the damage
already done.
-development and improvement of
training and education programs to
provide the skilled capability to meet
the environmental challenge.
THE OCEANS
The oceans cover two-thirds of the
earth. Man's use of this common asset is
now undergoing a transformation. New
techniques exist or are being developed
which will lead to a vastly increased ex-
ploitation of the mineral and living re-
sources of the oceans, including the
mineral riches of the world's seabeds.
It is, frankly, not yet clear whether this
fact will prove a boon to mankind. There
is at present, no authority, international
or otherwise, which can ensure the orderly
and rational exploitation of these re-
sources. That fact, plus the vast potential
wealth at stake, gives cause for deep
concern. There is a clear world interest in
this matter, and there is a clear danger
that, unless it is asserted in time, it may
332
