Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 26 [77]
President, Congressman, Senator, Secre-
tary of State, diplomat all over the world
representing his country: My life on earth
is finished, but I am content.
There is a little vignette which tells us
something about this man, which perhaps,
as the John Quincy Adams of today has
already alluded to: the fact that he was
shy, the fact that he perhaps may not
have had the ability to communicate with
people generally that many in political
life are supposed to have, but a man who
had a very warm heart.
Among his antagonists in the House of
Representatives was Alexander Stephens,
a very brilliant man, sometimes bitter,
but extraordinarily eloquent. Lincoln, in
his 2 years, said that Alexander Stephens
made the best 1-hour speech he had ever
heard made in his whole life up to that
time.
Alexander Stephens, as we know, later
went on to be Vice President of the Con-
federacy. But Adams, despite the fact that
he and Stephens were on different sides
of the great issue of slavery, had the abil-
ity to communicate across that chasm of
difference and to retain a friendly
relation.
He also had a capacity to express him-
self perhaps not so well in speeches--and
maybe two speeches in 4 years is enough
for any President, may I say—but an
extraordinary capacity to express himself
sometimes in bits of poetry.
One day after a bitter debate he wrote
a poem and sent it across the aisle to
Alexander Stephens. What Adams said to
Stephens on that occasion I think is worth
reading in this ceremony today:
"We meet as strangers in this hall, but
when our task of duty is done, we blend
the common good of all and melt the
multitude into one.
"As strangers in this hall we met, but
now with one united heart, whate'er of
life awaits us yet, in cordial friendship let
us part."
That Adams legacy is something we
all could well remember today, and for
that and many other reasons we are proud
to have in this house, which belongs to all
of the American people, our house as we
often describe it-which means yours and
ours together-these two portraits.
There is one, incidentally, as you know,
of John Quincy Adams hanging in the
White House, painted at a time when he
was 78 years of age. And this is when he
was 51 as Secretary of State. And, of
course, the first one of the fifth First Lady.
So joining Mrs. Nixon, we express our
appreciation to the Adams family, one
of the really great American families, for
their generosity. And the gratitude of the
Nation goes to them for making it pos-
sible for millions now to walk through
these rooms, to think of the past and, as
they look at these portraits and see this
man, they will think of a man who has
seen more of American history and has
participated more in it, in more capac-
ities, than any President in history.
MRS. NIXON. And now I invite for
refreshments in the State Dining Room
and for a chance to visit with you, too.
you
Thank you for coming. And thanks to
all the Adams family for parting with
their treasures. Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 3:02
p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
353
