[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
was widely welcomed as a step toward
organizing necessary international nego-
tiations. In December, the General
Assembly passed a constructive series of
resolutions on the oceans. Most important
of all, the General Assembly called for an
international conference on the law of the
sea to be held in 1973.
At that Conference, the world will have
an historic opportunity. Resources of
enormous potential value can be placed
under an international authority to be
used for the benefit of all mankind. And
three problems heavy with the possibility
of conflict among nations-differing na-
tional claims to the ocean's surface, the
seabeds, and fishing rights-can
resolved to the benefit of all.
be
We recognize the difficult and complex
issues involved, but we are determined
to make every effort to ensure the suc-
cess of the 1973 Conference. That success
would represent a signal victory for the
world interest, and a convincing demon-
stration of the ability of the world com-
munity to meet its common problems.
already experiencing a population explo-
sion of unprecedented dimensions. We
are, in short, in a rush toward
Malthusian nightmare. That surely is not
our destiny.
Therefore, while respecting fully the
rights, the consciences, and the responsi-
bilities of other nations, we have taken
steps on three fronts to help curtail the
growth of world population. First, in line
with my statement on population in July
of 1969, the United States has embarked
on a major effort to support private de-
cisions that will slow the growth of our
own population. Second, the United
States has given active support to the work
of the United Nations agencies in this
field. We have again pledged to match
contributions from other countries to the
United Nations Fund for Population Ac-
tivities, this time up to a total of $12.5
million for 1971. Third, when it is re-
quested of us, we extend technical and
financial assistance to the family plan-
ning programs of developing nations.
POPULATION CONTROL
One of the greatest threats to the well-
being of mankind is the burden of exces-
sive population growth. If things
continue as they are, this planet, which at
the beginning of the century supported
about 1.6 billion lives, and which now
supports-often inadequately-some 3.7
billion lives, will be called upon to sustain
about 7.5 billion human beings by the end
of this century. Already, there are many
areas of the world where population
growth makes improvements in standards
of living intolerably slow, if not impossi-
ble. And this is most often true where
living standards are lowest. The world is
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AGAINST
CRIME
The need for international cooperation
to solve certain types of criminal prob-
lems has become increasingly clear in
recent years. The explosion in interna-
tional travel and intercourse has had the
unintended effect of greatly reducing the
ability of national societies alone to con-
trol such old criminal activity as the il-
legal narcotics traffic, and such new
criminal forms as hijacking and terrorist
attacks on diplomats.
The Narcotics Problem. Narcotics ad-
diction has been spreading with pandemic
virulence. Although the severity of the
problem varies widely from country to
334
