[132] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
District of Columbia and the Congress of
the United States to share in these exciting
hopes for the years ahead.
The White House
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on
the President's message by John A. Volpe, Sec-
retary, and John P. Olsson, Deputy Under
Secretary, Department of Transportation; and
Richard P. Nathan, Assistant Director, Office of
Management and Budget.
April 7, 1971
133 Message to the Congress
Manpower Report of the
1
To the Congress of the United States:
In a recent special message to the Con-
gress ยน which forms the first part of this
volume, I urged prompt consideration and
enactment of a Manpower Revenue Shar-
ing Act of 1971, a long overdue and fun-
damental reform of the country's man-
power programs.
This second Manpower Report of my
administration provides factual back-
ground for this recommendation. A major
feature of the report recounts the strenu-
ous efforts we have made over the past
two years to coordinate and strengthen
the present multiplicity of manpower pro-
grams. Nevertheless, they remain much
too rigid and narrowly focused to meet
differing and changing local needs. Trans-
fer of responsibility for planning and ad-
ministration to State and local govern-
ments is essential if the programs are to
become adequately responsive to the prob-
lems of local areas and their people.
The report analyzes in depth the criti-
cal employment and manpower utilization
problems of urban labor markets and of
rural areas. Because these problems differ
in nature and intensity from State to State
and community to community, there is
no single, simple national solution. While
job opportunities have expanded more in
1 See Item 86.
Transmitting Annual
President. April 7, 1971
the suburbs, the central cities generally
have not lost jobs and most cities have had
some employment increase. The problem
is that the inner city residents are con-
fronted simultaneously by a number of
obstacles-poor education, lack of skill
training, bias in hiring practices. Over-
coming these multiple, self-reinforcing
barriers to employment is the hard chal-
lenge to imaginative local leadership in
best using shared manpower revenues.
The States face equally challenging
human resources utilization problems in
our rural areas. Continued decline in farm
employment is borne on the wings of ever-
increasing farm productivity. Develop-
ment of employment opportunities in our
rural communities is vital, both to im-
prove the quality of life for rural residents
and to stem the tide of migration to our
already crowded cities.
Another aspect of the labor market
developed analytically in this report is
the effects on employment of government
purchases of goods and services. The shift-
ing "mix" of government buying has
far-reaching implications for the pattern
of employment offered in the job market.
The expected rapid growth in State and
local government services over the decade
of the 1970s offers real opportunity for
improving job prospects for our disadvan-
taged fellow citizens.
520
