Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 17 [293]
attorney general, and he won overwhelm-
ingly for the United States Senate, and
he is going to win a landslide victory again
this year. Now, what would happen on
the national scene is a matter of judgment,
and I am not going to get into that from
a political standpoint.
I do say, however, that I think it is very
important for those of us in positions of
leadership not to tell a large number of
young people in America, whoever they
are, that because of the accident of their
birth they don't have a chance to go to
the top.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press).
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's nineteenth news con-
ference was held at 4:02 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House on Thursday, Sep-
tember 16, 1971.
293 Proclamation 4080, Drug Abuse Prevention
Week, 1971. September 17, 1971
By the President of the United States of
America a Proclamation
"What shall it profit a man," the Bible
asks, "if he shall gain the whole world,
and lose his own soul?" It is a question
which the menace of drug abuse poses
anew to all of us.
What can a nation profit from its abun-
dant good life, if the same technology and
material wealth which have yielded that
abundance permits millions of its people,
particularly its youth, to drift into the
chemical modification of mind and mood
at grave risk to their health-to their
very
lives? What can a nation profit from its
unparalleled individual freedom, if that
liberty becomes license and that license
leads to drug dependence which controls
the bodies and warps the minds of men,
women, children, and even the unborn?
Not so long ago it was easy enough to
regard the tragedy of drug abuse as
"someone else's problem." But recent
years have brought that tragedy home-
often very literally-to all Americans. We
have learned that "drug abuse" refers not
only to the crime-prone heroin addict-
though that is the disease at its deadliest,
with over 1,000 heroin fatalities annually
in New York City. The term also refers to
the suburban housewife dependent on
tranquilizers or diet pills; to the truck
driver over-reliant on pep pills; to the
student leaning on amphetamines to help
him cram for exams; even to pre-teens
sniffing glue.
It has become a problem that touches
each of us. Its manifestations are many
and varied, but all grow from a common
root-psychological and physical needs
unmet through legitimate social chan-
nels-and all feed on a common ignor-
ance-ignorance of the profound harm
the abuser does to himself and society.
Drug abuse is nothing less than a life and
death matter for countless Americans,
and for the moral fiber of this Nation. The
drive to meet this threat must command
from us our very best-our attention, our
energies, our resources and our prayers.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, RICHARD NIXON,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
October 3, 1971, as the second annual
Drug Abuse Prevention Week.
I call upon officials of the Federal
Government under the leadership of the
new Special Action Office for Drug Abuse
959
