Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
considerably ahead of schedule.
Do you think that we can anticipate an
establishment of diplomatic relations with
the People's Republic of China in your
first Administration rather than your
second?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Dedmon, since
you have been so kind to me, I will be
kind to you.
Let the record show-and some of
you
will remember that time I was here in
1968-that Mr. Dedmon was the one that
asked me the question about the People's
Republic of China, or Mainland China if
you want to call it that, and also let the
record show, as you may recall, that at an
editorial conference at the Chicago Sun-
Times last year you asked me the question
again.
The first two times I struck out. The
third time we got a hit. That is all we
can say.
Let me put it all in perspective,
however.
What we have here is the result of a
long process that began in my own
thoughts even before 1968, the spring of
1968, when I answered that question at
this convention. I wrote an article for
Foreign Affairs-as a matter of fact, I
think your question played off of that
article at that time-in which I pointed
out that we could not have what will be
by the end of the century a billion of the
most creative and able people in the world
isolated from the world and that whoever
was President of the United States had to
develop a policy which would bring the
isolation of a billion Chinese from the
rest of the world to an end.
I also pointed out that that was a long-
range goal. The long-range goal of this
Administration and of the next one, what-
ever it may be, must be two things: one,
a normalization of the relations between
the Government of the United States and
the Government of the People's Republic
of China, and two, the ending of the isola-
tion of Mainland China from the world
community.
Those are long-range goals.
Let's begin with what we have done
then. We can't go that far that fast in
one jump. We cannot do it now. I will not
speculate on it now, because it is pre-
mature to talk about either of those
subjects, either recognition or admission
to the U.N.
But I can point to the goal and what
we have done to get toward that goal and
what it can mean to the future.
Over a year ago we relaxed, as you
know, our travel conditions with regard
to going to China, and also we made some
relaxation with regard to trade.
Finally, we had a response from the
Chinese, as you know, last week. Then, on
Wednesday of this week, I announced an
additional relaxation with regard to trade
restrictions and a relaxation with regard
to Chinese who wanted to come to the
United States.
Now it is up to them. If they want to
have trade in these many areas that we
have opened up, we are ready. If they
want to have Chinese come to the United
States, we are ready. We are also ready
for Americans to go there, Americans in
all walks of life.
But it takes two, of course. We have
taken several steps. They have taken one.
We are prepared to take other steps in
the trade field and also with regard to the
exchange field, but each step must be
taken one at a time.
I know that as editors and as reporters,
looking for that, you know, that hot lead
or headline for the morning, this is not a
543
