Richard Nixon, 1971
May 18 [170]
fare recipients to become self-supporting
in the following ways:
-200,000 new public service jobs to
provide valuable work experience to
prepare recipients for regular jobs.
This Administration urged the adop-
tion of such a provision last February.
It is the correct approach to public
service employment.
-Child care for an additional 450,000
children to enable their mothers to
take work and contribute to their
support when appropriate.
-Expanded training programs for an
additional 225,000 persons.
-A "disregard" provision which would
allow the first $720 per year of
earned income in the determination
of welfare payments, thus defraying
the initial cost of going to work. As
earnings rise toward limits tailored to
family size and income, the bill also
allows recipients to retain some of
their added income without a com-
mensurate loss of assistance pay-
ments. It eliminates the old penalty
for going back to work.
As I have said often during the past 2
years, our present welfare system is a
hopeless failure. We can no longer tolerate
a system that penalizes those who work,
fails to control costs and coverage, and
lacks the necessary incentives to encourage
those who are able to work to go to work.
Taxpayers and recipients alike demand a
change. Welfare reform has been one of
my highest priorities since the earliest
days of my Presidency.
This Congress has the opportunity to
enact the most fundamental reform of the
welfare system since its inception in the
dark days of the Great Depression of the
thirties.
I earnestly hope that the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate will follow the
lead of the Committee on Ways and
Means and move promptly to enact this
bill into law.
Much of the discussion over H.R. I has
concerned its welfare provisions. But this
important bill also includes historic re-
forms in the social security system, the
program which undergirds the income of
millions of older Americans. H.R. I
includes:
-Automatic adjustment provisions
which will allow basic payments to
keep pace with the cost of living, thus
protecting our older citizens against
the
ravages of inflation. This has long
been a goal which I have endorsed.
-Increased benefits for widows and
widowers, eliminating an inequity
which now creates a particular hard-
ship on some of our poorer citizens.
-Liberalization of the retirment work-
income test, removing once and for
all the present confiscatory reduction
in benefits for any earnings above
$2,800.
Incentives for recipients of both
Medicare and Medicaid to seek more
comprehensive health care-particu-
larly preventive care-by encourag-
ing the use of health maintenance
organizations.
-Mechanisms to foster greater cost-
consciousness and more efficient utili-
zation of medical services, by increas-
ing the deductible amount in the
supplementary medical insurance
program and by providing for cost-
sharing and for reasonable limita-
tions on Medicaid services.
The committee also added a 5 percent
increase in social security effective in June
of 1972. This increase means that social
security benefits will have risen 33 percent
639
