Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
organizing the moral pressure of world
disapproval and in acknowledging the
general world interest in preventing such
crimes. More is needed, however, and the
United States will continue its efforts to
build a firm international consensus on
this matter.
ASSISTING THE VICTIMS OF DISASTER
Natural and man-made disasters con-
tinue to afflict mankind, and to call forth
from the peoples of the world a generous
and noble response. This compulsion to
help when tragedy befalls others is evi-
dence of the sense of common humanity
which binds us together and which, in
times of stress and great need, transcends
the political and other issues which divide
mankind.
During the past year, the earthquake in
Peru, the typhoon and tidal wave in Paki-
stan, and the civil wars in Nigeria and
Jordan were events which generated this
common instinct to alleviate human
suffering.
Modern technology has greatly affected
both the world's desire and ability to pro-
vide disaster assistance. Modern com-
munications are such that disasters of
scale are known around the world almost
immediately, and in a form which power-
fully arouses the instinct to help. And
modern transportation is such that aid
can be effectively brought to bear in a very
short period of time.
These facts underline the inadequacy
of the present arrangements for coordi-
nating international assistance to disaster
victims. Once disaster strikes, the need for
help is by definition a matter of great
urgency. The local authorities are inevi-
tably too overwhelmed with other tasks to
deal individually with each prospective
donor. Nor is there any reason to expect
that local authorities at the scene of a
disaster will be experienced in dealing
with tragedies of such scale. It is unreal-
istic, in such a situation, to expect of them
the experience or the detachment re-
quired to assess the need quickly and com-
prehensively. They should not be addi-
tionally burdened at such a moment with
the task of drawing up a coordinated pro-
gram for obtaining and distributing what
is needed. Some single authority, in con-
cert with the local government, should
do that, and should also take on the task
of dealing with all those who wish to assist
to ensure that their assistance is in the
most useful form.
The need for such an arrangement is,
I think, clear. The victims of natural
disasters are entitled to it, as are the pri-
vate and government donors whose only
desire is to help but who cannot, individ-
ually, ensure that their efforts have the
maximum utility. The world's ability to
help has been transformed by modern
technology, and it is time that the world
organize its efforts on an international
scale and with the full benefit of the con-
siderable experience which, unhappily, we
have had with such events.
The United Nations General Assem-
bly has indicated its desire to deal with
this problem. Last year it adopted a reso-
lution calling for the Secretary General to
submit recommendations for disaster
relief planning. We welcome this develop-
ment and will cooperate fully with the
appropriate authorities of the UN and
of other countries in the development of
a more rational approach by the world
community to disaster relief. We hope,
before the year is out, to have taken the
modest organizational steps necessary to
insure that the world's response to disaster
337
