Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 14 [140]
visitors from the People's Republic
of China to the United States.
-U.S. currency controls are to be re-
laxed to permit the use of dollars by
the People's Republic of China.
-Restrictions are to be ended on
American oil companies providing
fuel to ships or aircraft proceeding
to and from China except on Chi-
nese-owned or Chinese-chartered
carriers bound to or from North
Vietnam, North Korea, or Cuba.
--U.S. vessels or aircraft may now carry
Chinese cargoes between non-Chi-
nese ports and U.S.-owned foreign
flag carriers may call at Chinese
ports.
-I have asked for a list of items of a
nonstrategic nature which can be
placed under general license for di-
rect export to the People's Republic
of China. Following my review and
approval of specific items on this list,
direct imports of designated items
from China will then also be
authorized.
After due consideration of the results
of these changes in our trade and travel
restrictions, I will consider what addi-
tional steps might be taken.
Implementing regulations will be an-
nounced by the Department of State and
other interested agencies.
NOTE: On June 10, 1971, the White House
released an announcement and the text of a
statement by White House Press Secretary Ron-
ald L. Ziegler on the termination of trade
controls on nonstrategic items for export to
and on imports from the People's Republic of
China. The texts of both are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 7, pp. 890 and 891).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on relaxation
of trade controls by Winthrop G. Brown,
Deputy Assistant Secretary for East Asian and
Pacific Affairs, and Robert B. Wright, Direc-
tor, Office of East-West Trade, Department
of State; and Ernest B. Johnston, Jr., National
Security Council Staff.
140 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Report of the National Endowment for the Arts
and the National Council on the Arts.
April 14, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In recent years, the arts have come to
play an increasingly important role in
American life-and not as the exclusive
province of a few great art centers, but in
the daily lives of thousands of communi-
ties, both large and small, throughout the
country.
This heightened appreciation of the
arts and of America's artists has been an
immensely enriching experience for us all,
both individually and as a Nation. For the
arts are more than a form of entertain-
ment, or a way of filling up leisure hours.
They provide an indispensable means
through which the imagination can be
freed, and through which we can gain
new perceptions and heightened under-
standing. They contribute beauty and
grace to our lives. They inspire us to see
things in new ways. They help us to a
fuller appreciation of the infinite wonder
of man and his world.
The extent to which America's artistic
531
