Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. I [378]
domestic economy while more funda-
mental arrangements are being worked
out to restore sound equilibrium with the
rest of the world.
Improvement of the world trade and
monetary systems has been given a high
priority by this Administration. The
United States stands ready to do its fair
share in international efforts to achieve
these ends. We expect other governments
to respond with a similar sense of re-
sponsibility in the interest of promoting
prosperity and amicable economic rela-
tions throughout the world.
The White House
December 1, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 37-page report is entitled "Fifteenth
Annual Report of the President of the United
States on the Trade Agreements Program-
1970."
378 Remarks to the National 4-H Congress in Chicago,
Illinois. December 1, 1971
Mr. Chairman, all of the distinguished
honorees, and all of those attending this
Golden Anniversary Congress of 4-H:
I want all of you to know what a great
inspiration it is for me to be here, to see
you, to hear you, to see the young people
that represent all of America.
As I was doing a little homework before
coming out here, I found some interesting
things about 4-H. I suppose, like most
people, I had the idea that 4-H was al-
most exclusively an organization with its
interest in agriculture and farming.
4-H was born on the soil. 4-H has its
roots in the soil. But as you know, ap-
proximately 35 percent of your members
are from farm communities and 65 per-
cent of your members are from smaller
towns, larger towns, and even large cities.
Another thing that is very interesting
about this organization is that you are all
winners. I found that out by going into
the background. I knew that I would have
the privilege of presenting these beautiful
silver trays to the six winners that have
been picked from all over the country, but
I understand that everyone who is here, of
the 3,000 attending this meeting, has been
recognized as an achiever or as a winner
in his own community or in his State. I
congratulate a group of winners, the larg-
est group of winners I ever saw, here in
4-H.
Another thing that I found in studying
the background of this organization is that
you come from all the 50 States, and that
insofar as your age group is concerned, it
represents what we generally refer to as
the teens-the lower teens, the middle
teens, and the like.
After reading all of that information, I
had to make a decision about what to talk
about, and, naturally, the first inclination
would be to talk about agriculture. It is an
extremely interesting subject; it is vitally
important. At this particular time in our
Nation's history, it is essential that Amer-
ica continue the great strides we have
made forward in productivity in agricul-
ture. Because while we hear of problems
of competing with nations abroad in terms
of other technologies, in agriculture
America leads the world, and because we
do lead the world, it means that only 5
percent of America's people can produce
enough to feed and clothe all the people of
1145
