Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 12 [329]
Both governments agree, with regard to
a European Security Conference, that it,
like a summit conference, should not be
held unless there are areas where there
can be substantial chances for agreement.
The Secretary of State will have the pri-
mary responsibility, after the Berlin set-
tlement is totally wrapped up, to explore
with our allies, as the Soviet Union will
be exploring with theirs, whether or not
the European Security Conference should
be held, and if it should be held, when it
should be held.
I should also point out, because it does
raise the other question I mentioned in
answer to an earlier question, that our
allies had been informed and that Japan
had been informed. Prior to the visit to
the Soviet Union, there will, of course,
be extensive consultations with our allies
on matters which may affect them. For
example, mutual balanced force reduc-
tions, European Security Conference, and
matters of this sort, if they are to come
up at a summit conference, will, of course,
be discussed with our allies, just as we
expect the Soviet Union to discuss those
matters with their allies.
SOUTH VIETNAMESE ELECTIONS
[16] Q. Now that the South Viet-
namese election returns are official, will
you be sending your congratulations to
the winner, and do you have any com-
ments on those elections?
THE PRESIDENT. On September 16, I
indicated my view about the elections,
and I stand by that view. I believe, that
as the Secretary of State pointed out in
his television appearance Sunday, that we
have to keep this matter in perspective.
We would have preferred, just as we
would prefer in all countries of the world,
a contested election somewhat along the
lines that would meet our standard.
On the other hand, the situation in
South Vietnam has been that they have
made great progress toward representa-
tive government there. They have a very
lively opposition in both the National
Assembly and in the Senate.
As far as President Thieu is concerned,
he is aware of my statement of Septem-
ber 16, and I will be sending a representa-
tive, of course, to his inauguration. Let me
say in that respect that if the United
States followed the practice of not send-
ing representatives to inaugurations unless
the president or the prime minister was
there as a result of a contested election,
we would only have one-third as many
delegations to send, and we wouldn't
want to do that.
MR. KEMPSTER. Thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: President Nixon's twentieth news con-
ference was held at 11:30 a.m. in the Briefing
Room at the White House on Tuesday, Octo-
ber 12, 1971.
329 Remarks About the AFL-CIO Decision To
Participate on the Pay Board.
Ladies and gentlemen:
You earlier have received a statement
from Mr. Ziegler setting forth the posi-
tion of the Administration on the Pay
October 12, 1971
Board and, also, a statement has been
issued by the AFL-CIO Council which
has already been published on the wire.
Since those two statements have been pre-
1037
