[33] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
strategy for peace will-as it must-be
based upon a position of military strength.
The purpose of this strength is to pre-
vent war; and, to this end, we will nego-
tiate with those whose vital interests and
policies conflict with our own.
We are pursuing negotiations on
strategic arms limitations, on Vietnam, on
Berlin, and on the Middle East. These
negotiations are difficult and often slow,
but we have the stamina and commitment
necessary to proceed with patience and
purpose.
As we carry on negotiations, we couple
them with other efforts to achieve the
same goal. The Vietnamization program
is an example, and we are making good
progress. By this spring, our authorized
troop strength will have been cut ap-
proximately in half since the time I took
office, and we will continue to bring
American troops home.
Supporting these efforts, the military
forces of this Nation and its allies will
provide the armed might necessary to
deter aggression or to deal with it effec-
tively where necessary. We expect our
allies to do more in their own behalf, and,
in the spirit of the Nixon doctrine, many
are taking steps in that direction. But we
must also do our share. The kind of part-
nership we seek to forge works both ways.
We have a vital interest in peace and
stability abroad and we plan to maintain
the capabilities necessary to protect that
interest.
Our withdrawals from Vietnam and
the change in our general purpose force
planning and strategy permit a smaller
force structure than in the past. At the
same time, the preoccupation with Viet-
nam has limited our ability to meet some
of our military needs elsewhere, particu-
larly in NATO. We must be certain that
our military forces are combat-ready and
properly equipped to fulfill their role in
our strategy for peace. In addition, we
face formidable Soviet nuclear and con-
ventional forces, including increased
naval forces, and a further rise in the costs
of our military equipment and personnel.
For these reasons, I am recommending
an increase of $6 billion in budget au-
thority for military and military assistance
programs. This Nation has the will and
the resources to meet its vital national
security needs. At a time when we are
urging our allies to do more and when
our potential adversaries may seek mili-
tary advantage, I cannot in good con-
science recommend less.
We often think of military strength pri-
marily in terms of equipment and massive
organizations. While these are important,
attracting and holding able citizens in
the Armed Forces is the key to an effec-
tive and efficient military force. The serv-
ice of Americans in uniform is worthy of
respect, and I am dedicated to the goal
of making all such service voluntary. This
budget, and subsequent legislation which
I will recommend to the Congress, will
make significant progress toward ending
reliance on the draft.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE. Our present
foreign assistance programs were estab-
lished for a world that has long since
changed. I will propose legislation to
adapt them to the conditions of the 1970's.
We must clearly distinguish the varied
purposes of foreign aid-the security of
the United States and friendly nations,
the long-term development of lower in-
come
countries, and humanitarian
needs and make possible a realistic as-
sessment of our progress toward each. In
1972, our assistance programs will:
-promote a strong partnership among
88
