Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 26 [151]
use of talents that are needed in the
Nation's service.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On April 22, 1971, the White House
released an announcement of the appointment
of Barbara H. Franklin as Staff Assistant for
Executive Manpower with emphasis on recruit-
ment of women into the Administration.
151 Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the United States
Chamber of Commerce: "The Right To Be
Confident." April 26, 1971
President Shumway and all of the dele-
gates attending this convention of the
United States Chamber of Commerce,
and your guests:
After that very warm reception and
applause, I should not deliver a speech at
all. I am most grateful for your reception.
On this occasion, I think it is very ap-
propriate for me to address a subject that
I think will be one that is very much in
your minds, not only here in Washington
as you hear the various problems of
gov-
ernment presented to you—the interna-
tional affairs this morning, and yesterday
some matters with regard to domestic
problems but also when you go back to
your home communities. What I want to
discuss, what I have chosen as a subject,
goes to the heart of our system of gov-
ernment, our system of economics, and
our place as a great nation in the world.
The subject is confidence.
When we hear that word used today,
it is usually in relatively narrow terms. If
you read your Sunday supplements, par-
ticularly the financial supplements, you
read a lot about "business confidence."
You read about "consumer confidence" as
reflected in the strong pickup of retail
sales and the surge of the homebuilding
industry, with all that means to the total
economy. And you read a lot about “in-
vestor confidence" as reflected in the
strongest II-month percentage gain in the
stock market in more than three decades.
I hope some of you took my advice to buy
stocks when I said so a year ago.
But consumer confidence and investor
confidence both are vitally important;
and it is good news for every American
that this feeling is in the air today. But
there is another kind of confidence, an-
other kind of confidence I want to talk
to you about today, that is even more
important than these two with which you
are so familiar. It is the confidence that
comes from knowing that the character of
the American people is strong, that the
spirit and will of the United States is
powerful, and that the free economic sys-
tem that supports all we can do for our-
selves and for others around the world is
sound and healthy.
I was just remarking to President
Shumway that just a week ago I addressed
the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion in this which is their great audi-
torium. And as I addressed them and as I
address you today, I think back-as you
must think back-to those early days of
this Republic, and think of how that
American dream has come into reality.
It was just a little less than 200 years
ago that there were only 13 States, three
million people, a poor nation, a weak
nation, and yet a nation whose founders
581
