[82] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
and very brave women waiting at home
with their children, their fathers, and their
mothers.
And tonight we honor three more brave
men.
And at this time, I would like to ask
our three men of Apollo 14 to step to this
stage so that we can make the awards of
the evening, the NASA Distinguished
Service award.
[At this point, the President presented the
NASA Distinguished Service Medal to Lt. Col.
Stuart A. Roosa, USAF. The President then
resumed speaking.]
Major, you are now a lieutenant
colonel-one of the few things a Presi-
dent has any prerogative on, he can
make-Colonel Roosa, would you like to
respond to the award?
LIEUTENANT COLONEL ROOSA. Thank
you, Mr. President, not only for the medal
but also for that promotion. I guess we
have got to talk to Bill 3 about that.
THE PRESIDENT. You have the most
children, too, I notice.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL ROOSA. This is
a great moment for me. I feel particularly
honored to receive this award in the pres-
ence of you people, because it is you peo-
ple-each and every one of you—that
made Apollo 14 the success it was. I thank
you for that.
I also accept this award with humility
and pride-pride in being a crewmember
on 14, and being associated with two
really great individuals, pride in being a
part of NASA, and pride in being a citizen
of this country.
And I feel very humble in being a part
of the spirit that moved our flag from the
3 William A. Anders, Executive Secretary,
National Aeronautics and Space Council, and
former astronaut.
eastern seaboard to the Pacific Ocean and
on to the moon.
Thank you.
[At this point, the President presented the
NASA Distinguished Service Medal to Capt.
Edgar D. Mitchell, USN. The President then
resumed speaking.]
Another promotion, Captain.
It is a good thing it didn't happen on
the module, that's for sure.¹
CAPTAIN MITCHELL. Mr. President, dis-
tinguished guests:
I do feel greatly honored to receive this
medal. It means a great deal to me. How-
ever, if we have been able to increase the
base of scientific knowledge by some small
amount, the engineering and operational
know-how that permits the type of space
travel that the President has spoken of,
and in every way to inspire people of this
country to continue with this effort of
space exploration because of the knowl-
edge that we can gain from it, then that
is adequate reward for me.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President presented the
NASA Distinguished Service Medal to Capt.
Alan B. Shepard, Jr., USN. The President then
resumed speaking.]
I have tested this one.
CAPTAIN SHEPARD. Mr. President, don't
feel so badly about dropping that medal.
It brings to mind an occasion on the 9th of
May, 1961, when I received a similar
medal from a different administration.
The President also dropped that medal.
So, Ed, welcome to the club.
You know, Ed had to go all the way to
the moon to grow that beard. I just sent
to Los Angeles for this.
The President had accidently dropped the
medal as he was about to pin it on Captain
Mitchell.
370
