Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 4 [42]
We also think of another fact. We
realize that while these three striking ex-
amples of public men suffering heart at-
tacks and then coming back to live even
more active lives, while they indicate the
progress that has been made in the treat-
ment of this disease, we also realize that
we have a very long way to go.
I noted, for example, that among deaths
caused by illness, over half result from
cardiovascular ailments. And I noted, for
example, on the other side of the ledger
a rather tragic story over the weekend.
One of the most intelligent young men--
he was a young man certainly by my
standards, and most of us here-a col-
umnist, Geoffrey Drummond, at 40 years
of age, had a heart attack and died. And I
think of that young man and all of the
promise of his life gone, and I think of
what you might do so that the number of
those incidents might be reduced. They
have been reduced over the past. They
can be reduced more, as I understand
from my friend John Lungren ¹ and others
who are expert in this field.
And so, this gives me an opportunity to
pay tribute to this organization and your
colleagues in America and around the
world, who have worked in this field, have
made such a contribution, and to wish
you well in the future.
And second, to emphasize that while in
the State of the Union Message I referred
to a general health initiative and particu-
larly in the field of research, that one of
our major objectives would be a new ef-
fort with regard to cancer, $100 million
initial effort and more, as is necessary, to
provide the research that is needed in that
¹Dr. John C. Lungren, medical adviser to
the President and member of the American Col-
lege of Cardiology.
area, that the fact that we are putting em-
phasis in that area does not mean reduc-
ing the emphasis in the area in which you
are so vitally interested, because if you
look at the figures, or the numbers as they
are referred to usually, you will find that
the amount of funds appropriated, or that
we have asked the Congress to appropri-
ate in the field of research for cardiovascu-
lar ailments, has increased by 16 percent
over 1970.
And so we will continue to have gov-
ernment support, where government sup-
port is proper, for the research that is so
important to the success of your life's
work.
And then, finally, on a broader land-
scape, may I speak very briefly about a
great debate that is now beginning in
America. It will go on throughout this
year and decisions will be made that will
affect your lives, it will affect the lives
and the health of all the American peo-
ple, and I refer, of course, to the debate
about what we should do with regard to
health care programs generally.
Honest men in the House and the Sen-
ate disagree as to what is the best ap-
proach. All agree that we should find bet-
ter methods to see that all individuals who
need medical care have an opportunity to
obtain it.
However, I think also those who look
beyond the demand side of the ledger and
look to the supply problem also realize
that it really doesn't make much sense
to provide the ability for every individual
to go to a doctor when he is ill if the doc-
tor isn't able or isn't there or is actually
not really capable, in terms of medical
proficiency, to deal with the problem.
What I am saying very simply is this:
That as we look, as we do now, at how
we do a better job with regard to the
III
