[154] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
We also offered, as you know, to have
inspection of our camps, not just by the
International Red Cross but by a third
country or any other international
organization.
Ambassador Bruce puts the prisoner
question by my direct orders at the highest
priority. He is directed to discuss it sep-
arately, to discuss it with other issues, or
discuss it as part of an overall settlement.
We are ready to settle it whenever they are
ready to talk about it. And I will say
finally, that under no circumstances will
our withdrawal programs abandon our
POW's. We will be there as long as they
have any prisoners in North Vietnam.
THE CALLEY CASE
[6.] Mr. Jarriel [Tom Jarriel, ABC
News].
Q. Mr. President, you have said that
you intervened in the Calley case in the
national interest. I wonder if you could
define for us in greater detail how you
feel the court-martial verdict endan-
gered the national interest and how
you
feel it was served by your intervention in
the case?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Jarriel, to
comment upon the Calley case, on its
merits, at a time when it is up for appeal
would not be a proper thing for me to
do, because, as you also know, I have in-
dicated that I would review the case at an
appropriate time in my capacity as the
final reviewing officer.
In my view, my intervention in the
Calley case was proper for two reasons:
One, because I felt that Captain [Lieu-
tenant] Calley should not be sent to Leav-
enworth Prison while waiting for the
months and maybe a year or so that ap-
peal would take. I thought that he should
be confined to quarters. I think that was
proper to do in view of the fact that under
civil cases where we have criminal cases,
we grant the right of bail to people that
are charged with crimes.
Second, I felt that it was proper for
me to indicate that I would review the
case, because there was great concern
expressed throughout the country as to
whether or not this was a case involving,
as it did, so many complex factors, in
which Captain [Lieutenant] Calley was
going to get a fair trial.
I believe that the system of military
justice is a fair system. But as part of
that system is the right of the President
to review, I am exercising that right. And
I think that reassured the country and
that is one of the reasons that the country
has cooled down on this case. I will re-
view it.
COURT DECISION ON BUSING
[7] Q. Mr. President, you have often
said that in the area of civil rights that
the law should be applied equally in the
North and in the South. Ten days ago
the Supreme Court approved the manda-
tory use of busing to overcome racial
segregation. Do you endorse that decision,
and do you believe that busing should be
used as a technique to overcome racial
segregation based on housing patterns
in the North?
THE PRESIDENT. This problem in-
volves some very technical legal distinc-
tions. I will not go into them in detail.
I will, however, say this: I expressed
views with regard to my opposition to
busing for the purpose of achieving racial
balance and in support of the neighbor-
hood school in my statement of March
of last year. I stated those views at that
596
