[235] July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
removal of existing barriers to the free
movement of private capital may not
entirely meet local needs.
I strongly believe that it would be bet-
ter to establish a series of State and local
special credit institutions than to create
a nationwide federally sponsored com-
munity bank, since the former course
places responsibility for decision making
and action closer to the people who re-
quire assistance—and is more likely to
produce decisions which are truly respon-
sive to their needs.
This report also highlights the problems
caused by the excessive proliferation and
fragmentation of Federal assistance pro-
grams. Too often, the result has been an
uncoordinated and piecemeal approach
to rural development. Merely to increase
the level of rural assistance without mak-
ing basic reforms in the delivery systems
will not enable us to solve the problems
of rural communities.
This is why it is so important that my
proposals for reorganizing the executive
branch be enacted by the Congress. For
only a thoroughgoing restructuring of the
organizational framework can bring about
a true consolidation and coordination of
numerous Federal programs and with it
the more effective and efficient delivery of
Federal assistance. The proposed new De-
partments of Community Development
and Economic Affairs would have par-
ticular responsibility in the rural devel-
opment area.
As the report indicates, many families
are presently excluded from eligibility for
Federal credit assistance because of their
low income. Traditional development
programs can do little to give them the
direct aid they need. This is another rea-
son why I believe so strongly that my
proposed family assistance program could
have a major impact on the quality of
life in rural America. Not only would it
immediately help poor families raise their
standard of living, but it would also en-
able many of them to take advantage of
Federal credit assistance which is presently
beyond their reach. Coupled with more
effective delivery of federally assisted
housing services, the family assistance plan
would permit great strides in improving
the quality of rural housing.
The problems of agricultural credit and
farm debt are also taken up in this report.
While the credit requirements of com-
mercial farmers appear to have been
adequately funded during the last 20
years-primarily by private lenders-the
recent trend of increasing farm debt is
likely to continue throughout this decade.
Fortunately, the federally sponsored farm
credit lending institutions-which are
now entirely member-owned-have been
playing an increasing role in meeting the
credit needs of farmers. If private lenders
and the Farm Credit System continue to
expand their credit assistance at the same
rate as during the 1960's, there should be
adequate credit available to meet the
needs of commercial agriculture during
the 1970's.
For those farmers who are unable to
qualify for credit from private lenders
and the Farm Credit System, recently
strengthened Federal credit programs ad-
ministered by the Farmers Home Admin-
istration are available to meet additional
needs. In my “Salute to Agriculture”
speech this past May, I announced plans
to increase the farm operating and farm
ownership loan programs by $215 million
over the level originally budgeted for
1972 an increase of nearly 50% in avail-
able loan funds. I pledge that my admin-
istration will continue to be responsive to
824
