[145] Apr. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
family, what we are doing is continuing
with the system that encourages family
disintegration. And that is what the pres-
ent welfare system does.
Let's look at the man out of work, or
one struggling to support his family with
a low-paying job. He sees that his family
can have a higher income on welfare, and
yet he is torn by the knowledge that they
cannot qualify for welfare as long as he
is there in the house-and so what does
he do? He leaves. His children grow up
either entirely without a father, or with
a father who sneaks in and out of the
house one step ahead of the welfare
worker. Now, what conclusion should his
children draw about the morality and the
compassion and the justice of a system
which forces their father to desert them in
order to feed them? This is wrong. It
must be changed. We have got to change
it in this country, and I pledge to you we
will.
What I say now is not news to the
Governors. Virtually all of you that I have
talked to have told me this. But I am
going to reflect it to you, and to those on
television and radio, and those in this dis-
tinguished audience here. These are my
conclusions: The fact is that the welfare
establishment and system in the United
States is a monumental failure. It makes
the taxpayer furious; it makes the welfare
recipient bitter; and it inflicts the distil-
lation of all this anger and bitterness on
the children who will inherit this land. It
is a disgrace to the American spirit.
And now I want to put in context our
welfare program, because it is one that
has been understandably, perhaps, not
understood as well as it could be through-
out the country. First, we do not advo-
cate, and I do not advocate, broadening
welfare. I do not advocate simply refining
the present system.
What I advocate is a fundamental
change of direction. I do not advocate
putting more people on welfare rolls, as
some have contended our program would
do. What I advocate is getting more
people off of welfare rolls. And the way
to get them off is to provide incentives and
disincentives, which will make them get
off, while providing an opportunity for
people to recapture the sense of dignity
that comes with knowing that what you
have, that you have earned. I have been
guided from the outset by that principle,
and I reaffirm my commitment to that
principle now.
Now another point: Is the program
that we have advocated one that provides
for a guaranteed annual income? The
answer is no. And let me make the record
very clear right here and now. I do not
favor a guaranteed annual income. This
program does not provide it. I do believe
in a system which insures that a man is
rewarded for working, and not penalized.
And I think it is a very sensible investment
to insure that that reward is there in order
to keep people safely out of the reach of
welfare.
I advocate a system that will encour-
age people to take work, and that means
whatever work is available. It does not
mean the attitude expressed not long ago
at a hearing—I read about it in the paper
and heard it on television. A lady got up
at a welfare hearing, and she screamed,
"Don't talk to us about any of those
menial jobs.” I am not sure what she con-
siders a menial job, but I have probably
done quite a few in my lifetime. I never
thought they were demeaning.
If a job puts bread on the table, if it
554
