Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 20 [295]
295 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on United States Participation in the United Nations.
September 20, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
It is my pleasure to transmit to the
Congress the 25th annual report of
United States participation in the United
Nations, covering events during calendar
year 1970.
In my address to the United Nations on
the occasion of its 25th anniversary cere-
monies, I said that the United States "will
go the extra mile in doing our best toward
making the United Nations succeed."
This has been true of the United States
ever since the Charter was signed in San
Francisco in 1945, and it will continue to
be the case.
If the United Nations is to succeed, I
believe that we must now work diligently
to make it more effective and more re-
sponsive to the demands of today's world.
It is clear, for instance, that we must
improve the techniques for international
cooperation as well as introduce greater
efficiency in the operations of the UN
system as we conduct more of our foreign
affairs through multinational institutions.
We achieved significant progress last year
in this regard, and we intend to move
rapidly now to accelerate the process.
In July, 1970, I established a Commis-
sion for the Observance of the 25th An-
niversary of the United Nations ยน and
asked it to reappraise the organization's
potential and to make recommendations
which would strengthen the organization
and improve the effectiveness of U.S. par-
ticipation. The thoughtful and compre-
hensive report which the Commission has
1
ยน By Executive Order 11546.
recently submitted 2 will help us form a
fresh view of the capabilities and limita-
tions of the United Nations, and its
recommendations are now being given
careful attention.
Much of what transpired in the United
Nations and its related agencies during
1970 was of direct interest to the United
States. For example, on October 24, 1970,
the UN General Assembly adopted an In-
ternational Development Strategy that
charts an orderly course for multilateral
assistance during the Second Develop-
ment Decade, which began on January 1
of this year. Early in December, 1970, the
Assembly adopted an American-initiated
resolution calling for the humanitarian
treatment of prisoners of war. The Assem-
bly also overwhelmingly endorsed the
establishment of a UN Fund for Drug
Abuse Control, and appealed to members
to join together in seeking the means to
control the spread of drug addiction
throughout the world. And on December
16 the International Civil Aviation Or-
ganization, a specialized agency of the
United Nations, made progress toward
controlling the crime of air piracy by
adopting in The Hague a convention for
the suppression of unlawful seizure of air-
craft. The United States and 49 other
2 On April 26, 1971, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
Commission's report by Henry Cabot Lodge,
Chairman, Francis O. Wilcox, Chairman of
the Working Group, James C. Hagerty, mem-
ber, and Gerard J. Mangone, Executive Di-
rector, President's Commission for the Observ-
ance of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the
United Nations.
961
