Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 24 [114]
are all responsible for the direction this
Nation will take in the century ahead,
for the quality of life we will lead and
our children will lead. We are all respon-
sible, whether we choose to be or not, for
the survival and the success of the Ameri-
can experience and the American dream.
So there is little room for the luxury
of making complaints without making
commitments.
America must enlist the ideals, the en-
ergy, the experience, and the skills of its
people on a larger scale than it ever has
in the past. We must insure that these ef-
forts be used to maximum advantage. We
must insure that the desire to serve be
linked with the opportunity to serve. We
must match the vision of youth with the
wisdom of experience. We must apply the
understanding gained from foreign serv-
ice to domestic needs, and we must ex-
tend what we learn in domestic service
to other nations. And in all these en-
deavors, I believe, we can bring the power
seen from afar to focus clearly on the
problems and the promise of our time.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
March 24, 1971
NOTE: Reorganization Plan 1 of 1971 became
effective on July 1, 1971.
On June 30, the President signed Executive
Order 11603, further implementing the reor-
ganization plan.
A White House announcement of the inten-
tion to nominate Joseph H. Blatchford, Direc-
tor, Peace Corps, as Director of ACTION was
released on July 1 and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 7,
p. 1012). On the same day, the White House
also released the transcript of a news confer-
ence by Mr. Blatchford and Durward B.
Varner, chancellor, University of Nebraska at
Lincoln, on the nomination.
On March 24, the White House released a
fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the reorganization plan by Mr. Blatch-
ford and Carol Khosrovi, Director, VISTA.
113 Telegram Congratulating Reverend Walter E. Fauntroy
on His Election as District of Columbia Delegate to
Congress. March 24, 1971
CONGRATULATIONS on your elec-
tion as Delegate to the Congress from the
District of Columbia. It is my earnest hope
that we will work well together. I assure
you that the Administration will provide
every assistance to you and your office on
matters of mutual interest that will bene-
fit and improve our Nation's great Capital
City. I hope you will attend the meeting
tomorrow afternoon at the White House
of black Members of the Congress. With
best personal regards,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The telegram was posted for the press.
114 Statement About Senate Action Disapproving Funds
for the Supersonic Transport Program.
March 24, 1971
TODAY'S action by the Senate in dis-
approving funds for continued devel-
opment of the supersonic transport
prototypes is both distressing and disap-
471
