Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
-Africa
-The Middle East
-International Economic Policy
EUROPE
"In Europe, our policies embody pre-
cisely the three principles of a durable
peace: partnership, continued strength to
defend our common interests when chal-
lenged, and willingness to negotiate dif-
ferences with adversaries."
U.S. Foreign Policy For The 1970's
Report to the Congress
February 18, 1970
In last year's annual review I stated the
following as the agenda for the future of
our relations with Western Europe:
-the evolution of a mature partner-
ship reflecting the vitality and in-
dependence of Western European
nations.
-the expansion of our cooperation in
facing the common social and human
challenges of modern societies.
-consultation with our NATO allies
on defense strategy and force levels
and on the mutual interests affected
by U.S.-Soviet talks on strategic arms
limitation.
-an understanding with our allies on
our common objectives and respec-
tive roles in seeking a peaceful and
stable order in all of Europe.
This agenda is still with us, for its tasks
are rooted in our fundamental purposes,
and are part of an historical process.
Clearly, if we are to found a structure
of peace on the collaboration of many
nations, our ties with Western Europe
must be its cornerstone. This is not simply
because wars on the continent have en-
gulfed the rest of the world twice in this
century. It is not simply because Europe's
concentration of industrial might is crucial
to the balance of power. Western Europe
is central because its nations are rich in
tradition and experience, strong economi-
cally, and vigorous in diplomacy and cul-
ture; they are in a position to take a major
part in building a world of peace.
THE EVOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP
When the Atlantic Alliance was formed,
we were united in the face of a common
danger. Today, while our concern for
security remains, it is no longer enough
for us to concentrate simply on what we
are trying to prevent; we need a clearer
vision of what we are seeking to achieve.
Our deepest challenges today cannot be
addressed without a new and more posi-
tive sense of common purpose. They arise
from the evolution of our relationship with
each other.
The United States broke with its isola-
tionist history at the precise moment of
Europe's prostration. Our predominance
in the West was a necessity in the after-
math of the Second World War. But to-
day the renewal of Western European
institutions and foreign policies is an ac-
complished fact. Our partnership, once a
vehicle for our underwriting of Europe's
defense and recovery, has grown into a
more balanced, dynamic and complex
coalition.
We welcome this success of our postwar
policies. This Administration does not
view our allies as pieces in an American
Grand Design. We have accepted, for
example, France's desire to maintain an
independent posture in world affairs, and
have strengthened our bilateral relations.
In 1970, two other allies were vigorously
229
