[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
148 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Reform
of the Foreign Assistance Program. April 21, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
On September 15, 1970 I proposed a
major transformation in the foreign as-
sistance program of the United States. My
purpose was to renew and revitalize the
commitment of this Nation to support the
security and development objectives of the
lower income countries, and thereby to
promote some of the most fundamental
objectives of U.S. foreign policy.
Today, I report to you on the progress
of the last seven months in effecting that
transformation and ask the Congress to
join me in taking the next creative step
in our new approach-the reform of
the United States bilateral assistance
program.
To achieve such reform, I am trans-
mitting two bills-the proposed Inter-
national Security Assistance Act and
International Development and Hu-
manitarian Assistance Act-and announc-
ing a number of actions which I intend to
take administratively. Taken together,
they would:
-Distinguish clearly between our secu-
rity, development and humanitarian
assistance programs and create sepa-
rate organizational structures for
each. This would enable us to define
our own objectives more clearly, fix
responsibility for each program, and
assess the progress of each in meeting
its particular objectives.
-Combine our various security assist-
ance efforts (except for those in
Southeast Asia which are now funded
in the Defense budget) into one
coherent program, under the policy
direction of the Department of State.
This would enable security assistance
to play more effectively its critical
role in supporting the Nixon Doctrine
and overall U.S. national security
and foreign policy in the 1970s.
-Create a U.S. International Develop-
ment Corporation and a U.S. Inter-
national Development Institute to re-
place the Agency for International
Development. They would enable us
to reform our bilateral development
assistance program to meet the
changed conditions of the 1970s.
-Provide adequate funding for these
new programs to support essential
U.S. foreign policy objectives in the
years ahead.
THE IMPORTANCE OF FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE
U.S. foreign assistance is central to U.S.
foreign policy in the 1970s in three ways:
First, we must help to strengthen the
defense capabilities and economies of our
friends and allies. This is necessary so that
they can increasingly shoulder their own
responsibilities, so that we can reduce our
direct involvement abroad, and so that
together we can create a workable struc-
ture for world peace. This is an essential
feature of the Nixon Doctrine.
Second, we must assist the lower income
countries in their efforts to achieve eco-
nomic and social development. Such de-
velopment is the overriding objective of
these countries themselves and essential
to the peaceful world order which we seek.
The prospects for a peaceful world will be
greatly enhanced if the two-thirds of
humanity who live in these countries see
hope for adequate food, shelter, educa-
564
