Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 21 [148]
International Development Associa-
tion, the soft-loan affiliate of the
World Bank, which stands at the
center of the network of interna-
tional financial institutions, and I
urge the Congress to approve it.
---We are working with others to help
establish a soft-loan window for the
African Development Bank.
-We will shortly transmit legislation
to authorize U.S. participation in the
system of generalized tariff prefer-
ences for developing countries, and I
urge Congress to approve it.
THE NEW U.S. BILATERAL ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
The next major step is the reform of the
U.S. bilateral assistance program, incor-
porated in the proposed International
Security Assistance Act and International
Development and Humanitarian Assist-
ance Act.
Our new bilateral assistance program
must achieve several objectives. It must:
-Clearly identify our distinct aid ob-
jectives: security assistance, develop-
ment assistance and humanitarian
assistance.
-Be truly responsive to the initiatives
of the lower income countries them-
selves and encourage them to play
the central role in solving their own
security and development problems.
In the area of development assist-
ance, this means working within a
framework set by the international
institutions to the maximum extent
possible.
-Be concentrated in countries of spe-
cial interest to the United States, and
in projects and programs in which
the United States has a special ability
to be of help.
-Recognize the improved economic
capacity of many of the lower income
countries in establishing the terms of
our assistance.
-Assure improved management.
-Reduce substantially the number of
U.S. Government officials operating
our assistance program overseas.
Let me now spell out the details of our
new approach, based on these principles.
SECURITY ASSISTANCE
I have repeatedly stressed the essential
role played by our military and related
forms of assistance in supporting the for-
eign policy of the United States and our
own security interests. The primary pur-
poses of this assistance have been, and will
continue to be, the preservation of peace
through the deterrence of war, and the
support of efforts by allied and friendly
countries to move toward self-sustaining
economic growth and social progress. To
abandon our responsibilities would risk
magnifying the world's instability in the
short run and impairing its peaceful de-
velopment for the longer run, and there-
fore increase the threat to our own se-
curity both now and in the future.
The new course on which we are set,
however, encourages others to take on
greater responsibilities themselves. Our
new security assistance program will seek
to strengthen local defense capabilities
by providing that mix of military and
supporting economic assistance which is
needed to permit friendly foreign coun-
tries to assume additional defense burdens
themselves without causing them undue
political or economic costs. If we are to
567
