Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 13 [332]
should be able to generate some $150
million additional dollars in overall financ-
ing for minority business ventures. More-
over, a number of new MESBICs are now
in the process of formation. At the same
time, the Opportunity Funding Corpora-
tion, which has received $7.4 million from
the Office of Economic Opportunity, is
also developing new projects which will
stimulate minority ownership.
Other promising developments include
new legislation which provides crime in-
surance at reasonable rates to minority
businessmen, new legislation which assures
the availability of surety bonds to minor-
ity contractors, and new regulations which
require affirmative action to increase
minority subcontracting under all Federal
prime contracts and increased minority
business participation in all Federally
financed housing projects.
The Government has also stepped up
the collection and dissemination of infor-
mation critical to the development of
minority enterprise, including the first
census ever taken of minority-owned
businesses. Meanwhile, an Inter-Agency
Committee on Minority Business Enter-
prise has been formed in Washington and
a series of Minority Business Opportunity
Committees have been set up across the
Nation.
Government efforts have also helped
stimulate the private sector to provide
increasing assistance for minority enter-
prise-including resources such as equity
and debt capital, franchise offerings and
other business openings, management
services and technical assistance, and a
range of market opportunities. For ex-
ample, there are nearly three times as
many minority-owned franchises and
more than six times as many minority
auto dealerships today as there were 2
years ago.
THE CHALLENGES WHICH REMAIN
In a wide variety of ways, then, we
have been working to give disadvantaged
groups a greater stake in the American
economy. But, as the Advisory Council on
Minority Enterprise concluded in its re-
cent report, there are still "enormous
economic inequities" which challenge the
will and the resourcefulness of our Nation.
The elimination of those inequities must
be a national objective of high priority in
the 1970s. Accordingly, I am today calling
on the Congress to join with the adminis-
tration in a still more intensive and far-
reaching effort to foster business develop-
ment among minorities.
This program should be guided by sev-
eral important principles. It should be a
comprehensive and pluralistic effort, one
that moves forward on many fronts, since
the barriers to minority enterprise are
varied and numerous. It should also be a
flexible approach, one that maximizes
local control, since local realities are di-
verse and changeable. Our program
should encourage the private sector to join
with Government in creating an economic
environment conducive to the develop-
ment of minority businesses.
Another important principle is that we
should carry out this program without
overpromising or raising false hopes.
There is no automatic road to economic
success for any group in our society. A
sound program which enables more
Americans to share in the rewards of
entrepreneurship will find them sharing
in the risks and the responsibilities of
entrepreneurship as well.
1043
