[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
rial progress of our civilization has re-
sulted in large measure from a growing
division of labor. While a single family
or a single community once provided most
of its own goods and services, it now spe-
cializes in providing only a few, depend-
ing increasingly on a far-flung, intricate
network of other people and other or-
ganizations for its full economic well-
being.
The only way the Federal Government
can deal effectively with such a highly
interdependent economy is by treating a
wide range of economic considerations in
a comprehensive and coordinated man-
ner. And as our Gross National Product
moves beyond the trillion dollar level and
as our productive system, which now ac-
counts for approximately 40 percent of
the world's wealth, encounters new chal-
lenges from other nations-it is becoming
even more important that Federal eco-
nomic policies be carried out as effectively
as possible.
But again, the organization of the Gov-
ernment works against the systematic con-
sideration of economic complexities. The
step by step evolution of our Federal ma-
chinery has created a series of separate
entities-each handling a separate part of
the economic puzzle. Some of these en-
tities are relatively autonomous units
within departments. Others are independ-
ent agencies. But perhaps the most dra-
matic evidence of our fragmented ap-
proach to the economy is the existence
of four major executive departments
which handle highly interdependent eco-
nomic matters: Commerce, Labor, Agri-
culture, and Transportation.
This situation can seriously impair gov-
ernmental efforts to respond effectively to
economic challenges. One department, for
example, may be concerned with the raw
materials a given industry receives from
the farms, while a second department is
concerned with getting these materials to
the factory and getting the product to its
market. Meanwhile, a third department
is concerned with the workers who har-
vest the crops, run the transportation sys-
tems and manufacture the product, while
a fourth department is concerned with
the businessmen who own the plant where
the product is made and the stores where
it is merchandised.
Such a division of responsibility can
also create a great deal of overlap. The
Agriculture Department, for instance,
finds that its interest in agricultural labor
is shared by the Labor Department, its
regard for agricultural enterprise is shared
by the Small Business Administration,
and its concern for providing sufficient
transportation for farm products is shared
by the Department of Transportation.
The Commerce, Labor, and Agriculture
Departments duplicate one another in
collecting economic statistics, yet they use
computers and statistical techniques
which are often incompatible.
It has sometimes been argued that cer-
tain interest groups need a department to
act as their special representative within
the Government. In my view, such an
arrangement serves the best interests of
neither the special group nor the general
public. Little is gained and much can be
lost, for example, by treating our farmers
or our workers or other groups as if they
are independent participants in our eco-
nomic life. Their problems cannot be ade-
quately treated in isolation; their well-
being is intimately related to the way our
entire economy functions.
I would not suggest these reforms if I
thought they would in any way result in
the neglect of farmers, workers, minori-
484
