Richard Nixon, 1971
May 19 [172]
pect that the striking signalmen and all
those who have supported the strike will
immediately return to work. I urge the
representatives of both the railroads and
labor to return to the bargaining table
with a clear view of their obligations to
the Nation so that this dispute can be set-
tled through the process of free collective
bargaining.
It is regrettable that the Congress was
forced to act in this matter under the pres-
sures of an existing strike and mounting
harm to the Nation. This situation under-
scores the need for the Congress to
consider immediately the permanent legis-
lation which I have twice proposed for
resolving such disputes without separate
Congressional action in each instance. A
pattern of repeated strikes and Congres-
sional reaction to them can only impair
free collective bargaining while placing an
unnecessary burden on the Nation.
The legislation which I have signed this
evening demonstrates that the Congress
can act swiftly on matters of grave na-
tional concern. The circumstances which
gave rise to this legislation indicate that
restructuring the legal framework for
labor-management relations in the trans-
portation industry is a matter of very high
national priority. The need for reform in
this area has been evident for some time.
Now it is imperative that Congress take
action to provide permanent, effective
legislation, as I have proposed.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S.J. Res. 100) is
Public Law 92-17 (85 Stat. 39).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the bill and
the need for permanent legislation by James D.
Hodgson, Secretary, and W. J. Usery, Jr.,
Assistant Secretary for Labor-Management Re-
lations, Department of Labor.
172 Letter to Representative Charles C. Diggs, Jr., in
Response to Recommendations of the Congressional
Black Caucus. May 19, 1971
Dear Congressman Diggs:
1
I valued the opportunity to meet with
you and your colleagues of the Congres-
sional Black Caucus ยน on March 25. The
sixty recommendations for governmental
action which you presented to me at that
meeting have served as a framework for
review of the matters we discussed.
The Administration has examined these
recommendations in depth over the past
seven weeks. A fresh assessment of all the
alternatives in each area characterized
this review process, both at the operating
ยน The Congressional Black Caucus included
the 12 black Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the District of Columbia
Delegate to Congress.
department level and then at the White
House. Present policies served as a start-
ing point, but we went beyond these in
attempting to draw our conclusions on
the merits in each case. We found that
your broad goals are largely the same
as those of the Administration, and we
used this review as an occasion for meas-
uring actual results against these goals
and for considering appropriate changes
where results seemed inadequate.
This review, culminating in the prepa-
ration of detailed responses to each of
your proposals, was conducted under the
overall supervision of the Domestic Coun-
cil and the Office of Management and
Budget. At the same time, George Shultz,
641
