Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 22 [25]
school lunches has doubled, the number of our
poor fellow citizens benefiting from food stamps
has tripled. We now have an excellent School
Lunch Act and a Food Stamp Act, which, while
not perfect, is a definite improvement over
what we had before. The F.D.A. and the De-
partment of Agriculture have changed their
regulations so as to facilitate improvement of
the quality of our food supply by industry. In
turn, the leadership of industry has made a
serious start towards putting nutrition at the
forefront of their preoccupations. Voluntary
organizations, particularly the women's organi-
zations and the churches, have been most sup-
portive of these efforts and have often stepped
in when local authorities have been less effec-
tive than they might have been.
I want to assure you that I will do what I
to make sure that the Williamsburg
follow-up meeting takes cognizance of these
achievements, and publicizes the fact that
under your leadership more has been done in
the area of hunger and malnutrition in the past
year than had been done in decades before.
Sincerely yours,
JEAN MAYER
Professor
[The Honorable Richard M. Nixon, President
of the United States, The White House,
Washington, D.C.]
24 Statement on the Death of Senator Richard Brevard
Russell of Georgia. January 21, 1971
WITH the death of Senator Richard Rus-
sell, America mourns the passing of one of
her greatest sons.
A quarter of a century ago, when I first
came to the Congress of the United States,
Richard Russell of Georgia was already
a name that inspired a universal admira-
tion and respect, from legislative adver-
saries and allies alike. He possessed in un-
precedented abundance a rare blend of
courage, character, vision, and ability that
moved him indisputably into the ranks
of those giants who have served in the
United States Senate.
When the security of the United States
was the issue, six American Presidents
leaned upon this great patriot; he never
25
failed them. I am honored to have served
with him briefly in the Senate; I am hon-
ored to have known him as a friend.
The Nation whose security was his con-
stant concern for four decades in the up-
per chamber will be ever in his debt. His
home State of Georgia, which he repre-
sented with such nobility, perseverance,
and skill, can take perpetual pride in his
memory.
NOTE: Senator Russell, 73, died at Walter
Reed General Hospital of respiratory compli-
cations.
He had served in the United States Senate
since 1933, and was chairman of the Committee
on Armed Services 1951-52 and 1955-68, and
chairman of the Committee on Appropriations
1969-71.
Letter About the Formation of Federal
Regional Councils. January 22, 1971
Dear Bob:
As you know, one of my priority aims
is to establish a more effective partnership
between the States and the Federal
Government.
On September 30, 1970, we completed
49
