Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
elsewhere for resources. They now seek:
-continued development assistance,
but with less direction and fewer
restrictions.
-continued foreign investment, but on
terms consistent with their sense of
national dignity.
-more assured access to the markets of
the United States and other indus-
trialized nations.
The problem of tailoring our relations
to new conditions is further complicated
by a difference in perspective.
The United States is a major power
with global responsibilities; our vision is
directed primarily outward, toward build-
ing relationships that can fashion a world-
wide structure of peace. In the Western
Hemisphere, as elsewhere, our focus is on
fostering such relationships and assisting
economic and social development.
Most of the other hemispheric nations
channel their energies primarily inward.
The legitimacy of their governments rests
on their response to the drive of their peo-
ples for a better life. For them the pre-
dominant issues in their relations with us
are the content and style of our economic
relations.
The United States has traditionally re-
sponded to these aspirations. We will con-
tinue to do so, believing that our own
purposes are advanced when other gov-
ernments can meet the needs of their peo-
ples. They can then increasingly direct
their energies outward and contribute to
the continent's constructive and peaceful
change.
UNITED STATES POLICY
In my address to the Inter-American
Press Association on October 31, 1969, I
outlined a new concept of hemisphere
partnership: "experience . . . has taught
us that economic and social development
is not an achievement of one nation's for-
eign policy but something deeply rooted
in each nation's own traditions." I sought
to define a sustained role for the United
States, one that would avoid our previous
fluctuations between arousing unrealistic
expectations and taking our neighbors for
granted. We cannot remake continents
by ourselves. Such a venture would stifle
the initiative and responsibility of other
nations and thus their progress and their
dignity.
The immediate focus of hemispheric
cooperation will be on economic and
social imperatives. But these issues, while
critical, are elements of a broader rela-
tionship between sovereign states. The na-
tions of this region must improve politi-
cal forms of cooperation as well. We must
find ways to settle disputes that bring
common danger and to work together for
common benefit.
Together with our partners, we can
strengthen the political bonds of the inter-
American system to create an environment
truly conducive to economic and social
development. Our similar cultural tradi-
tions, the shared aspirations of our peo-
ples, a lengthy history of common enter-
prises-there is much to draw upon. If we
cannot build partnerships in the relation-
ship with developing nations in this hem-
isphere, then this task will indeed be
formidable elsewhere in the world.
The value of a constructive partnership
is nowhere better illustrated than with our
neighbor, Mexico. In 1970, we jointly
traced the final lines of our common bor-
der. The comprehensive agreement which
President Diaz Ordaz and I reached in
243
