[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
organization of our health care system. We
will take other steps in this direction, in-
cluding stronger efforts to capitalize on
new technological developments.
In recent years medical scientists, en-
gineers, industrialists, and management
experts have developed many new tech-
niques for improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of health care. These ad-
vances include automated devices for
measuring and recording body functions
such as blood flow and the electrical
activity of the heart, for performing
laboratory tests and making the results
readily available to the doctor, and for
reducing the time required to obtain a
patient's medical history. Methods have
also been devised for using computers in
diagnosing diseases, for monitoring and
diagnosing patients from remote locations,
for keeping medical records and generally
for restructuring the layout and adminis-
tration of hospitals and other care centers.
The results of early tests for such tech-
niques have been most promising. If new
developments can be widely implemented,
they can help us deliver more effective,
more efficient care at lower prices.
The hospital and outpatient clinic of
tomorrow may well bear little resemblance
to today's facility. We must make every
effort to see that its full promise is realized.
I am therefore directing the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare to focus
research in the field of health care serv-
ices on new techniques for improving the
productivity of our medical system. The
Department will establish pilot experi-
ments and demonstration projects in this
area, disseminate the results of this work,
and encourage the health industry and the
medical profession to bring such tech-
niques into full and effective use in the
health care centers of the nation.
B. MEETING THE SPECIAL NEEDS OF
SCARCITY AREAS
Americans who live in remote rural
areas or in urban poverty neighborhoods
often have special difficulty obtaining ade-
quate medical care. On the average, there
is now one doctor for every 630 persons in
America. But in over one-third of our
counties the number of doctors per capita
is less than one-third that high. In over
130 counties, comprising over eight per-
cent of our land area, there are no private
doctors at all-and the number of such
counties is growing.
A similar problem exists in our center
cities. In some areas of New York for ex-
ample, there is one private doctor for
every 200 persons but in other areas the
ratio is one to 12,000. Chicago's inner
city neighborhoods have some 1,700 fewer
physicians today than they had ten years
ago.
How can we attract more doctors-and
better facilities-into these scarcity areas?
I propose the following actions:
1. We should encourage Health Main-
tenance Organizations to locate in scar-
city areas. To this end, I propose a $22
million program of direct Federal grants
and loans to help offset the special risks
and special costs which such projects
would entail.
2. When necessary, the Federal Govern-
ment should supplement these efforts by
supporting out-patient clinics in areas
which still are underserved. These units
can build on the experience of the Neigh-
borhood Health Centers experiment
which has now been operating for several
years. These facilities would serve as a
base on which full HMO's--operating un-
der other public or private direction-
could later be established.
176
