[352] Nov. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
my
All of you in this audience know of
great concern about our environment. You
know of the initiatives that this Adminis-
tration has supported to protect the Amer-
ican environment, to preserve it, and to
renew it. We are proud of those initia-
tives. But, my friends, unless we have an
adequate program for defending the
United States, we won't have any environ-
ment to protect. That is what we have to
realize.
And so, in this great decision, to main-
tain our national defense, the purpose is
not because we want war, but because this
is the way that we can maintain the
strength which will lead to the lasting
peace that we all want. That is one chal-
lenge we face.
The challenges in the area of economics
are ones that you, also, are very much
aware of. We find, ironically, again, that
as the danger of war recedes these chal-
lenges greatly increase. For example, you
remember the period immediately after
World War II. At that time the United
States was preeminent in the world. No
one possibly could compete with us. And
yet at that time, when the United States,
with only 7 percent of the world's peo-
ple, produced over 50 percent of the
world's goods, there was perhaps no one
in America that thought that the time
would come when our position of pre-
eminent world leadership, economically,
would seriously be challenged.
Twenty-five years later, look at the
world as it is today. We are still ahead
and we can stay ahead and we shall, in my
opinion, but we are no longer in this com-
petition alone. The great nations of
Europe are joined together in one of the
most powerful economic blocs that the
world has ever seen. We should not resent
it. We should welcome this new, strong
competition.
Japan, which was prostrate after World
War II, has now recovered and is now the
third strongest economic power in the
world and is moving forward in every
area.
The Soviet Union is the second strong-
est economic power in the world. Main-
land China, with 750 million people, is
not a significant economic power today,
but 750 million Chinese, inevitably, over
a period of time will be a significant power
in the world and a significant competitor.
So, as the world opens up, as we have
competition rather than confrontation, it
means that the United States, economi-
cally, must be at its best. It means that
our economy must be strong, productive,
competitive, and free. It means, there-
fore, that what we must develop is a new
prosperity. That is why we need an all-
out campaign to stop inflation in this
country, so that we can have prosperity
without inflation. That is why we need a
program, also, which will produce the
new kind of prosperity that all Americans
want-one in which Americans can enjoy
full employment without war.
It is quite appropriate to mention that
the last time we had that kind of pros-
perity was when President Eisenhower
spoke at this dinner in 1956-15 years ago.
We can have it again. We will have it
again-prosperity without inflation and
prosperity without war.
But if America is to meet this challenge
of competition we must not only have
competitive business, competitive labor,
but we also must have government which
is efficient and competitive and which
speaks to these times and not to the times
10 years, 25 years, or even a century ago.
1094
