Richard Nixon, 1971
July 30 [243]
tened tonight to this program my mem-
ories were carried back through the years
to the games I have read about through
the years. And I have read about all of
those, those which I have not had the op-
portunity to see either on television or in
person and also the games I have seen.
Just to correct the record on a couple of
things-and I would very much hesitate
to try to correct Kyle Rote because he
always has the last word; he is a sports-
caster, you know, and he will get back.
But somebody asked me-Frank Gifford
did a moment ago when I was being in-
terviewed, prior to coming over here, for
a program tomorrow on ABC-as to what
team a President of the United States is
for. And I said he is for whatever team
from whatever town he is in. That means,
of course, if I am in Los Angeles I am for
the Rams, or in Washington, where I pres-
ently live, for the Redskins. But speaking
for the Redskins, and also commenting
upon the Giants because I did live in New
York for a while, Kyle, I saw those Giants
play many times. And anybody who is in
New York City and follows the Giants-
and I was there in the period before the
Jets came along-they did have a great
defensive team with Andy Robustelli, a
magnificent defensive end as has already
been mentioned, but don't say that they
didn't have also a good offensive team.
After all, I remember Y. A. Tittle when he
was throwing passes to Del Shofner and to
Frank Gifford, and Frank Gifford also
running. That was a pretty good offensive
team, don't
don't you think so, Kyle?
We also can remember the Washington
Redskins, and that allows me to comment
on a very great pro who lives here in Can-
ton, Marion Motley. I remember when
we were rooting for the Washington Red-
skins back in the fifties that it always
seemed that the Cleveland Browns had a
great fullback that would tear us to pieces.
You can see I am a partisan-tear us to
pieces. And Marion Motley was that full-
back, year after year after year. Then we
got the good news: Marion Motley was
retiring. Next year will be for us. Then the
next year Jim Brown came along, and he
tore right up the same holes that Marion
Motley used to go through. And we re-
membered that through those years, these
great fullbacks from Cleveland, and they
left memories which I must say were
somewhat envious but also with a great
deal of respect.
I think, too, of the fact that tonight as
I was reading over the various biographies
of the players, that Bruiser Kinard was
referred to as a man who played in the era
when he went both ways. That impressed
me. I couldn't even go one way. But I
think of him and I saw him here tonight
and I shook hands with him. And I
realized he probably could handle an as-
signment on some teams I have seen even
at the present time.
But just let me say this about profes-
sional football before turning to the sub-
ject I particularly think should be touched
upon briefly tonight in the position that I
represent, speaking for all of the Ameri-
cans who are football fans and all who
want to pay their respects to this Hall of
Fame:
We have honored tonight a number of
players and we have also honored a very
great coach, Vince Lombardi. No one
could add to the eloquence of Wellington
Mara.2 We think of Vince Lombardi and
what he meant to his teams in, of course,
2 President and owner of the New York
Giants professional football team, who had
presented the names of Vince Lombardi and
Y. A. Tittle for induction in the Hall of Fame.
835
