Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 21 [337]
conservative. There was a measure of
truth in this, but I would say that both
were constitutionalists.
It is true they disagreed sharply in many
cases. But as I learned, not only from
reading their opinions over the years but
from appearing twice before them and
arguing a case before the Supreme Court,
both were great judges with the brilliant
ability to ask questions that went to the
heart of a matter and then to make a
decision based on their honest interpreta-
tion of the Constitution.
In the debate over the confirmation of
the two individuals I have selected, I
would imagine that it may be charged that
they are conservatives. This is true, but
only in a judicial, not in a political sense.
You will recall, I am sure, that during
my campaign for the Presidency, I
pledged to nominate to the Supreme
Court individuals who shared my judicial
philosophy, which is basically a conserva-
tive philosophy.
Now, let me give you an example of
what that philosophy means.
Twenty-one months ago, Mr. Walter
Lippmann wrote, .. the balance of
power within our society has turned dan-
gerously against the peace forces-
against governors and mayors and legis-
latures, against the police and the
courts." 1 I share this view.
Over the past few years, many cases
have come before the Court involving that
delicate balance between the rights of
society and the rights of defendants ac-
cused of crimes against society. And
honest and dedicated constitutional law-
ยน The President was quoting from one of Mr.
Lippmann's syndicated columns which ap-
peared in the Washington Post of March 11,
1965.
yers have disagreed as to where and how
to maintain that balance.
As a judicial conservative, I believe
some Court decisions have gone too far
in the past in weakening the peace forces
as against the criminal forces in our so-
ciety. In maintaining, as it must be main-
tained, the delicate balance between the
rights of society and defendants accused
of crimes, I believe the peace forces must
not be denied the legal tools they need to
protect the innocent from criminal ele-
ments. And I believe we can strengthen
the hand of the peace forces without
compromising our precious principle that
the rights of individuals accused of crimes
must always be protected.
It is with these criteria in mind that I
have selected the two men whose names I
will send to the Senate tomorrow.
LEWIS F. POWELL, JR.
Everything that Lewis F. Powell has
undertaken he has accomplished with dis-
tinction and honor, both as a lawyer and
as a citizen. Excellence has marked his
career since his days as a student at Wash-
ington and Lee, where he was Phi Beta
Kappa and first in his class at law school.
He has practiced law in Richmond since
1931, except for 4 years of distinguished
service during World War II.
In his unique legal career he has re-
ceived virtually every honor the legal
profession can bestow upon him. He has
been president of the American College of
Trial Lawyers, president of the American
Bar Foundation, president of the Ameri-
can Bar Association. In that latter role he
provided leadership in the provision of
legal services for the needy and for the
revision of the standards for administra-
1055
