Richard Nixon, 1971
[378]
Dec. I
cans. Your generation has the opportunity
to participate more fully in the American
adventure than young people have ever
been able to do since Revolutionary times
200 years ago.
You can remember those days as you
read them in history. How stirring they
were. More than half the population of
America at the beginning were less than
20 years of age. The cause of liberty was
the cause of youth and of age alike. Citi-
zens belonged not to this or that genera-
tion; they belonged to America. Hamilton
in his late teens emerged as the leading
voice for independence in the State of New
York. Jefferson at 33 authored the Decla-
ration of Independence. Sixteen other
patriots in their thirties, three in their
twenties, Franklin at 70, the old man of
the group, joined Jefferson as signers of
the Declaration of Independence.
That was the young America at the
time of our birth. Then, in the course of
two centuries, things changed. They
changed radically. In the 1950's, when
you were born, generational stereotyping
and pigeonholing by age groups became
all too common. Most young people in
those years went intensely and quietly
about the ordinary task of just growing up.
Some of the young in those years, in the
fifties, however, went underground into a
Bohemian subculture. It is obvious now
that older people at that time should have
been asking why, but few bothered to ask
why that was the case. It was so much
easier then just to tag one group as "the
silent generation" and the other "the beat
generation" and just leave it at that.
Then suddenly in the sixties everything
seemed to go to the other extreme. A new
breed of young men and women shook the
Nation. They wrote a record dominated
by remarkable good but also shadowed
with ominous wrong-civil rights laws on
the one side, urban riots on the other;
campus reform and academic anarchy; a
war against aggression in Asia, a war
against the war in the streets of America;
a surge of participation in politics and a
wave of terrorist bombings; a rich new
diversity in life-styles and a grim new
plague of drug abuse-all of these side by
side in that stirring decade of the sixties.
All in all, it was a time when youth
reached vigorously for a new role as full
partners in American society. The result
was monumental, and yet the cost in dis-
ruption and alienation seemed almost
prohibitively high.
Why was the record of the youth move-
ment only mixed in the sixties, when it
should have been magnificent? It was only
mixed because it took the form of an
outside force, rather than of integrated,
individual participation in the larger so-
ciety. It was forced into that form by the
rigid generational walls erected in Ameri-
can attitudes and institutions over the
years. Its frustrations and its excesses arose
in large part from the painful experience
of battering against those walls--an ex-
perience that dramatized the need to
sweep them away once and for all.
And so came the end of the sixties, and
Americans awoke to several important
realizations. They saw that to regard a
person's date of birth as more important
than his own unique individuality is to
indulge in the insidious bigotry called
age-ism. They saw that it is wasteful,
stupid, and unjust to restrict the genera-
tions in a narrow structure in which those
in the middle of life would monopolize the
centers of power, while the young would
plod along in apprenticeship or chafe in
alienation, and the aged would draw so-
cial security, preferably well out of sight.
1147
