[220] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
give them today, in our own lives, and
the love of liberty and equality that we
pass on to our children.
The American Revolution was not
something that happened two centuries
ago; it is something that is happening
today. Behind it is a spirit of adventure,
a spirit of compassion, a spirit of moral
courage the "Spirit of '76." In that
spirit, as President of the United States
in this 195th year of its existence, I de-
clare the 5 years until our 200th anni-
versary to be the Bicentennial Era. In
this Bicentennial Era, let us rededicate
ourselves to the principles set forth by
the men whose faces can be seen in the
magnificent murals in this room-re-
dedicate ourselves to the principles set
down in these documents.
One of those principles is the separa-
tion of powers. So it is fitting that we have
with us tonight leaders of the other two
branches of Government. First, to speak
to you about the meaning and spirit em-
bodied in our Bill of Rights—the Chief
Justice of the United States.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE. Mr. President,
Mr. Speaker, members of the Commission,
fellow Americans:
When we celebrate 200 years of the
Declaration of Independence, in 1976,
we will honor a period in the life of our
country rather than a single historical
event.
July 4, 1776 was a great occasion in
our history and in the history of mankind,
because it was the beginning of 15 years
of startling developments. In that very
brief period-the time it takes for a boy
or a girl, today, to go from primary school
to the third year in college-a handful
of men in our small country, with a popu-
lation of only a few million people at that
time, wrote the Declaration of Independ-
ence, the Constitution, and the Bill of
Rights, and literally shook the world with
a new idea in government.
These three remarkable documents that
we see here tonight gave the oppressed
people everywhere in the world new heart,
and the world has never been quite the
same since that time. These men created a
new form of revolution-one that ebbs
and flows but never ceases, and it never
needs force or violence.
Many of the men who framed these
great charters of liberty were young men.
Thomas Jefferson, the prime author of
the Declaration, was 33; James Madison
was only 25. When the Constitution was
later written at Philadelphia, almost one-
third of the active working delegates to
that Convention were under 35.
But even after the Declaration and
after the Constitution, there was such a
deep concern that the people be pro-
tected from arbitrary actions of govern-
ment, that in 1791 the guarantees of the
Bill of Rights were added to the Consti-
tution. These guarantees made more cer-
tain that the promises of the Declaration
would be fulfilled and that such great
rights as freedom of worship, freedom of
expression, and due process of law could
never be withdrawn from the people with-
out their consent.
These were revolutionary ideas, and
with them we Americans began a very
special kind of revolution. And that revo-
lution has gone on to this very day. Those
who are impatient for change should see
that no nation in all history has ever given
so much power to the people, and no
people have ever used that power more
often and more wisely to improve their
lives and secure their liberties.
Even though this revolution of ours will
soon be 200 years old, it is still youthful
794
