Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 21 [148]
-We help to build firm foundations of
friendship between this Nation and
the peoples of other nations.
pre-
I have seen for myself just how im-
portant is our aid in helping nations
serve their independence, and in helping
men achieve the dignity of productive
labor instead of languishing on crowded
streets. I have seen its importance to chil-
dren whose chances for a rewarding life
have been increased because they have
adequate nutrition, schools and books. It
is right that we, the richest nation in the
world, should provide our share of such
assistance.
And such help, in addition to being
right for its own sake, also creates strong
bonds.
I recognize that whenever an American
firm is nationalized without prompt, fair,
and effective compensation; whenever an
anti-American demonstration takes place;
or whenever a leader of a developing
country criticizes the United States, many
question the effectiveness of our aid.
But the headline reporting the occa-
sional anti-American act overlooks the
many countries which do thank us for
providing them the means to preserve
their own security; and it also overlooks
the countless number of villages where
farmers do appreciate our helping pro-
vide the know-how and the tools neces-
sary to grow larger crops, the school
children who cherish the education our
assistance makes possible, and the people
everywhere who recognize our help in
eliminating disease.
For these people, our aid is a source of
encouragement. And they, not those who
demonstrate or destroy, are the real revo-
lutionaries for they, in quietly attempt-
ing to preserve their independence and
improve their lives, are bringing about a
quiet revolution of peaceful change and
progress. They are working hard to build
the foundations for a better tomorrow and
they recognize that we have helped pro-
vide them with the tools to do the job.
But while such appreciation is gratify-
ing, foreign assistance has a more basic
purpose. Foreign assistance is quite clearly
in our interest as a nation. We are a peo-
ple whose sons have died, and whose great
statesmen have worked, to build a world
order which insures peace and prosperity
for ourselves and for other nations. We are
aware that this world order cannot be sus-
tained if our friends cannot defend them-
selves against aggression, and if two-thirds
of the world's people see the richer third
as indifferent to their needs and insensitive
to their aspirations for a better life. To
these people it is critical that this be a
generation of peace, and our foreign pol-
icy is directed at helping to make it so;
and for the improverished it is equally
important that it be a generation in which
their aspirations for a better life, improved
health conditions, and adequate food sup-
ply can be realized—a generation of de-
velopment, a generation of hope.
Foreign policy is not a one-way street.
It requires that other nations understand
our problems and concerns, but it also
requires that we understand theirs. We
cannot ask the lower income countries of
the world to cooperate with us to solve
the problems which affect our vital inter-
ests unless we cooperate with them to
help solve the problems critical to their
vital interests-the problems affecting
their security and development, and thus
affecting the quality of life of their people.
The legislation I propose today, along
with the corollary administrative actions
577
