Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
is additional help to our exports needed
to balance the aid that other countries like
Japan give to their exporters?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Gerstacker, this
is a subject to which we have given a great
deal of attention through Mr. Peterson's
new council on international economic
affairs which you are probably familiar
with.
First, let me refer to that section of our
new economic policy which directly at-
tacks this problem. We have applied a 10
percent surcharge on imports from
abroad. Now, in applying that surcharge,
however, I have indicated that we must
not look upon it as being a permanent wall
around the United States. A permanent
wall of tariff barriers and of quotas
around the United States would be good
short-term policy and disastrous long-
term policy. It would be bad for the con-
sumers of this country by raising their
prices. It would be bad for the producers
of this country because we would not be
competitive. The United States producer
simply wants an equal shot, an equal
chance.
Now, insofar as removing that sur-
charge is concerned, we are not going to
be belligerent. We are not trying to de-
clare war on the other great trading na-
tions. The United States is proud of the
role it has played over the past 25 years
in proceeding to assist the whole system of
international economic cooperation. But
at this point the nations that were on their
backs 25 years ago, our allies in Europe,
as well as those who were against us, the
Germans, are now on their feet and com-
peting with us.
The same is true of the Japanese in
Asia. We are glad that we helped to make
it possible for them to compete with us.
But at this point it is also essential that
that competition be one where it is fair
for American business, and where their
business people will not have advantages
that we do not have.
Now that means that we need a new
approach to the problem of exchange
rates. We need a new system. The other
one was crisis-prone and that is one of
the reasons why the surcharge will not be
removed until we get action on that front.
It means, also, that we need to reduce
some of those impediments, artificial bar-
riers to American goods abroad. All that
we want there is fair and free trade for
our goods, just as we hope we can provide
fair and free trade for theirs.
We come finally to the basic point: Can
American producers compete with others
in the world without some subsidy? It may
be necessary in some areas that there be
subsidy, and we should consider that. We
have got to see to it that the American
workman, the highest paid workman in
the world, is not driven out of competition
because an unfair advantage is obtained
by a workman abroad who is paid less be-
cause his government subsidizes him and
our Government doesn't subsidize ours. It
is subsidy only in that area that we would
favor, but, generally, the hope of the fu-
ture and the hope of America is in a new
system which will be fair and which will
be free through reducing barriers rather
than to have more artificial barriers.
USE OF HIGHWAY TRUST FUND
[7] Q. Mr. President, the American
Institute of Architects is preparing recom-
mendations for [a] national urbanization
policy which we believe is compatible with
your national growth policy. Central to
971
