[182] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
pened is that as we have grown in cate-
gorical grants, with over 400 major ones
at the present time, this means that the
Congress, the Federal Government, passes
out money, in effect, to the States and
the cities, and the Governors and the
mayors, et cetera, simply become clerks
for the purpose of dispensing it according
to whatever rules are handed down by the
Federal Government.
We want to change that, and as the
briefers have already indicated, we think
this historic change is needed. We think
the people want it. It goes far beyond
simply rescuing the States and cities from
a fiscal crisis. That is not enough reason.
It goes to the heart of the problem of
government in this country, and it is some-
thing that is basically needed if our gov-
ernment is to meet the responsibilities
that it will have to meet in this very com-
petitive and very crucial time in the
last third of this century when the quality
of American government, the quality of
American leadership, and the faith of
the American people in their government
may determine not only our future but the
future of hundreds of millions of other
people on this earth. That I firmly be-
lieve and that is why I consider this so
important.
I come now to another point that per-
haps may seem somewhat-in view of the
rather hard news points that I have tried
to emphasize up to this time-that seem
not as realistic, but which I think in
the final analysis may be even more
important.
If the United States is to play the role
that it needs to play, we need first to have
military strength. We need a strong econ-
omy. We need a government that is re-
sponsive to the peoples' needs, that costs
less, that works better.
But we can have all these and still fail
unless this country develops a new spirit.
I say a new spirit. I am not speaking of
any one individual or one area. I am
speaking of the Nation as a whole-a new
spirit of unity, a new spirit among its
people of confidence in ourselves and faith
in our future.
Now I don't mean to suggest that-
most Americans, I think most, still have
confidence in this country. They believe
in it. They have faith in our future.
We are a confident people by nature. We
are a very idealistic people by nature. We
want to hear good news. We are terribly
depressed by bad news.
That is why it is very difficult for us
to be a world leader. We cannot take the
ups and downs as the great powers of the
past have taken them and ridden them
through.
But at the present time, it is vitally im-
portant that this Nation attain a sense
of unity which can only come from shar-
ing our concerns about our common
ideals. Let me not cover it in detail-that
would take too much time-but simply to
touch upon three or four points very
briefly.
I referred a moment ago to Woodrow
Wilson's remarks when he came to Mobile
in 1913, the year I was born, and he spoke
of the end of imperialism. He said,
"American imperialism in the world," but
I am sure that he believed that. We think
of what has happened since that time, four
wars, and America was in all of them-
World War II, World War I, Korea, and
then Vietnam. And then we look at those
wars and what do we say to our young
people about them, about all of them?
We can argue about whether it was a
mistake to go into any.
My mother and grandmother and my
672
