Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 29 [119]
cumstances, institutions must advance
also, and keep pace with the times."
"Institutions must advance." Jefferson
and his associates saw that point clearly
in the late 18th century, and the fruit of
their vision was a new nation. It is now
for us if our vision matches theirs-to
renew the Government they created and
thus give new life to our common dreams.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
March 25, 1971
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the four proposed
departments.
117 Remarks by Telephone to Workers on the Supersonic
Transport Program. March 25, 1971
I KNOW this is a deeply disheartening
moment for all those of you who have
worked so hard and so long to make the
American SST a reality. And I am sure
that your disappointment is compounded
not only of uncertainty about what it
means for your own personal future, but
also of distress that a project in which you
believed has been turned down by the
Congress.
I share your disappointment, and I
simply want to take this opportunity to
express to you personally my thanks for
all that you have done over the years to
bring this project so close to completion--
and also my determination that the re-
markable combination of skills and talents
your team represents should not be lost to
the Nation.
Each time I fly in Air Force One—a
Boeing plane-I am reminded of the role
Boeing has played in making America the
world's leader in commercial aviation.
Throughout the world, the 707, the 727,
the 737, and now the giant 747 have be-
come symbols of America's leadership. I
am counting on you here at Boeing to
remain a dynamic force in our determined
effort, even in the face of this defeat for
the SST, to maintain that leadership.
The reason I fought so hard to keep the
SST project alive was that I believe
deeply that America must remain in the
vanguard of scientific and technological
progress-the kind of progress your team
represents, and to which you have been
dedicated. Congress action on the SST
has come as a severe blow to us all. But
I am determined that America must and
will continue pushing outward the hori-
zons of the unknown. I am also deter-
mined that we must and will make full
use of the most valuable resource we have
as a nation-the skill, the dedication, and
the imagination of its people, such as you
on the SST team, who have made our ad-
vances possible in the past and on whom
we depend to go forward in the future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to em-
ployees of the Boeing Aircraft Company in
Seattle, Wash., and Wichita, Kans.
489
