Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
victims of poverty, natural disaster,
and political upheaval wherever they
may be.
-development
assistance, which
strengthens our ties with the two-
thirds of the human race in the lower
income countries whose overriding
national objective is economic and
social development.
I therefore proposed to create separate
organizational arrangements for each of
these categories. This would enable us to
fix responsibility and measure achieve-
ment more clearly-in order to end the
confusion in our present approach which
lumps all three purposes together in com-
posite programs. The close relationships
among these three types of assistance
would of course remain important, and
more effective coordination among them
would be a key element in our new
approach.
Our proposed new international secu-
rity assistance program and our humani-
tarian aid efforts are discussed elsewhere
in this report.
Let me explain the thinking behind
our new programs for development assist-
ance here.
Development Programs for the 1970's.
The most important objective of the lower
income countries of Africa, Asia, and
Latin America--where two-thirds of
humanity live-is their economic and
social progress. It is their highest priority.
It is the overriding commitment of most
of their governments. Thus it is a sub-
ject of central importance in our relations
with them. For we cannot expect these
nations to join with us in building a struc-
ture of peaceful relationships unless we
cooperate with them to help solve the
problems which they regard as most criti-
cal to them. Nor can we expect the
changes which will inevitably come in
these countries to be accomplished peace-
fully unless we help them do so.
Our new approach to providing this
development assistance is based on rec-
ognition of major historical changes in the
world.
First of all, many lower income coun-
tries are today ready and able to assume
the primary responsibility for articulating
their own requirements, setting their
priorities, and generating the bulk of the
resources necessary for their own develop-
ment. They are eager to do so; in fact,
they demand the recognition of their right
to do so.
Secondly, while the United States re-
mains the largest single contributor to
international development, the other in-
dustrial nations of the world together
extend more assistance than we do.
Thirdly, international institutions—
such as the World Bank group and the
regional development banks-are now
capable of fusing the efforts of all coun-
tries into a true multilateral partnership
for development.
The new United States assistance pro-
gram will be designed to realize the full
potential of this broader sharing of re-
sponsibility-with the developing coun-
tries themselves, with the other industrial
nations, and with multilateral organiza-
tions. This is a major application of the
Nixon Doctrine.
There are two channels of development
assistance-bilateral and multilateral. I
announced the broad outline of a new
program of foreign assistance in my mes-
sage to the Congress of September 15,
1970. I will submit detailed legislation to
bring about the change. I will recommend
that our bilateral assistance be provided
through three new specialized institutions:
297
