Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
ence in the area, and that a lasting
settlement cannot be achieved unless
the Soviet Union sees it to be in its
interest.
We continue to believe that it is in
the Soviet interest to support a rea-
sonable settlement. The USSR is not,
however, contributing to that end by
providing increasingly large and
dangerous numbers of weapons to
the Arab states, or by building mili-
tary positions for its own purposes.
We are prepared to seek agreement
with the USSR and the other major
powers to limit arms shipments to the
Middle East.
We have not tried to lay down a rigid
order of priorities within this agenda. It
is a fact of international politics, how-
ever, that major issues are related. The
successful resolution of one such issue
cannot help but improve the prospects for
solving other problems. Similarly, aggres-
sive action in one area is bound to exert
a disturbing influence in other areas.
An assessment of U.S.-Soviet relations
at this point in my Administration has to
be mixed. There have been some encour-
aging developments and we welcome
them. We are engaged in a serious dia-
logue in SALT. We have both signed the
treaty to prohibit nuclear weapons from
the seabeds. We have both ratified the
treaty on non-proliferation of nuclear
weapons. We have entered negotiations on
the issue of Berlin. We have taken the
first step toward practical cooperation in
outer space.
On the other hand, certain Soviet ac-
tions in the Middle East, Berlin, and
Cuba are not encouraging. Taken against
a background of intensive and un-
restrained anti-American propaganda,
these actions inevitably suggest that in-
transigence remains a cardinal feature
of the Soviet system.
Yet these events may have provided a
basis for future progress in our relations.
Properly understood, they illustrate the
altogether incommensurate risks inherent
in a policy of confrontation, and the
marginal benefits achievable by it.
Against this background it is an ap-
propriate moment to take stock of our
relations, and to weigh the decisions neces-
sary for further progress.
The Soviet leaders will be reviewing
their own policies and programs in con-
nection with the 24th Congress of their
Party. This report sets forth my own as-
sessment of our relations with the USSR,
and the principles by which we propose
to govern our relations in the future. I
have outlined the factors that make for
common interests and suggested an
agenda of outstanding opportunities:
a more stable military relationship
for the next decade.
-a peaceful settlement of the Middle
East conflict.
—an agreed framework for security in
Europe.
We are under no illusion that these are
easy tasks. But, as I said in
address to
my
the United Nations:
"In the world today we are at a cross-
roads. We can follow the old way, playing
the traditional game of international rela-
tions, but at ever-increasing risk. Everyone
will lose. No one will gain. Or we can take
a new road.
"I invite the leaders of the Soviet Union
to join us in taking that new road...."
307
