[282] Sept. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
get that whenever a nation fails to try to
do the best that it can to be number one,
that nation ceases to be a great nation. Let
that not happen to the United States of
America.
So as we see these planes that are exam-
ples of America's leadership in the world
of aviation in the past, let us not rest on
our laurels, let us not build a great wall
around us and let the rest of the world
pass us by, but let us say, "We will com-
pete; we will be productive; we accept the
challenge of peaceful competition."
And the United States intends, and we
resolve today, that having been first in
aviation from the beginning, we will at-
tempt to be first in aviation for the time to
come. This should be our goal, and one
that we can achieve.
This is a peaceful goal, because the era
into which we are now entering can be a
peaceful one. But in that period, as the
danger of war recedes, the challenge of
competition in the peaceful area increases,
and this will be the test of America:
Whether we--when in a period when we
are rich, when we are strong-whether at
this time we will tend to recede into our-
selves and not accept the challenge which
we have always accepted in the past of
meeting competition and doing the best
that we possibly can to make this a great
and a good nation, to do the best we can
to make this a nation which is the freest
nation in the world, a nation with the
greatest opportunity in the world, a nation
with the best environment in the world, a
nation with the greatest progress in the
world.
All these are American goals, but they
will not be achieved unless we dedicate
ourselves to the spirit that built American
aviation. Let me describe that spirit.
Orville Wright flew with his brother
only once. On that same day that he flew
with his brother, the year 1910, 61 years
ago, he flew with his 82-year-old father
that same afternoon. And the words that
his father spoke as he flew with his son,
Orville Wright, on that afternoon here in
Dayton 61 years ago were simply these:
"Higher. Higher. Higher."
That was the spirit of American avia-
tion. That is the spirit of the American
Air Force. That is the spirit of the people
of Dayton, of the people of Ohio who have
created this great museum which reminds
us of our great past. Let that spirit, higher
and higher, always be the spirit of the
United States of America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:07 p.m. at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
Robert S. Oelman, chairman of the board
of the Air Force Museum Foundation, intro-
duced the President.
283 Statement About the Air Force Museum.
September 3, 1971
EVER SINCE the Wright brothers began
to test their flying machines on this land
in 1904, the site now occupied by the
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base has been
intimately linked with the history of
American aviation. The Wright-Patter-
son Air Force Base is an outstanding sym-
bol of that technological excellence which
has done so much to enhance the quality
of American life and which is so important
to our position as a world leader.
This base is a most appropriate place,
926
