[3] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
guidelines and to recommend legislative
changes to improve the program.
In signing this legislation which pro-
vides comprehensive authority to help
solve a very difficult problem, I must note
that the bill contains some deficiencies
which I believe warrant corrective action
by the Congress. These include needed.
correction in the limits, computation for-
mulas, and safeguards to assure that pay-
ments are fair but not excessive. Early in
the next session, the executive branch will
submit proposals to accomplish such
changes.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1 is Public Law 91-646
(84 Stat. 1894).
4 Memorandum of Disapproval of a Bill To Provide
Special Retirement Benefits to Federal Firefighters.
January 4, 1971
I HAVE withheld my approval from
S. 578, a bill which would provide special
retirement benefits to Federal firefighters.
This bill would enable Federal fire-
fighters to retire earlier than most other
Federal employees, on the grounds that
their duties are especially hazardous.
While I am appreciative of the daily skill,
devotion to duty and courage shown by
these firefighters, I do not believe that this
preferential legislation is wise or justifi-
able. Certain aspects of the enrolled bill
cause me serious concern:
-Federal firefighters already receive
compensation for the hazards of their
work in the form of higher levels of
pay and higher retirement benefits.
-there is no demonstrated need for
permitting Federal firefighters to re-
tire at an earlier than normal age.
Civil Service retirement laws have
limited early retirement only to those
occupations such as law enforcement,
in which there is a unique need to
maintain a young work force. This
is not the case with Federal fire-
fighters who, because they work in a
controlled environment and are ex-
posed to a lower incidence of fires,
do not face the same degree of haz-
ard as employees of municipal fire
departments many of whom are eli-
gible for early retirement.
--the bill would be an unwarranted
extension of an undesirable and in-
equitable practice by providing pref-
erential treatment through the re-
tirement system to one particular
group of employees with hazardous
duties, when there are many other
Federal employees whose occupa-
tions subject them to severe hazards
but who would not be eligible for the
benefits of this legislation.
I believe that barring compelling rea-
sons for divergence, a generally uniform
policy for all Federal retirement pro-
grams is desirable, equitable and just. I
do not feel that in the case of Federal
firefighters such divergence from this
policy is warranted.
Therefore, I am unable to approve
S. 578.
RICHARD NIXON
4
