[151] Apr. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
body's income, we would be undermining
everybody's character.
Of course, a guaranteed annual income
for everybody, regardless of whether an
individual works or is willing to work or
not-that sounds like Utopia. But look
around the world. In those societies where
they say everything is free, there is no
freedom.
The goal of the American system is not
to guarantee everybody a living; it is to
guarantee everybody an opportunity, a
fair chance, to be rewarded for his work.
The American people will not be de-
nied that goal by those who could work
or who could take training, but who pre-
fer to take it easy. This is wrong. It is bad
for them, bad for the country, and it is
especially bad for those who really do need
help. The able-bodied people who think
they can take a free ride are just going to
have to get out and push with the rest
of us.
No job is a menial job if it opens the
door to a lifetime of work and the devel-
opment of self-reliance. In fact, the most
menial job I can think of is the one held
by the able-bodied person who makes a
career out of living off of the hard-earned
dollars of his neighbors.
So I say you can be confident that cer-
tain American values are not going to
change. One of those values is compas-
sion, compassion for the dependent, for
those who cannot care for themselves.
Another of those values is the dignity of
work. The person who takes pride in
working, no matter what work he or she
may be doing, is one of the people who
make America a proud nation. No govern-
ment can give character to its people, but
people can give a government its
character.
There are many visitors in Washington
in this spring season, and particularly
from the high schools and colleges of the
Nation. And in my capacity as President,
I welcome many of them when they come
on tours of the White House.
I particularly recall one group, a group
that I referred to when I addressed the
Governors Conference last week. It was
a group from a high school from what was
described by Senator John Tower of
Texas as the poorest county in Texas-
Rio Grande High School.
I recall these 30 students standing in the
Rose Garden of the White House, and I
found how they got there. This county
was poor in property, but its people were
not poor in spirit, because a year ago,
two-one a boy and one a girl-members
of the junior class decided they wanted
to go to Washington. They didn't go
around and ask the merchants to pony up
the money to send them to Washington.
They didn't ask a foundation to do it.
They didn't ask the school board to pro-
vide it, but they decided to work for it.
And they did any kind of a job—they
washed cars, they mowed lawns, they did
babysitting. As a matter of fact, they had
a little free enterprise. They made
tamales, those little Texas tamales, and
sold them for 75 cents a dozen. I don't
know how much they made in profit, but
that is pretty good.
But in the end there they stood, most
of them Mexican-Americans from the
poorest county in Texas. But as they
stood there in that Rose Garden they had
earned their way, and the pride and the
dignity of those young people gave me a
lot of faith in America. This is a good and
great and strong country when you have
young people like that in America.
As I address this 59th Conference of
the Chamber of Commerce, we naturally
586
