Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 23 [370]
profession, you want to do your best, and
naturally you want to be paid well, and
you should be. But I know, too, that you
would not go out there and take this
punishment and keep giving and giving
and giving unless it was for something else,
too, and Henry Jordan, of course, would
be the first to admit it.
It used to be said that there was spirit
only in the college ranks, and there is a
lot in the college ranks and the high school
ranks, I know. We used to feel awfully bad
when we lost the games and awfully good
when we won them. But there is also a
great spirit in the pro ranks, and that
brings me to my point here:
This team, when it lost to Kansas City,
and when it lost to Dallas, physically you
took a lot of beating and you gave a lot of
beating, but from the standpoint of spirit,
you still had it. You went into the game
with spirit and I noticed right to the last
you still had it at the end. So right at this
time, when you are a half a game behind
Dallas-and let me say the sincerity of my
remarks is proved by the fact that there
are no votes in Washington, there are a
lot in Texas-but you are a half
game be-
hind Dallas, but I will go out on a limb
and predict, and I have been pretty good
in the field of sports, this team is going
to get to the playoffs.
I am not suggesting whether you are
going to do it by winning the division or
whether it is going to be in that wild card
or whatever the case might be. You are
going to get in, and I believe you are going
to get in because I think out of these next
four
games you are going to win three out
of all four, and that will do it.
The reason you are going to do it is
because, first, you are experienced and
you are real pros, you are real great. Sec-
ond, you have got the physical ability.
There is no question about that. I have
watched enough football to know. But
third, and more important, you have got
that ingredient of spirit. You really care.
You want to win, and you are willing to
give everything you can to see that you
come back from a few, two or three, bad
weeks.
I will just put it this way: What really-
and you have heard this; this must sound
like Allen talking to you; but you have
heard this from your college coaches and
your high school coaches, and you hear
it from the rest, but I have always said
that in life, whether it is in the game of
politics where you win some and you lose
some, whether it is in the game of sports
or business, there are a lot more that lose
than win, whatever the case might be—
what really proves that a person or a team
or a country has it is not when it is win-
ning and everybody is with it and every-
body is cheering it on, but when it has lost
one and then it does not lose its spirit, it
comes back, it comes back and goes on to
win. I think this team has got it. I think
you have the spirit. I think that you are
going to go on and be a winner this year.
As far as I am concerned, however, win
or lose in these games, you have already
won for this city because of what you have
done for it, the spirit that you have dis-
played, this great effort that you have
been responsible for through this year.
I will just close it by one other little
reference to history. I follow Allen be-
cause of my old association at Whittier,
and then, of course, when I was in Los
Angeles I was a Ram fan. I am, still,
whenever I am in Los Angeles, I can
assure you except when you come there.
But anyway, I have noted that some of
the sports writers say, "Well, you know,
Allen is a rah-rah guy and he thinks it is
1135
