[313] Sept. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
retary will tell you by indicating the per-
sonal commitment of the President of the
United States. As you can imagine, who-
ever holds the Office of the Presidency
cannot take upon himself all of the vari-
ous assignments that come across his desk.
Much must be delegated.
I want each and every one of you to
know, however, that from the time in the
White House Library, at Christmastime
1969, I met a group of the wives and one
mother of some POW's and missing in
action-from that time, as the Secretary
of Defense can tell you, as the Secretary of
State can tell you, I have considered the
problem of obtaining the release of our
POW's and missing in action as being one
that has Presidential priority.
I can assure you that every negotiating
channel-and now I say something here
that I am sure all of you will understand-
including many private channels that
have not yet been disclosed, have been
pursued, are being pursued, and will be
pursued.
I can assure you that with regard to this
problem, too, that whenever any matter
comes to the attention of the Secretary of
Defense or the Secretary of State, from a
Senator or Congressman or the rest, it is
brought to my desk and we run out the
lead, whatever it may be.
You know the tragedy we have found
so often hopes raised and then dashed,
because we are dealing here with a savage
enemy, one who have no concern for
humanitarian ideals.
But on the other hand, we believe that
it is essential to check every possible lead;
we don't care where it comes from. We are
doing that, I have personally ordered that,
and we will continue to do so. And I
believe that we will eventually succeed in
our goal. That is my commitment that I
make to all of you.
Now, I have delayed your dinner too
long, but I would like to add one other
rather personal note. Many times when I
travel around the country, people-par-
ticularly young people that are in school-
will say, "You know, Mr. President, that
must be a terribly awesome responsibility
to serve as President of the United States."
And people sometimes feel that all of the
great burdens of the world are on the
shoulders of the President and that the
responsibilities are indeed awe inspiring. I
would be less than candid if I were not to
say the responsibilities were heavy.
But let me tell you something: Any day
that I sometimes feel that it has been a
rather hard day, and that I have had to
make some real tough decisions, and that
I haven't had very much support, and
when any time I begin to feel a bit sorry
for myself, I think back to that day just
before Christmas in '69.
I think of airports where children have
come up and said, "My daddy is missing
in action." I think of the wives that I have
seen and the mothers and the rest. I think
of their courage and what they have done
and what they have given for their coun-
try, and then I realize my job isn't all that
hard.
I am just so proud of how great you
have been, and I am not going to let you
down, I can assure you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:15 p.m. to a
dinner meeting of the League in the Statler-
Hilton Hotel.
Carol North was national chairman of the
League.
ΙΟΙΟ
