Richard Nixon, 1971
June 5 [196]
at America over the next 30 years, down
to the year 2000, when some of the
younger people here, in the year 2000, will
be celebrating that millennium, a new
year that comes once in a thousand years.
What is America going to be like? Well,
one of the things that we know is that it is
going to be a lot larger in terms of its peo-
ple. There are likely to be 70 million more
people in America 30 years from now than
there are today.
Now, how are we going to provide for
them? How will we assure to them and
the rest of us the abundance and the qual-
ity of life which we all deserve? And even
more essential, where are they going to
live? Are they going to pour into the cities
of America? Are they going to add to the
crime and the congestion and the pollu-
tion that are choking our cities to death?
Did you know that two-thirds of all the
counties in this part of the country-and
I do not refer to individual counties, but
looking at them as a group-two-thirds of
them have lost population over the past
10 years, and so they poured into the
cities? And now the question is what is
the future of growth of America? Well, I
think there is an answer.
I was talking to a young couple on a
trip to North Dakota a few months ago.
I had found that they had left North Da-
kota to go to a major city in the East and
then they had returned. I asked them why.
They said, "The reason we left was that
there wasn't adequate opportunity here,
not good jobs, not adequate opportunity
in business, and so we went East. But then
some opportunities opened and we came
back because we really wanted to live
here. We like this country. It is a beautiful
country. It is a country where we want
to raise our children. And that is why we
came back."
So I say, let people who want to live in
the heartland of America have the op-
portunities, have the jobs that will let
them stay here and not be drawn away.
That is what this project means to Amer-
ica and to the world.
Let me tell you what it is going to look
like here. You realize that over this next
30 years this region in which we are now
standing could absorb as much as 10 per-
cent of that growth. In other words, 7
million more people. This region can be-
come a new magnet for people seeking
the good life, so that we can begin to see
a reversal of the decades-long migration
trend from rural America to urban Amer-
ica—a trend which has too often acted to
deplete the countryside and overburden
the cities, to weaken the heart of Amer-
ica and to add to the fat which saps our
strength.
There is virtually unlimited promise in
the future of the Arkansas Basin provided
we take charge of the development process
and guide it wisely. We know all too well
that heedless and unplanned growth can
become a bane rather than a blessing.
That is why there is so much interest, par-
ticularly among younger people, about
the environment. "What's going to hap-
pen to our rivers? What's going to hap-
pen to our countryside, if we simply have
growth without planning?" Questions are
even being raised going to an extreme.
They say, "Why should we have growth
at all?" I understand the feelings that
raise those questions. And yet, I think that
they come sometimes, and perhaps most
often, from people in regions that already
have had their share, or more than their
share, of American prosperity.
In this region, where you are really
starting to come into your own, we cannot
simply shrug off the benefits of economic
717
