[293] Sept. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Prevention, particularly those officials in
the Departments of Health, Education
and Welfare, Justice, and Defense, to join
with educators and the medical profession
in intensifying programs to prevent and
reduce drug abuse among the young and
among all Americans. I urge State and
local governments, as well as business and
civic groups, to cooperate in such pro-
grams and to seek out new methods by
which the risks and dangers of drug ex-
perimentation can be communicated to
the entire Nation. The communications
media can render invaluable assistance in
this endeavor, and I urge them to do so.
I also encourage the clergy, and all of
our moral and spiritual leaders, to make
a special effort during this week to take
up the problem of drug abuse and to offer
those answers of the spirit which alone
can fill the void where drug abuse begins.
And I appeal, above all, to those who
294
bear the special trusts of parenthood—
that all of us may rededicate ourselves to
the well-being of America's youth; and
that we may so teach them, so guide them,
so reach out to them in understanding and
compassion, as to help them avoid the
problems that arise from abuse of drugs
and to attain the full promise of their
maturity.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventeenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-one and of the In-
dependence of the United States of
America the one hundred ninety-sixth.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The full text of this proclamation is
included as an example of the proclamations
the President issues. All the proclamations
issued by the President in 1971 are listed in
Appendix C.
Statement Announcing Nomination of Romana A.
Banuelos as Treasurer of the United States.
September 20, 1971
IT IS with special pleasure that I have
today nominated Romana A. Banuelos to
be Treasurer of the United States.
Since the tragic and untimely death of
Dorothy Andrews Kabis on July 3, we
have searched the country for a person of
truly outstanding credentials and ability
to succeed her as Treasurer. I was de-
lighted to find such a person in Mrs.
Banuelos. In her extraordinarily success-
ful career as a self-made businesswoman,
Mrs. Banuelos has displayed exceptional
initiative, perseverance, and skill. In ad-
dition, as chairman of the board of di-
rectors of Pan American National Bank
of East Los Angeles, which serves the
Mexican-American community of that
area, she has not only proven herself a
highly able bank executive but has also
contributed substantially to the develop-
ment of that community.
The post of Treasurer of the United
States is one of high honor and high re-
sponsibility. Mrs. Banuelos will bring to
it a high measure of distinction.
NOTE: A White House announcement of the
nomination, containing additional biographical
information on Mrs. Banuelos, was released on
the same day and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
7, p. 1304).
960
