[380] Dec. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
So if you raise the price of corn, be sure
that you
don't do it at the expense of the
hog producers.
SECRETARY BUTZ. Well, now, Mr. Presi-
381 Remarks to the National
Williamsburg, Virginia.
AT LONG last, this Nation is coming to
realize that the process of justice cannot
end with the slamming shut of prison
gates.
Ninety-eight out of every hundred
criminals who are sent to prison come
back out into society. That means that
every American concerned with stopping
crime must ask this question: Are we do-
ing all we can to make certain that many
more men and women who come out of
prison will become law-abiding citizens?
The answer to that question today, after
centuries of neglect, is no. We have made
important strides in the past 2 years, but
let us not deceive ourselves: Our prisons
are still colleges of crime, not what they
should be the beginning of a way back to
a productive life within the law.
To turn back the wave of crime, we
must have more effective police work. We
must have court reform to insure trials
dent, there are some things [laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 5:05
p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
Conference on Corrections,
December 6, 1971
that are speedy and fair. But let us also
remember that the protection of society
depends largely on the correction of the
criminal.
I look to this National Conference on
Corrections to focus the Nation's attention
on this problem, and to come up with
specific recommendations to blaze the trail
of prison reform.
Locking a convict up is not enough. We
must also offer him the keys of education,
of rehabilitation, of useful training, of
hope the keys he must have to open the
gates to a life of freedom and dignity.
NOTE: The President's audiotaped remarks
were played at the first plenary session of the
conference in the Williamsburg Convention
Center. The conference, convened at the Presi-
dent's request and sponsored by the Law En-
forcement Assistance Administration and the
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice, was
held on December 5-8, 1971.
382 Remarks of Welcome to President Emílio Garrastazú
Médici of Brazil. December 7, 1971
President Médici, Mrs. Médici, our dis-
tinguished guests from Brazil, and our
distinguished guests here from the United
States:
Mr. President, because of this inclement
weather, it may seem to some that this is
not the most fortunate time for a visit, but
I want you to know that I believe that
your
visit to our country could not have been
at a more important time from the stand-
point of both countries.
As you know, I will be leaving for a
trip to Peking and one to the Soviet Union.
Prior to that time, I consider it vitally im-
portant to have discussions with our closest
friends in at least the largest countries.
1164
