Richard Nixon, 1971
June 11 [199]
and local governments, by business
and private institutions, by civic
leaders, and by individual people
everywhere.
A HISTORY OF HARDSHIP
The history of racial discrimination in
housing in America runs deep; but, to
the Nation's credit, so do efforts to cor-
rect it.
In earlier years, some local ordinances
actually forbade minority group members
to purchase property in blocks where they
did not constitute a majority. Such ordi-
nances were invalidated by the Supreme
Court in 1917.
Covenants running with the land were
widely used to restrict minority citizens
in their access to housing. The efficacy
of these covenants rested on their possible
enforcement by courts and the awarding
of damages for their breach. Judicial en-
forcement was invalidated by the Su-
preme Court in 1948.
Federal policy itself, quite unsurpris-
ingly, in past eras reflected what then
were widespread public attitudes. Policies
which governed FHA mortgage insurance
activities for more than a decade between
the middle thirties and the late forties
recognized and accepted restrictive cov-
enants designed to maintain the racial
homogeneity of neighborhoods.
Compounding the plight of minority
Americans, locked as many of them were
in deteriorating central cities, was the
Federal urban renewal program. It was
designed to help clear out blighted areas
and rejuvenate urban neighborhoods. All
too often, it cleared out but did not re-
place housing which, although substand-
ard, was the only housing available to
minorities. Thus it typically left minori-
ties even more ill-housed and crowded
than before.
Historically, then, the Federal Govern-
ment was not blameless in contributing
to housing shortages and to the impair-
ment of equal housing opportunity for
minority Americans. Much has been done
to remedy past shortcomings of Federal
policy, and active opposition to discrim-
ination is now solidly established in Fed-
eral law. But despite the efforts and
emphasis of recent years, widespread pat-
terns of residential separation by race and
of unequal housing opportunity persist.
RACIAL CONCENTRATION TODAY
In terms of racial concentration, the
facts on housing occupancy revealed by
the 1970 census are compelling. In our
66 largest metropolitan areas, accounting
for more than half the U.S. population-
of which 49 are in the North and West-
the central city white population declined
during the decade of the sixties by about
2 million (5%), while the black popula-
tion increased almost 3 million (35%).
This meant overall black population in
central cities increased from 18% in 1960
to 24% in 1970.
In the suburban areas of these cities,
however, the story was different. White
population increased by 12.5 million
(30%) and black population increased by
less than 1 million (44%). The result
was that the total black proportion of
suburban population increased only from
4.2% in 1960 to 4.5% in 1970.
In city after city the figures tell the
same story. In New York City the white
population declined by 617,000 while the
black population rose by 579,000. In St.
723
