Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
simplify relocation of federal instal-
lations that occupy properties that
could better be used for other
purposes.
This will allow conversion of many
ad-
ditional Federal real properties to a more
beneficial public use. Lands now used
for Federal operations but more suited to
park and recreational uses will be given
priority consideration for relocation pro-
cedures. The program will be self-financ-
ing and will provide new opportunities
for improving the utilization of Federal
lands.
Wilderness Areas
While there is clearly a need for greater
efforts to provide neighborhood parks and
other public recreation areas, there must
still be places where nature thrives and
man enters only as a visitor. These wilder-
ness areas are an important part of a
comprehensive open space system. We
must continue to expand our wilderness
preservation system, in order to save for
all time those magnificent areas of
America where nature still predominates.
Accordingly, in August last year I ex-
pressed my intention to improve our per-
formance in the study and presentation
of recommendations for new wilderness
areas.
-I will soon be recommending to the
Congress a number of specific pro-
posals for a major enlargement of our
wilderness preservation system by the
addition of a wide spectrum of nat-
ural areas spread across the entire
continent.
National Parks
While placing much greater emphasis
on parks in urban areas and the designa-
tion of new wilderness areas, we must
continue to expand our national park
system. We are currently obligating sub-
stantial sums to acquire the privately
owned lands in units of the National Park
System which have already been author-
ized by the Congress.
Last year, joint efforts of the adminis-
tration and the Congress resulted in au-
thorization of ten areas in the National
Park System, including such outstanding
sites as Voyageurs National Park in Min-
nesota, Apostle Islands National Lake-
shore in Wisconsin, Sleeping Bear Dunes
National Lakeshore in Michigan, Gulf
Islands National Seashore in Mississippi
and Florida, and the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal National Historical Park in
the District of Columbia, Maryland and
West Virginia.
However, the job of filling out the Na-
tional Park System is not complete. Other
unique areas must still be preserved. De-
spite all our wealth and scientific knowl-
edge, we cannot recreate these unspoiled
areas once they are lost to the onrush of
development. I am directing the Secre-
tary of the Interior to review the outstand-
ing opportunities for setting aside
nationally significant natural and historic
areas, and to develop priorities for their
possible addition to the National Park
System.
Power Plant Siting
The power shortage last summer and
continuing disputes across the country
over the siting of power plants and the
routing of transmission lines highlight the
need for longer-range planning by the
producers of electric power to project their
future needs and identify environmental
concerns well in advance of construction
deadlines. The growing number of con-
frontations also suggest the need for the
137
