Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
neither the consumer nor the provider
has an incentive to use the system effi-
ciently. When that happens, unnecessary
demand can multiply, scarce resources can
be squandered and the shortage of services
can become even more acute.
Those who are hurt the most by such
developments are often those whose medi-
cal needs are most pressing. While costs
should never be a barrier to providing
needed care, it is important that we pre-
serve some element of cost consciousness
within our medical system.
4. Building on Strengths. We should
also avoid holding the whole of our health
care system responsible for failures in
some of its parts. There is a natural temp-
tation in dealing with any complex prob-
lem to say: "Let us wipe the slate clean
and start from scratch." But to do this-
to dismantle our entire health insurance
system, for example-would be to ignore
those important parts of the system which
have provided useful service. While it
would be wrong to ignore any weaknesses
in our present system, it would be equally
wrong to sacrifice its strengths.
One of those strengths is the diversity
of our system—and the range of choice
it therefore provides to doctors and pa-
tients alike. I believe the public will al-
ways be better served by a pluralistic
system than by a monolithic one, by a
system which creates many effective cen-
ters of responsibility-both public and
private-rather than one that concen-
trates authority in a single governmental
source.
This does not mean that we must allow
each part of the system to go its own in-
dependent way, with no sense of common
purpose. We must encourage greater co-
operation and build better coordination-
but not by fostering uniformity and
eliminating choice. One effective way
of influencing the system is by structuring
incentives which reward people for help-
ing to achieve national goals without forc-
ing their decisions or dictating the way
they are carried out. The American
people have always shown a unique ca-
pacity to move toward common goals in
varied ways. Our efforts to reform health
care in America will be more effective
if they build on this strength.
These, then, are certain cardinal prin-
ciples on which our National Health
Strategy should be built. To implement
this strategy, I now propose for the con-
sideration of the Congress the following
six point program. It begins with meas-
ures designed to increase and improve the
supply of medical care and concludes with
a program which will help people pay for
the care they require.
A. REORGANIZING THE DELIVERY
OF SERVICE
In recent years, a new method for de-
livering health services has achieved
growing respect. This new approach has
two essential attributes. It brings together
a comprehensive range of medical serv-
ices in a single organization so that a
patient is assured of convenient access to
all of them. And it provides needed serv-
ices for a fixed contract fee which is paid
in advance by all subscribers.
Such an organization can have a vari-
ety of forms and names and sponsors. One
of the strengths of this new concept, in
fact, is its great flexibility. The general
term which has been applied to all of
these units is "HMO"-"Health Mainte-
nance Organization."
!
173
