Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 25 [302]
State, Senator Mansfield whom I just left
in Montana-we are all working toward
the goal: not just peace for 5 years or 10
years but for a generation.
I think we can have it. Our meeting
with Japan has something to do with that.
But later a visit that I will make to Main-
land China will have something to do with
that. Let me tell you why that is impor-
tant. That visit does not mean that the
differences between the Governments of
the People's Republic of China and that
of the United States are going to evapo-
rate, because they are very great and they
are very deep.
But it does mean this: It does mean
that as far as those differences are con-
cerned, we are going to talk about them
rather than fight about them, and that is
terribly important to the future of peace
in the world.
It also means something else. Eight
hundred million people live on Mainland
China. That is one-fourth of all the
peo-
ple in the world. I want this younger
generation, these young people that I see
here today, I want them to grow up in an
open world, one in which there can be
open communication between the peoples
of the world. If we can do that, if we can
contribute to that by this initiative, this
journey for peace that I am taking, then I
think it is worthwhile.
And now, finally, let me say that as I
come here, I would not want this occasion
to pass without putting in the other side
302 Statement on Signing
Detention Act of 1950.
I HAVE today signed into law a measure
recently enacted by the Congress repeal-
ing the Emergency Detention Act of 1950.
of the equation. We want to build in this
country something we have not had for 15
years. That means a new prosperity built
on peace and not on war. We can have it.
We can have jobs that do not count on
the need for war production.
It is true that 2 million men have
been let out of the armed services and
defense plants since we started to wind
down the war, but, believe me, that is
worth doing. We will find jobs for them
in peace; we do not have to find jobs for
them in the pursuit of war.
The other point that I would make is
one to which I know the people of Oregon
are deeply devoted; that is the quality of
life we are going to have in this country.
Your Governor, your Senators, your Con-
gressmen have often spoken to me about
the environment, the need to develop, of
course, our industry, but the need also to
preserve the beauty of this country.
Let me say that we welcome your rec-
ommendations, your suggestions. Every
time I fly over Oregon I realize why you
like to live here. I realize why you want
to keep it a beautiful State, one in which
you can have jobs and employment, but
also retain the beauty which brought you
here in the first place. This is a goal we
can all work for.
And so with that, may I say thank you
again for a very warm welcome. We look
forward to coming back again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:10 p.m. at
Portland International Airport.
Bill Repealing the Emergency
September 25, 1971
This repeal legislation was wholeheartedly
supported by this Administration.
The Emergency Detention Act was en-
985
