[93] Mar. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
ship of the judicial and the executive
branches. When Confederate forces were
advancing on Washington, President
Lincoln went to observe the battle at Fort
Stevens. It was his only exposure to actual
gunfire during the Civil War. He climbed
up on a parapet, against the advice of the
military commander, to see what was go-
ing on. Suddenly not 5 feet from the Pres-
ident, a man was felled by a bullet. A
young Union captain shouted at the Pres-
ident, "Get down, you fool!" Lincoln
climbed down and said gratefully to the
captain, "I'm glad you know how to talk
to a civilian."
The name of the young man who
shouted "Get down, you fool" was Oliver
Wendell Holmes, who went on to make
history in the law. And from that day to
this there has never been a more honest
and heartfelt remark made to the head of
the executive branch by a member of the
judicial branch—though I imagine a lot
of judges over the years have felt the same
way.
But let me address you today in more
temperate words but in the same spirit of
candor.
The purpose of this conference is "to
improve the process of justice." We all
know how urgent the need is for that im-
provement at both the State and Federal
level. Interminable delays in civil cases,
unconscionable delays in criminal cases,
inconsistent and unfair bail impositions, a
steadily growing backlog of work that
threatens to make the delays worse tomor-
row than they are today—and all this con-
cerns everyone who wants to see justice
done.
Overcrowded penal institutions, unre-
mitting pressure on judges and prosecu-
tors to process cases by plea bargaining
without the safeguards recently set forth
by the American Bar Association, the clog-
ging of court calendars of inappropriate or
relatively unimportant matters-all this
sends everyone in the system of justice
home at night feeling as if he had been
trying to brush back a flood with a broom.
Many hardworking, dedicated judges,
lawyers, penologists, law enforcement offi-
cials are coming to this conclusion: that a
system of criminal justice that can guar-
antee neither a speedy trial nor a safe
community cannot excuse its failure by
pointing to an elaborate system of safe-
guards for the accused. Justice dictates not
only that the innocent man go free but
that the guilty be punished for his crimes.
When the average citizen comes into
court as a party or a witness, and he sees
that court bogged down and unable to
function effectively, he wonders how this
was permitted to happen. Who is to
blame? Members of the bench and the
bar are not alone responsible for the con-
gestion of justice.
The Nation has turned increasingly to
the courts to cure deep-seated ills of our
society and the courts have responded;
as a result, they have burdens unknown to
the legal system a generation ago. In addi-
tion, the courts had to bear the brunt of
the rise in crime-almost 150 percent over
the past 10 years, an explosion unpar-
alleled in our history.
And now we see the courts being turned
to, as they should be, to enter still more
fields: from offenses against the environ-
ment to new facets of consumer protection
and a fresh concern for small claimants.
We know, too, that the court system has
added to its own workload by enlarging
the rights of the accused, providing more
counsel in order to protect basic liberties.
Our courts are overloaded for the best
of reasons: because our society found the
418
