Richard Nixon, 1971
[405]
Dec. 21
live at a time when because of the fast
changing events in the world, we live
in a new world. It is essential that the
new Europe and the new America, to-
gether with the other nations in the world,
and particularly in Asia, Japan, the other
great economic power in the world-it is
essential that we work together.
It is inevitable that as free nations, be-
lieving in competition, we will compete,
but it is also indispensable that that com-
petition be constructive and not destruc-
tive, and I think that our talks have
contributed toward that goal.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
4:20 p.m. at Government House, Hamilton,
Bermuda, in response to Prime Minister Heath's
remarks.
On the same day, the President and the Prime
Minister participated in the ceremonial plant-
ing of Canary Island date palm trees on the
grounds of Government House. The White
House released an announcement containing
additional information on the traditional tree-
planting ceremony reserved by custom to resi-
dents of Government House and their house-
guests.
The Prime Minister's remarks follow:
Mr. President:
You and I have just come from the room
in which your predecessors, President Eisen-
hower and President Kennedy, and the former
Prime Ministers Winston Churchill and Harold
Macmillan, sat and had talks in their day
about the great problems of the world which
confronted them. And in these talks you and
I have been looking toward the future, a future
in which we in Britain will become part of the
European Community, and in which that
larger, strengthened, more prosperous Europe
will be a partner with you in the Atlantic
Alliance.
We find ourselves now in a world which is
changing faster than ever before with the devel-
opment of the great powers and the emergence
of China. So it has been a particularly for-
tunate time, when you are early next year
going both to Peking and Moscow, for us to
review this situation. What gives me particular
pleasure is that, just as our predecessors sat
there so informally and discussed these matters
so frankly, so we have been able to do exactly
the same for these 2 days.
I am one of those who believe that in the
years to come, when we are part of a united
Europe, we shall be carrying on talks of this
kind, just as freely, just as frankly, whenever
we feel the need, as we have done now.
And so I would like to thank you for coming
here to Bermuda. A year ago you entertained
me most hospitably in Washington, and I would
like to wish you well in your talks with the
other leaders in the Western World, and also
with your visits in 1972.
I believe that the future of the Western
World depends upon Europe and the United
States and Japan being not in confrontation,
but working together in harmony, because the
interests which we have in common are of vital
importance to us, and so much greater than
any differences which may, from time to time,
in various ways, divide us.
So these talks have confirmed once again.
the abiding nature of the Anglo-American re-
lationship, the friendship which exists between
Britain and the United States, and I would like
to thank you again for the part which you and
your colleagues are playing in this, and in the
talks which we have just had.
405 Joint Statement Following Meetings in Bermuda With
Prime Minister Heath of the United Kingdom.
December 21, 1971
THE PRESIDENT of the United States,
the Honorable Richard M. Nixon, and the
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom,
the Right Honorable Edward Heath,
meeting in Government House, Bermuda,
on 20 and 21 December 1971, discussed
1201
