[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
out an understanding in 1962 that the
Russians would not put any offensive mis-
siles into Cuba. That understanding was
expanded on October 11 [13] of this [last]
year by the Russians when they said that it
would include a military base in Cuba,
and a military naval base. They, in effect,
said that they would not put a military
naval base into Cuba, on October 11 [13].
Now, in the event that nuclear sub-
marines were serviced either in Cuba or
from Cuba, that would be a violation of
the understanding. That has not hap-
pened yet. We are watching the situation
closely.
The Soviet Union is aware of the fact
that we are watching it closely. We ex-
pect them to abide by the understanding.
I believe they will.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Could we be close to
a crisis, sir, if they begin doing that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
they want a crisis in the Caribbean, and
I don't believe that one is going to occur,
particularly since the understanding has
been so clearly laid out and has been so
clearly relied on by us and as I stated here
today.
FEDERAL-STATE-LOCAL RELATIONS
[17.] MRS. DICKERSON. Mr. President,
could we switch from foreign affairs for a
moment to some other areas? I would like
to ask you a question that involves
whether this government really is going to
be able to govern in the future. It involves
how you cut up the money, how you slice
the pie. Now the cities are crying; the
mayors say they can't run them. They
don't have enough money to pay their
teachers or their firemen. The State Gov-
ernors say the States are near bankruptcy.
How soon are you going to be able to
reverse the flow of money and power and
responsibility from Washington back to
the States and the cities that you said you
wanted to do?
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Dickerson, if we
get cooperation from the next Congress,
we are going to begin to make a break-
through in that area in this historic next
Congress, the 92d. That will be the major
thrust of my State of the Union Message,
how we can take this great government
of ours-and it is a great government-
but how we can give the people of this
country an opportunity to make decisions
with what that government should be and
what it does, and what kind of activities
it should engage in. That is why when I
referred to revenue sharing a moment ago
in answering Mr. Sevareid, I pointed out
that we were going to have a program
that went far beyond any proposal that
we have made to this date; and it is one
that will be, I believe, widely supported
by the Governors, by the mayors, and I
trust by the Congress, because, you know,
we tried to make a breakthrough when I
submitted this in August of last year. The
Congress didn't even have hearings on it.
This time we expect to get hearings,
and this is one area where Mr. Connally
can help.
PRESIDENTIAL ADVOCACY OF PROGRAMS
[18.] MRS. DICKERSON. I know that,
sir, but, you know, Dr. Moynihan when he
left said one of the criticisms was the im-
pression got around that you really weren't
behind some of these programs that you
had enunciated, and many of the Senators
and Congressmen felt that you hadn't
really given your personal push to it and
that is why it failed to get any hearing at
all.
18
