Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 1 [82]
I remember a briefing we had. And as I
recall, Wernher von Braun 2 was there,
among others. And the briefing was a very
exciting one by one of the scientific ad-
visers to the President at that time.
And they put up a big chart that showed
approximately 10 different discoveries
that might be achieved as a result of our
exploration of space. We had learned
something about the weather, and we had
learned something about communications,
and they did predict, of course, a satellite
whereby we could show programs around
the world, and all of these things have
happened since then. And there are some
things on that chart that haven't hap-
pened yet.
But then I shall never forget that at the
conclusion of this little lecture, the one
who was briefing the President at that time
turned to him and said, "Mr. President,
members of the Cabinet, I simply want to
say that probably the most important dis-
covery we will make in our exploration of
space is not on this chart." And that was a
lesson for me.
It is a great lesson for the American peo-
ple. Exploration, of course, involves going
to the unknown, not going to find some-
thing you know is there, or you think
something is there. We remember, for ex-
ample, that those who came to the New
World were looking for a passage to India
and they found the New World.
And as far as space is concerned, we
think we know what we want to find and
what we may find, but the more we ex-
Dr. von Braun, Deputy Associate Adminis-
trator of Planning, National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, was Director of the
Army Ballistic Missile Agency in Huntsville,
Ala., 1956-60.
plore we break into new vistas of
knowledge.
That is why if this Nation is to remain
a great nation, as it will remain a great
nation, we must never accept the position
that because we have, as we have, been
first in going to the moon, because we
have had great achievements in a field like
this, that then we rest on our laurels, be-
cause the history of all civilization tells us
that once a nation gives up or accepts
passively the role of being second in ex-
ploring the unknown, that nation ceases to
be a great nation.
America must continue to be a great
nation. We must explore the unknown,
not because of what we are going to find
or think we are going to find, not because
of the uses that we expect to get from
space, but because there is something
there, something there that we must ex-
plore. It is there to find.
And the Americans, this great Ameri-
can Nation with all of the strength and
the intelligence and the drive and dyna-
mism that we have, we must go to find it.
I do not speak in any jingoistic terms. I
am simply saying that this Nation with
all of its capability and with all of its
promise is first in space today, and Amer-
ica, as a great nation, must set as its goal
remaining first in space, because that is
the way to continue to be a great nation.
This is a goal that we must set for
ourselves.
Now, to do this requires thousands of
men and women on the ground, devoted
and dedicated men in the scientific field,
in the engineering field, and other areas.
It requires very brave men going on these
journeys into outer space with all of the
uncertainties that we saw on Apollo 13
369
