Richard Nixon, 1971
June 24 [209]
have. And then I think of what we think
this man will be most remembered for.
Well, those who remember football will
remember him for that. Others who think
of his service in war will remember him
for that. But I think on a night like this
that the Nation will remember him for
the monument that he really leaves, and
that monument is 80,000 men and
women. Eighty thousand men and women
have graduated from Purdue in the 25
years he has served as president.
They have gone forth throughout this
land, throughout this world as a matter of
fact, serving the cause of progress, the
cause of understanding. They have been
men and women with brains, good educa-
tions; but more than that, they have been
men and women with character, and it is
that that Fred Hovde stands for: brains
and character. That is the tradition he
leaves with Purdue, and with America.
Speaking as one who has traveled much
in the world, both in official capacities and
unofficially, I know the work of Purdue
graduates in countries far away in other
lands, in Colombia, in Brazil, in Argen-
tina, in Afghanistan. I know the work in
the United States. I will not belabor that,
but simply say that this university has
made an enormous contribution to Amer-
ica and an enormous contribution to the
world. And this man who led it so well,
therefore, deserves the appreciation not
just of those who know Purdue, but those
who must speak for America, as I am
honored to speak today.
Now I, consequently, was trying to
think of something appropriate to present
Dr. Fred Hovde on this occasion, and so
I decided to make two presentations.
First, I understand that he is really not
retiring; he is retiring as president of the
university, but will continue in other
capacities with the university and will
serve his Nation in many other ways. You
can see he is a young man; he has so
much time left.
I also, however, know that he is an avid
golfer; he loves golf; he is a good golfer.
And so I am going to present him first
with the Presidential golf ball. It is a very
special golf ball. It has the Presidential
Seal on it, and it has my name written
on it, a signature. I gave one yesterday to
the Vice President. I told him, "Please,
just putt with it."
But to show you that I know Fred
Hovde, you can hit it.
Now, in a more serious vein, I want to
present something to Fred Hovde, as this
great American that he has been and still
is, and will continue to be in the years
ahead, a special certificate that we have
developed for this occasion and for this
man.
I shall read it to you, present it to him,
and that will conclude my remarks, and
the dinner can go forward:
"June 24, 1971, the White House.
"The President of the United States of
America presents this certificate of recog-
nition to Dr. Frederick Lawson Hovde.
As scholar, educator, adviser to govern-
ment, and for 25 years university presi-
dent, you have led Purdue with vision and
wisdom and contributed with exceptional
distinction to the enrichment of Ameri-
can life."
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:21 p.m. in the
Indianapolis-Hilton Hotel, Indianapolis, Ind.
Jack Scott, managing editor of the Lafayette
Journal and Courier, was toastmaster for the
dinner.
775
