[250] Aug. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
unalterably opposed, as I am, to the
Galbraith 3 scheme, which is supported by
many of our Democratic Senators I
understand, of permanent wage and price
controls. Permanent wage and price con-
trols in America would stifle the Ameri-
can economy, its dynamism, its produc-
tivity, and would be, I think, a mortal
blow to the United States as a first-class
economic power.
On the other hand, it is essential that
Government use its power where it can
be effective to stop the escalation or at
least temper the escalation in the wage-
price spiral. That is why we moved on
construction, and we have been somewhat
successful, from 16 down to 9 percent.
That is why we moved to roll back an oil
price recently.
As far as the two recent settlements, the
one in the railroads and the one in steel,
on the plus side, the fact that they were
settled was positive; the fact, too, that in
the case of railroads, they spoke to the
problem of productivity by modification
of work rules, and the fact that the steel
settlement also spoke to the problem of
productivity by setting up productivity
councils, that was constructive.
On the other hand, I would be less
than candid if I were not to say, and I
know that the leaders of the rail industry
and the leaders of the steel industry know
this, that this kind of settlement where a
wage increase leads to a price increase,
and particularly in steel where the indus-
try is already noncompetitive with foreign
imports, is not in the interest of America;
it is not in the interest of labor; it is not
in the interest of industry.
John Kenneth Galbraith, prominent econ-
omist, author, and professor at Harvard
University.
Dr. Burns, without being completely
specific, has only suggested the idea
should be considered. That is why Secre-
tary Connally said we welcome the move
by several Republican Senators to hold
hearings with regard to the setting of
wage-price supports. That is why Dr.
Burns has said that we should move to
attempt to temper these increases.
The problem here is, how can we move
without putting the American economy
in a straitjacket? In other words, as Sec-
retary Connally raised in his statement
this morning, "Are we to have criminal
penalties?" Are, for example, the wage-
price guidelines to affect all the industries
down to the corner filling station or the
grocery store or the meat market, as the
case might be, or will they affect only
major industries?
As far as this Administration is con-
cerned, I can say this: I have asked the
Secretary of Labor to bring to my atten-
tion every major wage-price negotiation
which may be coming up in the future,
and I will use the power of this office to
the extent it can be effective to see that
those negotiations are as responsible as
possible.
On September 21, we will have a meet-
ing of our Productivity Commission, and
subject A in that meeting will be this same
problem. Because as we look at America's
trade balances, which have deteriorated
over the past 10 years--but as we look at
America's competitive position, it is essen-
tial that American industry and American
labor sit down together and determine
whether, at a time when we are in a race,
we no longer can be number one simply
because we were that big and that strong
after World War II, whether we deter-
mine we are going to get out of the race
or whether we are going to tighten our
856
