Richard Nixon, 1971
July 5 [221]
these three would step forward as I call
their names and stand beside me on my
left: first, Julianne Jones from Memphis,
Tennessee; second, Joseph Loyd from De-
troit, Michigan; and third-incidentally,
I don't think this was an accident-we
have one from California, and it is Paul
Larimer from Concord, California.
[At this point, Robert L. Kunzig, Administrator
of General Services, signed the certification of
the Amendment, and the President and Juli-
anne Jones, Joseph W. Loyd, Jr., and Paul S.
Larimer of the "Young Americans in Concert"
signed as witnesses. The President then resumed
speaking.]
If Mr. Ramsey would step forward, I
am going to present the pen that I wit-
nessed with to the director. I wish we had
500 more pens, but that is above our
budget.
If I could have your attention for just
a moment-this is, of course, a very his-
toric occasion in this famous room, the
East Room of the White House. I am sure
that as you are here witnessing the sign-
ing of the 26th Amendment, its certifica-
tion, that you must think back about all
the things that must have happened in
this room from the times that John
Adams, who was the first President to live
in the White House, lived here.
I think particularly it is significant that
this
group, "Young Americans in Con-
cert," is here today, and that you are
going to go abroad; you are going to be
in Europe, as I understand, for 28 days.
I have been thinking about what kind
of a message you would be taking to
Europe, what you would be saying. You
are going to be saying it, of course, in song,
but you also will be saying it by your
presence, by how you represent America.
I think these are some of the things that
we in the United States would like the
people of Europe to hear from our young
people, those who represent us so well,
as you will be representing us in these
next 28 days.
Naturally, you all know that America is
the richest and strongest nation in the
world. But it is not that-the fact that we
are strong, the fact that we are rich—that
makes America the hope of the world,
that made it the hope of the world when
it began, and makes it still the hope of
the world today.
In other words, when we look at our
strength, the thing that you can be proud
of is that you can tell anybody in Europe,
in Asia, Latin America, anyplace in the
world, that America in this century has
never used its strength to break the peace,
only to keep it. We have never used our
strength to take away anybody's freedom,
only to defend freedom.
You can also assure them that the
strength of America in this last third of a
century when you will be making the
great decisions by your votes, and per-
haps in your positions of leadership, that
America's strength will be used to bring
peace and keep peace in the world.
This is a very important thing, because
many other powers, when they reach the
pinnacle where we are, the pinnacle of
free world leadership, still had designs on
conquests. The United States of America
doesn't want an acre of territory. We do
not want to dominate anybody else. We
want other people simply to have the
freedom that we enjoy. That is what we
believe in and that is what you can say as
you go abroad.
Now, let me say a word about our
wealth. We are a very rich country, rich
by any standard that civilization has ever
put
for nations. But the fact that a coun-
try is rich isn't going to make you very
799
