Richard Nixon, 1971
June 18 [204]
in its long history that are subject to
criticism. We all realize how controver-
sial our role in the war in Southeast Asia
has been. The United States, on the other
hand, not because we asked for it, but
because of the accidents of history and the
great traumatic results of World War II-
the United States is the only nation in the
free world that can play the role in this
next 25 years that will make the differ-
ence between war and peace.
In that respect, I believe the world is
fortunate that the United States is in that
position. We have our faults. Look at our
record: We have been in four wars in this
century. We didn't start any of them. The
United States in each instance believed
then, and we believe now, that we were
fighting for freedom rather than to de-
stroy it; that we were fighting for the
forces that would bring peace rather than
to destroy it.
That is something which I think re-
assures the world to an extent, and I can
say that in the conversations that I have
with foreign leaders—including the con-
versation I had before coming up here
today with a very eloquent spokesman for
the new Africa, the President of Senegal-
the United States with all of its faults is
not feared by any of the smaller nations of
the world, that we would use our power
to destroy their freedom.
The United States, on the other hand,
has the responsibility to use its power and
its economic strength, use it effectively in
the cause of peace in this last third of a
century. I think we will.
On the other hand, we cannot do it
unless we have the strength at home-the
strength at home economically and the
strength at home militarily, of course, to
carry out our commitments; and another
kind of strength which comes from some-
thing other than wealth and military
power.
I often refer to the fact that I marvel,
and I think all historians marvel, at the
young America of 190 years ago. It was
weak in arms and poor in goods but rich
in spirit, and caught the imagination of
the world.
Today, America is strong in arms and
rich in goods, and many think poor in
spirit-doubts about our role in the world,
doubts about what is going to happen at
home.
I simply want to say in conclusion that
the other day I was sitting by an ambassa-
dor from a major European country at
dinner. He had just returned from a
month's trip around the United States.
He had been to Portland and Seattle and
Denver. He had been also to Cincinnati
and Kentucky, to Louisville. He came
back. He said, "I saw a very different
America abroad in this land than I see in
Washington." He said, "Here I get the
impression"—and he was not being criti-
cal of his Washington colleagues or the
Washington press or the Congressmen or
the Senators, it is just the fact that in
Washington we are obsessed with the
problems. He said, "Out there in this
country there is a vibrancy, there is a
spirit." He said-even in the Seattle area
where there is much unemployment be-
cause of the airframe problem-he said,
"There is a spirit, a vibrancy, an idealism
which is very heartening to a visitor from
abroad."
In my view, I believe that we have the
best chance since World War II to look
forward to a generation of peace. We will
succeed, however, in the world in having
that generation of peace only if the United
States plays a role, plays it with its mili-
tary strength, using it with restraint to
preserve the peace, never to break it; plays
it with its economic strength, and that
759
