Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 19 [20]
White House a direct adviser and Assist-
ant to the President who can coordinate
all of these activities.
Of course, the State Department has
the primary responsibility. That is why
the Secretary of State will be the Vice
Chairman of this Council. I, of course,
will serve as the Chairman of the Council,
just as I serve as Chairman of the Na-
tional Security Council and the Domestic
Council.
And the Secretary of State will also, in-
cidentally, be just as enthusiastic as I am
about Mr. Peterson. Secretary Rogers was
one of those who initially recommended
that the Council be set up to bring these
things together, and Mr. Peterson was not
only my first choice but his first choice,
and we are fortunate to get our first choice
to serve as the man who will be the Execu-
tive Director of the Council and the As-
sistant to the President for International
[Economic] Affairs.
I will not further detain you. Mr. Peter-
son will be glad to answer any questions
you may have with regard to his personal
plans or his future activities on the Coun-
cil. And George Shultz is here for the
purpose of answering any questions you
might want to ask for background on the
20
Council and what particular areas that it
will cover, because its scope is very broad,
very broad in covering the whole area of
international economic affairs. And Mr.
Shultz, who has been consulted through-
out on this matter, will be able to answer
any questions in that respect.
I will just say finally I think all of you
who cover the White House will find that
Mr. Peterson is a very great asset to our
staff, one who will be accessible to you
when it is proper for him to be so to dis-
cuss some of the matters in which you
have interest and one who will bring some
new ideas and, more important than that,
some form, some central direction to a
number of areas that have simply been
handled on an ad hoc basis due to the
fact that they cut across so many
departments.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:43 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news conference by Peter G.
Peterson and George P. Shultz, Director, Office
of Management and Budget, on Mr. Peterson's
appointment.
A White House announcement of the ap-
pointment was also released January 19, 1971,
and is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 79).
Statement About Halting Construction of the Cross
Florida Barge Canal. January 19, 1971
I AM today ordering a halt to further
construction of the Cross Florida Barge
Canal to prevent potentially serious en-
vironmental damages.
The purpose of the canal was to reduce
transportation costs for barge shipping.
It was conceived and designed at a time
when the focus of Federal concern in such
matters was still almost completely on
maximizing economic return. In calculat-
ing that return, the destruction of natural,
ecological values was not counted as a
cost, nor was a credit allowed for actions
preserving the environment.
A natural treasure is involved in the
case of the Barge Canal-the Oklawaha
River-a uniquely beautiful, semitropical
stream, one of a very few of its kind in the
43
