Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 12 [356]
So, consequently, it is essential as we
get closer to the end, if we are going to
maintain any negotiating leverage, that
the withdrawal periods, in my opinion, be
somewhat shorter.
With regard to other questions that we
have on this does that cover that point?
Q. Yes, sir. About the combat role,
though?
as
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the combat role,
let us understand, based on the casualties,
far as an offensive situation is concerned
is already concluded. American troops are
now in a defensive position. They, how-
ever, will defend themselves, and what
casualties we have taken-they are very
small-will be taken in that defensive role.
You will find as you analyze the battle-
field reports, as I do from time to time,
that the offensive activities of search and
destroy, and all the other activities that
we used to undertake, are now being
undertaken entirely by the
by the South
Vietnamese.
SOUTH VIETNAMESE ROLE
[7.] Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. We will take you
first-the far left. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, have you sent or are
you sending orders to the forces in South
Vietnam regarding the offensive and de-
fensive role? Could you outline that for
us?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a matter
which is worked out by General Abrams
in the field, and it is one that has grad-
ually just come about. No orders need to
be given for that purpose. And, inci-
dentally, that is possible due to the fact
that the South Vietnamese have gained
the capability to handle the situation
themselves.
Also, there is another reason. As we get
down to 184,000, and now at the end of
this period 45,000 less than that, what
offensive capabilities we have are very,
very seriously limited.
PROGRESS IN POW NEGOTIATIONS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, you said there
was no movement on the prisoner-of-war
issue. Is there anything at all to report on
negotiations, either through Paris or
through some other means?
THE PRESIDENT. I would respond to
that only by saying that we have not given
up on the negotiating front. This an-
nouncement is somewhat of an indication
that we have not given up on the nego-
tiating front. I, however, would not like to
leave the impression that we see the pos-
sibility of some striking breakthrough in
negotiations in the near future.
But we are pursuing negotiations in
Paris and through whatever other chan-
nels we think are appropriate.
Q. One might infer from what you
said previously that there has been some
progress on the prisoner question pri-
vately. Would that be a correct inference
to draw?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it would not be a
correct inference to draw. I wish that it
were, because this issue should, of course,
as we all, I think, believe, be separated
from the issue of the combat role of Amer-
icans and our withdrawal program. It is a
humanitarian issue. But we as yet have
not had any progress in our talks with the
North Vietnamese in getting them to
separate the issue from the rest.
On the other hand, we have not given
up on the negotiating track, and we are
going to continue to press on that track
because that is the track on which we
1103
