Richard Nixon, 1971
June 18 [204]
program, but also in terms of this prob-
lem of getting at the cost of government.
As I have often pointed out, and I will
not go into the details here—all of you
are aware of our program—it is one that
provides for all of those who are in need.
It provides also for the working poor, a
bridge for those who are on welfare to
move to part-time jobs or poorly paying
jobs, and not to have an incentive to stay
on welfare.
But the important point to make from
a political standpoint is this: Why did
welfare reform fail last year? Just let me
recount what happened. It passed very
substantially in the House. It bogged
down in the Senate. It bogged down in
the Senate because Senators felt, particu-
larly those in the committee-and perhaps
even a majority of the Senate might have
reflected this view, although I think a
majority would have voted for it if they
had gotten the chance-but it bogged
down in the Senate because many Sen-
ators felt that instead of reforming wel-
fare we were simply adding millions more
to the welfare rolls. Putting it more
bluntly, many of them said that what we
were asking the country to provide was
a guaranteed annual income for people
whether they worked or were willing to
work or not.
Consequently, we have reformed our
welfare reform proposal. We have re-
formed it by strengthening the work re-
quirements and the work incentives. It is
not fair to have a neighborhood in which
one individual works to support his own
children and then pays taxes out of his
income to support the children of his
neighbor who is able to work but refuses
to work and refuses to support them.
Consequently, while we do provide as-
sistance for families, while we do provide
there is a very strict
for the working poor,
requirement that if an individual has job
training, if he is able to work and he
refuses to work, he is off of welfare.
This, I believe, is the key to opening
the Senate door for the passage of welfare
reform. It is already out of the House
committee. The House, in my opinion,
will vote it. When it goes to the Senate
we will again have the battle. But, I be-
lieve, there is the fact that we have
strengthened the work requirements, and
we have made it absolutely clear that this
is not a guaranteed annual income.
A guaranteed annual income means in
effect we will guarantee an individual an
income whether he works or is willing to
work or not. I don't believe in that, the
country doesn't believe in it, an over-
whelming majority are against it.
What we provide is an income for all
of those who need it, but no income and
no incentives for those who are able to
work and refuse to work. That is the key
to the passage of welfare reform. And
because we have found that key I believe
we are going to pass it.
Government reorganization I will touch
upon just briefly. It is a very complicated
matter. I simply would summarize the
attitude of most people toward govern-
ment in this way: Most people are pretty
fed
up with it. They are fed up with it at
all levels. They are fed up with it because
they think it costs too much, they think it
doesn't work, and also they think they
don't have anything to say about it.
Government reorganization, combined
with revenue sharing, answers that funda-
mental concern of the American people.
It will reduce the cost of government by
making it more efficient. It will make it
work better. And, through revenue shar-
ing's proposals for local and State deci-
753
