Richard Nixon, 1971
July 31 [245]
of life. You, you in this audience, you all
over Iowa, you through the heartland of
America are determined to change that.
And I can tell you today, we in Washing-
ton are determined to help you to change
it.
This does not mean to say that we are
setting rural America against urban
America, because if you talk to people
that live in the great cities of America you
will find that they have begun to realize
that unbridled, unplanned urban growth
and concentration of population are giv-
ing rise to some very grave problems.
Just pouring more and more and more
people into already overcrowded cities
isn't the way to build a better country.
The way to build a better country is to
discover again the grace and the beauty
of this heartland of America so that
people, instead of moving out, will move
back here and develop it again.
So our goal is balanced growth for
America, and the key to that is a program
to revitalize the American countryside.
Let me just tell you some of the steps
we have taken in that direction during
the past 22 years. We have more than
doubled the number of loans and grants
for rural housing. We have increased the
number of loans and grants to provide
rural water and sewer systems by almost
30 percent. We have expanded resources
conservation and development, flood pre-
vention, watershed, river basin programs
by more than 50 percent. I was very im-
pressed to see on farm after farm the de-
velopments there of water and the fact
that that has changed the whole ecological
development in this area.
We have expanded the Extension Serv-
ice community development program by
50 percent. We have proposed a new pro-
gram of special revenue sharing for rural
community development. We have pro-
vided the removal of strings and limita-
tions under this program so that the
people at the State and local level, you,
you people here, make your decisions
about how best to use your rural develop-
ment money rather than to have those
decisions all made for you by somebody in
Washington, D.C.
The $1.1 billion program budgeted for
it in the first year represents a 24 percent
increase over past spending levels. Special
revenue sharing for education, transpor-
tation, law enforcement, manpower
would also help towns like Centerville and
counties like the four around Lake Rath-
bun; and general revenue sharing-Gov-
ernor Ray will be interested in this-
provides a first year share of more than
$74 million for the State of Iowa.
To restore, to develop, to maintain:
This is what America owes its countryside.
We must restore the farmer to his rightful
place of prosperous production and a fair
share of America's increasing prosperity.
We must develop the economic poten-
tial of our rural areas so that the people
who live there can be first-class citizens
enjoying a first-class way of life. And we
must maintain the precious values which
America has traditionally drawn from her
open spaces-the moral strength, the self-
reliant spirit, the sound character, the
natural beauty, the unlimited horizons.
As we work together in these efforts,
we will assure not only the Lake Rath-
bun area but all of our rural areas of a
place in which that letter which was sent
to me and which brought me here
calls "the mainstream of our national
development."
Now, if I could relate for this great
audience here in the heartland of America
what I have said about this project and
843
