Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
lic programs we have launched into the
kind of justice under law that is a pre-
requisite of creativity, abundance and true
social progress.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The statement was made available to
the press in connection with the observance of
National Crime Prevention Week, Febru-
ary 7-13, 1971.
48 Special Message to the Congress Proposing the 1971
Environmental Program.
To the Congress of the United States:
Last August I sent to the Congress the
first annual report on the state of the
nation's environment. In my message of
transmittal, I declared that the report
"describes the principal problems we face
now and can expect to face in the future,
and it provides us with perceptive guide-
lines for meeting them. . . . They point
the directions in which we must move as
rapidly as circumstances permit."
The comprehensive and wide-ranging
action program I propose today builds
upon the 37-point program I submitted
to the Congress a year ago. It builds upon
the progress made in the past year, and
draws upon the experience gained in the
past year. It gives us the means to ensure
that, as a nation, we maintain the initia-
tive so vigorously begun in our shared
campaign to save and enhance our sur-
roundings. This program includes:
Measures to strengthen pollution con-
trol programs
-Charges on sulfur oxides and a tax
on lead in gasoline to supplement
regulatory controls on air pollution
-More effective control of water pol-
lution through a $12 billion national
program and strengthened standard-
setting and enforcement authorities
February 8, 1971
-Comprehensive improvement in pes-
ticide control authority
-A Federal procurement program to
encourage recycling of paper
Measures to control emerging problems
-Regulation of toxic substances
--Regulation of noise pollution
-Controls on ocean dumping
Measures to promote environmental
quality in land use decisions
-A national land use policy
-A new and greatly expanded open
space and recreation program, bring-
ing parks to the people in urban areas
-Preservation of historic buildings
through tax policy and other
incentives
-Substantial expansion of the wilder-
ness areas preservation system
-Advance public agency approval of
power plant sites and transmission
line routes
-Regulation of environmental effects
of surface and underground mining
Further institutional improvement
-Establishment of an Environmental
Institute to conduct studies and rec-
ommend policy alternatives
Toward a better world environment
-Expanded international cooperation
71-234-72-12
125
