[297] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
our recommendations is the use of a na-
tional transportation system to implement
such a policy.
Would you, Mr. President, feel dis-
posed to support a proposal that the High-
way Trust Fund expand into a general
transportation fund in order to build such
a national transportation system?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Hastings, as you
are probably quite aware, you have hit
upon about one of the most sensitive
political issues we have in this country. I
just met with a group of Governors, in-
cidentally, enlisting their support, and we
have their support in support of the wage-
price freeze.
If there is one sensitive issue, Governor
Milliken will tell you in his State it is:
"What are you going to do about that
Highway Trust Fund?" The same is true
with regard to the Congress.
On the other hand, looking toward the
future, looking toward a comprehensive
transportation policy for the country, I
believe that we cannot be rigid with re-
gard to the Highway Trust Fund. I be-
lieve that if the only effective way of
solving our mass transit problems, our
problems of congestion and the rest, is
through some approach which would use
some of these funds in other directions, I
think we have to consider it.
I don't have a specific proposal before
me and until I have one, I, of course, will
not approve it. But I don't think we
should enter this problem with a closed
mind.
A BALANCED BUDGET?
[8.] Q. Mr. President, this question
perhaps calls for an answer along the lines
of the educational one suggested earlier.
In your opinion, sir, is it impossible for
the United States Government to limit
its spending to the amount of its income
and forget deficit budgeting as a way of
life?
THE PRESIDENT. I would answer the
question by saying that whenever our
economy is producing at full capacity, we
should under no circumstances spend
more than what the tax system produces.
In other words, we should always have a
budget which is balanced when our econ-
omy is producing at full capacity.
When our economy is not producing at
full capacity, however, it has been true
at least in the last 25 years—and this was
true even in the Eisenhower Administra-
tion in 1958 when we had a deficit of over
$10 billion-it has been true that Govern-
ment spending, to pick up the slack in the
economy, can be justified.
Now, let us look at this Administration.
In our first year, in our first 2 years as a
matter of fact, we submitted budgets and
lived within budgets that were relatively
balanced or close to balanced.
This year and in the year 1972, fiscal
1972, our budgets are out of balance.
They are out of balance in the conven-
tional way, out of balance in the sense
that we are spending more than we are
getting in, in taxes. But on the other hand,
they are balanced in another way.
We are limiting our spending, with the
cooperation of the Congress, we hope, to
what the tax system would produce if it
were producing at full employment. And
we believe that that kind of spending is
not inflationary. If it goes beyond that,
then it would be inflationary.
So, my answer to your question is that
what we want to do-and I hope we
972
