Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [182]
Republic of China-for the first time that
Government and the Government of the
United States have found two areas, ex-
change of persons and travel, where again,
on a precise step-by-step basis, they are
beginning to have a different relationship
than they had previously. As I put it, what
we have done really is broken the ice;
now we have to test the water to see how
deep it is. More steps will be taken on our
part and on their part when it is to the
reciprocal interest of both to do so.
I do not suggest that any steps are
presently being contemplated on either
side. That would not be in the interest of
having that come about. But I do say
that the very fact that the United States
and the Government on Mainland China,
the People's Republic of China, have
finally moved in these limited areas toward
a relation of normalcy gives us hope that
not immediately-not within a year, for
example—but looking to the future, that
800 million Chinese will not be isolated
from the rest of the world.
Let me just say parenthetically that
when we think of the dangers to peace of
the world, I can think of none that would
quite exceed the fact that 800 million,
and then perhaps in 25 years a billion, of
the most capable and able people in the
world would be isolated from the rest of
the world, living there, not knowing the
rest of the world, and with a growing and
very dangerous nuclear capability.
I do not suggest that the steps that we
have taken have dealt with that problem
conclusively up to this point, but again
we have made movement and more move-
ment will take place as we, on either side,
find that it is in our best interest.
We look to another area of conflict, the
Mideast. Here the Secretary of State has
just completed a very significant trip. It
did not, and none of the reporters who
went with him expected it to happen-
and they, incidentally, wrote it very objec-
tively and, it seems to me, in a highly
professional way it did not settle the
differences. We did not expect that to
happen.
But when we look at that troubled area
of the world, it can be said now that we
have had a truce for 9 months and that is
some progress. It can be seen that while
the two parties are still, it seems, very,
very far apart with irreconcilable differ-
ence that is what it seems on the sur-
face-there is still the fact of discussion
going on through third parties, but never-
theless going on, which will not resolve
those differences completely. And no one
suggests that they may be resolved com-
pletely at any time in the future, but that
may resolve them in part, again on a step-
by-step basis.
Now let me put all of this together in
terms of what it means in foreign policy
and then why our own policies in the
United States in the domestic field are
so important as they relate to this.
Let's look to the future, what could
happen. Here we must put our hopes high.
As I said at Mobile earlier today, every
President in this century, and I suppose
every President long before this century,
has spoken in terms of peace, not only
for America but for the world.
Woodrow Wilson, I think, honestly felt
that the war that he was involved in,
World War I, would be a war that would
end wars.
Franklin D. Roosevelt felt very strongly
that World War II, particularly with the
United Nations following it, could be the
war that, as far as major powers were
concerned, that would be the last great
war.
667
