Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
ally to focus upon the substance, rather
than the symbolic needs, of Korean de-
fense. Thus we joined with the Govern-
ment of Korea in a comprehensive review
of our program of military cooperation.
Together we decided that the Republic
of Korea was now better able to meet its
own defense needs, provided measures
were taken to modernize the equipment
of its existing forces.
On February 6, therefore, our two gov-
ernments announced that U.S. forces in
Korea would be reduced by 20,000 by
June 30, 1971, and that agreement had
been reached upon a program of mod-
ernization of the Korean armed forces.
Thus, the rationale for the return home
of 20,000 American troops is that the
Korean armed forces, if modernized, are
adequate to carry a larger share of the
Korean defense burden. Their prompt
modernization requires assistance from us.
The Congress has wisely seen fit to make
available the initial resources needed to
provide that assistance.
There will be other similar instances,
for our own presence has been the cen-
tral element in Asian security. The only
responsible alternative to continuing to
carry that full burden is to help our
friends build the capacity to do the job
with less assistance from us. I am sure the
Congress will continue to see the wisdom.
of such investments.
The real progress of the Nixon Doctrine
is to be seen in the ability and the desire
of our Asian friends to assume more of
the responsibilities we have shared in the
past. Such evidence is not lacking:
-In the past decade, the Gross Na-
tional Product of the non-Commu-
nist nations of East Asia has tripled
from $100 billion to about $300
billion.
-A decade ago our East Asian allies
had about one million men under
arms. Today, that figure has more
than doubled, and the quality of
equipment and training has signifi-
cantly improved.
-The decision of Japan to contribute
1% of its Gross National Product in
governmental and private transfers
to foreign economic assistance by
1975 is a singular contribution to the
kind of Asia they and we seek.
-No less significant is Japan's decision
to liberalize its trade and capital
restrictions, thus improving the ac-
cess of others to the burgeoning
Japanese market, and promising, to
the benefit of all, a greater participa-
tion in meeting Japan's capital needs.
-The Republic of China, five years
after the termination of our economic
assistance, is the source of economic
assistance to 23 less developed coun-
tries. This is eloquent testimony to
Asian abilities to expand creatively
on the base that we helped construct.
THE FUTURE-BEYOND THE NIXON
DOCTRINE
From the above, I think it is fair to
conclude that we and our Asian friends
are well embarked on the effort to build
a new relationship in which our role is
defined by the Nixon Doctrine. I am con-
fident that our role can be kept in con-
sonance both with our interests and with
those of the increasingly self-reliant and
independent Asian states.
But that is only the first phase of the
adjustments which we and others will
have to make in Asia. In restructuring our
own posture, we have set in train the
readjustment of the whole international
271
