[62] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
cordial words which you have used to welcome
me here as an individual and as representative
of my country, as well as the welcome you ex-
tend to the members of my party, particularly
Foreign Minister Moro.
When one comes to the United States, Mr.
President, one cannot help but recall the great
epic adventure which saw the birth of this
great Nation, and one must, of course, recall all
the millions of men and women who came
from Europe as some of the great protagonists
who have taken part in this epic adventure of
building your great country.
There are so many persons, people who have
come here from other shores to help build the
institutions of freedom and individual dignity
of this great civilization which has found birth
in this country.
And, of course, among these Europeans, as
you have recalled, there are many, many
Italians in this great land who have brought
the very definite characteristics of their own,
characteristics of personal sacrifice and self-
denial, industriousness and intelligence.
And, of course, Italians are among the most
numerous of the nationality groups that have
come to form your great country and are pro-
foundly identified with your great land.
And they are also identified in a great faith
in the future in that their future is closely linked
with the future of the United States.
And, of course, in this respect, they are
extremely proud to be U.S. citizens with the
memories that they preserve of the old country.
Of course, the United States and Italy are
bound together by links of solid friendship. We
very much recall, we are always mindful of the
help that you extended to us when there was a
time in which we had to rebuild our country
and also to set about the work of constructing
democratic and free institutions in our country.
We have come a long way, Mr. President.
And, of course, now we range among the most
advanced industrialized countries of the world.
But we are aware that there is still much
work to do in order to continue to progress and
build the great civilization and the values which
we represent.
In fact, today in Italy we are engaged in the
work of improving our society, of bringing about
necessary reforms. In doing this we face many
great obstacles, but our ideals are so great and
our values so firm that we have complete trust
that we will be able to overcome these obstacles.
But as you know, and we know also, we
cannot undertake this task alone, Mr. Presi-
dent. And, therefore, we have a very profound
sense of friendship and alliance. We are mem-
bers of the Atlantic Alliance, a defensive alli-
ance which serves as an instrument of security,
stability, and equilibrium, but which we be-
lieve must also serve as an instrument for relaxa-
tion of tensions throughout the world because
our ideal is the ideal of a peaceful world, toward
which we work as partners with the other coun-
tries of Europe, with the intention of building a
Europe which will be open, which will be out-
ward looking to the rest of the world.
And we know that also in this great work
of ours that we can rely on the friendship of
the United States, so that this alliance will
become more and more solid and that we will
be able to go forward in the great work of
cooperation between our countries on either
side of the Atlantic.
So that once again, Mr. President, I would
like to express my gratefulness for the invita-
tion that you have extended to us to visit your
country in the certainty that our contacts here
will contribute even greater elements to the
firmness and happiness of the links which bind
our two countries together.
Thank you.
63 Special Message to the Congress Proposing a
National Health Strategy.
To the Congress of the United States:
In the last twelve months alone,
America's medical bill went up eleven
percent, from $63 to $70 billion. In the
February 18, 1971
last ten years, it has climbed 170 percent,
from the $26 billion level in 1960. Then
we were spending 5.3 percent of our
Gross National Product on health; today
170
