Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 10 [388]
388 Remarks on Presenting the Distinguished Service
Medal to General Leonard F. Chapman, Jr.
December 10, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
As you know, we are all gathered here
today for a ceremony which has occurred
before as far as General Chapman is con-
cerned. This is the third Distinguished
Service Medal he has received.
This one has a very special significance
because it marks the completion of 4 years
of service in the highest post in the Ma-
rine Corps-Commandant of the Marine
Corps and, although it is very hard to
realize in looking at him and his wife, 36
years in the Marine Corps.
On such occasions, it is best to let the
citation speak for the record, and the cita-
tion will be read by the Secretary, but I
would simply like to say that in the time I
have known General Chapman, I am
enormously impressed with his qualifica-
tions as a military officer and by his very
great ability as an advocate of the Marine
Corps and of the uniform he proudly
wears, exemplified across this country by
the affection and respect the men in the
Marine Corps have for him.
Certainly as he leaves as Commandant,
he has nothing but a record of pride to
look back upon.
I would also like to say that a Marine
wife has to be outstanding, and Mrs.
Chapman, in the social functions, has had
an opportunity of being an ideal Marine
wife.
I would also like to add that General
Chapman is a Marine in the truest sense.
I understand he started, as a matter of
fact, in the Army, and decided to take his
commission as second lieutenant in the
Marine Corps 36 years ago, as a matter
of choice-not because he didn't like the
Army, but because he did like the Marine
Corps.
But in any event, he carried that tradi-
tion on, and two of his sons became Ma-
rines, and both of them served with dis-
tinction in Vietnam.
We honor today the Marine Corps, and
we honor its Commandant and a splen-
did Marine family.
If you
Secretary.
will read the citation, Mr.
[At this point, Secretary of the Navy John H.
Chafee read the citation, the text of which
follows:
The President of the United States takes
pleasure in presenting the DISTINGUISHED
SERVICE MEDAL (Gold Star in lieu of the Third
Award) to
GENERAL LEONARD F. CHAPMAN, JR.
UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
for service as set forth in the following
Citation:
For exceptionally meritorious service to the
Government of the United States in a duty of
great responsibility as the Commandant of the
Marine Corps from February 1969 through
December 1971.
A splendid leader with enduring values and
great patriotism, General Chapman, during
four years as its Commandant, led the Marine
Corps through the height of the Vietnam Con-
flict and the process of returning to peacetime
posture. With keen foresight and conviction,
General Chapman forged a renewed Corps
emphasizing readiness, equality, and
professionalism.
As a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
General Chapman, through his statesmanship
and superb understanding of the factors which
influence the formulation of national policy,
1179
