Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 21 [148]
volume to any particular country would
be based on demonstrated self-help per-
formance, and the quality of the projects
and programs which that country pre-
sented to it. It would not seek to deter-
mine annual country lending levels in
advance as is done at present.
The IDC would operate to the maxi-
mum extent feasible within a frame-
work set by the international financial
institutions. It would look to them to pro-
vide evaluations of the overall develop-
ment prospects of particular countries,
which would be a major consideration in
its decisions to lend, rather than itself
carrying out the extensive "country pro-
gramming" which is now done. Within
that context it would participate in non-
project lending and international efforts
to alleviate the debt burdens of particular
lower income countries. It would partici-
pate for the United States in the inter-
national consortia and consultative
groups, managed in most cases by
the international financial institutions,
through which the bulk of our bilateral
assistance will flow.
The IDC would concentrate its activi-
ties in countries and regions where the
U.S. has a major foreign policy interest in
long-term development. For example, it
would establish guidelines to assure that
an equitable share of its resources is pro-
vided to the countries of the Western
Hemisphere. But precisely because our in-
terest is in the long-term development of
these nations, the IDC would use its funds
to pursue such interests rather than to
seek merely short-term political gains.
The IDC would provide loans on the
basis of both sound business standards and
the pursuit of sound development pur-
poses. The terms of its loans would be de-
termined in large part by the financial
situation of the borrowing country, rather
than on the standard terms now offered
to all borrowers. It would avoid loans to
countries where the analysis of interna-
tional financial institutions, and its own
views, suggest an inadequate policy frame-
work in which the loans could effectively
promote development. The IDC would
not be solely a lender of last resort as AID
is required to be today, often financing the
riskiest projects and programs.
The Corporation would work with and
through the private sector to the maxi-
mum extent possible. It would give high
priority to projects and programs which
promote private initiative in the lower
income countries, and to this end would
seek to increase U.S. lending to local de-
velopment banks and other financial in-
termediaries. I recommend that it also
have authority to lend directly to private
entities in the lower income countries.
The IDC would be governed by a
Board of Directors consisting of outstand-
ing private citizens as well as government
officials, thus bringing the private sector
directly into its decision-making process.
With this clear identification of specific
instruments and programs with the spe-
cific objectives they are designed to
achieve, we should not need to tie the
hands of our managers of the Corpora-
tion or any of our other new institutions—
with the kinds of foreign policy and ad-
ministrative restrictions which apply to
the present program. Administrators
should be held accountable for achieving
program objectives. This is a central re-
quirement of the businesslike approach
which the new structure is designed to
foster.
To insure the necessary continuity and
stability of operations to permit this busi-
nesslike approach, and building on the
571
1
