Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 19 [364]
we cannot continue to be a great nation.
So we need the devotion, the character,
the patriotism of the people you represent.
We need it because America has a mis-
sion in the world. It is bigger than our-
selves. It is as big as the whole world
itself. It was not so at the beginning.
Whether America failed or succeeded
wouldn't have determined whether or not
the world would have war or peace.
But today there is no other free nation
in the world that can provide the leader-
ship, if that leadership can be provided,
that can keep the peace and to stop ag-
gression around the world.
So I say to you, my friends, the future
of America is in the hands of 80 million
American wage earners. Putting it an-
other way: The future of America is in
your hands. I believe it is in good hands.
I believe it is in good hands because,
despite the differences that I mentioned
here, I have found over and over again in
talking to the leaders of organized labor
that when the chips are down, that the
people in organized labor will take those
positions that are best for this country.
I will conclude as I began: Yes, we do
have differences, but regardless of what
those differences are, because I know you
are for America, you can be sure every one
of
you will always have a friend in the
White House.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. in
the Americana Hotel.
364 Advance Text of Remarks Prepared for the
AFL-CIO Convention. November 19, 1971
I WELCOME this opportunity to call to
the attention of organized labor the ac-
complishments of this Administration on
behalf of the American worker. The rec-
ord is one of solid achievement compiled
with careful regard to the needs of labor
and to the economic and social needs of
this Nation.
One of the really distressing discoveries
this Administration made when we ex-
amined the needs of the American worker
was the safety record of our work force.
Work-related accidents and illnesses kill
some 14,000 Americans every year. We
found that occupational safety laws were
inadequate, that workmen's compensa-
tion was inadequate, and that temporary
disability insurance at both State and
Federal levels was inadequate. This was
entirely unacceptable. It was clear that
steps had to be taken quickly to remedy
this situation, and we took those steps.
In August of 1969, the Secretary of
Labor submitted to the Congress the Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Act. That
bill was passed late last year and went
into effect April 28. Among other things,
it sets up a National Institute for Occupa-
tional Safety and Health to do research in
the area of safety standards. Funding for
research under the health proposals in this
legislation has been increased by 75
percent.
The Federal Coal Mine Health and
Safety Act, which I signed in December
1969, establishes dust and safety standards
for miners, provides more intensive inspec-
tion of mines, and provides compensation
for workers suffering from black lung.
In March of 1970, we proposed legisla-
tion to improve benefits payable under
the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers'
1125
