[364] Nov. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
this Nation has not seen for 15 years-
prosperity in peacetime. I am confident
that we can achieve it together. I ask you
to join together with us in the effort to
achieve it, and I pledge to you that we
will come out of this phase of the new
economic program into a period of sus-
tained prosperity that will repay many
times over any immediate sacrifices that
any segment of the American work force
is called upon to make.
NOTE: The advance text was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
365 Message to the Congress Transmitting Part I of a
Two-Part Study on Railroad-Highway Safety.
November 19, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress
Part I of a two-part study of Railroad-
Highway Safety in accordance with the
requirements of the Federal Railroad
Safety Act of 1970 (P.L. 91-458).
Railroad-highway grade crossing safety
is not a simple issue. It has many com-
plexities which arise from such factors as
the division of authorities and respon-
sibilities for grade crossing safety among
many governmental levels and jurisdic-
tions, the important role of the private
railroad companies who own and main-
tain the rights-of-way, the division of
financial responsibilities between govern-
ment and the private industry, and the
cost and reliability of protective devices
and grade separations.
This Report was prepared by the De-
partment of Transportation as a compre-
hensive background survey of the prob-
lems involved. It contains a useful history
of the grade crossing issue, a review of
current problems and a discussion of the
grade crossing problem within the con-
text of highway safety.
Any recommendations for specific ac-
tion will be presented in Part II of this
Report to be submitted by next July 1972,
under the provisions of the Highway
Safety Act of 1970 (P.L. 91-605).
I commend this Report to you as im-
portant groundwork for a better under-
standing of the issues in this field, and I
request that any definite legislative action
on this subject be deferred until Part II
of the Report has been transmitted to the
Congress.
The White House
November 19, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was posted for
the press at Key Biscayne, Fla.
The report is entitled "Report to Congress-
Railroad-Highway Safety; Part I: A Compre-
hensive Statement of the Problem" (95 pp.
plus appendix).
1128
