[89] Mar. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
and concentrating resources in a coordi-
nated assault on a common problem, the
categorical grant system works to divide
and scatter those resources and severely
to diminish their impact.
2. Federal Control. The first major
problem, fragmentation, concerns what
happens among various grant programs.
The second major problem concerns what
happens within each program as a result
of excessive Federal control.
Almost all of our present development
grant programs require a local community
to file an extensive application with Fed-
eral authorities who, if they approve the
plan, will then pay out available money
on a project-by-project basis. Because
competition between localities for limited
Federal dollars is most intense, local offi-
cials are highly motivated to meet both
the formal requirements and the informal
preferences of Federal officials as they file
their applications. And since Federal
monitoring often continues after the funds
are approved, local decisions inevitably
continue to reflect Federal viewpoints.
But what is gained by these require-
ments? There is simply no good reason
why a Federal official should have to ap-
prove in advance a local community's
decision about the shape a new building
will have or where a new street will run
or on what corner it will put a new gas
station. Yet that is precisely the kind of
matter that now must be reviewed at the
Federal level. In one case, in fact, the Fed-
eral reviewer actually turned down a
grant application because the architect
had included an eight-sided building in
his design and the Federal regulations did
not specifically allow for funding octag-
onal buildings.
Decisions about the development of a
local community should reflect local
preferences and meet local needs. No
group of remote Federal officials-how-
ever talented and sincere-can effectively
tailor each local program to the wide
variety of local conditions which exists in
this highly diversified land. The only way
that can be done is by bringing more
tailors into the act, tailors who are elected
to make sure that the suit fits the customer.
While little is gained by inordinate Fed-
eral involvement; a great deal can be lost.
Excessive Federal influence can work to
limit the variety and diversity of develop-
ment programs-which means that the
opportunity to experiment with new tech-
niques and to learn from a wide range of
experiences is also limited. Because little
decisions tend to drive out bigger ones, the
present arrangements give the Federal
Government less opportunity to focus on
the questions it can answer best. And even
under the best of circumstances, excessive
Federal control results in massive ineffi-
ciency and intolerable delays.
I looked recently at some of the appli-
cations that communities have submitted
for certain urban development funds. One
of them was two and a half feet high. I am
told that Federal participation in any
given urban renewal project now involves
almost 300 separate procedural steps. No
wonder it now takes an average of three
years for an urban renewal plan to be
developed and accepted and an average of
ten years before a project is completed.
One result of such delays is a particu-
larly troubling urban problem which is
known as "planner's blight." It often sets
in between the time a Federal renewal
project is announced and the time it is
actually started. During this interval, a
neighborhood frequently stagnates. Since
they have been marked for eventual de-
struction, streets and parks and buildings
398
