[158] May 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
U. ALEXIS JOHNSON, Career Ambassador, Un-
der Secretary for Political Affairs, Depart-
ment of State.
DR. EDWARD F. KNIPLING, Director, Entomol-
ogy Research Division, Agricultural Re-
search Service, Department of Agriculture.
DR. FRED LEONARD, Scientific Director, Army
Medical Biomechanical Research Labora-
tory, Walter Reed Army Medical Center,
Department of the Army.
GEORGE H. WILLIS, Deputy to the Assistant
Secretary for International Affairs, De-
partment of the Treasury.
These individuals are outstanding
among the many men and women who
serve their country and fellow citizens
with great distinction. Their exceptional
achievements have moved the Nation for-
ward in such diverse fields as budgeting
and finance, international relations, envi-
ronmental science, lifesaving surgical
techniques, and the world's monetary sys-
tem. I know all of you share my gratitude
for their superlative, although usually
anonymous services to their country.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was dated May 4,
1971, and released May 5.
The President presented the awards for 1971
in a ceremony at the White House on May 5.
159 Special Message to the Congress Proposing
Establishment of a Legal Services Corporation.
May 5, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In the long, uphill struggle to secure
equal rights in America, the Federal pro-
gram of legal services for the poor is a
relative newcomer to the cause. Yet it has
already become a workhorse in this effort,
pulling briskly and tirelessly at the task
as the Nation moves ahead.
The legal services program began six
years ago as a small experiment within
the Office of Economic Opportunity. It
grew swiftly, so rapidly that today more
than 2000 lawyers work for the poor in
some 900 neighborhood law offices. No
less than a million cases a year are now
processed by these dedicated attorneys,
with each case giving those in need new
reason to believe that they too are part
of "the system."
A large measure of credit is due the
organized bar. Acting in accordance with
the highest standards of its profession, it
has given admirable and consistent sup-
port to the legal services concept. The
concept has also had the support of both
political parties.
The crux of the program, however, re-
mains in the neighborhood law office.
Here each day the old, the unemployed,
the underprivileged, and the largely for-
gotten people of our Nation may seek
help. Perhaps it is an eviction, a marital
conflict, repossession of a car, or misun-
derstanding over a welfare check-each
problem may have a legal solution. These
are small claims in the Nation's eye, but
they loom large in the hearts and lives of
poor Americans.
A NEW DIRECTION
The Nation has learned many lessons
in these six short years. This program has
not been without travail. Much of the liti-
gation initiated by legal services has
placed it in direct conflict with local and
618
