[132] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
water quality standards. My 1971 en-
vironmental proposals and my FY 1972
budget provide for continued support of
this improvement project by the Environ-
mental Protection Agency. I will shortly
submit to the Congress a District FY 1971
supplemental appropriation request to
permit the District of Columbia to main-
tain its share of support for the work.
The money which the District govern-
ment is required to spend to meet its
share of the Blue Plains improvement
costs is raised by direct borrowing from
the United States Treasury-the standard
means of financing all District public
works and capital outlays. However the
borrowing authority of the District gov-
ernment under present law is insufficient
to meet the Blue Plains needs in FY 1972
and subsequent years. Rather than merely
seeking an ad hoc extension of this bor-
rowing authority, I am renewing my pro-
posal that all capital financing for the
District of Columbia be shifted from di-
rect Treasury loans to municipal bonds.
The 91st Congress did not enact this
needed reform, and I have now placed it
before the 92nd Congress. The features of
this bonding proposal parallel those I have
just described for METRO bonds: D.C.
capital bonds would be Federally guaran-
teed and Federally taxable, with a Fed-
eral subsidy covering approximately 25
percent of interest costs. Under this ar-
rangement the District of Columbia would
gain most of the advantages of ordinary
municipal bonds while retaining an extra
degree of Federal support in keeping with
the unique Federal interest in District
affairs. Blue Plains is only the most urgent
of many public works projects which
could progress more quickly and efficiently
as a result.
Extending this type of bonding author-
ity to the District government is exactly
in line with a cardinal principle of the
New American Revolution: that the way
to help local government become more
responsible is to entrust it with more
responsibility.
ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC HIGHER
EDUCATION
A city can have no obligation higher,
and no investment more worthy, than the
development of its human resources. The
Nation can be proud of the way this pri-
ority is being recognized in the District of
Columbia. The Washington Technical In-
stitute and the Federal City College, both
created in recent years, are helping thou-
sands of young Washingtonians expand
their opportunities by developing their po-
tential beyond the high school level. The
work that these institutions have done un-
der a variety of handicaps and hardships
is remarkable, and this administration is
committed to helping the District elimi-
nate their handicaps as quickly as possi-
ble. For this reason, my proposal for
District of Columbia public works bond-
ing makes a special provision to assist the
construction of permanent campuses for
the Institute and the College. It would
shift the financing of these projects from
Treasury loans to direct Federal grant
support.
This approach would simplify and
speed the effort to give Washington Tech-
nical Institute and Federal City College
the kind of physical facilities they deserve
to match the levels of dedication and
per-
formance they have shown from the first.
It would also remove a substantial burden
on the future public debt of the District
government. Purely from a business stand-
point, these grants can be regarded as a
516
