Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 16 [59]
that we would win the peace and not lose
the peace, the American Legion stood
firmly by the President of the United
States.
And then I recall one of the more, shall
I say, lonely times, and the office of the
Presidency is not a lonely office—I can
assure you that there is always somebody
there ready to come in if you will just
open the door-but I remember it was
lonely from the standpoint of public sup-
port, and I understood why. On April 30
of last
year, I had to make a difficult deci-
sion, a decision to move on the Communist
outposts in Cambodia that were being
used for the purpose of killing American
men in Vietnam.
When I made that decision, there were
those who honestly opposed it, and I re-
spected them for that opposition. There
were others who waited on the fence to see
how it would come out. There were a
few-a few who came in and said, "We
support you."
I remember the commander of the
American Legion-4 days after the deci-
sion was made, he came to Washington,
and that was as soon as he could get here.
He came in to see me. He said to me
very simply-Commander Milton Patrick
did—as I recall, something like this: He
said, "Members of the American Legion,
Mr. President, know what it means to look
down the barrel of a gun, and we support
the Commander in Chief in his efforts to
see to it that the barrels of those guns in
Cambodia are spiked so that they will not
be killing our men in Vietnam."
That kind of support at that time,
which could have been delayed, which
could have even been withheld, support
that was given at a time when many were
not sure as to how the operation would
come out, was support that was most wel-
come to the President of the United States,
I can assure you, clearly apart from the
personalities involved, and support that I
will always remember.
The fact that the operation did succeed;
the fact that, as you know, our casualties
since Cambodia have been reduced by
two-thirds; that 100,000 Americans have
come home since that time and are con-
tinuing to come home; the fact that as a
result of that operation the South Viet-
namese have developed the confidence
and the ability that they now can under-
take on the ground by themselves, as far
as the ground action is concerned in oper-
ation, to cut the Communist supply line
coming down the Ho Chi Minh Trail--all
of this, it seems to me, indicates how the
American Legion, in the person of its
commander, at a time when it would have
been easy not to stand up, did stand up.
I am grateful for that, and I express my
appreciation to all the members of the
American Legion for that support in that
period.
Now we are fortunate as we meet here
tonight to be at a time when we can look
at this
very difficult war in Vietnam, when
we can see that Americans are continuing
to come home, when we can see the end of
the American involvement in Vietnam;
but an end of that involvement in a way
that it will discourage that kind of war in
the future and that it will allow the South
Vietnamese to have the strength which
they need to defend themselves and to give
their people a chance to make their own
choice with regard to the kind of govern-
ment they want rather than to have that
imposed upon them by force from the
Communists in the North.
And as we look at that situation-the
end of the longest war in America's his-
tory-and as we look at the time after
155
