[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
PART IV: SECURING NATIONAL
INTERESTS
-Strategic Policy and Forces
-General Purpose Forces
-Security Assistance
-Arms Control
INTRODUCTION
The first responsibility of the President
is the security of the Republic. Recogniz-
ing the danger of our times, and the costs
of modern defense, the people and their
Congress make available to the President
vast resources to meet that respon-
sibility. Each Administration, however, is
greatly dependent on the decisions of its
predecessor.
For in the field of national security,
each Presidency is a link in a chain. Each
Administration inherits the force in being.
The long-range investments made by ear-
lier Administrations define the ability to
change that force in the near term.
I am deeply conscious that my deci-
sions with respect to defense policy will
profoundly affect the ability of my suc-
cessors to ensure the nation's safety. I rec-
ognize that I cannot know, and can only
imperfectly conceive, the crises which my
successors may have to face. I, therefore,
intend to forge a strong link in the chain.
We have used the National Security
Council system to strengthen the process
of defense planning. We have examined
our defense problems within the total con-
text of the domestic and international
political and economic environments.
These studies have given us the basis for a
new assessment of our national priorities.
Our priorities must reflect our pressing
domestic problems. They do. In Fiscal
Year 1972, our overall defense expendi-
tures, including those resources committed
to Vietnam, will require a smaller share
of our Gross National Product and the
Federal Budget than in any year since
1950.
It needs to be understood with total
clarity, however, that defense programs
are not infinitely adjustable. Nor is each
adjustment downward of equal signifi-
cance. It is an error-and it is potentially
the ultimate error-not to recognize those
facts as imperative guides to national
priorities. For there is an absolute point
below which our security forces must
never be allowed to go. That is the level
of sufficiency. Above or at that level, our
defense forces protect national security
adequately. Below that level is one vast
undifferentiated area of no security at all.
For it serves no purpose in conflicts be-
tween nations to have been almost strong
enough.
Our current level of security expendi-
tures is adequate to provide the forces
necessary to protect our vital interests. It
must be kept that way.
STRATEGIC POLICY AND FORCES
Strategic forces, both offensive and de-
fensive, are the backbone of our security.
-They are the primary deterrent to
strategic attacks against us or our
allies.
-They face an aggressor contemplat-
ing less than all-out attacks with an
unacceptable risk of escalation.
-They are essential to the mainte-
nance of a stable political environ-
ment within which the threat of
aggression or coercion against the
U.S. and its allies is minimized.
Our strategic forces must be numerous
enough, efficient enough, and deployed
in such a way that an aggressor will always
308
