Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
human life, the more that quality of life
needs protection from the means we have
devised.
Along with its vast contribution to our
well-being, technology has given us the
common capability to pollute the earth's
oceans and air. It has increased the in-
centives for nations to assert, and attempt
to enforce, territorial claims to the oceans
so immoderate as to endanger the ancient
right of freedom of the seas. It has
brought the ability to tap—or to ravage—
the resources of the sea and the ocean
floor, to the vast benefit-or to the huge
harm-of mankind.
These are examples of problems in
which every country has a deep national
interest, but which, as a practical matter,
are simply not subject to satisfactory reso-
lution by national means. They are mat-
ters on which the nations of the world
must subsume their narrower interests in
a broad and generous concept of the world
interest. For without such an approach,
we will not find the solutions which both
the world interest and the national inter-
ests require. Without such an approach,
we cannot fully harness the capacity of
technology to meet these global
challenges.
Thus there has come into being a new
dimension in the foreign policy of the
United States, not as a matter of choice
and deliberate action on our part, but as a
reflection of the demanding realities of
the world in which we live. Foreign policy
has, of course, always aimed at serving
the nation's security and well-being. What
is new is the fact that we now face an
increasing range of problems which are
central to our national well-being, but
which are, by definition, global problems,
or problems which can only be dealt with
effectively on a global scale.
In addressing these problems a narrow
calculation of national interests is inade-
quate. For viewed from that perspective,
the nations of the world do sometimes
have conflicting interests of a real and
substantial nature. Of greater import,
however, is our shared and transcendent
interest in the livability of our common
home, the earth. To these problems, and
the opportunities they present, that inter-
est must be our guide and the guide of
others. The nurturing of that interest has
now become a prime task of American
leadership.
During the past year, this new dimen-
sion of our international activity has been
evident at the United Nations, in a num-
ber of its associated organizations, in vari-
ous regional activities, and through
frequent bilateral contacts with many na-
tions around the world. It is encouraging
that the international community is show-
ing an increasing willingness to grapple
with these problems. But the fact remains
that the time available for finding a solu-
tion to many of them is perilously short.
I want to review our attitude toward some
of the more salient issues, and the steps
that are being taken by the international
community to meet those issues.
THE ENVIRONMENT
No nation can keep its pollution to
itself. Wastes discharged into the air and
water in fact befoul a common resource.
Restraint on the part of individual states,
however laudable and necessary, is inade-
quate to the problem, for in the absence
of international action, competitive eco-
nomic pressures will severely limit na-
tional abilities to require the costly
331
