[66] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
66 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Colombo
of Italy. February 18, 1971
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Foreign Minis-
ter, Mr. Ambassador, our distinguished
guests:
Mr. Prime Minister, you have been to
this country on 10 different occasions, but
it is a very great honor for us to welcome
you in this house and in this historic room
for the first time as Prime Minister of your
country.
And we have tried to make you feel at
home with the musical selections by our
Army string group.
After hearing them play and hearing
you compliment them as graciously as you
did to me while they were playing, I
thought of the War Between the States
and the remark made or attributed to a
Confederate general when he was asked
by a private serving in the infantry for
transfer to the band.
The general replied, "No." He said,
"Son, what this army needs is shooters,
not tooters."
Our Army, our Navy, our Air Force we
consider to be part of the peace forces of
the world as you do yours, and we are
proud that in addition to their military
accomplishments they also have other ac-
complishments which were demonstrated
tonight for this
for this very distinguished
audience.
A little earlier today I participated in a
ceremony honoring President Wilson and
the living memorial that is being estab-
lished in Washington in his memory.
On that occasion, I thought of his visit
to Europe immediately after World
War I, and particularly of what he de-
scribed as the warmest receptions he re-
ceived on that visit, his receptions in Italy.
I recall, too, what he said at Torino
when he commented upon the suggestion
that had been made by one of the Italian
leaders to the effect that after World
War I, carrying out President Wilson's
philosophy of self-determination, that
Italy should have sovereignty over Italians
wherever they lived in the world.
And President Wilson responded to that
suggestion in Torino somewhat along
these lines. He said, "We could never
agree to that, because the United States
couldn't bear to part with New York."
And he correctly pointed out that New
York, at that time, had more Italians than
any city in Italy.
But then he went on to say something
very profound and as true today as it
was then: that the United States could
not bear to part with the genius of the
Italian spirit which has meant so much
to this country in the past and means so
much to it today.
Mr. Prime Minister, in this distin-
guished company we have gathered today
you see part of that genius, leaders in the
field of business, in the field of the arts,
in the field of sports, all the areas which
indicate achievement in our country.
I could mention so many. I could men-
tion Enrico Fermi, of Italian background,
the man most responsible for the devel-
190
