Richard Nixon, 1971
June 29 [214]
celeration Act of 1962 demonstrates
that spending-and hence job crea-
tion-under this bill would not be-
come fully effective for at least 18
months at which time further stimu-
lation would be unnecessary and in-
flationary. Only about 10 percent of
the funds would be likely to be spent
within the next twelve months. It
therefore would not even make a real
start on delivering on its implied
promise of jobs now, when jobs are
needed.
-It would have little effect in reduc-
ing joblessness in the areas where it
is now most concentrated. The Viet-
nam Veteran, the unskilled youth,
and other persons unemployed be-
cause of lack of training or opportu-
nity would have little chance of
securing a job on one of these
projects.
-Rather than helping the broad
spectrum of the presently unem-
ployed, the impact of the bill would
focus primarily on the construction
industry which already has experi-
enced rapid cost inflation. In no
other industry have wage increases
been higher. Increases in that indus-
try have affected collective bargain-
ing elsewhere, thus further fueling
inflation in the overall economy.
-Because the accelerated public works
program has been conceived of as an
emergency measure, with an implied
promise of quick approvals and a
broad scattering of the benefits, in-
sistent demands could be expected
for marginal, hurriedly planned,
environmentally damaging and un-
coordinated projects.
-Finally, false hopes would be created
in many communities, and this ad-
ministration does not wish to be a
party to these misleading impressions.
The previous Accelerated Public
Works program resulted in applica-
tions for nearly double the amount of
funds available despite early efforts
to discourage requests. On the basis
of these expectations, communities
deferred locally funded projects.
Therefore, the net economic impact
in many communities was, actually,
a delay in needed public works
projects.
In addition to accelerated public works,
S. 575 also extends-by Title II-the Pub-
lic Works and Economic Development
Act of 1965 until June 30, 1973, and
extends-by Title III-the Appalachian
Regional Development Act to June 30,
1975. I agree that our present economic
development programs should be ex-
tended while the Congress is considering
my revenue sharing proposals. But most
importantly, the Congress must act
immediately to insure that there is no
gap in service to the people in Appalachia
and in the economically depressed areas
served by EDA. In this connection, I am
pleased to note that the House has al-
ready provided for the temporary con-
tinuance of these programs until new legis-
lation can be enacted. I urge the Senate
to do likewise.
I know the problems of these areas. I
met with the Appalachian Governors last
year for a full half day to discuss the best
ways in which we could meet the needs of
the people of Appalachia. When I met
with the Governors of Virginia, West Vir-
ginia, and Kentucky last week, I em-
phasized that even if I would have to veto
the Accelerated Public Works bill, I sup-
port the Appalachian program
percent.
100
787
