[109] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
This report also incorporates these pro-
posed changes.
I commend this report to your careful
attention.
The White House
March 22, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 138-page report is entitled "Annual
Report of Federal Activities in Juvenile Delin-
ΙΙΟ
quency, Youth Development, and Related
Fields."
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the report
by Robert H. Finch, Counsellor to the Presi-
dent; and John D. Twiname, Administrator,
Social and Rehabilitation Service, and Robert
J. Gemignani, Commissioner, Youth Develop-
ment and Delinquency Prevention Adminis-
tration, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare.
"A Conversation With the President,” Interview With
Howard K. Smith of the American Broadcasting
Company. March 22, 1971
QUESTIONS
THE PRESIDENT'S MOOD
[1.] MR. SMITH. Mr. President, it was
about this month, in this year of his tenure,
that President Kennedy said: This is the
winter of my discontent.
And President Johnson didn't put it the
same way, but he felt the same way about
the same time in his tenure.
How are you feeling these days?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't feel it is
"the winter of my discontent." I suppose
I keep it somewhat in perspective because
I have had many winters in the past which
perhaps have been more difficult than this
one.
There are grave problems confronting
America, at home and abroad, but I am
rather confident about the solution of
those problems. And as long as one is
confident about the programs and plans
that he is working on, the problems do
not loom nearly as big or as difficult.
CREDIBILITY GAP
[2.] MR. SMITH. Mr. President, let me
ask you a question to which I shall first
append a preface. I promise you the rest
of the questions won't be this long.
To me, the key formative fact about
the Nixon Presidency is the fact that you
were elected to lead the Nation, but due
to our system of separate elections you
were not given the usual means of leader-
ship. You got a popular mandate which
was small; you are the first President in
this century to be elected with both Houses
of Congress in opposition; you said, I
think, last week in an interview that in
your situation, television, getting to the
public by television, gave you the leverage
you needed. Well, now, that channel is
menaced by what the columnists call the
credibility gap, and the Gallup Poll said,
too, that 7 out of 10 Americans don't be-
lieve what the Administration is saying.
How did this diminution of belief come
about, and what do you intend to do
about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think first, Mr.
Smith, with regard to what you call the
credibility gap, that many observers-in
fact, I think I even recall something you
said at one time-have pointed out that
Presidents, particularly when they have
difficult problems in foreign affairs, in-
448
