[203] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
steps. This will provide a total of $371
million for programs to control drug abuse
in America.
A NEW APPROACH TO REHABILITATION
While experience thus far indicates that
the enforcement provisions of the Com-
prehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and
Control Act of 1970 are effective, they
are not sufficient in themselves to elim-
inate drug abuse. Enforcement must be
coupled with a rational approach to the
reclamation of the drug user himself. The
laws of supply and demand function in the
illegal drug business as in any other. We
are taking steps under the Comprehensive
Drug Act to deal with the supply side of
the equation and I am recommending ad-
ditional steps to be taken now. But we
must also deal with demand. We must
rehabilitate the drug user if we are to
eliminate drug abuse and all the anti-
social activities that flow from drug abuse.
Narcotic addiction is a major contrib-
utor to crime. The cost of supplying a
narcotic habit can run from $30 a day to
$100 a day. This is $210 to $700 a week,
or $10,000 a year to over $36,000 a year.
Untreated narcotic addicts do not ordi-
narily hold jobs. Instead, they often turn
to shoplifting, mugging, burglary, armed
robbery, and so on. They also support
themselves by starting other people--
young people-on drugs. The financial
costs of addiction are more than $2 billion
every year, but these costs can at least
be measured. The human costs cannot.
American society should not be required
to bear either cost.
Despite the fact that drug addiction
destroys lives, destroys families, and de-
stroys communities, we are still not mov-
ing fast enough to meet the problem in an
effective way. Our efforts are strained
through the Federal bureaucracy. Of
those we can reach at all under the pres-
ent Federal system-and the number is
relatively small-of those we try to help
and who want help, we cure only a trag-
ically small percentage.
we
Despite the magnitude of the problem,
despite our very limited success in meet-
ing it, and despite the common recogni-
tion of both circumstances,
nevertheless have thus far failed to de-
velop a concerted effort to find a better
solution to this increasingly grave threat.
At present, there are nine Federal agen-
cies involved in one fashion or another
with the problem of drug addiction. There
are anti-drug abuse efforts in Federal pro-
grams ranging from vocational rehabili-
tation to highway safety. In this manner
our efforts have been fragmented through
competing priorities, lack of communica-
tion, multiple authority, and limited and
dispersed resources. The magnitude and
the severity of the present threat will no
longer permit this piecemeal and bureau-
cratically-dispersed effort at drug control.
If we cannot destroy the drug men-
ace in America, then it will surely in time
destroy us. I am not prepared to accept
this alternative.
Therefore, I am transmitting legisla-
tion to the Congress to consolidate at the
highest level a full-scale attack on the
problem of drug abuse in America. I am
proposing the appropriation of additional
funds to meet the cost of rehabilitating
drug users, and I will ask for additional
funds to increase our enforcement efforts
to further tighten the noose around the
necks of drug peddlers, and thereby loosen
the noose around the necks of drug users.
At the same time I am proposing addi-
tional steps to strike at the "supply" side
740
