[112] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
provides opportunities for working
businessmen to assist in the develop-
ment of small businesses.
After investigation I have found and
hereby declare that each reorganization
included in the accompanying reorgani-
zation plan is necessary to accomplish one
or more of the purposes set forth in sec-
tion go1 (a) of title 5 of the United States
Code. In particular, the plan is responsive
to section 901 (a) (1), "to promote the
better execution of the laws, the more
effective management of the executive
branch and of its agencies and functions,
and the expeditious administration of the
public business;" and section 901(a)(3),
"to increase the efficiency of the opera-
tions of the Government to the fullest ex-
tent practicable.”
I
The reorganizations provided for in the
plan make necessary the appointment and
compensation of new officers as specified
in section 1 of the plan. The rates of com-
pensation fixed for these officers would be
comparable to those fixed for officers in
the executive branch who have similar
responsibilities.
The reorganization plan should result
in more efficient operation of the Gov-
ernment. It is not practical, however, to
itemize or aggregate the exact expendi-
ture reductions which would result from
this action.
Upon the establishment of Action, I
would delegate to it the principal author-
ity for the Peace Corps now vested in me
as President and delegated to the Secre-
tary of State. In addition, the function of
the Office of Voluntary Action, now oper-
ating in the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, would be trans-
ferred to the new agency by executive
action.
Finally, I will submit legislation which
would include the transfer of the func-
tions of the Teacher Corps from the De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to the new agency. This legislation
would expand authority to develop new
uses of volunteer talents, it would pro-
vide a citizens' advisory board to work
with the director of the new agency, and
it would provide authority to match pri-
vate contributions.
GOALS
Although reorganization is only a step,
it is the essential first step toward the goal
of a system of volunteer service which uses
to the fullest advantages the power of all
the American people to serve the purposes
of the American nation.
In pursuing this goal, the new agency
would, first, expand the testing and de-
velopment of innovations in voluntary
actions. Health services, housing, the
environment, educational development,
manpower, and community planning are
just a few of the areas in which we would
act to accomplish more through voluntary
service, and I intend to ask for additional
funds and additional authority for Action
to explore new approaches to these and
other problems.
In the future, we are going to have to
find new ways for more people to fulfill
themselves and to lead satisfying and pro-
ductive lives. The problems are of con-
cern even now, but they must be put in
perspective quickly because they will soon
be upon us. I believe at least some of the
answers will be found in volunteer service.
Action would work to find those answers
and apply them.
Second, there are many Americans who
want to contribute to our national life
through voluntary citizen service, but who
468
