Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 12 [328]
Kissinger will work out that date on his
trip, which will take place within the next
2 or 3 weeks.ยน
But it is vitally important that the meet-
ing accomplish something. It is, therefore,
important that the preparation for the
meeting be adequate in every respect. And
in the discussion that I had with Mr.
Gromyko when he was here, and at dis-
cussions prior to that time that were had
at other levels with regard to the setting
up of this trip, it was felt that May of
1972 would be the time when progress on
a number of fronts in which we are pres-
ently involved with the Soviet Union
would have reached the point that a meet-
ing at the highest level could be effective.
POSSIBILITY OF SALT AGREEMENT
[3] Q. Mr. President, do you expect
to be able to sign an agreement on stra-
tegic arms when you go to Moscow next
May?
THE PRESIDENT. As you will recall, we
at the highest level, in May, indicated
that our goal would be to try to achieve
an agreement on strategic arms this year.
We are making progress toward that goal.
We will continue to move toward achiev-
ing that goal, either at the end of this
year or as soon thereafter as we possibly
can.
If the goal can be achieved before
May of 1972, we will achieve it, and that,
1 The announcements of Dr. Henry A.
Kissinger's second visit to Peking and the
itinerary for the visit were read by Press Secre-
tary Ronald L. Ziegler during his regular news
briefings at the White House on October 5,
1971, and October 14. The announcements are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presiden-
tial Documents (vol. 7, pp. 1374 and 1407).
incidentally, is also the view of the Soviet
Union.
I will not speculate as to failing to
achieve that goal. If it is not achieved,
certainly that would be one of the subjects
that would come up.
AGENDA FOR SOVIET VISIT
[4] Q. Mr. President, what would you
expect other items on the agenda to be in
addition to anything that is concluded at
the SALT talks?
THE PRESIDENT. I have already indi-
cated that we will review all major issues.
Now, to indicate what the issues will be is
quite premature. For example, the ques-
tion that has just been raised with re-
gard to the SALT talks is one that
behind us at that point.
may
be
Both governments are working toward
that end. And then the question would
be: What do we do in arms control going
beyond simply the limitation of strategic
weapons at this point? And the same
would be true of the Mideast, which is a
possible subject. The same is true in a
number of other areas where presently
the Soviet Union and the United States
are having negotiations.
The fact that we are going to have a
meeting in May does not mean that the
negotiating tracks that we are engaged
on with the Soviet Union, in a number of
areas, are now closed or that we are going
to slow down.
We are going to go forward in all the
other areas so that in May we can deal
with unfinished business.
Q. Mr. President, would this include
Cuba?
THE PRESIDENT. The questions as to
whether peripheral areas-and I mean
1031
