Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 26 [305]
305
Remarks at the Atomic Energy Commission's Hanford
Works Near Richland, Washington. September 26, 1971
MRS. NIXON and I are really delighted
1
to be here in the tri-city area ยน and get such
a wonderfully warm welcome. As we came
in on the helicopter, we saw all of the
cars parked for miles around. And I just
wondered whether anybody was home.
We have some very distinguished guests
with us here today. I think you would like
to see them, too. Of course, first, somebody
who needs no introduction, the very dis-
tinguished and very able, progressive
Governor of the State, Governor Evans,
and Mrs. Evans.
Then we have, also, the biggest man in
the President's Cabinet, the Secretary of
Interior, Rogers Morton. Do you see what
I mean? My football coach, Chief New-
man, used to say, "He is big enough to go
hunt bear with a switch."
We also have the Chairman of the
Atomic Energy Commission, the new
Chairman who succeeded Dr. Seaborg,
Dr. James Schlesinger.
Then, two of the top members of the
President's staff-these are people you
have read about and heard about-first,
Mr. John Ehrlichman, who comes from
the State of Washington, from Seattle,
and who heads up the Domestic Council.
Incidentally, you think that Governor
Evans is a lobbyist for Hanford and the
tri-city area, you ought to hear Ehrlich-
man-he is all out.
Then, another man that I am sure you
have heard about, who is enormously in-
terested in this matter-I understand in-
cidentally-Dan Evans told me that it
1
ยน Area including the cities of Richland,
Pasco, and Kennewick.
was once said that more Ph.D.'s lived in
this area than any area of the United
States, that was at least the case a few
years ago, and probably there are still as
many per square acre or mile as the case
may be---but we have a very famous Ph.D.
on our staff, Dr. Henry Kissinger, our ad-
viser for international affairs.
Now, I would like to speak to you just
briefly. Our schedule, as you know, is quite
tight because we are going on from here
to Anchorage for a meeting with the Em-
peror of Japan, the first time that an
Emperor of Japan and the President of
the United States have ever met.
I would like to speak to you because
coming to this part of the State, coming
to this area that has contributed so
much to the defense of the United States,
and can contribute so much to the peace-
time growth of the United States, I par-
ticularly want to express appreciation for
what the people of this area have done in
the past and give you just an idea of what
I think you can look forward to in the
future.
First, with regard to where we are now,
I mentioned the visit with the Emperor
of Japan. That indicates a totally new era
in relations between these two countries.
We all remember World War II. I see so
many young people here, and I think of
the fact that over half the people in the
world were born after World War II,
which is an indication of the fact that that
war is over and that now the people who
were then enemies can and must be
friends. And so Japan and the United
States will be friends. We will never be
enemies again.
999
