[108] Mar. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Transportation Assistance program. The
passage of that legislation helped to create
a significant momentum for the rejuvena-
tion of public transit systems. I feel very
strongly that this momentum must not be
lost and that is why I propose that a part
of this new Special Revenue Sharing Pro-
gram for Transportation be devoted to
this purpose.
I believe that this Mass Transit Capi-
tal Investment element would assure con-
tinued support and enthusiasm for mass
transit initiatives. It would also provide
fast relief for many systems which now
suffer from inadequate equipment, allow-
ing them to undertake the essential work
of modernization without further delay.
COMBINING OLD AND NEW STRENGTHS
would
Special Revenue Sharing
strengthen our transportation efforts in
many significant ways without sacrificing
the strengths of our present programs.
Any transportation project that is working
well today could be continued, and in all
probability expanded, under the new ar-
rangements. While narrow grant cate-
gories would be eliminated, none of the
programs which they now support need
be discontinued if the State or locality be-
lieves they are worthwhile.
In recent years, governments at all
levels and private groups and individ-
uals as well-have become more sensitive
to problems such as transportation safety
and the environmental impact of trans-
portation. Our whole society can be
proud, for example, of the fact that there
were no fatalities from commercial air-
line accidents in the United States last
year. We can be grateful, too, that despite
increasing traffic on our highways, auto-
mobile fatalities in 1970 decreased sig-
nificantly for the first time since 1958.
We have also become more alert to the
effects which transportation has on the
beauty of the landscape and the quality
of the environment. Our traditional eco-
nomic concerns have been complemented
by our growing esthetic concerns and the
result has been a strong effort at all levels
of society to improve the quality of Amer-
ican life.
There is no reason why growing sensi-
tivity on matters such as safety and envi-
ronmental quality should not continue
to grow under this new Special Revenue
Sharing program. State and local govern-
ments, after all, have often been particu-
larly responsive to citizen pressure in these
areas and they have frequently acted as
bold pioneers in meeting these concerns.
I am confident that as more responsibility
is given to governments closer to the
people, the true and abiding interests of
the people will be even better reflected
in public policy decisions.
I would emphasize again, as I have in
presenting each of my revenue sharing
programs, that there could be no discrim-
ination in the use of any of these monies.
All of the funds included in this Special
Revenue Sharing Program for Transpor-
tation would be subject to the provisions of
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
THE IMPORTANCE OF PLANNING
No transportation system-on the na-
tional, regional, or local level-can serve
the public with maximum effectiveness
unless there is a great deal of cooperative
planning between various modes of con-
446
