[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
move toward reducing our own physical
presence, the effectiveness of our security
assistance program will become of ever
more crucial importance.
In Asia, this new strategy has already
encouraged the nations of the area to as-
sume greater responsibility for their own
defense and provided a basis for a major
reduction in our military presence. The
funds which have been provided to assist
the Government of South Vietnam have
been essential to the progress of Vietnam-
ization, and helped insure continued
U.S. troop withdrawals. We have helped
Cambodia to mobilize its manpower and
other resources in defense of its inde-
pendence and neutrality. We are provid-
ing Korea with equipment to improve and
modernize its defenses and we are with-
drawing some of our own troops.
Our friends and allies know that it is
no longer possible nor desirable for the
United States to bear the principal bur-
den of their defense. A clear lesson of the
1960s is that deterrence against local ag-
gression, or against subversion supported
from outside a country's borders, cannot
be achieved without a strong contribution
by the threatened country itself. We can
meet our security assistance objectives ef-
fectively only if we link our efforts closely
with those of our friends and thereby build
the foundations for peace in partnership
with them.
To help do so, and also in recognition of
the improved economic capability of
many of the countries receiving security
assistance, I propose today significant
changes in our authorities to provide mil-
itary assistance to our friends and allies.
Our military assistance programs have
suffered from undesirable rigidity. The
only choice has been between grant as-
sistance and sales on hard credit terms.
Many of those nations that need our as-
sistance are unable to meet the hard
credit terms-so grant assistance has been
the only course open for us to help meet
their essential security needs. But as the
lower income nations begin to develop an
ability to shoulder the costs of their de-
fense, we need to be able to assist them in
doing so even though they cannot immedi-
ately assume the entire burden. Sales on
concessional credit terms would permit
earlier participation by some recipient
countries in the financing of their essential
defense needs and would thus engage their
own assessment of priorities for the allo-
cation of their resources at an earlier stage
of development than is now possible.
To fill the existing gap between grant
assistance and sales on relatively firm
commercial terms, the International Se-
curity Assistance Act that I propose today
includes authorization to finance sales of
military equipment on concessional terms.
Grant assistance will remain necessary for
some nations whose financial resources are
simply not adequate to meet their defense
needs. But our objective is to move coun-
tries, as quickly as possible within the con-
text of international security requirements
and their own economic capabilities,
along the spectrum from grants to con-
cessional sales to the harder terms we have
required for sales under the present act
and finally to outright cash arrangements.
We will also stress the transition from
Government sales to those made directly
by private industry to the extent feasible.
By making these changes we would help
countries move from dependence on the
United States to independence in the crea-
tion and financing of their own security
programs. We would not intend to provide
concessional credits to countries able to
meet the terms of the present program.
568
