Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 23 [408]
In connection with this action, a ques-
tion has arisen as to whether Federal civil-
ian employees and military personnel will
be entitled to a second pay increase in
October 1972, unless I submit to the Con-
gress, as I did last August, an alternative
plan postponing or otherwise modifying
the raises that would be prescribed by the
machinery established by the Pay Com-
parability Act. Therefore, I believe it is
appropriate for me to state my under-
standing of the law at this time.
The purpose of section 3 of the Sta-
bilization Act Amendments was to provide
equal treatment for Federal employees
and military personnel as compared with
408
employees in the private sector who are
subject to the Phase 2 pay guidelines. The
raises I am implementing today do pre-
cisely that. Should a second raise be
granted next October, Federal employees
and military personnel would be receiving
preferential treatment-raises in excess of
the Phase 2 guidelines. That would be
plainly inconsistent with the overall in-
tention of the Congress, which is to relate
Federal pay to the guidelines of the Pay
Board.
Therefore I am authorizing an annual
increase consistent with these guidelines,
interpreting the law to mean there will be
no automatic October adjustment.
Remarks on Signing the National Cancer Act of 1971.
December 23, 1971
Members of the Senate, Members of the
House, ladies and gentlemen:
We are here today for the purpose of
signing the cancer act of 1971. I hope that
in the years ahead that we may look back
on this day and this action as being the
most significant action taken during this
Administration. It could be, because when
we consider what cancer does each year
in the United States, we find that more
people each year die of cancer in the
United States than all the Americans who
lost their lives in World War II.
This shows us what is at stake. It tells
us why I sent a message to the Congress
the first of this year, which provided for a
national commitment for the conquest of
cancer, to attempt to find a cure.
Now, with the cooperation of the Con-
gress, with the cooperation of many of the
people in this room, we have set up a
procedure for the purpose of making a
total national commitment. I am not go-
ing to go into the details of that procedure,
except to say this: As a result of what has
been done, as a result of the action which
will come into being as a result of signing
this bill, the Congress is totally com-
mitted to provide the funds that are nec-
essary, whatever is necessary, for the con-
quest of cancer. The President is totally
committed—we have a Presidential panel
headed by Benno Schmidt, which will re-
port directly to the President so that the
President's influence, whenever necessary,
can be used to reach this great goal.
And, in addition to that, all of the agen-
cies of government, the National Institutes
of Health, HEW, et cetera, are totally
committed.
Now, having said that, I have spoken
exclusively of government up to this point.
In this room are scores of people who have
worked voluntarily for this cause for
many, many years. The American Cancer
Society, of course, is the best known or-
71-234-7279
1205
