[77] Feb. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
nick of time. This fear long haunted her.
Shortly after their marriage, Adams was
sent as Minister to Berlin where they lived
for 4 years. Then in 1801, on the election
of Jefferson as President, Adams was re-
called to America, and Louisa had to run
the gauntlet of all her husband's Adams
and Quincy kin who thronged about to
view the half English, London-bred wife
of their young relative. She was aghast.
"Had I stopped into Noah's ark," she
wrote, "I do not think I could have been
more utterly astounded."
In 1809, President Madison appointed
Adams Minister to Russia where he and
Louisa lived for upwards of 5 years. And
when he was called to Ghent to negotiate
the treaty to end the War of 1812, she fol-
lowed later alone with her 7-year-old son
on a 40-day carriage journey across the
wintry wastes of northern Europe to join
him.
Life was sometimes a trial. She had,
however, a brief and happy respite in
London, when in May 1815, her husband,
treading in his father's footsteps, took up
his post as Ambassador to the Court of
St. James. It was then that the second pair
of portraits was painted by Charles Robert
Leslie.
Then after Adams' recall again to
America in 1817 to serve as President
Monroe's Secretary of State, this pair of
portraits were commenced. Adams and
Louisa dropped into Stuart's studio in
Boston one morning, and she persuaded
him to sit for his portrait for their chil-
dren. And presumably he agreed to do so
if she would.
In his diary Adams wrote, "I sat for
Stuart before and after breakfast and
found his conversation very entertaining
as it has been at every sitting, his own
figure is highly picturesque with his dress
always disordered, taking snuff from a
large round tin wafer box holding half a
pound, which he must use up in a day.
He considers himself beyond all question
the first portrait painter of the age and
tells numbers of anecdotes concerning
himself to prove it. And his conclusion is
not very wide from the truth."
Adams' only comment on his portrait
was that, "Stuart was much satisfied with
what he has done, but I cannot exactly
say the same."
His cousin, Ward Nicholas Wilson,
however, saw the pair just before they
were finished and with a keen critic's eye
commented that Stuart had never given
greater proof of his talents or done more
justice to the precise likeness of those they
were intended to represent.
But Louisa, with a weakness we all share
about pictures of ourselves, had a dif-
ferent opinion. "It speaks too much,” she
said, “of inward suffering and of a half-
broken heart to be an agreeable remem-
brance."
Yet her son Charles later wrote of the
picture, "Her face wears a sorrowful ap-
pearance too common to her but I shall
value that picture as presenting some-
thing of her appearance in those days, for
hereafter there will be nothing, and I love
to think of her as she was in the midst
of her gaiety and her prosperity."
And we at this distance can see at a
glance that in her portrait, Stuart did live
up to his own ingenuous claim to be the
first portrait painter of the age.
This period was one of Louisa's hap-
piest. She won the etiquette war of Wash-
ington which reached the level of Cabinet
discussion in 1819 over whether Cabinet
wives or Congressmen's wives should pay
first calls on each other.
And she became famous for her parties,
350
