Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 6 [285]
fice, some inconvenience, some belt-
tightening, some temporary restrictions
on our economic freedom in order to
create new jobs, to stop the rise in the cost
of living, to protect the American dollar.
The overwhelming response to that call
is a new justification for every American's
faith in himself and faith in his country.
Of course, there have been complaints;
there have been counter-suggestions;
there have been criticisms by special inter-
est groups.
But the most heartening reaction was
the surge of national confidence, the re-
affirmation of our competitive spirit, the
willingness to make a personal sacrifice in
pursuit of worthy goals by the man in the
street, the worker on the job, the home-
maker trying to balance the family budget.
This letter from a State employee in
Texas, whose wife is a schoolteacher, is
typical of thousands that came into the
White House after I made that speech. It
reads: "We were both due for salary in-
creases in September . . . but we will
survive. If it were necessary to cut our
income in half, I still know no other coun-
try I would choose to call my own. I've
heard the young people using a phrase
that might fit: RIGHT ON."
Let the detractors of America, the
doubters of the American spirit, take note.
America's competitive spirit, the work
ethic of this people, is alive and well on
Labor Day, 1971.
The dignity of work, the value of
achievement, the morality of self-reli-
ance-none of these is going out of style.
With that fact clearly understood, let
us also recognize that the work ethic in
America is undergoing some changes.
It means that business, labor, and gov-
ernment should explore the new needs of
today's wage earners: We must give the
individual worker more responsibility—
more of the feeling that his opinion
counts.
We must find ways to better recognize
and reward the extra effort a worker puts
into his job.
We must open up new and equal op-
portunities to allow a person to grow in
his job.
And we must give more respect to the
proud men and women who do work that
is all too often considered "menial."
I read a report recently about some on
welfare in one of our cities who objected
to taking jobs that they considered menial.
As I read that report, I thought of my
own father. During the years that I was
growing up, he worked as a streetcar
motorman, an oil field worker; he worked
as a farmer; he worked also in a filling
station.
Let us recognize once and for all-no
job is menial in America if it leads to
self-reliance, self-respect, and individual
dignity.
We must make it possible for workers
to try "refresher courses" and "second
careers" to open up the chance for a new
variety in work.
We must reinstill a pride of craftsman-
ship, a pride in good service, that results
in quality workmanship.
And we must make sure that technology
does not dehumanize work, but makes it
more creative and rewarding for the
people who will operate the plants of the
future.
These are the needs of the American
worker, taking their place alongside the
needs we are more familiar with: the
935
