[272] Aug. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
the West. Secretary Rogers Morton.
SECRETARY MORTON. We are all de-
lighted that you are here, Mr. President.
We had a tremendous welcome here, and
I know they have been here waiting for
you to talk to them.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. You
know, I asked the Secretary what he was
going to do when he moved the office of
the Secretary of the Interior-he was
moving the Interior Department to
Denver. He said he was going to ride a
horse. After seeing him, I feel sorry for the
horse.
Now I think you would like to perhaps
say hello to my daughter Julie Eisen-
hower. Julie.
We would like a chance to, and we
will have a chance to shake hands with
some of you after I have made a few brief
remarks. But I would like for all of you to
know that as I looked down from the air-
plane and saw those cars parked for miles
around, I realized what a chore it had
been for you to come to the airport. I
realized, too, that some of you must have
been standing here quite a while. I am
indeed most grateful.
I want to tell you when I was here last
time-it was in 1954. I don't think, in-
cidentally, the crowd was near this big.
That shows you the difference between
being Vice President and President.
This is, let me say, the first visit I have
made to Idaho since being President of
the United States, and I am proud that I
am in Idaho Falls. The time was October
in the year 1954, and all of these young
people here were not even born then. I
remember it was snowing, very heavy
snow. Does it still snow in October in this
time? [Laughter] No, not at all.
Well, as we flew over today, we saw
the snow in the mountains, and we saw
this beautiful country below. Let me give
you a feel of what America is like on a
day like this for someone who has the
privilege to ride in the Spirit of '76, that
great airplane, and go out and meet the
people of this country.
I woke up this morning in New York
City after having spoken there last night.
I had Governor with the breakfast-
boy!-the Governor had me for break-
fast. [Laughter] But in any event, we had
breakfast there and discussed some of the
problems of New York State. And then
we got on the airplane and flew to Spring-
field, Illinois. There we dedicated as a
national monument the home of Abra-
ham Lincoln, where he lived for 17 years.
And then went to the Illinois State Fair,
and 125,000 people were visiting the
State fair on that day. So we went
through that crowd.
After we left Illinois, we flew from
Illinois for 3 hours and 5 minutes, till we
got to Idaho Falls. As we came across
that great country, we looked down on
the biggest corn crop in history. Then
after we left the plains we began to get
into the prairies and the mountains, and
I realized how really beautiful this west-
ern part of the United States is.
This is a beautiful country. You are
very fortunate to live here, to live in a
country where the air is so clean, where
the scenery is so beautiful, and also where
I hope the crops are good.
But as I looked down on this country,
I realized what kind of people it took
to come here. It had to be a rugged
people; it had to be a strong people to
come across those plains, to come up those
mountains, and then to find this valley
and develop this State-a strong people,
a competitive people, a frontier people.
That is the kind of people that made
904
