[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
is essential if the automobile emission con-
trol standards scheduled to come into
effect for the 1975 model automobiles are
to be met at reasonable cost.
-I shall again propose a special tax
to make the price of unleaded gaso-
line lower than the price of leaded
gasoline. Legislation will be submit-
ted to the Congress upon completion
of studies currently underway.
WATER QUALITY
We have the technology now to deal
with most forms of water pollution. We
must make sure that it is used.
In my February 1970 special message
to the Congress on the Environment, I
discussed our most important needs in
the effort to control water pollution:
adequate funds to ensure construction of
municipal waste treatment facilities
needed to meet water quality standards;
more explicit standards, applicable to all
navigable waters; more effective Federal
enforcement authority to back up State
efforts; and funds to help States build
the necessary capability to participate in
this joint endeavor.
Municipal Wastes
Adequate treatment of the large vol-
ume of commercial, industrial and do-
mestic wastes that are discharged through
municipal systems requires a great ex-
penditure of funds for construction of
necessary facilities. A thorough study by
the Environmental Protection Agency
completed in December 1970 revealed
that $12 billion will be required by 1974
to correct the national waste treatment
backlog. The urgency of this need, and
the severe financial problems that face
many communities, require that con-
struction of waste treatment facilities be
jointly funded by Federal, State, and
local governments. We must also assure
that adequate Federal funds are avail-
able to reimburse States that advanced
the Federal share of project costs.
-I propose that $6 billion in Federal
funds be authorized and appropri-
ated over the next three years to pro-
vide the full Federal share of a $12
billion program of waste treatment
facilities.
Some municipalities need help in over-
coming the difficulties they face in selling
bonds on reasonable terms to finance their
share of construction costs. The avail-
ability of funds to finance a community's
pollution control facilities should depend
not on its credit rating or the vagaries
of the municipal bond market, but on its
waste disposal needs.
-I again propose the creation of an
Environmental Financing Authority
so that every municipality has an
opportunity to sell its waste treat-
ment plant construction bonds.
A number of administrative reforms
which I announced last year to ensure
that Federal construction grant funds are
well invested have been initiated. To
further this objective:
-I again propose that the present,
rigid allocation formula be revised,
so that special emphasis can be given
to those areas where facilities are
most needed and where the greatest
improvements in water quality would
result.
-I propose that provisions be added
to the present law to induce com-
munities to provide for expansion
and replacement of treatment facili-
ties on a reasonably
a reasonably self-sufficient
basis.
128
