Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
Soviet deployments, might lead the
Soviets to misunderstand our inten-
tions, and might force them into new
strategic investments they would
otherwise eschew. The prospects for
reaching agreement to limit strategic
arms might be irreparably damaged.
During the past year, I have continued
this policy of deliberate restraint. Our
grams have been as follows:
pro-
-We started to improve the survivabil-
ity of our Minuteman force by in-
creasing the hardness of Minuteman
silos, thereby making them less vul-
nerable to nuclear attack. We also are
continuing the deployment of Safe-
guard defensive sites to protect our
Minuteman.
-We are adding multiple independ-
ently targetable warheads to some of
our strategic missiles. This action also
contributes to stability since it helps
ensure a credible retaliatory capa-
bility. Without such a system in our
future arsenal, the possibility of a
Soviet preemptive strike against our
strategic forces, combined with
strong Soviet defensive forces, would
make questionable the assured pene-
tration of a sufficient number of
weapons from our retaliatory capa-
bility. With multiple independently
targetable warheads, each of our
surviving missiles will have the capa-
bility to attack a number of targets,
thereby enhancing our ability to
penetrate enemy defenses.
We consider these measures to be essen-
tial to maintain the sufficiency of our
strategic posture in the light of increases
and improvements in the Soviet strategic
forces.
To insure that our forces will remain
sufficient in the future we will continue
research and development on appropriate
measures and systems to enhance the sur-
vivability and effectiveness of our stra-
tegic offensive and defensive forces.
In light of the negotiations on strategic
arms limitations, we are acting with great
restraint in introducing changes in our
strategic posture. We will avoid steps
which make it more difficult for the Soviet
Union and ourselves to reach an agreed
structure of strategic stability. At the same
time, we must be prepared to take neces-
sary steps to maintain the sufficiency of
our strategic forces should an agreement
not be reached within the near future.
BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE
When I announced the Safeguard
ABM program, I promised that "each
phase of the deployment will be reviewed
to insure that we are doing as much as
necessary but no more than that required
by the threat existing at that time." The
Defense Program Review Committee has
just completed a thorough review of Safe-
guard against the background of SALT,
our strategic policy, changes in the Soviet
capability, and the Chinese development
of strategic forces.
-While it appears that the Soviets
have slowed the increase of their mis-
sile systems, the evidence is far from
unambiguous. Nor is it clear that
even at present levels of Soviet forces,
future qualitative improvements
would not endanger our ICBM
forces.
-The potential for qualitative im-
provements and numerical increases
in Soviet forces poses a serious threat
to our land-based strategic forces in
313
