Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
signal of the potential hazards of pesticides
to the environment. We are continuing a
major research effort to develop non-
chemical methods of pest control, but we
must continue to rely on pesticides for the
foreseeable future. The challenge is to in-
stitute the necessary mechanisms to pre-
vent pesticides from harming human
health and the environment.
Currently, Federal controls over pesti-
cides consist of the registration and label-
ing requirements in the Federal Insec-
ticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
The administrative processes contained in
the law are inordinately cumbersome and
time-consuming, and there is no author-
ity to deal with the actual use of pesticides.
The labels approved under the Act specify
the uses to which a pesticide may be put,
but there is no way to insure that the label
will be read or obeyed. A comprehensive
strengthening of our pesticide control laws
is needed.
-I propose that the use of pesticides be
subject to control in appropriate cir-
cumstances, through a registration
procedure which provides for desig-
nation of a pesticide for "general
use," "restricted use," or "use by per-
mit only." Pesticides designated for
restricted use would be applied only
by an approved pest control appli-
cator. Pesticides designated for "use
by permit only" would be made
available only with the approval of
an approved pest control consultant.
This will help to ensure that pesti-
cides which are safe when properly
used will not be misused or applied in
excessive quantities.
-I propose that the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy be authorized to permit the ex-
perimental use of pesticides under
strict controls, when he needs addi-
tional information concerning a
pesticide before deciding whether it
should be registered.
-I propose that the procedures for can-
cellation of a registration be stream-
lined to permit more expeditious
action.
-I propose that the Administrator be
authorized to stop the sale or use of,
and to seize, pesticides being dis-
tributed or held in violation of Fed-
eral law.
RECYCLING OF WASTES
The Nation's solid waste problem is
both costly and damaging to the environ-
ment. Paper, which accounts for about
one-half of all municipal solid waste, can
be reprocessed to produce a high quality
product. Yet the percentage the Nation
recycles has been declining steadily.
To reverse this trend, the General Serv-
ices Administration, working with the
Council on Environmental Quality, has
reviewed the Federal Government's pur-
chasing policies. It found a substantial
number of prohibitions against using pa-
per with recycled content. Such prohibi-
tions are no longer reasonable in light of
the need to encourage recycling.
As a result of this review, the GSA has
already changed its specifications to re-
quire a minimum of 3 to 50 percent
recycled content, depending on the prod-
uct, in over $35 million per year of paper
purchases. GSA is currently revising other
specifications to require recycled content
in an additional $25 million of annual
paper purchases. In total, this will amount
to more than one-half of GSA's total pa-
per products purchases. All remaining
specifications will be reviewed to require
131
