[297] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
bets long term on the future of America
and this economy is going to win his bet,
in my opinion.
THE SUPREME COURT
[14] Q. Mr. President, I think we
had over 200 questions on this subject so
I picked three here, and I will make it
another three-part question: Now that
there are two vacancies on the Supreme
Court, do you think it timely for a woman
to become a Supreme Court Justice; or
do you believe that a nominee for the
Supreme Court Justice should have sub-
stantial judicial experience, that we
should in fact promote our best judges;
or have you ever considered appointing
Martha Mitchell?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, answering the
third part first, Martha Mitchell is not a
lawyer, but that is not, incidentally, an in-
hibition as far as appointments are con-
cerned because the Constitution does not
require the President to appoint a lawyer
to the Supreme Court. So, she should-
or could-be considered, I should say,
but her husband won't recommend her,
so consequently that rules that out.
Second, with regard to women, I be-
lieve that a woman who is qualified
should be appointed to any court-district
court, circuit court, or Supreme Court. I
have instructed the Attorney General, as
Statements by Press Secretary Ronald L.
Ziegler on the retirement of Associate Justices
Hugo L. Black, effective September 17, 1971,
and John M. Harlan, effective September 23,
were excerpted from Mr. Ziegler's regular news
briefings at the White House on the above
dates and are printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p.
1310).
he looks over the nominees that he is going
to present to me, the recommendations,
to be sure that qualified women are in-
cluded if they meet the general standards
that we have set.
Now, with regard to the qualifications,
and answering the question very seriously
now, that I am looking for, I am frankly
looking for judges who-and you can
always judge a man who is going to make
an appointment on his track record-I
am looking for men who will have a sim-
ilar judicial philosophy as the Chief Jus-
tice of the United States, Mr. Burger,
whom I appointed, and Mr. Justice
Blackmun.
I believe that the Court at this time
could well use two more judges, men with
that judicial philosophy. I am more in-
terested in the judicial philosophy than I
am in what part of the country they
come from and whether they are a woman
or whether they are a man.
Now, is it a requirement, and should it
be a requirement, that the judge or the
nominee be one who has judicial experi-
ence? The answer is no. Mr. Justice Frank-
furter was a teacher. He was one of the
great judges; whether you agreed or not
with his philosophy, he was a great judge.
Mr. Justice Brandeis, who was one of
my heroes when I was in law school, one
of the great dissenters along with Holmes,
was a man who was a great practicing law-
yer, a labor lawyer primarily, fighting
great causes, but that did not mean that
he did not become one of the great judges.
So teachers, legislators, for example,
with great experience in the Judiciary
Committee of the House or Senate, they
are also good possibilities. That gives you
an idea of where I am turning.
976
