Richard Nixon, 1971
[116]
Mar. 25
change over the years. The Department
of the Interior, for example, was estab-
lished in 1849 to deal with newly opened
western lands and especially with the
Indians who inhabited them. The De-
partment of Agriculture was also added
in the nineteenth century, at a time when
the overwhelming majority of our people
were directly affected by the tremendous
expansion of agricultural enterprise. In
the early years of the twentieth century,
in a time of rapid and unsettling indus-
trial growth, the Department of Com-
merce and Labor was set up. The Labor
Department was split off from it in 1913,
in response to feelings that labor was suf-
fering from an imbalance of power and
needed additional influence. The three
newest departments of the Government-
Health, Education, and Welfare, Housing
and Urban Development, and Transpor-
tation-were all created after World War
II. Each represented a first step toward
bringing together some of the new Fed-
eral offices and agencies which had prolif-
erated so rapidly in recent decades.
ORGANIZING AROUND GOALS
As we look at the present organization
of the Federal Government, we find that
many of the existing units deal with meth-
ods and subjects rather than with pur-
poses and goals. If we have a question
about labor we go to the Labor Depart-
ment and if we have a business problem
we go to the Commerce Department. If
we are interested in housing we go to one
department and if we are interested in
highways we go to another.
The problem is that as our society has
become more complex, we often find our-
selves using a variety of means to achieve
a single set of goals. We are interested, for
example, in economic development—
which requires new markets, more pro-
ductive workers and better transportation
systems. But which department do we go
to for that? And what if we want to build
a new city, with sufficient public facili-
ties, adequate housing, and decent recrea-
tion areas-which department do we
petition then?
We sometimes seem to have forgotten
that government is not in business to deal
with subjects on a chart but to achieve
real objectives for real human beings.
These objectives will never be fully
achieved unless we change our old ways
of thinking. It is not enough merely to
reshuffle departments for the sake of re-
shuffling them. We must rebuild the ex-
ecutive branch according to a new un-
derstanding of how government can best
be organized to perform effectively.
The key to that new understanding is
the concept that the executive branch of
the government should be organized
around basic goals. Instead of grouping
activities by narrow subjects or by limited
constituencies, we should organize them
around the great purposes of government
in modern society. For only when a de-
partment is set up to achieve a given set
of purposes, can we effectively hold that
department accountable for achieving
them. Only when the responsibility for
realizing basic objectives is clearly focused
in a specific governmental unit, can we
reasonably hope that those objectives will
be realized.
When government is organized by goals,
then we can fairly expect that it will pay
more attention to results and less atten-
tion to procedures. Then the success of
government will at last be clearly linked
to the things that happen in society
479
