Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
and the tendency for our policies or lack
of policy to turn the cities over to the
lower income people in our society.
Do you see any moves that we can make
that would make it more economically
attractive for developers to rebuild our
cities and revitalize our cities instead of
continuing the westward ho philosophy of
moving on and using up our raw land in-
discriminately in urban sprawl?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Hastings, the
problem here is one that simply cannot be
solved by Washington. That is something
which I am glad to note the people of
Detroit recognize. You have your New
Detroit Committee, of course, which has
been very effective in dealing with some
of the problems that are not only Detroit's
problems, but the problems of cities gen-
erally. You have the Detroit Renaissance
Committee which is working on the prob-
lem of rebuilding the downtown area.
Now, in this particular case, I think
what is perhaps indispensable to a new
approach to the problem of cities is that
kind of civic responsibility on the part of
the cities involved.
No city can be saved by Washington. A
city can only be saved by the residents of
that city, if they determine to do it.
REVENUE SHARING
[18.] Q. A quick question, Mr. Presi-
dent: Detroit is numbered among those
great metropolitan areas facing critical
financial problems. What are the prospects
for revenue sharing this year? Detroit
desperately needs this help.
THE PRESIDENT. I said a moment ago
that I didn't think the Congress should go
home for Christmas unless it passed wel-
fare reform. Revenue sharing is in exactly
the same position. Revenue sharing has
the
support of over 70 percent of the peo-
ple of this country. It has the support of
most of the Governors, most of the mayors,
most of the county officials. And it is time
for the Congress to start reflecting what
the country feels and to pass revenue shar-
ing and help the cities.
TAX CREDIT FOR HIRING UNEMPLOYED
[19.] Mr. Kornegay.
Q. Mr. President, has your Adminis-
tration discounted the plan to give tax
credit to firms which hire the unskilled
and hardcore unemployed?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we have not dis-
counted that plan. As a matter of fact,
Mr. Kornegay, we are, in our Domestic
Council within the Cabinet, we are con-
sidering every possible method that we
can devise to see that the groups that are
left behind are brought back into the
mainstream of our society. That is one
method, of course, that could be effective.
Q. Mr. President, I think our time has
expired. I have received the signal from
our TV director down here. So we thank
you very much for your time and the priv-
ilege of being with you here this evening.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I regret that we
couldn't have more questions, but let me
just say in conclusion that I have ap-
preciated this opportunity to meet with
the distinguished members of the panel.
I wish that we had a chance to answer
many more of the questions that I see
piled up
here.
Let me suggest this: Write me a letter,
I just might answer it.
Thank you.
NOTE: The session began at 8 p.m. in Cobo
Hall, Detroit, Mich. It was broadcast live on
979
