Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 18 [269]
from one of Lincoln's last statements just
before he left Springfield to go to Wash-
ington when he said, "I love the people
here. To them, their kindness, their gen-
erosity, I owe everything that I am."
He spoke to them because he had lived
among them, and I speak to you today
as one who knows the people here, who
knows this is the heartland of America,
not just geographically but also because
of so much that it represents in the history
of our country.
Now, on this occasion, I would like also
to relate the Lincoln legacy to the prob-
lems of the present.
In the White House we have many,
many visitors from abroad. In fact, since
I have been President of the United
States, 50 heads of government or heads
of state have visited Washington, and
they have walked through the rooms of
the White House, many of them for the
first time. They know our history, many
of them better than we know it.
Many of them have views with regard
to who were the great Presidents. But if
a vote were to be taken of all those that
I have met, both here and abroad, I
would say the overwhelming majority
Iwould vote that Abraham Lincoln was
the greatest, the most revered of all of the
American Presidents.
Why did they say that? Sometimes I
have asked them why. They say, “Because
he was such a good man. He was a kind
man. He was a compassionate man. He
was a man who was a leader in war who
deeply believed in peace. He was an
idealistic man who believed deeply in op-
portunity for all Americans, all people
on this earth, regardless of their back-
ground and race or creed or color."
Because he stood for these things and
lived for these things and died for these
things, Lincoln is revered in America and
revered in capitals around the world, I
can assure you-in Africa, in Asia, in
Latin America-wherever you may travel
abroad.
That is not the whole Lincoln story,
and that is not particularly the time that
relates to the problems of today. What
we must also remember is that Lincoln,
while he was very kind and very compas-
sionate, was a very strong man. He was a
very competitive man. He argued almost
200 cases in the Supreme Court of the
State of Illinois, and he always argued to
win. He lost elections, and came back to
win for the Presidency of the United
States. He never gave up.
In his contests with the various gen-
erals, Lincoln, while he was always kind
in handling them, could not accept or
resign himself to temerity or timidity.
After the great victory at Gettysburg,
General Meade was dismissed, not be-
cause he had lost-because he had not-
but because he did not follow up. Lincoln
wanted to follow up and end the war. So
we see this man, kind and compassionate
and considerate on the one hand, but
strong and competitive on the other.
Lincoln also had a very profound sense
of destiny about the United States of
America-what it was, what it meant to
its own people, and what it meant to the
world. We all remember what he said:
that the United States of America was
man's last, best hope on earth. But listen
to when he said it. America then was far
from being the strongest nation in the
world; it was far from being the richest
nation in the world; and it was sorely
stricken and divided by a civil war, the
most brutal war, perhaps, of the 19th cen-
tury in terms of the casualties that were
suffered.
899
