[29] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
growth. The Wholesome Fish and Fishery
Products Act, which is being resubmitted,
would establish a broad surveillance and
inspection system to assure the whole-
someness and quality of both domestic
and imported fishery products.
Recent reports of mercury residues in
both inland and deep sea fish provide ur-
gent and concurring arguments for im-
mediate passage of this legislation.
DRUG IDENTIFICATION
Every year some Americans, in times
of medical emergency, are poisoned by
drugs of unidentified composition. Some
of these men, women, and children die
from these poisonings; others suffer lasting
physical harm. While these occurrences
are not commonplace, their number can
and should be reduced to an absolute
minimum. To achieve that objective-to
permit the rapid identification of prescrip-
tion drugs in emergency situations-this
administration again proposes the coding
of all drugs. Such coding will also facili-
tate recalls of drugs when necessary to
protect public health.
Some manufacturers already use coding
systems for immediate identification and
inventory control. A universal system of
coding of drugs would benefit the entire
drug industry—and perhaps save the lives
of scores of Americans and their children
in years ahead.
TOWARD A MORE SECURE AND DECENT
SOCIETY
Within this broad category, I again
urge action on five previously submitted
measures. One of them would provide
new and needed protection for the orderly
processes of government in the event of
disruptive activities conducted in or near
Federal offices. Passed by the Senate, this
measure should be viewed favorably by
the House. It is needed to protect govern-
ment workers as they carry out their
duties. The wagering tax and the admin-
istration's proposal to give law enforce-
ment officers the right to gather
non-testimonial evidence are reforms
which would provide us with new weap-
ons in the war against crime. The final
proposals, dealing with obscenity and
pornography, I believe to be essential at a
time when the tide of offensive materials
seems yet to be rising.
PROTECTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS
If the Federal Government is to dis-
charge its duties, the employees of gov-
ernment must cease being victimized by
raucous and disorderly demonstrations in
the offices where they work. Such dis-
ruptions have occurred too frequently in
recent years.
To help end this harassment, I propose
that the General Services Administra-
tion's authority to police Federal prop-
erty be extended to all buildings leased or
occupied by Federal agencies.
Further, I ask Congress to prohibit
specifically:
-The obstruction of passage into or
out of a government office;
-The use of loud, abusive, or threat-
ening language, or any disorderly
conduct that has as its goal the dis-
ruption of government business; and,
-Any act of physical violence within
a GSA facility.
These are similar to the safeguards
which the Congress provided for its own
64
