[88] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
suggested by President Thieu to us. None
has been considered, and none is under
consideration.
I am not going to go further than that,
except to state what I did state in that
press conference where you also were
present again, that the test as to what the
United States will do in North Vietnam,
in any event, will always be not what
happens to forces of South Vietnam, but
it will be whether or not the President as
Commander in Chief considers that
North Vietnamese activities are endanger-
ing or may endanger the American forces
as we continue to withdraw.
It is then and only then that I will use
airpower against military complexes on
the borders of North Vietnam.
TROOP WITHDRAWAL PROPOSAL
[7] Q. Sir, if all of the North Viet-
namese troops were to be withdrawn from
South Vietnam, would we still insist that
American troops could not be withdrawn
until North Vietnamese troops also left
Cambodia and Laos?
THE PRESIDENT. The proposal we have
made, Mr. terHorst [J. F. terHorst, De-
troit News, North American Newspaper
Alliance], is, of course, for a Southeast
Asia settlement, one in which the North
Vietnamese troops-there are 40,000, ap-
proximately, as you know, in Cambodia,
there are now approximately, by latest
estimate, 90,000 to 100,000 in Laos and,
of course, there are 100,000 or so in South
Vietnam. It is a one-package situation.
As far as we are concerned, that is the
proposal and that is the one that we will
stick by in Paris.
CHINA POLICY
[8.] Q. In your foreign policy report,
you invited better relations with Com-
munist China, which is being interpreted
in Taiwan, I believe, with a little bit of
apprehension. Are you actually moving
toward a two-China policy?
THE PRESIDENT. I understand the ap-
prehension in Taiwan, but I believe that
that apprehension, insofar as Taiwan's
continued existence and as its continued
membership in the United Nations, is not
justified. You will also have noted that in
my foreign policy report I said that we
stood by our defense commitments to
Taiwan; that Taiwan, which has a larger
population than two-thirds of all of the
United Nations, could not and would not
be expelled from the United Nations as
long as we had anything to say about it;
and that as far as our attitude toward
Communist China was concerned that
that would be governed by Communist
China's attitude toward us.
In other words, we would like to nor-
malize relations with all nations in the
world. There has, however, been no
receptivity on the part of Communist
China. But under no circumstances will
we proceed with a policy of normalizing
relations with Communist China if the
cost of that policy is to expel Taiwan from
the family of nations.
TROOP WITHDRAWAL GOALS
[9] Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chi-
cago Daily News].
Q. You said also in your foreign policy
report that even if the North Vietnamese
390
