[242] July 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
California-I can assure you that the
greatest goal we have, all of us, whether
we are Republicans or Democrats in
Washington, is to bring peace to this
world. We are bringing that peace
through ending the war that we are in, in
a way that will contribute to a lasting
peace.
I am going to try to contribute to that
peace-not just for our generation but
for these young people in that band, and
the rest, for your generation-by a jour-
ney to Mainland China, so that in the
future the 800 million people who live-
and that is one-fourth of all the people in
243
the world-who live there, will not live in
isolation from the rest of the world. This
is truly one world, and we must know all
the people in the world. That is, of
course, the reason for that journey.
So, with that, let me say, we thank you
very much for coming out, for giving us
such a warm welcome. I just wish I could
shake hands with everybody here and sign
all those autographs. Incidentally, if you
want an autograph, just send me a letter
and I will see that you get one.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:50 p.m. at the
Akron-Canton Airport.
Remarks at the Professional Football Hall
of Fame Annual Banquet in Canton, Ohio.
July 30, 1971
Mr. Commissioner, all of the distinguished
guests both here on the platform and in
the audience:
This is a very special evening for me
because, first, I am glad to be in Canton,
and to see so many friends in this very
friendly city; second, because for me
football is perhaps my second vocation.
It is true, as was mentioned a few
moments ago, that I not only said that I
would like to have the Commissioner's
job-would you like to have mine?-but
I also have said that since we have made
an award tonight to Joe King ยน that if I
had my life to live over again I would
like to be a sportswriter or a sportscaster.
The trouble is, I could never make the
deadlines.
Then, too, as I look back over the years,
1 Joseph P. King was awarded the Dick
McCann Memorial Award for over 30 years
of distinguished writing on professional foot-
ball for various New York newspapers.
I think of the fact that when anyone
reaches the very high position in govern-
ment you will find that he is often intro-
duced and his past is really built up. A lot
of mythology grows up about your past,
sometimes bad, sometimes good. One bit
of mythology I want to put to rest tonight
is with regard to my own reason for being
so interested in football, something that I
guess is rather generally known across the
country.
The late Harry Wismer, who was a
sportscaster in Washington and later went
on to New York, once introduced me
when I was Vice President. And he really
got carried away. He said, "I want to
introduce the Vice President of the United
States, a great football fan, a former All-
American." Well now, I really want to
tell the truth about that particular matter.
I really wasn't an All-American. I didn't
even make the team at Whittier.
I do want to say though that as I lis-
834
