Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 17 [106]
that today a grateful Nation will pay its
respect to Whitney Young by continuing
the work for which he dedicated his en-
tire life.
When we consider that life, these are
some of the things we find:
In an age when we see so many people
who want to be for the right thing, we also
find that it is very difficult to accomplish
the right thing. It is really easy to be for
what is right. What is more difficult is to
accomplish what is right.
And Whitney Young's genius was: He
knew how to accomplish what other
people were merely for. He was a very
complex man, and he understood the
complexities of the society in which he
lived and the goals which he sought to
achieve. He was not a patient man, but
he understood the uses of patience.
And he was not a moderate man in
terms of his goals, but he knew the uses
of moderation in achieving those goals.
All of us who have heard him speak
recognize him as one of the most elo-
quent speakers of our time, and, yet,
Whitney Young will be remembered as a
doer, not a talker.
What monument do we build to him?
He leaves his own monument, not one,
but thousands, thousands of men and wo-
men in his own race who have a chance,
an equal chance, that they otherwise
might never have had except for what he
did; and thousands of others not of his
own race who have an understanding in
their hearts which they would not have
had except for what he taught.
What message does he leave for us?
I recall the conversation I had with him
right after the election of 1968 before
the inauguration when we discussed the
possibilities of his becoming a member of
the Cabinet. He was honored by the sug-
gestion, and, after consideration, he told
me that he felt that he could do more for
those things he believed in outside of
Government than inside of Government.
And in that is a message for all of us.
At a time when it is so often the custom
whenever we have a problem to throw up
our hands and say, "What is the Govern-
ment going to do?", this man said, "What
can I do?" And that is the challenge he
gives to each of us.
he
Government has its responsibilities, but
says, "What can I do? What can I do
in
my life to make the American dream
come true?" Because all of us must re-
member, we want the American dream
to come true; but the American dream
'cannot come true until the American
dream can be achieved by each one who
is an American.
Dr. Lon Fuller, in lecturing at Yale in
1963, spoke of two kinds of morality. He
spoke of the morality of duty and of the
morality of aspiration. The morality of
duty is one that requires every individual
to do what the law calls upon him to do.
The morality of aspiration does not re-
quire, but it inspires a man or a woman
to go beyond that and to do what the
better angels of his nature would call upon
him to do.
And it is in that spirit that I speak of
Whitney Young today. I remember the
last meeting we had in the Cabinet Room,
3 days before Christmas. You remember,
all of you who knew him, he always had
a little button "Equal" in his lapel. He
just didn't wear that in his lapel, he wore
it in his heart.
What he says to us and what his mes-
sage to us is, is this: Every man and
woman in this country is equal before
71-234-72-31
437
