Richard Nixon, 1971
[259]
Aug. 6
where such training is now provided is
the W. K. Kellogg Center for Continuing
Education at the University of New
Hampshire in Durham. This program
trains people not only to inspect nursing
homes but also to provide technical assist-
ance and consultative services which can
help improve these facilities. This New
Hampshire program is funded through a
grant from Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, and it is our intention
to establish similar programs in other
areas of the country. This expansion effort
will cost approximately $3 million.
2. Toward this same end, I am asking
the Congress to authorize the Federal
Government to assume 100 percent of the
necessary costs of these State inspection
teams under the Medicaid program. This
will bring the Medicaid law, which now
requires the States to pay from 25 to 50
percent of these costs, into line with the
Medicare law, under which the Federal
Government pays the entire cost for such
inspections. Again, State enforcement
efforts would be significantly enhanced by
this procedure.
3. I am ordering that all activities re-
lating to the enforcement of such stand-
ards-activities which are now scattered
in various branches of the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare-be con-
solidated within the Department into a
single, highly efficient program. This
means that all enforcement responsibility
will be focused at a single point-that a
single official will be accountable for suc-
cess or failure in this endeavor. I am con-
fident that this step alone will enormously
improve the efficiency and the consistency
of our enforcement activities.
4. I am requesting funds to enlarge our
Federal enforcement program by creating
150 additional positions. This will enable
the Federal Government more effectively
to meet its own responsibilities under the
law and to support State enforcement
efforts.
5. I have directed the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare to insti-
tute a new program of short-term courses
for physicians, nurses, dieticians, social
workers, and others who are regularly
involved in furnishing services to nursing
home patients. Appropriate professional
organizations will be involved in develop-
ing plans and course materials for this
program and the latest research findings
in this complex field will also be utilized.
In too many cases, those who provide
nursing home care-though they be gen-
erally well prepared for their profession-
have not been adequately trained to meet
the special needs of the elderly. Our new
program will help correct this deficiency.
6. I have also directed the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare to as-
sist the States in establishing investigative
units which will respond in a responsible
and constructive way to complaints made
by or on behalf of individual patients. The
individual who is confined to an institu-
tion and dependent upon it is often
powerless to make his voice heard. This
new program will help him deal with
concerns such as accounting for his funds
and other personal property, protecting
himself against involuntary transfers from
one nursing home to another or to a
mental hospital, and gaining a fair hear-
ing for reports of physical and psychologi-
cal abuse.
7. I am also directing the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare to under-
take a comprehensive review of the use of
long-term care facilities as well as the
standards and practices of nursing homes
and to recommend any further remedial
879
