[191] June 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
191 Remarks on Presenting the Presidential Medal
of Freedom to William J. Hopkins. June 2, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
This is a very special ceremony which
can come only once in 40 years. I think the
way to introduce this ceremony is to tell
what I think is one of the most amusing
stories in the long history of the White
House.
One day Calvin Coolidge was walking
with a friend through Lafayette Park and
the friend pointed to the White House
and jokingly said, "Who lives there?"
President Coolidge responded, "No one
lives there. They just come and go."
The one man who, in 40 years, has
always been in the White House, who has
not just come and gone, is Bill Hopkins.
He has served seven Presidents, four Dem-
ocrats, three Republicans, with devotion.
In that period of time, he has become, I
would say, the indispensable man in the
White House.
I do not know how we can replace him,
but the time has come when we must find
another one who can become that in-
dispensable man.
Also, it should be pointed out that he
proves that coming into Government serv-
ice at the very first level does not mean
that you cannot go to the top. He came
in as a GS-1, 40 years ago, and he leaves
as GS-17, with the highest rank that we
can give in the executive staff of the
White House.
Now, the problem that I have is: What
kind of recognition can we give him? I
looked over the record. He has been
honored by several Presidents. He was
honored by President Eisenhower. Five
years ago this month a special recognition
was given to him by President Johnson.
He has received the highest award as far
as the Civil Service is concerned, the Fed-
eral Civil Service Award.
So virtually every goodie that a Presi-
dent has to give, Bill, to somebody like
you has already been given out, except
one. Now we have for him a surprise, and
I think all of you will join me in saying
that it is well that we give him the highest
recognition that can be given to anyone
who is a civilian by the Nation and the
President, speaking in behalf of the
Nation.
I at this time am going to present to
Bill Hopkins the Medal of Freedom. The
citation has been eloquently written, and
I think I should read it for you, because it
is one that sums up everything that all
of us want to say to Bill Hopkins on this
special day:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA AWARDS THIS PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL
OF FREEDOM TO
WILLIAM J. HOPKINS
During his forty years in the White House,
under seven Presidents, William J. Hopkins
has written a record of skilled and devoted
service unique in the annals of the Presidency.
Not only has he borne heavy responsibilities
with great efficiency and uncommon good
sense, but each new President in turn has
learned to rely on him as a fount of wisdom,
a reservoir of experience and a rock of loyalty.
Guiding each new administration through
its initial steps, standing as a staunch friend to
all, he has been, in the best sense, a selfless
partisan of the Presidency, and of the Nation
that these seven Presidents have been able to
serve better because of the help that he gave.
And true to his long tradition of anony-
mous service but selfless service, Bill Hop-
kins has requested that he not break the
698
