Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
the development of human re-
sources on education, population
problems, and agricultural skills. In
the technical assistance field, we in-
tend to send more highly trained
technicians. This will be particularly
evident in the "New Direction" of
the Peace Corps programs in Africa.
-But aid alone is not sufficient. Afri-
can countries also need new markets.
Generalized tariff preferences will
help to open new markets for their
manufactured goods in the more in-
dustrialized countries. I will shortly
submit legislation to authorize U.S.
participation in this program. We
will also continue to participate in
international efforts to maintain and
stabilize markets for traditional ex-
ports of primary products.
-We intend to use our influence in
international lending and develop-
ment agencies to encourage greater
assistance to Africa. In this respect
we applaud the decision of the World
Bank to increase its assistance to
Africa threefold.
-Finally, we will actively encourage
private investment in the develop-
ing countries of Africa. Private in-
vestment is the easiest and most effi-
cient way to transfer both resources
and human skills from a developed
to a developing society. American
investment in Africa now stands at
about three billion dollars, of which
more than two-thirds is in the devel-
oping area. It has been growing an-
nually at over 12%. We expect that
a high rate will continue in coming
years. In African countries favored
with resources and wise leadership,
I have no doubt that private invest-
ment will play a far more significant
role than public aid in speeding their
progress.
JUSTICE
The third broad area in which Africans
seek our assistance is the search for racial
and political justice in southern Africa.
There is perhaps no issue which has so
pernicious a potential for the well-being
of Africa and for American interests there.
It is, for many, the sole issue by which our
friendship for Africa is measured. I wish
to review in all frankness our policy to-
ward this grievous problem.
Both our statements and our actions
have, or should have, made it patently
clear to all concerned that racism is ab-
horrent to the American people, to my
administration, and to me personally. We
cannot be indifferent to apartheid. Nor
can we ignore the tensions created in
Africa by the denial of political self-
determination. We shall do what we can
to foster equal opportunity and free politi-
cal expression instead. We shall do so on
both moral and practical grounds, for in
our view there is no other solution.
The United States has, therefore, re-
affirmed and continued to enforce the em-
bargo on the sale of arms to South Africa.
When Southern Rhodesia attempted to
sever formal ties with Britain, we closed
our Consulate there. We have reaffirmed
and continued to enforce the economic
sanctions against Rhodesia, and we have
sought ways to ensure a more universal
compliance with those sanctions.
The United States also has continued
its embargo on the sale of arms for use in
Portuguese African territories. In sup-
port of the United Nations effort to termi-
nate South Africa's jurisdiction over
283
