Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [182]
bilities in the nuclear area, and that that
demonstration will lead others to do
likewise.
That is not the way it will happen. In
my view, wherever you have two na-
tions as you have in the Soviet Union
and the United States-wherever you
have two nations that are competitive,
whose interests are different, where both
mutually reduce their forces, that contri-
butes to peace.
But where one or the other unilaterally
reduces its force, and becomes very signif-
icantly weaker than the other, that
enormously increases the danger of war.
Therefore, the United States--and I
would say the same if I were a leader of
the Soviet Union-the United States does
not serve the cause of peace by unilaterally
reducing its forces without at the same
time mutually negotiating a reduction on
the part of the Soviet Union.
The Soviet Union leaders, I think,
understand that. That has certainly been
the way they approached the problem. We
understand their position. We do not ex-
pect them to reduce their forces unilater-
ally; we will not ours. So whether it is
our forces of a conventional type in
Europe or whether it is our nuclear forces,
offensive or defensive, the United States,
it seems to me, serves the cause of peace
by maintaining its strength and reducing
that strength only as others who may have
different interests reduce theirs.
The second point that I would make is
on the economic field. We enter a period
when it is enormously important that the
United States not lose the position of eco-
nomic leadership which it presently has
in the world. I say presently. That posi-
tion is being jeopardized. It is being jeop-
ardized perhaps not so much because of
our failings, although that may be partial-
ly the reason, but it is being jeopardized
because the whole situation is changed,
and we should be gratified in a sense that
it has changed, since World War II.
Take the two defeated nations of World
War II, the two major ones, the Japanese
and the Germans. At the present time they
are our major competitors in the world,
and as they compete and as they become
more efficient, the United States finds
that as far as its world markets are con-
cerned, and as far also as its markets in the
United States are concerned, that Japa-
nese competition, German, and, as Britain
enters the Common Market, European
competition, is going to be a continuingly
more difficult problem.
So let me put that in perspective, as far
as our economic policy is concerned. First
a strong American economy is essential if
we are going to be able to maintain the
military strength that we need to maintain
in order to create the processes that will
lead to a peaceful balance in the world,
and that is what we seek.
Second, it is going to be essential, in
order for the United States to maintain
the movement forward and upward of
greater opportunity, more jobs, higher
wages, a higher standard of living to which
Americans have become accustomed for
190 years. It is a remarkable program of
progress-a few ups and downs, depres-
sions, recessions and the rest, but the trend
line is up, and it must continue to go up
or we will have problems not only abroad,
we will have enormous problems at home
where these rising expectations will be
bitterly disappointed.
So that brings us to our economy. Look-
ing at the economy, I am sure Herb Stein
has indicated to you that what we find is
that there is argument at the present time
not about whether the economy is moving
71-234-72-40
669
