[243] July 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
New York and then at Green Bay, and
finally in Washington.
We also think of what he meant to
America. And we are reminded of what
coaches generally have meant to each of us
who happen to have gone out for football,
for those who made the team and really
became All-Americans, great players,
great stars in the Hall of Fame.
And for the many more like myself who
went out, we tried, we sat on the bench or
ran the opponent's plays. I knew the op-
ponent's plays better than I knew our
own, I can assure you. We then, however,
went out for the game and perhaps never
made the team, but some way, somehow,
those coaches had influences on our lives.
For example, I noted that as I went
through the Hall of Fame that Jim
Thorpe is the man whose statue is first
there. He played on that first pro football
team here in Canton. He was an Ameri-
can Indian. My coach in college at Whit-
tier was an American Indian. He was a
graduate of the University of Southern
California, Frank Gifford's school. He
was an All-American at USC the year that
USC played Penn State in the Rose Bowl.
I am not telling you who won that game.
I have enough trouble in Penn State al-
ready by naming Texas number one.
Chief Newman, my coach, an Amer-
ican Indian, produced some very fine
teams at that small, little college at Whit-
tier. We won a lot of games. But he
also left a legacy to all of those who came
in contact with him that stayed with us
and meant something to us the rest of our
lives. We were better men because we
knew him, because of what he taught us.
He was a hard driver. He was a great
disciplinarian. There was no permissive-
ness as far as he was concerned. There
were no excuses for failure. He didn't
feel sorry for you when you got knocked
down. He had a different definition of be-
ing a good loser. He said, "You know who
a good loser is? It's somebody who hates
to lose and who gets up and comes back
and fights again.”
I think, perhaps, as I look back at those
who shaped my own life-and there are
a great deal of similarities between the
game of football and the
game of
politics-that I learned a great deal from
a football coach who not only taught his
players how to win but who also taught
them that when you lose you don't quit,
that when you lose you fight harder the
next time.
That, of course, is what a nation needs
to know. It is what all of us need to know
at this time in this country. I think as we
think of men like Vince Lombardi, Chief
Newman, the thousands of other coaches,
Bruiser Kinard, others who have left their
mark on America's young men, either by
reason of the fact that they have played
for them or by reason of the fact that those
in the stands have seen the spirit that
they have been able to infuse among those
players—I think as we think of that, we
can think of what that should mean and
can mean to America at this time in our
history.
On such an evening as this, so full of
fun and so full of nostalgia, so full of re-
spect for the past and looking to the future
of next season and who is going to win, let
me just leave one very serious thought
with this audience with regard to where
America is going in these next few years.
We are entering what I believe is going
to be an era of peace for America, I hope
it will be, and I believe there is a better
chance than at any time in this century
836
