[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
ideas are pretty good. I haven't answered
your question as well as I might, except
to indicate that I am sure that President
Johnson when he was there, President
Kennedy when he was in that room, Presi-
dent Eisenhower when he was there,
whenever they woke up in the middle of
the night, their primary concern must
have been peace for America and for the
world. It is something we haven't had for
a full generation in this century. It is
something I think we can have now, and
that is what we are working for and that
is what we are going to get.
U.S. INVOLVEMENT IN VIETNAM
[3] EMMETT DEDMON (vice president
and editorial director, Chicago Sun-
Times and Chicago Daily News). Mr.
President, you mentioned ending our in-
volvement in the war in Vietnam, and vet
the Secretary of Defense said the other
day that our Air Force and naval
power
would remain in South Vietnam.
How do you reconcile those two state-
ments or is there a conflict there in your
opinion?
THE PRESIDENT. No, Mr. Dedmon,
there really isn't a conflict between the
two statements. I said that we would end
our involvement in Vietnam. You will
recall my speech last Wednesday. I said
that our goal is a total American with-
drawal from Vietnam.
On October 7 of last year, you may
recall, I said that we not only propose a
total American withdrawal but a cease-
fire all over Southeast Asia, which would,
of course, mean no airpower, no Ameri-
can forces there, no use of power in any
way.
As far as Mr. Laird's statement was
concerned, what he was referring to was
that pending the time that we can have
a total withdrawal consistent with the
principles that I laid down in my speech
last week, it will be necessary for the
United States to retain airpower and to
retain some residual forces.
Our goal, however, is a total with-
drawal. We do not have as a goal a per-
manent residual force such as we have
in Korea at the present time.
But it will be necessary for us to main-
tain forces in South Vietnam until two
important objectives are achieved: one,
the release of the prisoners of war held
by North Vietnam in North Vietnam and
other parts of Southeast Asia; and two,
the ability of the South Vietnamese to
develop the capacity to defend themselves
against a Communist takeover—not the
sure capacity, but at least the chance.
Once those two objectives are achieved,
then the total American withdrawal can
be undertaken and will be undertaken.
We can achieve them earlier, provided
the enemy will negotiate. As you noticed,
on October 7 I indicated we will have
a total withdrawal in 12 months if they
would be willing to mutually withdraw
their forces.
And so, in sum, the goal of American
policy in Vietnam is a total withdrawal
with no residual force. But, as long as
the prisoner issue remains unsettled, and
as long as they hold prisoners, and as
long as the South Vietnamese have not
yet developed the capacity to defend
themselves to take over from us the de-
fense of their own country-a capacity
that they rapidly are developing—we will
have forces there.
536
