Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 15 [13]
And that, of course, is the great danger
of any party organization. It is the great
danger of any club. It is the great danger
of any association of people to be more in-
terested in the organization as a goal and
an end in itself, rather than an organiza-
tion as simply a base to do something, do
something bigger than itself, an organiza-
tion that will grow, an organization that
will have an influence on the community
and on the State and on the Nation and
even on the world.
And so I think General Eisenhower
would have said, "Organize this Repub-
lican Party well. But organize it in a way
that it can grow, that it can attract In-
dependent voters and Democratic voters,
that it can attract Americans in all walks
of life so that we can become an organiza-
tion that will be an effective instrument for
doing better things for America and better
things for the world."
As a matter of fact, I noted as I came
out onto this platform today-which, in-
cidentally, is heated by the television
lights-but in any event, I noted as I
came out that the door was open. And
now it is closed.
Symbolically, what I would like to say
as this new building is officially dedicated
is that I would like this building to be the
building of the open door. I would like
the Republican Party to be the party of
the open door, a party with its doors open
to all people of all races and of all parties,
those who share our great ideals about the
future of America and the future of the
world.
That is how the Republican Party came
into being. It was a party then that
brought into it not just a group of people
who believed certain very narrow things,
but people who differed about a great
number of things but were united on one
principle: They wanted union. They be-
lieved in the unity of this Nation. They
believed in the freedom of men.
And so our party has great principles,
principles that are far bigger than the
Republican Party. They are as big as all
of America itself. But our party will not
grow unless it is the party of the open
door, open to all people, all people who
share our principles, who want to work
with us for the betterment of America and
the betterment of the world.
And so I think these are the two
thoughts that General Eisenhower would
have wanted me, who was proud to be his
Vice President during the 8 years he was
President of the United States, to convey
to you, this very distinguished audience
today:
First, an appreciation to all of you who
have been selfless in your work for our
party in campaigns. Sometimes we won.
Sometimes we lost. But you gave every-
thing you had. And that is, of course, the
greatest attribute an individual can have.
And, second, his advice that ours should
be the party of the open door, open to all
people, all parties, all faiths, all races.
That is the kind of a party he would
want and that is the kind of a party we
are, and that we shall be in the years
ahead.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:16 a.m. at
the Center, on Capitol Hill.
Following the President's remarks, Mrs.
Eisenhower cut the ribbon officially opening
the Center.
37
