Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 11 [93]
community interests? The right to repre-
sentation by counsel, the prompt disposi-
tion of cases-advocacy and adjudica-
tion—are fundamental rights that must
be assured to all of our citizens.
In a society that cherishes change, in a
society that enshrines diversity in its Con-
stitution, in a system of justice that pits
one adversary against another to find the
truth, there is always going to be conflict.
Taken to the street, conflict is a destruc-
tive force; taken to the courts, conflict can
be a creative force.
What can be done to make certain that
civil conflict is resolved in the peaceful
arena of the court and criminal charges
lead to justice for both the accused and
the community? The charge to all of us is
very clear.
We must make it possible for judges to
spend more time judging by giving them
professional help for administrative tasks.
We must change the criminal court sys-
tem, provide the manpower-in terms of
court staffs, prosecutors, defense coun-
sel-to bring about speedier trials and
appeals.
We must insure the fundamental civil
rights of every American: the right to be
secure in his home and on the streets. We
must make it possible for the civil litigant
to get a hearing on his case at least in
the same year that he files it.
We must make it possible for each
community to train its police to carry out
their duties, using the most modern meth-
ods of detection and crime prevention.
We must make it possible for the con-
victed criminal to receive constructive
training while in confinement, instead of
what he receives now usually-an ad-
vanced course in crime.
The time has come to repudiate once
and for all the idea that prisons are ware-
houses for human rubbish; our correc-
tional systems must be changed to make
them places that will correct and edu-
cate. And, of special concern to this Con-
ference, we must strengthen the State
court systems to enable them to fulfill
their historic role as the tribunals of jus-
tice nearest and most responsive to the
people.
The Federal Government has been
treating the process of justice as a matter
of the highest priority, as you know. In
the budget for the coming year, the Law
Enforcement Assistance Administration
will be enabled to vigorously expand its
aid to State and local governments. Close
to one-half billion dollars a year will now
go to strengthen local efforts to reform
court procedures, police methods, cor-
rectional action, and other related needs.
In my new special revenue sharing pro-
posal, law enforcement is an area that
receives increased attention and greater
funding in a way that permits States
and localities to determine their own
priorities.
The District of Columbia, which, as
you know, is the only American city under
direct Federal supervision, now has legis-
lation and funding which enables us to
reorganize its court system, provides
enough judges to bring accused to trial
promptly, and protects the public against
habitual offenders. We hope this new
reform legislation may serve as an ex-
ample to other communities throughout
the Nation.
And today I am endorsing the concept
of a suggestion that I understand Chief
Justice Burger will make to you tomor-
row: the establishment of a National
Center for the State Courts.
This will make it possible for State
courts to conduct research into problems
421
