[196] June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
growth and expanded prosperity. We
need them; we are going to continue to
have to have them. And yet it is still legiti-
mate, and it is essential, to insist that
quality keep pace with quantity as the
Nation grows.
Looking at this project from an en-
vironmental standpoint, we can be grate-
ful and proud that this river system today
remains largely unpolluted when we look
at it in comparison to others. Right now,
as we dedicate this project, with industrial
development along the waterway really
beginning to take off, let us determine to
hold the line on a clean and healthy river,
because if we act now, we can make the
Arkansas not only a continuing asset to
this region but also an example of pollu-
tion prevention for the entire United
States.
The dedication of this McClellan-Kerr
Arkansas River Navigation System is an
exceptional monument-a monument in
action. It honors many things. It honors
the leadership of the two Senators whose
names it bears; it honors the leadership
of the Congressmen like Page Belcher,
Senators like Henry Bellmon, and others
who have also worked for this project. It
honors the vision of many leaders of this
region who are not in the Congress, in
the Senate or the House-the constructive
partnership of economic development
with environmental protection. And this
is a monument to American engineering
and technological skill.
I think it is particularly fitting that this
waterway has been dedicated to the youth
of America for it is they who will benefit
most from it. The surge of growth and
prosperity which this region is certain to
experience in the decades ahead means a
brighter future for the young people of the
United States. And to the extent you are
able to set an example for the Nation in
things like environmental planning and
balanced growth, you will be doing a serv-
ice to the next generation, not just re-
gionally but throughout the United
States.
But the most important consequence of
this great achievement for American
youth is, I believe, something that really
cannot be measured in material terms. By
undertaking a vast project that some
called impossible and others called worth-
less and making it a success, you have
demonstrated once again the vitality of
the American tradition of daring great
things and achieving great things.
I have many memories of France's great
leader, General de Gaulle. He was a man
with a rare understanding of what it takes
to make a nation's spirit live and soar.
And I remember that he often used to say
that France is never her true self unless
she is engaged in a great enterprise. Pre-
cisely the same is true of the United States.
The spirit that tamed the Arkansas is
the same spirit that forged the Union in
1776, that bought Louisiana in 1803, that
bridged the continent with the rails in
1869, that settled the Oklahoma Terri-
tory in 1889, that developed the Tennes-
see Valley in the thirties, and that put
men on the moon in 1969.
And in an era when some voices urge
Americans not to aim so high, to turn
from the pursuit of greatness to the culti-
vation of comfort only, it is valuable for
our young people, our future leaders, to
have before them this dramatic example
of the young spirit still at work in Amer-
ica. Because without this spirit, all the
wealth, all the ease, all the privilege,
would be as ashes for Americans, but
with this spirit, all the future is ours for
what we want to make it.
718
