Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 23 [278]
environmental quality. It shows that these
two goals do not have to be inconsistent,
and that if we plan carefully enough they
can be made complementary.
NOTE: The statement was released at Loma
Linda, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the new hospital and land
transfer.
277 Statement Announcing Plans To
Emperor and Empress of Japan.
MRS. NIXON and I plan to meet with
Their Majesties, the Emperor and Em-
press of Japan, in Anchorage, Alaska, on
Sunday evening, September 26, when
Their Majesties are stopping there en
route to Europe. I understand that this
will mark the first time that any reigning
Japanese Emperor has traveled outside of
Japan.
We are honored that Their Majesties
first set foot on American soil on this
journey. This will also mark the first time
278
Meet With the
August 20, 1971
that an American President in office and
a reigning Japanese Emperor have met.
I look forward to this meeting not only
as a personal pleasure but also as a means
of demonstrating that fundamental re-
spect and friendship which forms the basis
of the relations between our two countries.
NOTE: The statement was read by Press Sec-
retary Ronald L. Ziegler during a news brief-
ing at San Clemente, Calif., on August 20,
1971.
Memorandum About Government Patent Policy.
August 23, 1971
Memorandum for Heads of Executive De-
partments and Agencies:
On October 10, 1963, President
Kennedy forwarded to the Heads of
Executive Departments and Agencies a
Memorandum and Statement of Govern-
ment Patent Policy for their guidance in
determining the disposition of rights to in-
ventions made under Government-spon-
sored grants and contracts. On the basis
of the knowledge and experience then
available, this Statement first established
Government-wide objectives and criteria,
within existing legislative constraints, for
the allocation of rights to inventions
between the Government and
contractors.
its
It was recognized that actual experi-
ence under the Policy could indicate the
need for revision or modification. Accord-
ingly, a Patent Advisory Panel was estab-
lished under the Federal Council for
Science and Technology for the purpose
of assisting the agencies in implementing
the Policy, acquiring data on the agencies'
operations under the Policy, and making
recommendations regarding the utiliza-
tion of Government-owned patents. In
December 1965, the Federal Council
established the Committee on Govern-
ment Patent Policy to assess how this
Policy was working in practice, and to
acquire and analyze additional informa-
tion that could contribute to the reaffirma-
tion or modification of the Policy.
The efforts of both the Committee and
919
