Richard Nixon, 1971
[75]
Feb. 25
The Emperor of Ethiopia, unique
among world leaders in the length of his
reign and his contribution to independent
Africa, visited the United States in Octo-
ber. That occasion provided an oppor-
tunity for me to review with him the role
of the United States in the economic prog-
ress of that ancient land, and to reaffirm
the close ties of cooperation between our
two countries. Ethiopia has been a leader
in Africa's creation of regional organiza-
tions. Their growing vitality is encourag-
ing, and we hope that activities of this
kind will serve increasingly as the focus
for economic cooperation between African
countries. We believe such a development
will both promote and increase the effec-
tiveness of foreign assistance.
THE FUTURE
The potential of Africa is great, but so
are its problems. We view Africa with
the strongest of goodwill, tempered by the
sober recognition of the limits of the con-
tribution which we can make to many of
its problems. We look to African leader-
ship to build the framework within which
other nations, including the United States,
can fully contribute to a bright African
future. A peaceful, progressive, and just
Africa is an exciting and worthy goal. We
hope by our policies to facilitate economic
progress in one part of Africa, human and
social justice in the other, and peace
both.
THE MIDDLE EAST
in
"The Middle East is a place today
where local rivalries are intense, where the
vital interests of the United States and
the Soviet Union are both involved. Quite
obviously, the primary responsibility for
achieving a peaceful settlement in the
Middle East rests on the nations there
themselves. But in this region in partic-
ular, it is imperative that the two major
powers conduct themselves so as to
strengthen the forces of peace rather than
to strengthen the forces of war."
Address to the United Nations
General Assembly
October 23, 1970
Vietnam is our most anguishing prob-
lem. It is not, however, the most dan-
gerous. That grim distinction must go to
the situation in the Middle East with its
vastly greater potential for drawing Soviet
policy and our own into a collision that
could prove uncontrollable.
There are three distinct and serious
aspects of the Middle East problem, each
by itself difficult enough to resolve. They
cannot, however, be treated in isolation.
They have become enmeshed, and each
tends to exacerbate and make more in-
tractable the others. The Middle East
crisis must be recognized as the product of
these three dimensions:
-The Arab-Israeli conflict, which for
more than twenty years has festered
when it has not burned. It is the
core problem of the Middle East
crisis, and its intensity today is
undiminished.
-Intra-Arab differences, which focus
primarily on whether a negotiated
settlement of the Israeli conflict is
acceptable or whether force is the
only solution. There are also dif-
ferences over how Arab nations
should be governed, which have led
more than once to civil conflict. And
there are rivalries growing out of dis-
71-234-72-22
285
