[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
and testing of ABM components, and im-
proved air defense systems.
An additional source of uncertainty is
China's possession of nuclear weapons.
China continues to work on strategic bal-
listic missiles and, by the late 1970's, can
be expected to have operational ICBM's,
capable of reaching the U.S.
On the other hand, the Soviet Union
in the past few months appears to have
slowed the deployment of land-based
strategic missile launchers. The signifi-
cance of this development is not clear.
The USSR could be exercising self-
restraint. Its leaders may have concluded,
as we have, that the number of ICBM's
now deployed is sufficient for their needs.
Or, the slowdown could be temporary
and could be followed, in due course, by a
resumption of new missile deployments.
The delay could mean that the Soviet
Union is preparing to introduce major
qualitative improvements, such as a new
warhead or guidance system. Finally, the
slowdown could presage the deployment
of an altogether new missile system.
We will continue to watch Soviet de-
ployments carefully. If the USSR is in
fact exercising restraint, we welcome this
action and will take it into account in our
planning. If it turns out to be preparatory
to a new intensification of the strategic
arms race, it will be necessary for us to
react appropriately.
THE DOCTRINE OF STRATEGIC SUFFICIENCY
Our policy remains, as I explained last
year, to maintain strategic sufficiency. The
concept of sufficiency is not based solely
on debatable calculations and assump-
tions regarding possible scenarios of how
a war might occur and be conducted. It
is in part a political concept, and it in-
volves judgments whether the existing
and foreseeable military environment en-
dangers our legitimate interests and
aspirations.
Specifically, sufficiency has two mean-
ings. In its narrow military sense, it means
enough force to inflict a level of damage
on a potential aggressor sufficient to deter
him from attacking. Sole reliance on a
"launch-on-warning" strategy, some-
times suggested by those who would give
less weight to the protection of our forces,
would force us to live at the edge of a
precipice and deny us the flexibility we
wish to preserve.
In its broader political sense, sufficiency
means the maintenance of forces adequate
to prevent us and our allies from being
coerced. Thus the relationship between
our strategic forces and those of the Soviet
Union must be such that our ability and
resolve to protect our vital security inter-
ests will not be underestimated. I must not
be-and my successors must not be-
limited to the indiscriminate mass destruc-
tion of enemy civilians as the sole possible
response to challenges. This is especially
so when that response involves the likeli-
hood of triggering nuclear attacks on our
own population. It would be inconsistent
with the political meaning of sufficiency
to base our force planning solely on some
finite-and theoretical-capacity to in-
flict casualties presumed to be unaccept-
able to the other side.
But sufficiency also means numbers,
characteristics, and deployments of our
forces which the Soviet Union cannot
reasonably interpret as being intended to
threaten a disarming attack. Our purpose,
reflected both in our strategic programs
and in our SALT proposals, is to maintain
a balance, and thereby reduce the likeli-
hood of nuclear war. Insofar as we can do
310
