Richard Nixon, 1971
May 5 [159]
State governments. The program is con-
cerned with social issues and is thus sub-
ject to unusually strong political pressures.
Even though surrounded by contro-
versy, this program can provide a most
effective mechanism for settling differ-
ences and securing justice within the sys-
tem and not on the streets. For many of
our citizens, legal services has reaffirmed
faith in our government of laws. How-
ever,
if we are to preserve the strength of
the program, we must make it immune
to political pressures and make it a per-
manent part of our system of justice.
For two years, this administration has
studied means of delivering improved,
high quality legal services to those in need,
as well as the question of what the
proper
role and structure of the legal services pro-
gram should be. In 1969, we upgraded
the status of legal services, recognizing it
as a separate program within the Office
of Economic Opportunity. Because of its
importance, I also specifically asked the
President's Advisory Council on Executive
Organization (The Ash Council) to ex-
amine the question, and last November
the Council recommended that the Gov-
ernment create a special corporation for
the program. The role of legal services
lawyers was also considered by the recent
White House Conference on Youth, and
a task force there expressed strong con-
cern that the independence of these at-
torneys be maintained.
Today, after carefully considering the
alternatives, I propose the creation of a
separate, nonprofit Legal Services Cor-
poration. The legislation being sent to
the Congress to accomplish this has three
major objectives: First, that the corpora-
tion itself be structured and financed so
that it will be assured of independence;
second, that the lawyers in the program
have full freedom to protect the best in-
terests of their clients in keeping with the
Canons of Ethics and the high standards
of the legal profession; and third, that the
Nation be encouraged to continue giving
the program the support it needs in order
to become a permanent and vital part of
the American system of justice.
INDEPENDENCE FOR THE CORPORATION
True independence for a corporation
created by the Government demands a
governing body drawn from a wide spec-
trum and safeguarded against partisan in-
terference after its appointment. I believe
that we can best meet these requirements
by appointing the board of directors for
the Legal Services Corporation on the
following bases:
-The members of the board should be
appointed by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the
Senate.
-The board should consist of eleven
members, no more than six of whom
may be of the same political party.
-A majority should be members of the
bar of the highest court of a juris-
diction, and none should be a full-
time employee of the United States.
-Members should be appointed for
three-year terms and serve no longer
than nine years consecutively.
--The board chairman should be
elected by the members from among
their number and serve a term of
one year.
-No board member should be involun-
tarily removed except by a vote of
at least seven members, and only for
reasons of malfeasance, persistent
619
