[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
not be solved unless we in the United
States and the Soviet Union demonstrate
both the will and the capacity to put our
relationship on a basis consistent with the
aspirations of mankind."
Address to the United Nations
General Assembly
October 23, 1970
In my Inaugural Address, and again
at the United Nations last October, I
urged the Soviet leaders to join with us
in building a new and constructive rela-
tionship.
I emphasized four factors that provide
a basis for such a development:
-Neither of us wants a nuclear
exchange.
-We both should welcome the oppor-
tunity to reduce the burden of
armaments.
-We are both major industrial powers,
and yet have very little trade or com-
mercial contact with one another.
Both would clearly benefit if our re-
lationship permitted an increase in
trade.
-Both are deeply involved, at home
and abroad, with the need for cre-
ative economic and social change.
Both our interests-and the broader
world interest-would be served if
our competition could be channeled
more into our performances in that
field.
Thus, our two nations have substan-
tial mutual incentives to find ways of
working together. We are realistic enough
to recognize, however, that we also have
very real differences that can continue
to divide us:
We view the world and approach inter-
national affairs differently. Ideology con-
tinues to shape many aspects of Soviet
policy. It dictates an attitude of constant
pressure toward the external world. The
Soviet Government too frequently claims
that the rationale for its internal and ex-
ternal policies is based on universalist doc-
trines. In certain fundamental aspects the
Soviet outlook on world affairs is incom-
patible with a stable international system.
The internal order of the USSR, as
such, is not an object of our policy, al-
though we do not hide our rejection of
many of its features. Our relations with
the USSR, as with other countries, are
determined by its international behavior.
Consequently, the fruitfulness of the re-
lationship depends significantly upon the
degree to which its international be-
havior does not reflect militant doctrinal
considerations.
As the two most powerful nations in
the world, we conduct global policies that
bring our interests into contention across
a broad range of issues. Historically, inter-
national adversaries have demonstrated a
compulsion to seek every gain, however
marginal, at the expense of their competi-
tors. In this classical conception, the accu-
mulation of gains over a period of time
could alter the balance of power. This
may have been realistic in the past; at
least it was the essence of international
affairs.
But it is folly for the great nuclear
powers to conduct their policies in this
manner. For if they succeed, it can only
result in confrontation and potential
catastrophe.
The nature of nuclear power requires
that both the Soviet Union and we be
willing to practice self-restraint in the
pursuit of national interests. We have
acted on this principle in our conduct of
the SALT negotiations, in our diplomatic
initiatives in the Middle East, and in our
304
