Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 18 [361]
integral part of the national health
strategy which I outlined in my message
to the Congress last winter. One of the
cardinal principles on which this strategy
was built was that of balancing the supply
of medical care with the growing demand
for services. For-as I pointed out in that
message our failure to achieve this bal-
ance can only result in lower quality medi-
cal care at increasingly inflated prices.
I am pleased that the Congress has
responded to this concern and has en-
acted a number of my recommendations
regarding the expansion of our health
manpower resources. The actions which
have been taken will enable our Nation to
train critically needed medical personnel,
to improve the distribution of such per-
sonnel-both geographically and by medi-
cal specialty-and to promote the more
effective use of health manpower.
The chief provisions of these two new
acts are as follows:
1. Per Capita Assistance. The Compre-
hensive Health Manpower Training Act
takes a new approach to the financing of
medical and dental training, one which is
along the lines of the approach I recom-
mended last February. It incorporates the
principle that dollar support for a given
institution be tied to numbers of stu-
dents, thus providing a strong incentive
for medical schools to expand their enroll-
ments. This new form of assistance will
also enable schools to innovate and ex-
periment more readily, since they will be
working from a more stable fiscal position.
In 1972, this program will benefit 275
schools.
2. Special Project and Financial Dis-
tress Grants. In my message to the Con-
gress, I also asked for a new program of
"special project grants to help achieve
special goals." By following this recom-
mendation, the new legislation will per-
mit institutions a considerable degree of
flexibility in reforming their curricula and
undertaking special training projects in
areas such as alcoholism and drug depend-
ence. This legislation also embodies our
proposal for a separate grant program for
schools in financial distress, one which
will assist these institutions in diagnosing
the causes of their fiscal weakness and
which will provide for appropriate opera-
tional and financial reforms.
3. Construction Grants and Interest
Subsidies. The new legislation provides
authority for direct grants for the con-
struction of facilities to educate health
personnel. It also establishes a new pro-
gram of guaranteed loans and interest
subsidies which will generate additional
private capital for this same purpose. To-
gether, these two actions-which have
also grown out of Administration recom-
mendations-will help us achieve a sub-
stantial increase in the number of new
first-year students who can be enrolled in
our health profession and nursing schools.
4. Student Assistance. Under the legis-
lation I have signed today, loan and
scholarship assistance will continue to be
available for students in the health profes-
sions, and special emphasis will be given
to increasing opportunities for disadvan-
taged students. In addition, the Federal
Government will forgive student loan in-
debtedness for physicians, dentists, nurses,
and other health personnel who practice
in medically underserved areas. As I
pointed out last winter, this policy can do
much to help us meet the special needs of
remote rural areas and urban poverty
neighborhoods where medical care is often
difficult to obtain at the present time.
5. Health Manpower Education Initi-
ative Awards. A number of Administra-
1115
