[161] May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
like to be generous when others are in
trouble.
The reason we are able to do it is be-
cause we produce so much. The reason
that the United States has been able to
provide hundreds of millions of dollars
worth of assistance in food across this
world is because we produce it on Ameri-
ca's farms, produce enough to make us the
best fed, the best clothed people in the
world, and produce enough that America
can be, as we are, the most generous
people in the world.
It wouldn't be possible except for the
fact that out across the great heartland of
America farmers and farm families pro-
duce more, and more efficiently, than any
farmers in the world and make it possible
for America, this Nation, as a people, as a
government, both individually and collec-
tively, to be generous in terms of what we
can do for others who are in distress.
And in the field of foreign policy, of
course, I had this brought home to me
very vividly yesterday when Dr. Borlaug
came over to the White House lawn to
see the exhibit that you will see this after-
noon. We looked at those strains of wheat
that he developed in Mexico and which
can also be used in Pakistan, in India, and
other areas of the world which will enor-
mously increase their wheat production.
And as I heard him talk, this man who
won the Nobel Prize for Peace, I could see
why he was, in truth, quite worthy of it.
And I could see why he, by receiving this
award, was pointing the way to the future
of America's role in the world.
He said a very moving thing. He said,
"You know, I have lived out of this coun-
try for 27 years, but I am a very proud
American." And he had reason to be, be-
cause he spoke movingly of the poor peo-
ple he had seen in Mexico, the children
who didn't have enough to eat, and others,
and he did something about it. He also
said there were thousands like him. The
people, the armies we shall call them, who
go to other countries, who have been doing
it for many years, the armies from Ameri-
can agriculture. They go abroad carrying
plowshares, not swords. And as they go
abroad, they help others learn the tech-
niques that are so important to develop
the capacity to feed themselves.
Let us understand: We fortunately
have the capacity to produce enough to
feed ourselves and to be generous to
others. But America cannot feed all the
hungry people in the world. America can
help others develop, or learn, the capacity
to feed themselves. And men like Dr.
Borlaug, people that I have seen in other
countries, teams from Purdue, for ex-
ample, and Michigan State and Califor-
nia at Davis, all over this world I have
seen them in country after country, work-
ing with the local people, helping them
to develop the capacity to become self-
sufficient or, at least, more self-sufficient
in terms of the vital problem of poverty,
hunger, as it exists in other countries of
the world in such great degree.
So I want to say to you in agriculture
today that in the field of foreign policy, as
I see it, we now are entering what will be
a new period for America. We are ending
a war in which we have been engaged, a
very difficult war, for the past 5 years.
Once that war is ended, then the question
is for America and the world and par-
ticularly for us: What do we do with the
peace? Do we keep it or do we have an-
other war, something we have had for this
whole century. Every generation of Amer-
icans in the 20th century has had to go to
war-World War I, and then the sons of
those in World War I went to World War
626
