[286] Sept. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
(3) evaluate all such programs and
activities and their implementa-
tion;
(4) make recommendations to the
Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget concerning pro-
posed funding of such programs;
and
(5) report to the President, from time
to time, concerning the foregoing.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was dated August 17,
1971, and released September 7.
On September 7, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Secretary
Rogers on the Cabinet Committee and on re-
cent developments in international narcotics
control.
On September 28, the White House released
the transcript of remarks by Secretary Rogers
and Thanat Khoman, Foreign Minister of
Thailand, announcing a Memorandum of
Understanding on International Narcotics
Control between the United States and
Thailand. The remarks are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 7, p. 1352).
On September 28, the White House also
released the transcript of a news briefing on
the Memorandum of Understanding by Leon-
ard Unger, United States Ambassador to Thai-
land, Egil Krogh, Jr., Executive Director,
Cabinet Committee on International Narcotics
Control, and Nelson G. Gross, Senior Adviser
and Coordinator for International Narcotics
Matters, Department of State.
287 Address to the Congress on Stabilization of
the Economy. September 9, 1971
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, my col-
leagues in the Congress, our distinguished
guests:
I come before this special joint session
to ask the cooperation of the Congress in
achieving a great goal: a new prosperity
without war and without inflation.
In this century, Americans have never
before had a full generation of peace.
In the past 40 years, we have had only
2 years with real prosperity, without war
and without inflation.
As a result of major initiatives in the
field of foreign policy, I believe that as
America is bringing to a conclusion the
longest and most difficult war in its his-
tory, we can look forward with confidence
to a generation of peace today.
Yet we confront this irony: As the
dangers of war recede, the challenges of
peace increase.
It is customary for a President to ask
the Congress for bipartisan support in
meeting the challenges of war. Today I
come before
you to ask bipartisan support
in meeting the challenges of peace.
In achieving our goal, we find our-
selves confronted at the outset by three
problems:
The first is a legacy of war. Two million
men have been cut back from our Armed
Forces and defense plants because of our
success in winding down the war in Viet-
nam. As part of the transition from a war-
time to a peacetime economy, we now
have to find jobs for these men-jobs pro-
ducing for peace instead of war.
The second problem is also a legacy of
war. We must stop the rise in the cost of
living.
The third problem is a legacy not of
war, but of peaceful progress in the world
over the past 25 years-progress which
has altered dramatically the balance in
938
