Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [180]
Just think of that country then. It was
small, it was weak militarily, it was poor
economically, but Americans had faith in
themselves, they were united that they
had a mission in the world bigger than
their own country, and it was that faith
and that sense of mission that built the
great nation that we have today.
Oh, I do not suggest that most Ameri-
cans still do not have faith in this country,
that most Americans still do not have that
sense of mission, but I do say that it is
essential for us to recognize on an occasion
like this, as we think of history, as we set
in motion a new project for the economic
development of this country and the
strength of America, that we must think
of what this occasion means in terms of
our spiritual strength.
And I would summarize it this way:
Here we see five States joining together,
and the Federal Government working in
cooperation with the five States. And in
that, it seems to me, that sense of partner-
ship, we really see where the future of
America really lies.
We cannot be a strong nation in a
spiritual and moral and ideological sense
if we are torn apart by regional dif-
ferences, by racial differences, by religious
differences, by differences between States,
by differences between State government
and the Federal Government.
Let me put it another way: I do not
suggest that there are not differences, real
differences, between various regions of the
country, between various States, between
religions, between races, between genera-
tions. That has always been the
case; that
will continue to be the case.
But let us, on an occasion like this,
remember that what we must do is to join
together in working out those differences
in a peaceful and constructive way, so that
there will be no difference when we work
for peace for America and the world;
there will be no difference when we work
for cooperation.
There is no difference in our desire to
get rid of hunger in this Nation and the
world. There are no differences among us
in our desire to have better education and
better health for all of our people. Let
Americans today be united North, East,
West, and South, all races and religions,
for the great goals of peace, prosperity,
opportunity for every American and every
people in the world today.
So in dedicating this project as it begins,
I do so with great pride, pride that these
States have worked together with the
Federal Government, pride that this is
going to mean great progress for this part
of the country, pride also that it has en-
abled all of us to think of our history,
where we come from, to think of our ideal-
ism, what it is, and to rededicate ourselves
anew to that proposition that excited the
whole world 190 years ago.
America was then the hope of the
world. And I can tell you from having
traveled to most nations of the world,
despite what you may hear about the
weakness of American foreign policy,
about what other nations may think of us,
I can simply say this: I can tell
you that
as far as this Nation is concerned, 205 mil-
lion, what we do, our economic strength,
our military strength-always for peace
never for the purpose of aggression—and
our spiritual and moral and ideological
strength, that is the hope of the world, let
us keep that hope strong and firm as we
dedicate this project.
71-234-72—————45
661
