Richard Nixon, 1971
May 21 [177]
as in communications in the technical
sense, which you have negotiated.
So our congratulations go to you who
have labored so long and so hard in a
difficult field, and finally have reached
agreements after over 2 years.
Now a word about what this can mean
to the future.
You will have noted that yesterday a
joint announcement was made by the
Government of the United States and
the Government of the Soviet Union
indicating a commitment by the leaders
at the highest level in both countries to
work toward limitation of nuclear arms,
both in the defensive and in the offensive
areas, and to work toward an agreement
in this field to be implemented sometime
this year.
As I pointed out in making that an-
nouncement, some very intensive negotia-
tions now will have to take place to
achieve our goal; but we are hopeful that
it will be achieved because of the interest
and the commitment that now has been
expressed at the very highest levels in both
governments.
Let me relate that kind of statement,
and the agreement that we trust will fol-
low from it, to the work that you have
here.
We, as sophisticates in the field of in-
ternational affairs-and I guess we can
describe ourselves as that-those who
have participated in this conference and
others of us who have worked in these
areas for some time, know that there will
always be differences between nations,
differences that will not be resolved. There
will always be competition between na-
tions, and that competition, if it is peace-
ful, can be constructive rather than
destructive.
What is important is for us to set up
those patterns and those processes where-
by differences between nations that can-
not be resolved will not result in the use
of arms or military force. We are making
progress in that direction, progress in
many areas of the world.
We trust that we can be living in a
world where there will be the absence of
war, in which we can move in peaceful
ways to discuss differences, recognizing
always that we are not going to resolve all
differences. It will never be that kind of a
world. It will never be that kind of a
nation, because people do have differ-
ences, and they cannot always resolve
them.
But there is one thing we can also be
sure of: There are many differences in
the world which exist today, not because
of basic vital interests which are irrecon-
cilable, but simply because of lack of in-
formation, because of ignorance, because
the people or the governments of one part
of the world do not really know the peo-
ple or the governments of the other part
of the world.
So as you can well see, this kind of
breakthrough, through which it will be
possible to have instant communication
around the world, will reduce the ignor-
ance. It will increase the information. It
will reduce those areas of difference which
exist because of ignorance and lack of
information to a minimum.
This has never been true in the world
before. This does not mean that this is
the total answer to the problem of peace
in the world, because as I have indicated,
and as all of you know, there are always
going to be certain other areas where all
information will be available to all sides,
and there still may not be agreement;
there will still be differences.
But at last, now, we have the chance,
653
