Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [88]
decision that is made by the President of
the United States. He will continue to par-
ticipate in those decisions.
Now, the role of Dr. Kissinger is a dif-
ferent one. He is the White House Adviser
to the President. He covers not only for-
eign policy but national security policy,
the coordination of those policies. He also
gives me advice, just as Secretary Laird
gives me advice, in matters of defense.
I would say that I respect his advice as
well.
As to whether either Secretary Rogers
or Dr. Kissinger is the top adviser, as to
who is on first, the answer to that, of
course, is very simply that the Secretary
of State is always the chief foreign policy
adviser and the chief foreign policy spokes-
man of the Administration.
At the same time, the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs
does advise the President, and I value his
advice very much.
U.S. TROOPS IN SOUTH VIETNAM
[5] Q. Mr. President, there is some
feeling in this city and perhaps around the
country that you are trying to prepare
the American people for the possibility
that between 50,000 and 100,000 Ameri-
can troops will still have to be in South
Vietnam by election time next year.
Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. I really can't tell you
what the feeling is in this city. I can tell
what my own plans are.
you
We are for a total withdrawal of all
American forces on a mutual basis. As far
as those forces are concerned, I have stated
in this press conference that Gene Risher
referred to a moment ago, I have stated,
however, that as long as there are Amer-
ican POW's-and there are 1,600 Ameri-
cans ยน in North Vietnam jails under very
difficult circumstances at the present
time as long as there are American
POW's in North Vietnam we will have to
maintain a residual force in South Viet-
nam. That is the least that we can nego-
tiate for.
As far as our goal is concerned, our goal
is to get all Americans out of Vietnam as
soon as we can, by negotiation, if possible,
and through our withdrawal program
and
Vietnamization program, if necessary.
Now, as to when we will have them
out, I will make the announcements in
due time. I have another one coming in
April, and I will be making other
announcements. And I think the record
will be a pretty good one when we have
concluded.
U.S. AIR SUPPORT FOR SOUTH
VIETNAMESE FORCES
[6.] Mr. Bailey [Charles W. Bailey 2d,
Minneapolis Tribune and Minneapolis
Star].
Q. Sir, in speaking of the potentialities
of action against North Vietnam, you were
talking on the third point about the pos-
sibility of American air support for a
South Vietnamese attack. You said that
no such plan is under consideration in this
Government. Can you go any further than
that, or is that all you wish to say about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Bailey, I can say
further that no such plan has ever been
ยน White House Press Secretary Ronald L.
Ziegler later stated that the figure cited by the
President referred to the total number of those
who are either prisoners of war or missing in
action in Southeast Asia.
389
