[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
for adequate verification of any
agreement is essential to both sides.
We have not yet found a way to
overcome certain differences. They
are particularly difficult in connec-
tion with our attempts to limit or ban
MIRV's or ABM's. We will continue
working on solutions to these prob-
lems in future negotiations.
In light of these complex issues and our
differing approaches, we are neither sur-
prised nor discouraged that progress has
not been more rapid. The discussions have
produced the most searching examination
of strategic relationships ever conducted
between the United States and the USSR.
Each side has had the opportunity to ex-
plain at length the particular strategic
concerns caused by the present and pro-
spective posture of the other. Both sides
know better how an agreement could
deal with these concerns.
The Soviet position has not been pre-
sented in the detail that ours has, but the
negotiations have reached a point where
views are better understood and the basis
of an agreement may be emerging. Fur-
ther progress is therefore possible when
negotiations resume.
We need to determine how compre-
hensive an agreement is feasible. On the
one hand, even a relatively modest accord
would create a stake for both sides to pre-
serve progress and build upon it with
further agreements. Moreover, it could
influence attitudes towards issues outside
SALT. On the other hand, if all the ef-
fort that has gone into SALT were to
produce only a token agreement, it could
be counterproductive. There would be
no reason to be confident that this could
serve as a bridge to a more significant
agreement. Therefore, we shall strive for
an initial agreement which is as broad
and comprehensive as possible. It must
deal with the interrelationship between
offensive and defensive limitations.
Two principles should be recognized.
The strategic balance would be endan-
gered if we limited defensive forces alone
and left the offensive threat to our stra-
tegic forces unconstrained. It would also
be dangerous, however, if only offensive
forces were restrained, while defenses
were allowed to become so strong that
one side might no longer be deterred from
striking first. To limit only one side of the
offense-defense equation could rechannel
the arms competition rather than effec-
tively curtail it.
We also have to clarify the relationship
between the process of negotiations—
which may be protracted and involve sev-
eral stages—and actions taken during the
talks, and even after an initial agreement.
It is clear that restraint is essential. If the
Soviet leaders extend their strategic capa-
bilities, especially in ways that increase
the threat to our forces, we would face
new decisions in the strategic field.
Last summer, in a press conference on
July 30, 1970, I stated what appeared to
me to be the only alternatives:
"We can either continue this race in
which they continue their offensive mis-
siles and we go forward with our defen-
sive missiles, or we can reach an
agreement. That is why at this point we
have hopes of attempting to find, either
on a comprehensive basis, and lacking a
comprehensive basis, a selective basis, the
first steps toward which the superpowers
will limit the development of and particu-
larly the deployment of more instruments
of destruction when both have enough to
destroy each other many times over."
I retain that hope and in this report
reaffirm my commitment to its fulfillment.
324
