Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
principle of the Nixon Doctrine.
Our Choices and Our Objectives
These facts show substantial advance.
But to confine discussion of Vietnam to a
recital of statistics, however impressive,
would be inadequate, even irresponsible.
While figures reflect policies, they do not
fully define purposes.
Thus, this brief record of achievements
is not meant to ignore the serious dif-
ficulties that remain. We do not intend
to add to a painful record of prematurely
optimistic assessments on Vietnam; we
will discuss the problems and uncertain-
ties as well as the advances.
The above record does recall the situa-
tion we inherited two years ago. I will
not dwell on events leading up to Janu-
ary, 1969, but rather on the choices we
had in selecting our course.
The conflict had been costly and frus-
trating for Americans, and many believed
that this Administration should move to
end immediately either the conflict or
American involvement in it.
Some urged that we escalate in an at-
tempt to impose a military solution on the
battlefield. We ruled out this approach
because of the nature of the conflict and
of the enemy, the costs of such a policy,
the risks of a wider war, and the deeply
held convictions of many of our people.
Increased military pressure could not
alone win a struggle that was in part
guerrilla war as well as conventional in-
vasion, and included political as well as
military aspects. It would have entailed a
greatly increased toll in lives, treasure, and
diplomatic objectives. It would have
heightened the prospects of direct inter-
vention by Hanoi's allies. It would have
split apart our own society.
Others urged that we liquidate our
presence immediately, cut our losses, and
leave the South Vietnamese on their own.
I have repeatedly explained why I con-
sidered this a disastrous path: For the
South Vietnamese people, who would
have lost their collective political choice
and countless individual lives. For other
non-Communist countries, especially in
Asia, among whom not a single leader
recommended such a policy. For the glob-
al credibility of the U.S. word. For those
Americans who had made such heavy
sacrifices. And for the integrity of Amer-
ican society in the post-Vietnam era.
Thus we rejected both of these routes.
Yet we knew that we could not continue
previous policies which offered no hope
for either peace or reduced American
involvement.
We chose instead what we considered
the most responsible course left to us. We
sought above all a rapid negotiated solu-
tion to the conflict by progressively defin-
ing the terms of a settlement that would
accommodate the legitimate interests of
both sides. And in the absence of a set-
tlement we sought, through Vietnamiza-
tion, to shift American responsibilities to
the South Vietnamese.
In charting this course we recognized
the following realities:
-The way we treated the most pain-
ful vestige of the previous era was
crucial for a successful transition to
a new foreign policy for a new era.
-The other side which had fought for
two decades would agree to a nego-
tiated settlement only if the terms
were generous, and if the battlefield
looked less promising than the con-
ference table.
-Progressive turnover of the burden
251
