[136] Apr. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
employment program is not "make-
work"; we expect these young employees
to make a meaningful contribution.
In addition to the summer jobs opened
up by these programs, other projects will
provide almost 2 million youth with an
opportunity to participate in projects to
improve physical fitness and provide
health services, meals, transportation, and
exposure to local cultural institutions.
-A $3 million grant to the National
Collegiate Athletic Association will
enable it, through its member col-
leges, to provide organized sports and
other related activities for 50,000
inner-city youths.
-The Recreation Support Program,
serving children too young for em-
ployment and who have lacked the
opportunity to engage in sports and
other recreational activities, will pro-
vide such opportunities for 1.9 mil-
lion youth in the Nation's 100 largest
cities. Neighborhood Youth Corps
enrollees will be employed as recrea-
tion aides in the Support Program,
providing both practical experience
and encouragement for the develop-
ment of career interests in this ex-
panding area.
These summer employment and recrea-
tion proposals represent a positive re-
sponse to many of the handicaps faced by
America's disadvantaged youth. Early ac-
tion by the Congress will enable the States
and communities to make timely plans
for ensuring that these programs are car-
ried out to the fullest advantage. I also
urge the States and localities to expand
their own summer youth programs, so as
to make this summer truly one of youth
opportunity.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on
summer programs for disadvantaged youth by
James D. Hodgson, Secretary, and Malcolm R.
Lovell, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Manpower,
Department of Labor; and Capt. James A.
Lovell, Jr., Chairman, President's Council on
Physical Fitness and Sports.
137 Statement Announcing a Program To Inform
Disadvantaged Vietnam-Era Veterans of Educational
and Job Training Benefits. April 12, 1971
AS OUR American troops return from
Vietnam in increasing numbers, one of
the most crucial questions facing the Na-
tion is what they return to.
We owe these men a debt of gratitude
for their service-but we also owe them
something more. We owe them an extra
measure of help in making the difficult
transition back to civilian life.
The help available under existing Fed-
eral programs has been substantially in-
creased during the past 2 years, but the
dismaying fact is that unemployment
among Vietnam-era veterans still is sig-
nificantly greater than it is among non-
veterans in the same age bracket. This
poses a challenge to government at
all levels-Federal, State, and local-to
business, to the educational community,
and to all of us as citizens.
One key factor in this problem is that
many returning veterans who could profit
most from the benefits available-and
particularly the disadvantaged-are not
making full use of them.
As part of the Administration's continu-
528
