[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
interests to pay those costs. He is bound to
be in great degree beholden to them once
he is elected. And I fear our democracy
could turn into a plutocracy very easily.
Now, I know many people on Capitol Hill
are laying plans for legislation, but some
of the Republicans have told me they first
want to know what the White House posi-
tion is and they haven't found out.
What is your view about those election
costs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, election
costs are soaring, and I know from just
comparisons. I recall when I ran for the
House of Representatives the campaign
cost $25,000. That was in 1946. Right
now I don't think you can run a House
campaign for less than $100,000 in any
district except, perhaps, a rather safe dis-
trict for an incumbent. That is just an in-
dication of the costs.
So the problem is not the control of the
cost, the problem is how. First, it must be
comprehensive. There was a bill last year
that simply would have controlled the
cost as far as television is concerned. That
would just be shutting one door and
open-
ing another one, because you give me an
opportunity to do that and I can go out
and buy newspaper ads and billboards
and direct mail and the rest, and I will
beat anybody who is limited simply on
the television side.
So it must be comprehensive. It must
cover television. It must cover all cam-
paign expenses. As far as the specifics of
a bill are concerned, Senator Scott has
made some proposals; others have made
others. We have not developed a position
on it, but we will develop a position once
we get further evidence as to what would
be the best comprehensive bill to support.
MR. SMITH. When do you think that
will be?
THE PRESIDENT. I would imagine it
would come further on in the Senate ses-
sion. They are, it seems to me, rather full
in their calendar right at the present time.
But whenever it comes up in the Senate
session, because Senator Scott's is the
major bill that has been proposed here,
then, of course, we would have to develop
our position by that time. But we are
working on it. We are considering the
various proposals that have been made.
We do favor a limitation on expenses.
There is no question about that. The
point is how can we have one which will
do two things: One, it must be compre-
hensive, and the other point that I should
make, it must not give an advantage to in-
cumbents over challengers. That is an-
other thing.
The last bill was very properly called
the "incumbent's preservation bill." It
gave a tremendous advantage to an in-
cumbent over a challenger. Now, that
may seem like arguing against myself, but,
remember, I haven't made a decision
with regard to '72, yet.
GOVERNMENTAL EFFECTIVENESS
[17.] MR. SMITH. We haven't talked
about domestic affairs, and let me ask you
a general domestic question. This is a
cliche but a very vital cliche. I would
like to hear you explain how it is that we
can master the impossible, achieve perfec-
tion in 10,000 actions it takes to send the
men to the moon, land them, and bring
them back safely, and we can't make New
York City a clean, pleasant place to live.
Now, it is not size. I lived in Greater Lon-
don, which is bigger, for 11 years, and
everything works: Mass transit works, the
police work, air pollution is declining.
What are we doing wrong?
462
