Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 26 [77]
were determined and seemingly had the
ambition. My grandfather ran for Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts five times, for in-
stance, but he never made it.
I am afraid the answer is that they were
simply unable or refused to allow them-
selves to develop an ability to communi-
cate effectively with the man in the street.
We may have been strong on principle
with all its virtues, but I am afraid we
haven't been able to accept the fact that
Madison Avenue, like it or not, is almost
as necessary a part of the political process
as a sound background in the classics and
a keen sense of history.
This failure to face the world as it is,
and not as we would like to have it, has
been, I feel, a tragedy. Somewhere among
the bright younger generation-and there
are some of them in this room today--I
hope we will again produce a young man
or maybe, who knows, a young lady, who
will make it to this house on his own, to
paraphrase Winston Churchill.
Ladies and gentlemen, these two por-
traits have been in the family for 150
years. We have kept them with quiet pride
on the walls of our houses in Boston, in
Quincy, and lately in Dover. While we
treasure them and we always will, they
belong here together, in the house and in
the public gaze that neither of them en-
joyed, for all Americans to view.
We hope you will agree that they are
quite outstanding, especially the charm-
ing one of Louisa Catherine.
And now, on behalf of all Adamses and
with great pride in the memory of our
distinguished ancestors, we present these
Gilbert Stuart masterpieces to the Ameri-
can people, to our First Families, and to
all who visit this, the President's house.
MRS. NIXON. I am glad to have a pretty
First Lady for the White House.
I remember when I went to the Na-
tional Gallery, to see the John Quincy
Adams portraits, I had a wonderful com-
panion who told me so many interesting
stories. I have asked him to come here
today. He is a great authority on the
Adams family, and he is portraits editor
of the Adams Papers, author of the book
"Portraits of John and Abigail Adams,"
and author of the volume "Portraits of
John Quincy Adams and His Wife."
It gives me much pleasure to present
Mr. Andrew Oliver.
MR. OLIVER. Mr. President, Mrs.
Nixon:
Although John Quincy Adams sat for
more than 60 portraits, there are only
three pairs of oil portraits of himself and
his wife, and this pair was the last of the
three to be painted.
In 1794, when John Quincy Adams,
age 27, was sent abroad by Washington as
Minister to The Hague, his mother, Abi-
gail, extracted his promise to send her a
miniature of himself, which he did in
1795, and she wore it on her bracelet.
A
year later he became engaged to the
second of the seven daughters of the well-
to-do merchant Joshua Johnson. Nothing
would satisfy Abigail but to have a like-
ness of her future daughter-in-law, so she,
too, was painted in miniature, and the
little portrait sent to Abigail, which, with
that of her son, have always been kept
together and are even now on display
together in the diplomatic reception
rooms of the Department of State.
In 1797, they were married. Almost im-
mediately afterwards, her father failed in
business; fled to America to avoid his
European creditors. To her, appearances
suggested that in Adams, her father had
simply found a promising young man and
married off his penniless daughter in the
71-234-72-26
349
