[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
jectives. And there are areas of multi-
lateral negotiations in which partner-
ship is most immediately involved.
-In our global posture. Nonpolitical
world problems call for cooperation
that transcends national rivalries.
Here, more comprehensively than in
traditional realms, there is a need
for shared approaches and shared
participation.
THE NECESSITY FOR DIALOGUE
The Nixon Doctrine, then, is a means
to fulfill our world responsibilities on a
sustained basis by evoking both the contri-
butions of our friends and the support of
our own people. Its very nature calls for
continuing dialogue abroad and at home.
We recognize that the Doctrine, like
any philosophic attitude, is not a detailed
design. In this case ambiguity is increased
since it is given full meaning through a
process that involves other countries.
When other nations ask how the Doctrine
applies to them in technical detail, the
question itself recalls the pattern of the
previous period when America generally
provided technical prescriptions. The re-
sponse to the question, to be meaningful,
partly depends on them, for the Doctrine's
full elaboration requires their participa-
tion. To attempt to define the new diplo-
macy completely by ourselves would re-
peat the now presumptuous instinct of the
previous era and violate the very spirit of
our new approach.
In coming years we will therefore be
engaged in a broad and deep discussion
with others concerning foreign policy and
the nature of our respective roles. To de-
fine and assume new modes of partner-
ship, to discover a new sense of
participation, will pose a great intellectual
challenge for our friends and ourselves.
At home the challenge is comparable.
It is always a requirement of American
leadership to explain, as clearly as possi-
ble, its overall approach. We must con-
vincingly demonstrate the relationship
between our specific actions and our basic
purposes. In turn, the leadership can ask
the American people for some degree of
trust, and for acknowledgment of the
complexities of foreign policy. This does
not mean a moratorium on criticism. It
means listening to the rationale for
specific actions and distinguishing attacks
on the broad policy itself from attacks on
tactical judgments.
This dialogue between the government
and the people is all the more imperative
in this transitional era. Gone for Amer-
icans is a foreign policy with the psy-
chological simplicity of worrying primarily
about what we want for others. In its
place is a role that demands a new type
of sustained effort with others.
To further this dialogue overseas and
in America is the principal objective of
this annual review.
To promote this dialogue is to improve
the prospects that America, together with
others, will play its vital part in fashion-
ing a global structure of peace. A peace
that will come when all have a share in
its shaping. A peace that will last when all
have a stake in its lasting.
PART II: RELATING NATIONAL
INTERESTS
-Europe
-The Western Hemisphere
-Indochina
-East Asia and the Pacific
-South Asia
228
