Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
I possibly can to see that our policies will
deal with it and deal with it effectively.
DR. MOYNIHAN'S MEMORANDUM
[9.] MR. SMITH. We have so much to
cover and so little time, I am going to
dare to change the subject slightly. Dr.
Moynihan, Pat Moynihan,2 sent you the
most widely publicized secret mem-
orandum in the world which recom-
mended a policy of "benign neglect"
towards the racial problem. We know
about that—we don't know what your
answer or reaction was. What did you
think about that?
THE PRESIDENT. He got a bad rap out
of that, Mr. Smith. Dr. Moynihan is one
of the most dedicated men to racial justice
and to justice for all people that I have
ever known. He was referred to when he
was in the White House Staff as the
White House liberal. Well, as a matter of
fact, we have others who perhaps can also
be so categorized. But he was enthusiastic.
He was, for example, the author of the
family assistance welfare reform, which I
believe will be, as he has said the greatest
single social reform in the last 40 years,
and which, incidentally, is the answer to
"benign neglect."
When he talked
talked about "benign
neglect,” he was not referring to neglect-
ing black Americans or any Americans.
What he was referring to was not to react
to violence, not to react to attacks that
might be made, verbal or others, by
minority groups, black Americans, ex-
tremist groups.
His advice was to act on the problems
but to have a policy-and he used the
'Dr. Daniel P. Moynihan, Counsellor to the
President 1969–70.
term "benign neglect" in a philosophical
way and then the thing came out and
everybody jumped on him and, of course,
on me.
But I want to say I am proud that he
was a member of our staff for 2 years.
And his legacy-and I promised him the
day that he left, the day before
Christmas--his legacy will be that we are
going to have welfare reform, and that
every family in America with children will
have a minimum income.
SUBURBAN INTEGRATION
[10.] MR. SMITH. I've known him since
his youth when he was merely 6 feet tall
so I know your assessment of him is
correct.
We have been asked questions, as some-
one, I think, told you earlier, about—tele-
grams come to us and ask us to ask you
questions. And I would like to put one to
you from a telegram. In your last news
conference you said that you opposed
forced integration in the suburbs. Well, if
a suburban community should use zoning
and land use authority to block housing
developments for minority groups-and,
in fact, there are cases where it has hap-
pened-would you or would you not apply
the Federal fair housing law to prevent
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith, what we
are talking about here, first, is carrying
out the law and then, second, going
beyond the law.
I also said in that news conference, as
you will remember, that I was pledged to
carry out the law, this law and every other
law, and that I would carry it out.
The law, as you know, does require that
there can be no urban renewal funds, that
there can be no Federal housing funds,
II
