Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
of thousands of ground combat
troops from Vietnam, to reintroduce
a few into Laos or Cambodia.
The arguments against South Viet-
nam's defensive actions suggest that
Hanoi has the right-without provocation
and with complete immunity—to send its
forces into Laos and Cambodia, threaten
their governments, and prepare to bring
its full strength to bear on South Vietnam
itself.
The choice for South Vietnam is not
between limiting and expanding the war.
It is between what it is doing in self-
defense and passively watching the men-
ace grow along its borders.
In time the combined populations of
28 million in South Vietnam, Laos, and
Cambodia, with assistance from their re-
gional partners, should more than balance
the resources of North Vietnam, with its
population of 20 million. During this
transition period, however, our own de-
fensive supporting actions are important.
Let me briefly review them.
Cambodia
In Cambodia we pursued the policy of
the previous Administration until North
Vietnamese actions after Prince Sihanouk
was deposed made this impossible.
In the previous chapter on Vietnam I
briefly recalled the background and re-
sults of the allied sweeps against the Com-
munist sanctuaries which were so vital to
Vietnamization. With the operations con-
cluded, our policy for Cambodia took
shape as follows:
-No U.S. ground combat personnel in
the country, and no U.S. advisors
with Cambodian units.
-Air missions against enemy supplies
and personnel that pose a potential
threat to South Vietnam or seek to
establish base areas relevant to
Vietnam.
-Military assistance to the Cambodian
Government in amounts and types
suitable for their army.
-Encourage other countries of the re-
gion to give diplomatic assistance.
-Encourage and support the efforts of
third countries who wish to furnish
troops or material.
The loss of the use of Sihanoukville, as
well as the base areas, was a serious set-
back for Hanoi. For many years almost
all North Vietnamese supplies for Mili-
tary Regions III and IV in South
Vietnam passed through the port. Accord-
ingly, during the latter part of 1970 the
North Vietnamese stepped up their efforts
to reestablish sanctuaries and their attacks
on the Cambodian Government. They
sought either to reopen their supply lines
to southern South Vietnam or to install
by force a government in Phnom Penh
that would accomplish the same purpose.
They failed to do either, but they posed
significant threats.
To deny them renewed use of these
assets we helped the Cambodians defend
themselves and we supported South Viet-
nam's operations. Substantially greater
military and economic assistance was
needed to support the Cambodian army,
which was growing from some 40,000 to
over 200,000 in a very short period of
time. The quarter billion dollars that Con-
gress has appropriated as part of the for-
eign assistance supplemental recognized
that Cambodia was facing outright ag-
gression, that it was doing everything pos-
sible on its own, and that our assistance
was appropriate for its self-defense and
to aid Vietnamization and our with-
drawals from South Vietnam.
This past year there were also encourag-
265
