[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
But let's look at some of the facts. First,
we find that insofar as our efforts to con-
trol inflation are concerned, that while
the progress has not been as fast as we
would have liked, that the Wholesale Price
Index is half of what it was a year ago;
the retail Consumer Price Index is turn-
ing down-not as much as we would like,
but turning down. We are beginning to
make real progress in fighting inflation.
Now second, in terms of the unemploy-
ment front, here we find that the rate of
unemployment for this year will be ap-
proximately 4.9 percent. That is too high,
even though we could perhaps point to
the fact that over the past 20 years there
have been only 3 peacetime years in which
unemployment was less than 5 percent-
the
years were '55, '56, '57.
But on that score let me say that I take
no comfort in that statistic. I know what
unemployment does to somebody. I have
seen an unemployed man come into my
father's store. I have seen the look in his
eye when he can't pay the bill. I have seen
the look in his children's eyes when he
can't pay
that bill. And so I want a pro-
gram which not only will turn down the
inflation, in which we are now beginning
to succeed, but one which will expand the
economy, and this gets to the specifics
that you have asked for.
What we are going to do first is to have
an expansionary budget. It will be a
budget in deficit, as will be the budget
in 1971. It will not be an inflationary
budget because it will not exceed the full
employment revenues.
We also, according to Dr. Arthur
Burns, will have an expansionary mone-
tary policy, and that will, of course, be a
monetary policy adequate to meet the
needs of an expanding economy.
Now, in addition to that, we are going
to have a program that we will present
to the Congress, a program that I believe
in terms of government reform will be
the most significant reform that we have
had perhaps in a century. And I think
that this program will also have an in-
direct effect in restoring confidence in the
economy.
If I can make a prediction-I made
one last year and many people took me
to task about it, about the fact that the
stock market might go up and right after-
wards it went down. But it did
go up. And
I made that prediction not because I was
expecting people to buy stocks and urging
them to do so without consulting a broker,
whose judgment would be better than
mine, but because I had faith in the long-
term prospects of the American economy.
This is the prediction: 1971 is going to
be a year of an expanding economy in
which inflation, the rise in inflation, is
going to continue to go down; in which
unemployment, which is presently too
high, will finally come under control and
begin to recede. Nineteen hundred
seventy-one, in essence, will be a good
year, and 1972 will be a very good year.
Now having made that prediction, I
will say that the purpose of this Adminis-
tration will be to have an activist eco-
nomic policy designed to control inflation
but at the same time to expand the econ-
omy so that we can reduce unemploy-
ment, and to have what this country has
not had for 20 years, and that is a situa-
tion where we can have full employment
in peacetime without the cost of war and
without the cost of excessive inflation.
THE PRESIDENT'S REACTION TO CRISIS
[4.] HOWARD K. SMITH (American
Broadcasting Company). Mr. President, it
8
