Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [88]
American forces, to reduce our casualties.
And I should point out that that is exactly
what this Administration has done. We
have kept every promise that we have
made. We have reduced our forces. We
have reduced our casualties. We are going
to continue to reduce our forces, and we
are getting out of Vietnam in a way that
Vietnam will be able to defend itself.
KIDNAPED U.S. AIRMEN IN TURKEY
[12.] Mr. Healy [Paul F. Healy, New
York Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, terrorists in Turkey
have kidnaped four of our fliers and are
holding them for $400,000 ransom. Do
you think the Turkish Government should
negotiate with the terrorists and is there
anything that you think we can or should
do in a situation like this?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Healy, we have
had that situation with several other gov-
ernments. And I would not suggest that
the Turkish Government negotiate on this
matter because I believe that is a decision
that that Government must make, having
in mind its own internal situation.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[13.] Mr. Semple [Robert B. Sem-
ple, Jr., New York Times].
Q. Mr. President, if I may turn to the
Middle East just for a minute. The Arabs
have reportedly agreed to sign a peace
treaty with Israel in exchange for certain
withdrawals by Israel from territory oc-
cupied in 1967. Is it not now time for the
Israelis to make some concessions of their
own, and will you be asking them publicly
or privately to do so?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Semple, as you
well know, because you are sophisticated
in this area, the question there is whether
or not the United States will impose a set-
tlement in the Mideast, and the answer is
no. We will do everything that we can to
urge the parties to talk. And, incidentally,
when we talk about the problems in the
Mideast, let it not go unnoted that we
have made some progress. There was 4
years of fighting up until August of last
year, and for 7 months no guns have fired
in the Mideast. That is progress of a kind.
We hope that the cease-fire either by
agreement or de facto will be extended.
We hope that the Israelis and the Egyp-
tians and, for that matter, the Jordanians
will continue some kind of discussion. As
far as imposing a settlement, however, we
can only say that we can make suggestions,
but we are going to have to depend upon
the parties concerned to reach an
agreement.
We, of course, will be there to see that
the balance of power is maintained in the
Mideast-which we will continue to do--
because if that balance changes that could
bring on war. And also we are prepared,
as I have indicated, to join other major
powers including the Soviet Union in
guaranteeing any settlement that is made,
which would give Israel the security of its
borders that it might not get through
geographical acquisition.
COMMUNIST CHINA AND THE U.N.
[14] Q. May I ask you, sir, when you
said earlier about Communist China-at
least you were not perfectly clear about
your position on Communist China, about
seating in the United Nations. Somebody
asked
you if you would favor a two-China
policy, but you were not completely clear
about that. Could you say, sir, if Taiwan
maintained its position on the Security
393
