Richard Nixon, 1971
June 22 [206]
many physicians are prescribing drugs too
often, too easily.
A number of voices from your com-
munity have suggested recently that cer-
tain drugs may have become a crutch for
some doctors as well as their patients,
masking but not correcting more basic
physical and emotional problems.
I noted with interest that your own
Council on Drugs spoke to this subject
only a few weeks ago. And I have noticed,
too, that many doctors are now moving to
strictly limit their prescriptions of such
substances. And I will hope—and I say
this respectfully in an area where you are
the experts and I am not-but I hope you
will continue to give careful consideration
to this matter, for your role in shaping
this country's basic attitude toward drugs
will be decisive.
Let me turn now to a second way in
which doctors can help. I want to ask your
help, I ask the help of the doctors of this
Nation, in a program of education, edu-
cating our people in the proper role of
drugs and drug information, drug coun-
seling, in drug treatment.
Years ago, you will remember that when
most Americans lived in small towns we
looked to the family doctor for guidance
not just with regard to our physical health
but in many other aspects of life. It may
have been somewhat easier for many doc-
tors to utilize their enormous potential as
effective teachers in our society because
of that situation that existed then.
I remember my own doctor, a family
doctor, Dr. Thompson, of Whittier,
California. He was a fine doctor, but he
was a community leader, and when he
spoke on issues, we listened. When he
came out to our school to speak on the
problems of health and other related
problems, we listened, we paid attention,
we followed his advice. Some doctors
still play this role today. You do it volun-
tarily. You contribute enormously of
your time without compensation in edu-
cating America in these and other fields.
But more doctors need to be playing it.
We need you, especially in the field of
drug education.
I have met recently in this field with
the leaders of the Advertising Council,
with the leaders of the television and radio
industries, with the leaders of opinion-
makers, editors, publishers, and so forth
throughout this country, and they have
enlisted in this battle.
But no one, believe me, no one can
have more effect when he or she speaks
out than a doctor on this issue of drug
abuse. You speak with greater authority,
because you speak about the power of
drugs to save life--and we must look to
that, the tremendous progress that we
have made in that field-but also the
power to destroy it.
Rather than preaching moralistically
about the sinfulness of drugs, you can
teach realistically about their physical and
psychological impact, and you can bring
tremendous credibility to this undertak-
ing. Many doctors have been moving in
that direction.
I noted, for example, that in Arizona,
the Maricopa [County] Medical Society
has pulled together an impressive drug
control program for Phoenix, and I am
happy to see that this Association has been
actively encouraging such efforts. It has
developed education materials to help
local physicians as they go out to wage war
against drugs in the schools and churches
and neighborhoods of America.
We ask for a part of your time every day
in this field if it can be effectively used.
The time has come for a greater effort,
767
