[189] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
189 The President's News Conference of
June 1, 1971
QUESTIONS
TROOP WITHDRAWALS FROM EUROPE
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Mr. Risher [Eu-
gene V. Risher, United Press Interna-
tional] has the first question tonight.
Q. Mr. President, Chairman Brezh-
nev¹ recently indicated a willingness to
negotiate troop withdrawals from Europe.
Do you plan to take him up on this?
THE PRESIDENT. We have completed
within our own Government our study of
the question of balanced, mutual force
reductions. Secretary Laird has had some
consultations last week on this matter
with the NATO defense chiefs, and Sec-
retary Rogers is conducting consultations
at the present time with the Foreign Min-
isters of the various NATO countries.
When those consultations have been com-
pleted, then the United States and our
allies will move forward to discuss, ne-
gotiate, with the Soviet Union and other
countries involved, with regard to mu-
tual, balanced force reductions.
POSSIBILITY OF EUROPEAN MEETINGS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, we not only
have the prospect-maybe distant in the
future—of the mutual reduction of force,
but we have the Berlin question, the
SALT talks, the dollar problem in Eu-
rope. Do you foresee meeting with the
leaders of Europe on their own soil within
the foreseeable future?
¹Leonid I. Brezhnev, General Secretary of
the Central Committee of the Communist
Party, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier [Frank
Cormier, Associated Press], I plan no trip
to Europe and no meetings with Euro-
pean leaders in the near future. If such
plans do develop, of course, I will an-
nounce them. And if it becomes necessary,
as a result of developments in the ques-
tion of mutual force reductions or arms
limitation, that such meetings occur,
will, of course, go any place that I think
would serve the interests of our goal of
reducing the dangers to peace in the
world and, of course, reducing the burden
of armaments.
DRUG ADDICTION PROBLEMS
[3] Q. Mr. President, what are you
going to do about the tens of thousands
of American soldiers who are coming
back from Vietnam with an addiction to
heroin?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is well for us
first to put the problem of drug addiction
in Vietnam in perspective. It is not simply
a problem of Vietnam veterans; it is a
national problem. It is a national prob-
lem that primarily focuses on young peo-
ple. When Mr. Finch and Mr. Rumsfeld
came back from Europe,2 they pointed
out that it was an affliction not only of
young people who were in the armed
services but of young people who were
tourists in Europe.
Robert H. Finch and Donald Rumsfeld,
Counsellors to the President, made a 23-day
trip to Europe and North Africa to discuss drug
abuse prevention and control with foreign of-
ficials. On May 21, 1971, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
trip by Mr. Finch and Mr. Rumsfeld.
688
