Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 11 [392]
NOTE: The Senate confirmed the nomination
of Mr. Powell on December 6, 1971, and Mr.
Rehnquist on December 10.
On December 22, the President presented
commissions of appointment to Mr. Powell and
Mr. Rehnquist in the Oval Office at the White
House.
392
Letter Accepting the Resignation of David Packard
as Deputy Secretary of Defense.
Dear Dave:
It is with the deepest regret that I ac-
cept your resignation, as you have re-
quested, as Deputy Secretary of Defense,
effective December 13, 1971.
Few men have given so much and so
willingly to their country as you have for
the
past thirty-five months-and few have
discharged their responsibilities with such
distinction and excellence. In assuming
this demanding position-at great per-
sonal and financial sacrifice--you demon-
strated once again your commitment to
effective public service and gave testi-
mony to your belief that
every American
can and should contribute to the cause of
good government.
Managing a vast array of exceedingly
complex defense matters, you have shown
outstanding judgment and uncommon
ability, and have justly won the admira-
tion and respect of your colleagues. Your
wise counsel in vitally important national
security questions has been of immense
value to Mel Laird and to me, and I want
you to know that these exceptional ac-
complishments have earned for you the
Nation's gratitude.
As you return to private life, I am sure
that each and every one of your many
friends and associates here would want to
join me in thanking you for a job superbly
done and in wishing Lucile and the
happiness you so richly deserve.
Sincerely,
you
RICHARD NIXON
December 11, 1971
[Honorable David Packard, The Deputy Secre-
tary of Defense, Washington, D.C. 20301]
NOTE: Secretary Packard's letter, dated De-
cember 10, 1971, and released with the Presi-
dent's letter on December 11, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Last July I informed you that for strictly
personal reasons I could not continue in a full-
time government position after this year. I want
to advise you today that I must resign as
Deputy Secretary of Defense effective Decem-
ber 13, 1971.
I will leave the Department of Defense with
both regrets and a real sense of accomplish-
ment. I have developed great admiration and
respect for the men and women of the Depart-
ment-military and civilian. Their dedication
and personal competence is the Department's
greatest source of strength and our best assur-
ance of maintaining our national security.
Secretary Laird has built an excellent man-
agement team in the Department and I believe
that its accomplishments have established this
excellence. I have seen what I believe to be
major forward steps, particularly in the fields
of management, procurement and equal oppor-
tunity. I am sure these steps will help you in
the years ahead in maintaining both a more
economical and effective national defense. I am
equally confident that this team will continue
its effective implementation of your national
security programs and will work closely and
well with my successor.
I want to take this opportunity as a citizen
and as Deputy Secretary of Defense to express
my appreciation and admiration for the out-
standing leadership you have provided to the
nation and the Department of Defense. Under
your leadership I have seen the Vietnamization
program turn the nation from war to peace,
seen great new initiatives in negotiations and
in nation-to-nation contacts, and seen a basic
1183
