[203] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
will increase the money available for edu-
cation and training to more than $24 mil-
lion. It has become fashionable to suppose
that no drugs are as dangerous as they
are commonly thought to be, and that
the use of some drugs entails no risk at
all. These are misconceptions, and every
day we reap the tragic results of these
misconceptions when young people are
"turned on" to drugs believing that nar-
cotics addiction is something that happens
to other people. We need an expanded
effort to show that addiction is all too
often a one-way street beginning with
"innocent" experimentation and ending
in death. Between these extremes is the
degradation that addiction inflicts on
those who believed that it could not hap-
pen to them.
While by no means a major part of the
American narcotics problem, an especially
disheartening aspect of that problem in-
volves those of our men in Vietnam who
have used drugs. Peer pressures combine
with easy availability to foster drug use.
We are taking steps to end the availability
of drugs in South Vietnam but, in addi-
tion, the nature of drug addiction, and
the peculiar aspects of the present prob-
lem as it involves veterans, make it im-
perative that rehabilitation procedures be
undertaken immediately. In Vietnam, for
example, heroin is cheap and 95 percent
pure, and its effects are commonly
achieved through smoking or "snorting"
the drug. In the United States, the drug
is impure, consisting of only about 5 per-
cent heroin, and it must be "mainlined"
or injected into the bloodstream to achieve
an effect comparable to that which may
have been experienced in Vietnam. Fur-
ther, a habit which costs $5 a day to main-
tain in Vietnam can cost $100 a day to
maintain in the United States, and those
who continue to use heroin slip into the
twilight world of crime, bad drugs, and
all too often a premature death.
In order to expedite the rehabilitation
process of Vietnam veterans, I have or-
dered the immediate establishment of
testing procedures and initial rehabilita-
tion efforts to be taken in Vietnam. This
procedure is under way and testing will
commence in a matter of days. The De-
partment of Defense will provide rehabil-
itation programs to all servicemen being
returned for discharge who want this help,
and we will be requesting legislation to
permit the military services to retain for
treatment any individual due for dis-
charge who is a narcotic addict. All of our
servicemen must be accorded the right to
rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation procedures, which are
required subsequent to discharge, will be
effected under the aegis of the Director of
the Special Action Office who will have
the authority to refer patients to private
hospitals as well as VA hospitals as cir-
cumstances require.
The Veterans Administration medical
facilities are a great national resource
which can be of immeasurable assistance
in the effort against this grave national
problem. Restrictive and exclusionary use
of these facilities under present statutes
means that we are wasting a critically
needed national resource. We are com-
monly closing the doors to those who need
help the most. This is a luxury we cannot
afford. Authority will be sought by the
new Office to make the facilities of the
Veterans Administration available to all
former servicemen in need of drug re-
habilitation, regardless of the nature of
their discharge from the service.
I am asking the Congress to increase
the present budget of the Veterans Ad-
744
