[66] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
wards me alone. I know that it is also meant
for Foreign Minister Moro, who is here with
me and it is meant for Italy and it is meant for
the people of Italy.
You have mentioned a great number of
names of outstanding people of the past who
have contributed to make this Nation great.
You have mentioned and given us a list of dis-
tinguished names of people who are here with
us tonight, who represent the great link be-
tween Italy and the United States and the
United States and Italy.
And we are deeply proud, Mr. President, to
know and to feel how proud they are to be
American citizens and also to see how deeply
proud they are of their links with the old
country. These are realities, Mr. President,
which, of course, point up the depth of the
bonds that link our two peoples. And I would
say that these bonds are not only of a senti-
mental order but they are based on common
ideals, they are based on the objectives that we
share, and they are based on also the closeness
that we feel in our responsibilities in sharing
the cause of furthering the welfare of the
nations.
And you also mentioned the alliance which
binds us together, but this alliance, Mr. Presi-
dent, also has very deep-going roots in this
common soil and the soil upon which this great
family built this Nation, a family which includes
so many people of Italian origin.
When you were in Rome, Mr. President, you
spoke of your hope for a world that will be put
together to enhance the progress of man and
not a world that would lead to the destruction
of man. And the government that I have the
honor to preside is based on the firm conviction,
for one thing, that the time available to us to
channel the vital human energies and the ad-
vances of science and technology toward the
betterment of man is growing dangerously
short.
And, for this reason, your words, Mr. Presi-
dent, find very lively response, great responsive-
ness among Italians. And at the same time, Mr.
President, the attainment of the vital objectives
of peace and justice and the shaping of the
present international order upon a basis of
stability, which will allow us to look toward
the future with the serenity and dignity which
man requires for his existence, presupposes the
maintenance of the conditions of security that
will be suitable and adequate and, therefore,
the respect for the equilibrium in whose defense
Italy and the United States are actively
engaged.
And this is an area of activities that is de-
signed to guarantee the common security, the
mutual security whose links are put together in
this indispensable and constructive cooperation
which even in an area which, for us in Italy,
is so vital as the Mediterranean, today stands
out in stark significance.
But since security and peace are indivisible,
we fervently hope that in every part of the
world the conditions for peace will be rebuilt
by means-by the route of negotiations.
And Italy in its area of responsibility-and
it has always worked-continues to work
in Europe in order to establish and to
strengthen that pattern of relationships which
are necessary for international stability and
peace.
Italy is aware that its contribution to this
great work will be all the greater to the extent
that, with perseverance and with strength, it
will be able to move along the road of democ-
racy so that it can make its just contribution to
every area of this great enterprise just as it is
doing today.
And we know that as we move along this
road we will need to have friends, and we know,
just as well, Mr. President, that we can rely
on the friendship of the United States and we
know that we can rely on your friendship, Mr.
President.
And it is to this friendship and to your per-
sonal health and success, Mr. President, and
that of your lovely lady, and to the friendship
that exists between Italy and the United States
and to the prosperity and the personal happi-
ness and tranquility to all of our honored guests
here tonight I wish to lift my cup at this
moment in a toast.
192
