Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
f
achieve this goal soon-is to get this econ-
omy back to full capacity without war, to
have full employment, and when we have
that we can have a balanced budget in a
conventional sense.
ACTIONS FOR MINORITY GROUPS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, what are your
administrative policies and practices to
combat discrimination and segregation in
housing in cities and suburbs to do two
things: first, to reduce the necessity of
school busing, and secondly, to increase
the employment of minority persons in
suburban firms and factories through a
rapid transit system?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kornegay, we
have a number of policies in this area
which Governor Romney could perhaps
describe in greater detail than I could on
this program. You, of course, are aware
of the fact that through the Philadelphia
Plan and through a number of other initia-
tives, we have opened up job opportu-
nities for minority groups that have not
existed before.
We also have opened up business op-
portunities through our initiatives in the
field of minority business that have not
existed before.
With regard to housing, we have fol-
lowed the practice, which we think is a
proper one, of seeing that there is an equal
opportunity for all individuals, regardless
of race, to have a chance to move into
any
housing. We have enforced the law, and
we will continue to enforce the law in that
respect.
Now, when you go to a further point,
the point I think that you suggest, or you
may be suggesting, that we should use the
power of the Federal Government to force
so-called integrated housing, I would re-
spectfully suggest that that kind of a pro-
gram would not be workable, and it is not
one that I think can be justified.
We will, of course, not subsidize through
the Federal Government, and do not,
housing that is segregated. But on the
other hand, to go to the other extreme
and to use the power of the Government
to change housing patterns, change them
forcibly, rather than to have those pat-
terns change on a voluntary basis by hav-
ing an open housing program in which
any individual who has the opportunity
can move where he wants, we believe that
that kind of an approach, of a forced
housing policy, is one that will not work.
INTEREST RATES
[10.] Mr. Richardson.
Q. Mr. President, all the questions sub-
mitted seem to have an inordinate pre-
occupation with the interest rates. So, the
primary question here is: What will the
policy of Phase 2 be with regard to inter-
est rates?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, interest
rates are not covered in the freeze. With
regard to Phase 2, the matter is still open,
particularly with regard to loans affecting
consumers. As you know, through the
Federal Reserve there are some tools that
are available in that respect.
We have not yet made a decision with
regard to interest rates. I would say that
what happens to interest rates for the
balance of Phase I, whether they continue
to, shall we say, stay where they are or go
down, will have a great deal of effect on
whether we feel it is necessary to have the
973
