Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
-I propose that municipalities receiv-
ing Federal assistance in constructing
treatment facilities be required to re-
cover from industrial users the por-
tion of project costs allocable to
treatment of their wastes.
Standards and Enforcement
While no action was taken in the 91st
Congress on my proposals to strengthen
water pollution standard setting and en-
forcement, I initiated a program under
the Refuse Act of 1899 to require per-
mits for all industrial discharges into nav-
igable waters, making maximum use of
present authorities to secure compliance
with water quality standards. However,
the reforms I proposed in our water qual-
ity laws last year are still urgently needed.
Water quality standards now are often
imprecise and unrelated to specific water
quality needs. Even more important, they
provide a poor basis for enforcement:
without a precise effluent standard, it is
often difficult to prove violations in court.
Also, Federal-State water quality stand-
ards presently do not apply to many im-
portant waters.
-I again proposed that the Federal-
State water quality program be ex-
tended to cover all navigable waters
and their tributaries, ground waters
and waters of the contiguous zone.
-I again propose that Federal-State
water quality standards be revised to
impose precise effluent limitations on
both industrial and municipal
sources.
-I also propose Federal standards to
regulate the discharge of hazardous
substances similar to those which I
proposed and the Congress adopted
in the Clean Air Amendments of
1970.
-I propose that standards require that
the best practicable technology be
used in new industrial facilities to
ensure that water quality is preserved
or enhanced.
-I propose that the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection
Agency be empowered to require
prompt revision of standards when
necessary.
We should strengthen and streamline
Federal enforcement authority, to permit
swift action against municipal as well as
industrial and other violators of water
quality standards. Existing authority
under the Refuse Act generally does not
apply to municipalities.
-I propose that the Administrator of
EPA be authorized to issue abate-
ment orders swiftly and to impose
administrative fines of up to $25,000
per day for violation of water quality
standards.
-I propose that violations of standards
and abatement orders be made sub-
ject to court-imposed fines of up to
$25,000 per day and up to $50,000
per day for repeated violations.
-I again propose that the Adminis-
trator be authorized to seek immedi-
ate injunctive relief in emergency
situations in which severe water pol-
lution constitutes an imminent
danger to health, or threatens irre-
versible damage to water quality.
-I propose that the cumbersome and
time-consuming enforcement confer-
ence and hearing mechanism in the
current law be replaced by a provi-
sion for swift public hearings as a
prelude to issuance of abatement
orders or requiring a revision of
standards.
-I propose an authorization for legal
129
