[343] Oct. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the current initiatives of the United
States Government in international rela-
tions, of his contacts with world states-
men and of the new economic policy of
the United States. President Tito ex-
pressed his great interest in the foreign
policy initiatives of the United States
Government and in its important role in
international affairs.
Presidents Tito and Nixon expressed
satisfaction with the development of
Yugoslav-US bilateral relations in all
fields in the year since their last meeting.
Noting that consultations between the two
countries had broadened significantly at
all levels on matters of mutual interest, the
two Presidents reaffirmed their conviction
that extensive bilateral exchange on all
topics has served the interests of the two
countries and of world peace, and resolved
that these consultations should be con-
tinued and further extended.
The two Presidents also agreed that in
the further development of cooperation in
fields of common interest, particular at-
tention should be paid to the more
advanced forms of economic relations in-
cluding industrial cooperation, joint in-
vestment, cooperation on third markets,
etc., to new, broader joint programs in
scientific and technological research; and
to working out a long-term program of
cultural and artistic exchange.
They expressed the conviction that rela-
tions between the US and Yugoslavia,
characterized by equality and complete
mutual respect, represent an important
factor for the peace and stability of
Europe and the world in general, and
serve the aims of broad international
understanding. Guided by these goals, and
in the interests of the further develop-
ment of friendly relations between the two
countries, the two Presidents resolved to
continue the useful practice of the ex-
change of mutual contacts.
The two sides will base their coopera-
tion and relations on lasting foundations
in accordance with the understanding
achieved and in the spirit of the principles
reflected in this joint statement.
344 Statement Announcing Establishment of the President's
Environmental Merit Awards Program for High
October 31, 1971
School Students.
NEVER have the Nation's young people
responded so enthusiastically as today to
the challenges and needs of our society. In
particular, I have been impressed by the
thousands of letters I have received from
young people who want to join our na-
tional effort to reclaim, protect, and pre-
serve our natural inheritance. Environ-
mental programs sponsored by high school
students can play an important part in this
vital effort.
To help encourage such programs, and
to give deserved recognition to the
achievements of those who participate, I
have initiated the President's Environ-
mental Merit Awards Program. Through
it, America will have a chance to say
"thank you" to the hard-working young
people who give their time and their
energy to the great goal of a better en-
vironment for everyone.
We have purposely made the program
flexible so that every student will be en-
couraged to participate and so that those
1072
