[305] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Then, I am sure that when I introduced
Dr. Kissinger, you will remember that on
July 15 I announced that he had been in
Peking and that as a result of his visit, I
would be paying a visit, the first President
of the United States to visit Mainland
China. This meeting will take place at a
later time. It is a meeting that has been
widely speculated about. And I just say
this word about what it means, particu-
larly to the young people that are here, be-
cause it means, really, far more to you
than it does to our generation.
When we think of what the world is
going to be like 15, 20 years from now, just
think what it would be like if 800 million
of the most capable, able people in the
world were isolated from the rest of the
world, living-not knowing the rest of the
world-outside of the world community
and living there with an enormous poten-
tial in military power, including nuclear
power. It would be a terrible danger.
So we believe, I believe, that it is essen-
tial that now we take the steps, the steps to
open a dialogue. It isn't going to settle
the differences-they are deep-but to
open a dialogue that will discuss those
differences, so that now and 5, 10, 15, 20
years from now the people in Government
of the United States, the people in Gov-
ernment of the People's Republic of
China, while we will continue to have dif-
ferences, we will talk about them; we will
not fight about them. This, we think, is
important for the future generation.
Now, a word about this area. Every-
body in the United States has heard of
Hanford, and what it means in terms of
the nuclear power that it has created.
Everybody knows that it is still important
in terms of nuclear weaponry, which is
essential as an instrument for keeping the
peace in the world, as a deterrent to war,
as a deterrent to those who might start
war.
But today we must think not only in
that respect but we must think far beyond,
of what that nuclear power can do in
terms of peace.
Let me say something that I know will
be understood here, but which too often is
not understood in many parts of our coun-
try. Many people in this country, because
nuclear power is so destructive, are afraid
of it. What we have to understand is that
when you have such enormous power,
let's use it for peace, let's find a way to
use it, and that, of course, is the future as
far as this area is concerned. Don't be
afraid of it; build it for peace.
I live, as you know, in California, down
in San Clemente. And right next to us,
within about a couple of miles, is one of
the new nuclear powerplants. Many are
afraid to live there because they fear what
could happen with regard to that peaceful
nuclear powerplant. I am not afraid to live
there. I am not afraid, not because I know
much about it, but because what I do
know tells me that here we have a new
source of energy, a source of energy that
is absolutely important to the future of
the world.
I know the people of the State of Wash-
ington—perhaps as much as any people in
this country, due to the fine leadership
you have had in the State-are interested
in the environment, in preserving it. If
you are going to have a clean and beauti-
ful environment in this country, we have
to have a new source of energy, plentiful
and clean. And we can have that new
source of energy. The place to get it-
1000
