Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 11 [54]
cation and the radio industry, culminat-
ing in the establishment of the Federal
Communications Commission in 1934,
was in response to an industry seeking
regulation of the spectrum for its own
protection.
However, there was a thread common
to all-the effort of the Federal Govern-
ment to protect the members of the con-
suming public against market abuses over
which they had little or no control.
Since their establishment, all of these
agencies have grown in haphazard fash-
ion—and despite repeated criticism and
calls for reform very little change has been
undertaken beyond some modest internal
reorganization.
As the agencies deal in areas of great
sensitivity, in which major economic in-
terests are affected and in which inter-
relationships exist between the Executive,
the Congress, and the courts, the reluc-
tance to reform can be readily explained.
The Ash Council found considerable
merit in the following criticisms that some
have leveled against the commissions:
1. That, lacking in direct accountabil-
ity to anyone, their structures frozen into
a cast set years ago, the commissions have
at times been unresponsive to changing
circumstances, and to new needs.
2. That they have at times failed to
carry out their statutory responsibilities
with either effectiveness or efficiency.
3. That the
very constituency they were
established to serve the consuming pub-
lic-is now the source of increasing and
legitimate complaints.
4. That their collegial decisionmaking
is inefficient and permits avoidance of
responsibility.
5. That the regulatory process has in
some areas become so obscure and com-
plex that it has effectively insulated vital
issues of policy from public scrutiny and
correction.
6. That the activities of the commis-
sions are largely uncoordinated either with
each other or with national policy goals.
However, it should be noted that the
deficiencies of the independent agencies
may not be entirely attributable to faulty
organization and procedure.
The failure to review and reform out-
dated social and economic policies em-
bedded in the regulatory fabric may also
be partially responsible. In addition, the
substantive goals of regulation often seem
confused, unclear, or even contradictory.
Regulation may have been extended to
some fields in which market forces would
better serve.
Too often, out of habit or inertia, gov-
ernments maintain organization structures
and agencies that are either no longer
necessary, no longer relevant, or no longer
truly responsive to the problems of the
modern era.
The Ash Council's report persuades me
that, despite the best efforts and inten-
tions of the commissions' members, there
is room for substantial improvement both
in the way in which these organizations
are structured, and in the way in which
they carry out their functions.
At this point, I have made no final deci-
sions on the merits of the Council's
recommendations. But to stimulate a
vigorous public discussion and to receive
the benefit of the views of the agencies
themselves, the regulated industries, the
interested bar groups, consumer protec-
tion organizations, and others, I am re-
leasing today this full report of the
Advisory Council.
I have asked the Ash Council staff to
solicit comments from the broadest pos-
sible range
of groups and individuals con-
71-234-72——13
149
