[89] Mar. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
of government. In supporting revenue
sharing we are not deciding against the
Federal Government, but for the Federal
system.
That system is one which has served
our country well for nearly two centuries,
allowing us to combine national unity
and regional diversity, to balance our
common ideals with our highly varied
ways of pursuing them, to solve the ancient
philosophical challenge of reconciling the
many and the one.
But the Federal system does not work
automatically. Like democracy itself, it
lives only because those who work within
it are committed to its success. It is now
for us to decide whether the Federal sys-
tem will decay or flourish in our time.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
March 5, 1971
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the message by George W.
Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development.
On April 6, 1971, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Edwin L.
Harper, Special Assistant to the President, on
the hold harmless base line figures for States
and localities under special revenue sharing,
and a fact sheet on the figures for urban com-
munity development special revenue sharing.
90 Memorandum About Training Programs for Federal
Employees. March 8, 1971
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
SUBJECT: Federal Executive Career De-
velopment Using Long-Term Training
Programs
In the years ahead, the challenges con-
fronting the executive branch of Govern-
ment will demand very highly qualified
men and women. The tasks before us re-
quire the fullest possible development of
the talents of individuals now employed
throughout the executive agencies and
departments.
The Civil Service Commission is acting
to improve existing training programs, to
redefine our goals in the field of educa-
tion for people who have proven executive
ability, and to build new and innovative
programs in response to current and
future needs. The Division of Executive
Development and Labor Relations in the
Office of Management and Budget will be
working with the Commission in a joint
effort to provide the best possible means
for preparing executives in the Federal
Government for positions of greater
responsibility.
In the unremitting effort to use our
fiscal resources as effectively as possible, it
would be easy but unwise to overlook the
need to provide now for well prepared
leadership in the years to come. Expendi-
tures for executive development programs
made at the present time are a necessary
and justifiable investment in our Nation's
future. Their importance is no less than
that of other current requirements.
A training program called "Education
for Public Management" is a central ele-
ment in the Federal executive develop-
ment effort. It is essentially a continuation
of earlier activities, and it seeks to provide
promising administrators with a concen-
406
