Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 20 [403]
25 years ago, at the end of World War
II, or even 10 years ago in 1961.
We also live in a world where there are
great opportunities, opportunities in terms
of building the structure of peace which
may not have existed even 5 years ago.
So, as the Prime Minister, with his
colleagues, with his Government, seeks to
explore those opportunities in Europe, as
we, in our own policies, seek to explore
those opportunities for building a struc-
ture of peace by these significant journeys
to nations with which we have now and
will continue to have very fundamental
and profound differences of philosophy,
we look again back to that relationship be-
tween the two of us-what comes home
on such a day as this, if I may speak in
personal terms, the 5 hours today the
Prime Minister and I talked, that was
really a full, far-ranging discussion. And
all the diplomatic words "a very can-
did," "straightforward," "frank"
change of views could be applied to it.
What impressed me at the conclusion
of that discussion was not the fact that
there were some tactical differences, but
the fact that after we had discussed vir-
tually all the problems in this complex
world, in this changing world, that there
are certain fundamental facts that have
not changed in the relationship between
Britain and the United States.
ex-
We all know we share a common lan-
guage. We share the common law. But
what is more important is that we have,
without question, dedication to principles
that are uncommon, uncommon because
they are transcendent and because they
are ones to which we, whatever journeys
we may make in the world, whatever new
initiatives we may undertake separately,
they are principles to which we will always
have dedication.
We know, therefore, that when we talk,
we begin with a devotion to the freedom
of men, a devotion to economic progress in
a climate of freedom, and a devotion to
building a structure of peace in which all
nations may have the right to their inde-
pendence without infringement by other
nations, great or small.
These could be just words. They are
usually spoken on such occasions as this.
But I can assure you that after one of the
most fruitful discussions that it has been
my privilege to have since holding this of-
fice, that I have been reassured of the fact
that that special relationship-special in
the sense of a dedication to principles that
are inalienable, indestructible, and which
will be here long after all of us are gone—
that that relationship is as strong now, and
even more necessary now than ever before.
Because as the world changes, as the forces
of power and the balances of power shift
throughout the world, it is even more vital
that these principles to which our Nation
and the British people have been devoted
throughout our history, that those prin-
ciples be maintained, that we believe in
them, that we sacrifice for them, and that
we work together to see that they prevail,
whatever our journeys may be, together
or separately.
For that reason, I believe that this meet-
ing has been, along with its predecessors,
an historic meeting. I believe it will serve
a useful purpose. I believe that it builds
that kind of foundation on which our two
countries can go forward together in dif-
ferent ways, at times, toward the same
great goal of a world of peace in which
people can live in freedom and have prog-
without infringement by other
peoples.
Because of that kind of ideal, may I say
that on this occasion, while it is normally
1199
