[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
leaders succeed, they can be reelected; if
they fail, they can be replaced. Elections
are the people's tool for keeping govern-
ment responsive to their needs.
This entire system rests on the assump-
tion, however, that elected leaders can
make the government respond to the
people's mandate. Too often, this assump-
tion is wrong. When lines of responsibility
are as tangled and as ambiguous as they
are in many policy areas, it is extremely
difficult for either the Congress or the
President to see that their intentions are
carried out.
If the President or the Congress wants
to launch a program or change a program
or even find out how a program is work-
ing, it often becomes necessary to consult
with a half dozen or more authorities,
each of whom can blame the others when
something goes wrong. It is often impos-
sible to delegate to any one official the full
responsibility for carrying out a specific
mandate, since the machinery for doing
that job is divided among various agen-
cies. As a result, there is frequently no sin-
gle official-even at the Cabinet level-
whom the President or the Congress can
hold accountable for Government's suc-
cess or failure in meeting a given need.
No wonder bureaucracy has sometimes
been described as "the rule of no one." No
wonder the public complains about pro-
grams which simply seem to drift. When
elected officials cannot hold appointees
accountable for the performance of gov-
ernment, then the voters' influence on
government's behavior is also weakened.
HOW DID THINGS GET THIS WAY?
The American people clearly pay a
very high price for the incapacities of
governmental structures-one that is
measured in disappointment, frustratior.
and wasted tax dollars. But how did things
get this way?
What happened, essentially, was that
the organization of Government-like the
grant-in-aid programs which I have dis-
cussed in my special messages to the
Congress concerning revenue sharing-
grew up in a haphazard, piecemeal fashion
over the years. Whenever Government
took on an important new assignment or
identified an important new constituency,
the chances were pretty good that a new
organizational entity would be established
to deal with it. Unfortunately, as each new
office was set up, little or no attention
was given to the question of how it would
fit in with the old ones. Thus office was
piled upon office in response to develop-
ing needs; when new needs arose and still
newer units were created, the older struc-
tures simply remained in place.
Of the twelve executive departments
now in existence, only five can trace their
origins to the beginnings of our country.
The Departments of State and Treasury
were set up in 1789; so was the War De-
partment-the predecessor of the De-
partment of Defense. The positions of
Attorney General and Postmaster General
were also established in 1789, though it
was not until later that the departments
they head were set up in their present
form. One of these five units, the Post
Office Department, will soon become an
independent corporation. But, under my
proposals, the other four "original" de-
partments would remain intact. It is the
seven newer departments of the Govern-
ment which would be affected by the
changes I recommend.
These seven departments were set up
to meet the changing needs of a growing
nation, needs which have continued to
478
