[29] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
service, and it is appropriate, therefore,
that they should bear the cost.
HIGHWAY USER TAXES
Believing that the burden of highway
taxes should be more equitably distributed
between larger trucks and smaller vehicles
and automobiles, I again ask that the
Federal tax on diesel fuel be raised from
four cents per gallon to six cents, and that
the present $3 per thousand pounds an-
nual use tax on trucks weighing over
26,000 pounds, be changed to a graduated
tax schedule ranging from $3.50 to $9.50
per thousand pounds. This new tax would
be applied only to those truck combina-
tions weighing in excess of 26,000 pounds.
IMMIGRATION AND FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
Finally, I urge passage of several meas-
ures which are being resubmitted dealing
with the immigration policies of the
United States, and with American con-
tributions to international banks to assist
the economic development of friendly
nations.
REFORM IN THE IMMIGRATION LAW
To improve our immigration laws and
to enlarge upon our national tradition as
an open nation and an open society, legis-
lation is being resubmitted which would,
among other reforms, provide:
-A higher percentage of immigrant
visas for professionals, needed work-
ers and refugees.
-Additional visas for the Western hem-
isphere, with special provisions for
our nearest neighbors, Mexico and
Canada.
Further, to encourage travel and tour-
ism in the United States, the requirement
for a visa would be waived for all business
and pleasure visits of ninety days or less
by nationals of countries designated by the
Secretary of State.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASIAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK AND INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOP-
MENT BANK
In recent years, the benefits of increased
multilateral aid to developing countries
have become more and more manifest.
Multilateral aid enables a pooling of the
assistance of the donor nations; it reduces
political frictions inherent in some bi-
lateral programs; it strengthens interna-
tional institutions; it is preferred by many
recipient nations.
Thus, I again urge the Congress to au-
thorize $100 million in United States con-
tributions to the Special Fund of the Asian
Development Bank, and $900 million to
the corresponding fund of the Inter-
American Development Bank. The for-
mer will enable the nations of free Asia
to assume greater responsibility for the
success of their own development. The
latter, along with the $100 million first
installment authorized by the last Con-
gress, will make possible significant ad-
vances in the economic development of
the hemisphere, in which we ourselves
have so vital a stake, and also give sub-
stance to the partnership of the Americas.
To the veterans of the Ninety-first
Congress, the measures proposed once
again in this message will of course be
72
