Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [132]
sound investment in upgrading the local
work force-with the Federal Govern-
ment, as Washington's major employer,
certain to be one of the principal
beneficiaries.
It has seemed particularly desirable
that the Washington Technical Institute
be relocated from its temporary quarters
in the southern portion of the old Na-
tional Bureau of Standards site in North-
west Washington. Since 1968 this land
has been earmarked by the Congress for
construction of an International Center
which would house foreign chanceries and
the headquarters of the Organization of
American States. Many countries have
been unable to find adequate quarters for
their chanceries here in Washington, and
the Congress by this action recognized
the importance of providing suitable space
for them. At the same time, it is important
that the Washington Technical Institute
be moved with minimum interruption of
its outstanding educational programs.
After a thorough review of alternative
sites for the Institute and the Interna-
tional Center, I have accepted the recom-
mendations of the National Capital Plan-
ning Commission, other affected Federal
agencies, and the Washington Technical
Institute that the two activities share the
old Bureau of Standards site. The Inter-
national Center can occupy the south
end-the present Institute grounds-
while the northern portion of the site can
become an excellent permanent campus
for the Institute. Planning is proceeding
accordingly. During construction of its
new buildings, the Institute will be housed
in suitably adapted existing buildings on
the north side of the site.
I will shortly transmit budget requests
for this move and for the relocation of
Federal agency activities now on the site.
In the coming years, both the Institute
and the International Center will be im-
portant new landmarks on upper Con-
necticut Avenue, symbolizing side by side
the Capital City's dedication to human
development and to international under-
standing.
Planning for the permanent campus of
Federal City College has not progressed
as quickly as that for the Washington
Technical Institute site, and so I will not
discuss the various alternatives and possi-
bilities at length here. I would stress, how-
ever, my firm commitment to assisting the
College not only through construction
grants but also through active interest in
the process of translating those dollars
into land, classrooms, and other facilities
which can begin benefitting Federal City's
students in the near future.
A DEVELOPMENT BANK FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
All of the areas in which I have pro-
posed that the Federal Government give
special attention to helping the District
government help itself-mass transit,
clean water, and human resources de-
velopment-bear directly on the support
of a vigorous, expanding economy in the
Nation's Capital. They would help to
create a climate that favors economic
growth. I now urge the Congress to assist
business and industry in taking advantage
of that climate by establishing a Develop-
ment Bank for the District of Columbia,
as proposed in legislation which the
administration is submitting. Such a
Development Bank, forging a new part-
nership among Federal officials, local offi-
cials, and representatives of the private
sector, would serve as an action center
in assembling the necessary combinations
517
