[135] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
estimate the casualties suffered by the
enemy were far heavier.
Third, and most important, the disrup-
tion of enemy supply lines, the consump-
tion of ammunition and arms in the battle
has been even more damaging to the capa-
bility of the North Vietnamese to sustain
major offensives in South Vietnam than
were the operations in Cambodia 10
months ago.
Consequently, tonight I can report that
Vietnamization has succeeded. Because
of the increased strength of the South
Vietnamese, because of the success of
the Cambodian operation, because of the
achievements of the South Vietnamese
operation in Laos, I am announcing an in-
crease in the rate of American with-
drawals. Between May 1 and December 1
of this year, 100,000 more American
troops will be brought home from South
Vietnam. This will bring the total num-
ber of American troops withdrawn from
South Vietnam to 365,000. Now that is
over two-thirds of the number who were
there when I came into office, as you can
see from this chart on my left. The Gov-
ernment of South Vietnam fully supports
the decision I have just announced.
Now, let's look at the future:
As you can see from the progress we
have made to date and by this announce-
ment tonight, the American involvement
in Vietnam is coming to an end. The day
the South Vietnamese can take over their
own defense is in sight. Our goal is a total
American withdrawal from Vietnam. We
can and we will reach that goal through
our program of Vietnamization if
necessary.
But we would infinitely prefer to reach
it even sooner through negotiations. I
am sure most of you will recall that on
October 7 of last year in a national TV
broadcast, I proposed an immediate cease-
fire throughout Indochina, the immediate
release of all prisoners of war in the Indo-
china area, an all-Indochina peace con-
ference, the complete withdrawal of all
outside forces, and a political settlement.
Tonight I again call on Hanoi to engage in
serious negotiations to speed the end of
this war. I especially call on Hanoi to
agree to the immediate and unconditional
release of all prisoners of war throughout
Indochina. It is time for Hanoi to end
the barbaric use of our prisoners as nego-
tiating pawns and to join us in a humane
act that will free their men as well as ours.
Let me turn now to a proposal which at
first glance has a great deal of popular
appeal. If our goal is a total withdrawal
of all our forces, why don't I announce a
date now for ending our involvement?
Well, the difficulty in making such an an-
nouncement to the American people is
that I would also be making that an-
nouncement to the enemy. And it would
serve the enemy's purpose and not our
own.
If the United States should announce
that we will quit regardless of what
the enemy does, we would have thrown
away our principal bargaining counter to
win the release of American prisoners of
war, we would remove the enemy's strong-
est incentive to end the war sooner by
negotiation, and we will have given enemy
commanders the exact information they
need to marshal their attacks against our
remaining forces at their most vulnerable
time.
The issue very simply is this: Shall we
leave Vietnam in a way that--by our own
actions-consciously turns the country
over to the Communists? Or shall we leave
in a way that gives the South Vietnamese
a reasonable chance to survive as a free
524
