[26] Jan. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
What this change means is that once
again in America we are placing our trust
in people.
I have faith in people. I trust the judg-
ment of people. Let us give the people of
America a chance, a bigger voice in decid-
ing for themselves those questions that so
greatly affect their lives.
The sixth great goal is a complete re-
form of the Federal Government itself.
Based on a long and intensive study
with the aid of the best advice obtainable,
I have concluded that a sweeping reor-
ganization of the executive branch is
needed if the Government is to keep up
with the times and with the needs of the
people.
I propose, therefore, that we reduce the
present 12 Cabinet Departments to eight.
I propose that the Departments of
State, Treasury, Defense, and Justice re-
main, but that all the other departments
be consolidated into four: Human
Resources, Community Development,
Natural Resources, and Economic
Development.
Let us look at what these would be:
—First, a department dealing with the
concerns of people—as individuals, as
members of a family-a department
focused on human needs.
-Second, a department concerned
with the community-rural com-
munities and urban communities--
and with all that it takes to make a
community function as a community.
-Third, a department concerned with
our physical environment, with the
preservation and balanced use of
those great natural resources on
which our Nation depends.
-And fourth, a department concerned
with our prosperity-with our jobs,
our businesses, and those many ac-
tivities that keep our economy run-
ning smoothly and well.
Under this plan, rather than dividing up
our departments by narrow subjects, we
would organize them around the great
purposes of government. Rather than
scattering responsibility by adding new
levels of bureaucracy, we would focus and
concentrate the responsibility for getting
problems solved.
With these four departments, when we
have a problem we will know where to
go-and the department will have the
authority and the resources to do some-
thing about it.
Over the years we have added depart-
ments and created agencies at the Fed-
eral level, each to serve a new constitu-
ency, to handle a particular task-and
these have grown and multiplied in what
has become a hopeless confusion of form
and function.
The time has come to match our struc-
ture to our purposes-to look with a fresh
eye, to organize the Government by con-
scious, comprehensive design to meet the
new needs of a new era.
One hundred years ago, Abraham Lin-
coln stood on a battlefield and spoke of a
"government of the people, by the people,
for the people." Too often since then, we
have become a nation of the Government,
by the Government, for the Government.
By enacting these reforms, we can re-
new that principle that Lincoln stated so
simply and so well.
By giving everyone's voice a chance to
be heard, we will have government that
truly is of the people.
By creating more centers of meaning-
ful power, more places where decisions
that really count can be made, by giving
56
