[250] Aug. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
from other nations to witness the election.
I hope observers do go. I think they will
find, I hope they will find, as they did
when they observed previous elections in
Vietnam, that by most standards they
were fair.
As far as observers from this country
are concerned, we have, of course, several
Members of the Senate and others that
have indicated a desire to go. We, of
course, have no objection to that. We
want a fair election, and we, of course,
have some observers on the scene in the
person of the Ambassador and his staff
who will watch that election.
THE STOCK MARKET AND THE ECONOMY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, the last time
you gave some stock market advice to us,
it turned out pretty well. What would you
do now, buy or sell?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to the
stock market, I suppose my advice should
not be given much weight because I am
not in the market. It is so easy to make
predictions where your own assets are not
involved.
I will say this: I would not sell the
United States economy short at this point.
And long term, I would not be selling my
investments in the American economy,
whether it is in stocks or real estate or
what have you, selling them in a panicky
way.
The stock market has come up, even at
its present level of 850, 230 points since I
made that prediction. I can only say that
my long-range prediction for this economy
is still what I said at the first of this year.
At the first of this year, when the
very
same people had written-and I have
read the news magazines and business
magazines, and not, of course, any of the
columns you have written this week-but
I have read all the rest this week, and
the gloomy predictions about the econ-
omy: its going down, nothing good about
it. I read them also for November of last
year, exactly the same gloominess, the
same words, and so forth.
I said then, and all of you were present
then, I thought 1971 would be a good year
for the economy, and 1972 would be a
very good year. I stand by that. When we
look at, for example, the first half of this
year, it is not what people say about the
economy, it is what they do about it that
counts.
GNP is up a record $52 billion. Retail
sales now, in June—and the first indica-
tions as far as July are concerned, it will
stay at this level—are at record highs.
Consumer spending is at a record high.
Construction, particularly in housing,
near record highs. Inventories-and this
is another indication of what will happen
to the future for those who may be think-
ing of investing their money in busi-
nesses-inventories are abnormally low in
view of the high level of retail sales.
Now what this tells me is that there is
a lot of steam in the boiler in this econ-
omy, and you cannot continue to have
high retail sales and low inventories with-
out eventually starting to rebuild. There-
fore, my projection for the balance of this
year is that the economy will continue to
move up as it has moved up in the first
half.
That doesn't mean that there will not
be aberrations in the monthly figures. It
does mean, however, that the economy
has a great deal of strength in it. This is a
period when it is absorbing almost 2 mil-
lion people who have been let out of
defense plants and the Armed Forces and
is absorbing that with a lower rate of un-
854
