[268] Aug. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
upon a hill cannot be hidden."
Think of how presumptuous that was
to say then. America, not even settled, a
few colonists just about to arrive, and here
he said, "You are the light of the world.
A city set upon a hill cannot be hidden."
That was the spirit that made this
country.
Three centuries later, America is like
"a city set upon a hill"-strong, rich. The
question is: Do we have the character, the
richness in spirit, and the strength in
spirit that a nation needs? What we do
with the challenge of peaceful competi-
tion, what we fail to do, will be seen
today by the eyes of the world and tomor-
row by the eyes of our children.
I ask this great organization, leaders all
across all of America: Let us join to-
gether to awaken the moral power that
is the heritage of a hard-working people
and, by our example, let America be the
light of the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:19 p.m. in
the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel to members of the
Knights of Columbus, a Catholic fraternal
and charitable organization.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
269 Remarks on Signing Bill Establishing the Lincoln
Home National Historic Site in Springfield,
Illinois. August 18, 1971
Governor Ogilvie, Congressman Findley,
and our very distinguished guests on this
historic occasion:
I am most honored to be here for the
purpose of signing a bill which will con-
tinue a long tradition of the State of
Illinois, the Land of Lincoln, of remind-
ing the American people of this precious
heritage. In signing that bill, I would like
to pay tribute to all who helped to, first,
propose it, and then to get it through the
Congress, and particularly to Congress-
man Findley, your Congressman from this
area. And to you, Governor Ogilvie, and
to all of the people of both parties in this
State of Illinois may I express the grati-
tude of a very grateful nation for what
Illinois has done to preserve the Lincoln
heritage.
I think, of course, of the Lincoln
Tomb. I think of the Lincoln law office.
We think, of course, today of the Lincoln
Home-the only home, it is said, he really
had and that he owned; where he lived
for 17 years; where three of his sons were
born, and one died. We think, of course,
of this chamber-a restoration of the
place where Lincoln spoke as a member
of the Illinois Legislature-this chamber
where so many years ago, perhaps before
his Presidency his most famous speech
was made, the "House Divided" speech,
the one which may have led to his nomi-
nation and later his election to the Presi-
dency of the United States.
So the Nation is grateful that the State
of Illinois and the people of Illinois
through the years, have done so much to
preserve the Lincoln heritage so that hun-
dreds of thousands, millions of people,
particularly young Americans, can come
here and see where this great man lived,
where he worked, and to see, also, the
people that he loved-because I think one
of the most moving passages of Sand-
burg's "Life of Lincoln" was his quotation
898
