[251] Aug. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
fields in their home countries.
The professional and personal ties
which these students form while they are
studying here and the insights they gain
into our way of life will help shape their
future perceptions of America. Their ex-
perience here today can have a major
impact on the quality of communication
between their societies and ours tomor-
row. Public and private programs which
enhance the experiences of these poten-
tial leaders can do a great deal to build the
252
human foundations for a more peaceful
world.
I commend this report to the thought-
ful attention of the Congress.
The White House
August 5, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report, entitled "Leaders for To-
morrow-?; A Review of U.S. Programs for
Foreign Students" (34 pp. plus addenda), was
published by the Bureau of Educational and
Cultural Affairs, Department of State.
Statement on Signing Executive Order
Establishing the National Business Council
for Consumer Affairs. August 5, 1971
IN RECENT months I have been grati-
fied by the increasing desire of the busi-
ness community to take a more active role
in meeting the concerns of the American
consumer. These businessmen recognize
that the concerns are widespread and
often spring from valid complaints. They
also share my belief that neither the Gov-
ernment nor the consumer movement can
alone solve these problems, but that we
must also rely upon the traditional good-
will and sound practices of the business
community.
Because of this growing interest, I have
today signed an Executive order [11614]
creating the National Business Council
for Consumer Affairs and have called
upon a number of leaders from the busi-
ness community to serve as its members.
The wholehearted response of these dis-
tinguished businessmen and women to join
with us in this effort is an indication of the
resolve of American business to take a
leading role in assuring equity in the
marketplace.
The Council will allow businessmen to
communicate regularly with the Presi-
dent, the Office of Consumer Affairs, the
Federal Trade Commission, the Justice
Department, other Government agencies
as appropriate, and private organizations
which are directly concerned with con-
sumer affairs. This dialogue, in a forum
involving all consumer product and serv-
ice industries, will provide greater aware-
ness and sensitivity for both consumer
concerns and responsive corporate action.
I am pleased that Mr. Robert E.
Brooker and Mr. Donald S. Perkins have
agreed to serve as Chairman and Vice
Chairman, respectively, of the National
Business Council for Consumer Affairs.
862
