Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 18 [108]
given out according to the ratio of the
geographic area of each State to the total
area of the United States; and the remain-
ing 20 percent would be allocated accord-
ing to the ratio of each State's star and
rural post route mileage to the total of that
mileage in the country.
This formula, which resembles formulas
which are used under current categorical
grants, would provide the best means for
distributing Special Revenue Sharing
funds in a similar pattern as under the
present system. In addition to the guar-
antee that it would be held harmless
against any reduction in support, each
State would be guaranteed a minimum
allocation of one-half of one percent of
this General Transportation element.
As I have noted above, a percentage of
the General Transportation element
would be distributed among the States ac-
cording to their share of the Nation's
pop-
ulation that lives in urban areas. Each
State would be required to pass along its
share of this money directly to its com-
munities of more than 2,500 persons to
spend as their local governments think
best. If we are to restore confidence in
local government then we must give public
officials at the local level a reasonable op-
portunity to make sound plans and cou-
rageous investment decisions. This means
that they must be able to rely upon a cer-
tain amount of funding. Our "pass-
through" formula is designed to provide
this needed assurance.
MASS TRANSIT CAPITAL INVESTMENT
ELEMENT
The second part of the new Special
Revenue Sharing fund is the Mass Tran-
sit Capital Investment element-which
would total $525 million for the first full
year.
This money would be distributed to
each State according to its share of the
Nation's population that lives in Stand-
ard Metropolitan Statistical Areas
(SMSA). An SMSA is defined as an area
which contains a central city or cities with
an aggregate population of 50,000 or
more and those surrounding counties
which have a metropolitan character and
are socially and economically integrated
with the central city. There are 247 such
areas in the United States.
Eighty percent of the funds in this Mass
Transit Capital Investment element
would be distributed according to each
State's share of the Nation's population
that lives in SMSAS of over one million
persons. The remaining 20 percent would
be allocated according to each State's
share of the Nation's population that lives
in SMSAs of less than one million persons.
Every State would be guaranteed a mini-
mum allocation of $250,000.
In the Mass Transit Capital Investment
element as in the General Transportation
fund element, I propose that a portion of
the funds be passed through the States
directly to urban areas. Of the 80 per-
cent distributed to States on the basis of
SMSAs of more than one million in popu-
lation, I propose that half go directly to
the local governments within these
SMSAs to spend for mass transit pur-
poses as they see fit. The other half of this
money would also have to be spent within
these same larger SMSAs, but it would be
spent at the State's discretion. Currently,
there are 33 SMSAs with more than a
million persons in the United States and
these are the areas that would automati-
cally receive "pass-through" funds for
Mass Transit Capital Investment.
In 1969, I submitted to the Congress a
proposal for establishing an Urban Mass
71-234-72-32
445
