[187] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
clearly drawn and the outcome is decisive.
But the challenge of patient readiness, the
challenge to be strong when you want to
use your strength for peace, not war-
this takes a special kind of courage, of
stamina, and of statesmanship. And I
know you have it.
Honor: You must retain your own high
sense of honor, knowing that you will not
receive civilian recognition to the meas-
ure you deserve, and knowing that the
emotional antimilitarism and moral up-
heaval of our times will test you severely.
It is no secret that the discipline, integrity,
patriotism, self-sacrifice, which are the
very lifeblood of an effective armed force
and which the Corps represents, can no
longer be taken for granted in the Army
in which you will serve. The symptoms of
trouble are plain enough, from drug abuse
to insubordination.
I believe, in perspective, that the mili-
tary ethic remains strong in the hearts of
America's fighting men, and particularly
strong in your hearts. Your special task
will be to reaffirm it, to give it new life and
meaning for the difficult times ahead.
And as you succeed in this task, your suc-
cess can set an example of moral rebirth
for all the people and institutions of this
land, civilian as well as military.
Country: Each of you is sworn to place
the security of your country, the freedom
of your countrymen, above all your own
desires and even above life itself. You pay
a price for this. Your duty, though su-
premely important, may often be thank-
less. Your honor, though high and true,
may meet with the scorn of some. But you
will have this great reward: Your country,
the United States and all its people, will
be deeply in your debt. Day by day,
through all your years in uniform, you will
be rendering your country the very high-
est service: the protection of our liberties,
the preservation of our peace. People you
will never know, people you will never
meet, children yet unborn will have bet-
ter and safer lives because you took your
stand for America and the world. You
can always be proud of that.
In choosing the profession of arms, you
have chosen wisely and well; for a career
of service to your fellow man is the high-
est career of all.
Recently, I received a letter from a
young man who enlisted in the Army
6 months ago. His statement of pride in
wearing the uniform of the United States
of America moved me deeply. I would like
to share it with you.
He wrote, "One year ago I wouldn't
have given two cents to be a soldier in the
Army. Today I wouldn't take a million
to leave it. . . . As the days go by I be-
come more and more proud to be a sol-
dier. . . . The reason I'm in the Army
is because I didn't feel right by having the
country protecting me and I wasn't doing
anything for the country."
To the simple but eloquent words of
that private in the United States Army
there is little I can add except that to his
devotion I know you will add your own.
And my part, the part of the Nation's
leaders, will be to do our best to fashion
a just and lasting peace for America and
for the world.
Your part, the role of the soldier, will
be to help to keep the peace that we make.
If we fail, then you will have to pay the
price of risking your lives. If you fail,
then we cannot succeed. But, true to your
duty, firm in your honor, loyal to your
686
