[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
self-confidence and are acting auton-
omously on the world stage. They are
able to shoulder more responsibility
for their own security and well-being.
-In the last 20 years, the nature of
the Communist challenge has been
transformed. The Stalinist bloc has
fragmented into competing centers
of doctrine and power. One of the
deepest conflicts in the world today is
between Communist China and the
Soviet Union. The most prevalent
Communist threats now are not mas-
sive military invasions, but a more
subtle mix of military, psychological,
and political pressures. These devel-
opments complicate the patterns of
diplomacy, presenting both
problems and new prospects.
-At the same time, the Soviet Union
has expanded its military power on a
global scale and has moved from an
inferior status in strategic weapons to
one comparable to the United States.
This shift in the military equation
has changed both defense doctrines
and the context of diplomacy.
-Around the globe, East and West, the
rigid bipolar world of the 1940's and
1950's has given way to the fluidity of
a new era of multilateral diplomacy.
Fifty-one nations joined the United
Nations at its founding in 1945; to-
day 127 are members. It is an increas-
ingly heterogeneous and complex
world, and the dangers of local con-
flict are magnified. But so, too, are
the opportunities for creative diplo-
macy.
-Increasingly we see new issues that
transcend geographic and ideological
borders and confront the world com-
munity of nations. Many flow from
the nature of modern technology.
They reflect a shrinking globe and
expanding interdependence. They in-
clude the challenges of exploring new
frontiers of space and sea and the
dangers of polluting the planet. These
global issues call for a new dimen-
sion of international cooperation.
THE NEW AMERICAN ROLE
How is America to conduct itself in a
world so different? How should we define
the form and content of American par-
ticipation in the 1970's?
In the era of American predominance,
we resorted to American prescriptions as
well as resources. In the new era, our
friends are revitalized and increasingly
self-reliant while the American domestic
consensus has been strained by 25 years of
global responsibilities. Failure to draw
upon the growth of others would have
stifled them and exhausted ourselves.
Partnership that was always theoretically
desirable is now physically and psychologi-
cally imperative.
In the era of overwhelming U.S. mili-
tary strength, we and our allies could rely
on the doctrine of massive retaliation. In
the new era, growing Soviet power has
altered the military equation. Failure to
adapt to this change could lead to con-
frontations which pose an agonizing
choice between paralysis and holocaust.
Strength that served the cause of peace
during a period of relative superiority
needs new definitions to keep the peace
during a period of relative equality.
In the era of Communist solidarity we
pursued an undifferentiated negotiating
approach toward Communist countries.
In the new era, we see a multipolar Com-
munism marked by a variety of attitudes
toward the rest of the world. Failure to
220
