[199] June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
Louis whites declined by 169,000; blacks
rose by 40,000. Thus the central cities
grow ever more black, while the sur-
rounding areas, for the most part, remain
overwhelmingly white.
It is important to remember, of course,
that simple divisions into "central city"
and "suburban" can be misleading in this
context. It makes a great deal of differ-
ence how large the city is, and what the
patterns of distribution within the metro-
politan area are in terms not only of hous-
ing but of business, industry, recreational
facilities, transportation, and all the many
factors that enter into its internal dy-
namics as a functioning community.
One thing this points to is that no
single set of rigid criteria can be laid down
that will fit a wide variety of local situa-
tions. To speak of "opening up the sub-
urbs," for example, may have widely
differing implications in different metro-
politan areas, just as the term "central
city" means something quite different in
New York or Chicago than it does in New
Haven or Fresno.
To some extent, the persistence of ra-
cially separate housing patterns reflects
the free choice of individuals and fam-
ilies in both the majority and minority
communities. Economic factors have also
played a part, since average income
levels--even though the disparity is being
narrowed-remain lower for minority
Americans than for the Caucasian
majority.
It also is inescapable, however, that
continuing, often covert housing discrim-
ination is thwarting or discouraging the
efforts of many minority citizens to find
better housing in better neighborhoods.
This is wrong, constitutionally indefensi-
ble, and pragmatically unwise.
THE COST OF RACIAL SEPARATION
Separation of the races, particularly
when it is involuntary, has damaging con-
sequences. One is racial isolation-the
social isolation of the races from each
other-an estrangement that all too read-
ily engenders unwarranted mistrust, hos-
tility, and fear.
Another consequence of involuntary ra-
cial separation is the waste of human re-
sources through the denial of human
opportunity. No nation is rich enough
and strong enough to afford the price
which dehumanizing living environments
extract in the form of wasted human po-
tential and stunted human lives-and
many of those living environments in
which black and other minority Amer-
icans are trapped are dehumanizing.
Another price of racial segregation is
being paid each day in dollars: in wages
lost because minority Americans are un-
able to find housing near the suburban
jobs for which they could qualify. Indus-
try and jobs are leaving central cities for
the surrounding areas. Unless minority
workers can move along with the jobs,
the jobs that go to the suburbs will be
denied to the minorities-and more per-
sons who want to work will be added to
the cities' unemployment and welfare
rolls.
Clearly, both outright racial discrimi-
nation and persisting patterns of racial
concentration combine to create a serious
set of problems that public policy must
seek to meet. These problems are human,
they are economic, they are social-and
they pose a challenge of the first magni-
tude to the community of the metropolitan
area that tries to meet them in a way most
nearly fair to all those affected. It is en-
724
