[279] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
spotting it through the American history,
going back to the earliest Presidents, and
it was interesting to note how all of them
had to find his particular way to get away.
Some liked the sea, some liked the moun-
tains, some liked to fish, hunt, and as far
as I am concerned, of course, I don't
happen to fish or to hunt, but I like the
water and I like the ocean, and this is a
great opportunity to see it at its best.
I am amazed, though, at Los Angeles
harbor, at how much it has developed-
to think that that is all manmade, and
to see those slips that go way back there—
how much it has developed since we were
first there. But even more important, the
small boat business, how good it is. I never
saw so many.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks took place
at 4:10 p.m. as the President returned from
a 2-day cruise off the coast of southern Cali-
fornia. He sailed aboard the MoJo, an 85-foot
cruiser owned by retired Los Angeles busi-
nessman Frank Muller.
280 Special Message to the Congress About Deferment
of Federal Wage Increases.
To the Congress of the United States:
On August 15, 1971 I announced a
number of new economic initiatives to
create new jobs, to hold down the cost of
living, and to stabilize the dollar. In this
connection, Executive Order 11615 calls
for the development of policies, mecha-
nisms and procedures to maintain eco-
nomic growth without inflationary
increases after the end of the 90-day freeze
period which the order imposes. It is
equally essential that the tax reductions
which I recommended to the Congress, to
provide a powerful stimulus to the econ-
omy, not be inflationary in their impact.
A significant reduction in Federal ex-
penditures is needed to provide a balance.
Since continuing emphasis will be
placed on the exercise of responsible in-
dustrial and labor leadership throughout
the Nation in the months to come, I must
apply such fiscal restraints as will clearly
signify the good faith of the Federal Gov-
ernment as a major employer, and to con-
tinue to set an example for the American
people in our striving to achieve prosper-
ity in peacetime. I place full reliance on
September 1, 1971
the willingness of Federal employees along
with their fellow Americans, to make
whatever temporary sacrifices in personal
gain may be needed to attain the greater
good for the country as a whole.
Therefore, in consideration of the eco-
nomic conditions affecting the general
welfare, I hereby transmit to the Con-
gress the following alternative plan, as
authorized and required by section
5305(c)(1) of title 5, United States
Code:
Such adjustments in the rates of pay
of each Federal statutory pay system as
may be required, based on the 1971
Bureau of Labor Statistics survey, shall
become effective on the first day of the
first applicable pay period that begins
on or after July 1, 1972.
I recognize that delaying the scheduled
January 1972 increase to July 1972 means
that two increases will then become due
within a period of approximately three
months. Since I am unable to predict
whether two increases in such a relatively
short time span will have a damaging
922
