Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
ference. And without that firepower sup-
port, it would have, of course, been very
foolish to have the South Vietnamese go
in on the ground against the superior
North Vietnamese forces.
But the point that I wish to make is
this: That when I use the term "hack it,"
when General Abrams said that the South
Vietnamese, after 6 weeks in Laos, are
coming out, the great majority of them
with higher confidence, with greater mo-
rale, despite the fact that they have taken
some very severe losses, they know that
they have given much more losses to the
enemy, that we now have concluded, and
this is General Abrams' assessment, that
the South Vietnamese have now passed a
milestone in their development.
We didn't know at the time of Cam-
bodia whether they could conduct an
operation last year by themselves, and,
consequently, we went in with advisers.
This year, they went in without any
American advisers, with only American
air support, against very, very heavy odds
numerically on the ground. They fought
extremely well. Now they are withdraw-
ing. They are having all the problems of
an army withdrawing. Some of their units
have not done so well. But 18 out of the
22 battalions, as General Abrams has
pointed out, are doing extremely well and,
he says, will come out with greater con-
fidence and greater morale than before.
What this all means, of course, is that
South Vietnam, man for man, when there
is not a numerical superiority on the part
of the enemy, will be able to-to use the
parochial term "hack it," in my opinion
and in General Abrams' opinion.
And I should also point out this: That
in Laos they were fighting on the enemy's
terrain, on his turf, against overwhelming
numbers. When they fight in South Viet-
nam, they are going to be fighting on their
terrain with their having the numerical
advantage and the enemy having the long
supply line.
[6.] MR. SMITH. Well, now, sir, they
give the impression of retreating from
Laos now, and there is still a whole month
of dry season before the rains come. If
they retreat now, won't the Communists
have plenty of time to repair their trails
and repair their pipelines before the rains
come?
THE PRESIDENT. They can never gain
back the time, Mr. Smith. Six weeks is a
period in which the Communists not only
have found, as we pointed out earlier, that
the supplies to the South have been
drastically cut-during that 6-week period
they have had chewed up great amounts
of ammunition, great amounts of mate-
riel that otherwise would have gone South
and would have been used, incidentally,
against many Americans fighting in South
Vietnam-and also in that 6-week period
the South Vietnamese have developed a
considerable capability on their own and
considerable confidence on their own.
They are better units to handle the situa-
tion as we withdraw.
Now, insofar as what they are going to
be able to do for the balance of this dry
season is concerned, I can only suggest
that I cannot predict what will happen
today, tomorrow, or the next day. There
is going to be some more severe fighting
as the South Vietnamese continue to
withdraw from Laos. That we expected.
But let me try to put it in perspective.
I have noted a considerable amount of
discussion on the networks and in the
newspapers and so forth, and it is alto-
gether, let me say, understandable and
451
