Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 19 [68]
of play-how much effect he has on that
young impressionable boy or girl who is in
the stands or watching on the television
set.
And the lives you lead, the fact that you
are good competitors, that you play to
win, but you also know how to lose, which
means, not accepting a loss saying, "Well,
it didn't make any difference," but saying,
"I am going to do better so I win the next
time"; the fact, too, that you lead the kind
of lives that are an example of good,
decent, and clean living in the best sense
of the word, believe me, this helps the
American spirit.
I express my appreciation to you and
having talked to you this way--and I want
Bud to hear this-I will jog 2 minutes
tomorrow morning.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:50 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House to members
of the President's Council on Physical Fitness
and Sports and the Conference on Physical
Fitness and Sports.
68 Memorandum About the 1971 Federal Summer Intern
Program. February 19, 1971
Memorandum to the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
Our experience with the Federal Gov-
ernment's summer intern programs in
these past two years-the 1969 Executive
Intern Program and the 1970 Washing-
ton Summer Intern Program-has been
most rewarding. We benefited greatly
from the direct contributions of the in-
terns, including constructive ideas which
could have been born in no other place
than the crucible of on-the-spot experi-
ence. At the same time, many of the
most promising members of the
younger
generation were given a unique oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the
people in government, the functions they
perform and the problems they face.
Because the value of these programs
has proven to be so great, I am directing
expanded efforts in support of the 1971
Federal Summer Intern Program.
I have called for an alliance between
the generations. I have asked American
youth to respond affirmatively to the chal-
lenge and pledged that we will do our
best to keep faith with their hopes. An out-
standing Federal Summer Intern Pro-
gram will be another step in fulfilling our
part of the bargain.
I ask each of you to assure the full par-
ticipation of your organization, to help
make this summer the most fruitful ever
in terms of nurturing better understanding
between young Americans and their Gov-
ernment. The Chairman of the Civil Serv-
ice Commission will provide the necessary
leadership for the program, will measure
its results, and will report to me next fall.
RICHARD NIXON
195
