Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 2 [124]
I
posefully defrauding the welfare system.
Thus, we urge your consideration of
specific inclusion in H.R. 1 of Section 208
of the Social Security Act that clearly de-
fines fraud, corresponding fines, and
other punishment.
5. Cashing-out Food Stamps. The Ad-
ministration has encouraged action by
your Committee in cooperation with the
House Agriculture Committee to cash-out
the Food Stamp Program for families.
The result would eliminate overlapping
and duplication between these two
programs.
The Administration will continue to
work closely with the Committee on these
and other matters. I hope this assistance
will be of value to the Committee in its
efforts to reform welfare. All of us agree
that this is one of the most urgent items
on our domestic agenda.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Wilbur D. Mills, chairman
of the House Committee on Ways and Means,
and to the Honorable John W. Byrnes, rank-
ing minority member of the committee, was
released at San Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the welfare
reform bill by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant
to the President for Domestic Affairs.
124 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on Operation of the International Coffee Agreement.
April 2, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith my report on the
operations in 1970 of the International
Coffee Agreement of 1968.
Events during 1970 once again demon-
strated the capacity of the Agreement to
protect the interests of both its consumer
and producer members. The Interna-
tional Coffee Council acted decisively in
August to curb a precipitous increase in
world coffee prices caused by damage to
the Brazilian coffee crop in mid-1969.
At the same time the judicious measures
adopted by the Council enabled produc-
ing countries to maintain their foreign
exchange earnings from coffee exports at
a level consistent with the objectives of the
Agreement.
I am also pleased to inform the Con-
gress that we have reached an agreement
with Brazil relating to our trade with that
country in soluble coffee, which settles
the U.S. complaint against Brazil under
Article 44 of the International Coffee
Agreement. This agreement improves the
competitive conditions of access to Bra-
zilian green coffee by U.S. soluble coffee
processors in a manner which safeguards
the interests of consumers.
In terms of the bilateral accord, which
will be valid as long as the United States
continues to implement the International
Coffee Agreement, Brazil will make avail-
able for sale to American soluble coffee
manufacturers an appropriate quantity
of
green coffee free of Brazilian contribu-
tion quota. American firms will qualify to
purchase this coffee, which will be of suit-
able quality, in proportion to their his-
torical production of soluble coffee. The
enclosed letter from the Secretary of State
provides a more detailed account of the
settlement and the negotiations which led
up to it.
497
