Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 23 [370]
out there and let's go." You know you
don't do that. Any manager will tell you.
If, for example, a guy isn't hitting, he
isn't going to hit. And you can't say,
"Look, Harmon, you are in a slump here;
get out there and hit today." They are
always trying to hit. You see, it is man
against man.
But in football, it is a very contagious
thing. It is a team effort, and if the team
has a feeling of being up, then it has got, I
would say, a 50 percent better chance to-
day to win, because in this game of pro
football, too, they are all good. In any
week, almost any team in pro football can
beat another team, almost any team. I
mean you catch teams like Atlanta-they
have a lot of talent. Philadelphia has got
talent, all the rest. That is why you can't
assume that the Vikings are always going
to win. You can't assume, frankly, that
the Cowboys will.
That is why this team still has a very
good chance to get in the playoffs, in my
opinion, because they have lots of talent,
but most important, and this is the history
of Allen-coached teams, this team is not
going to lose its spirit because of a couple
of losses.
Allen has a great ability to keep that old
spirit and morale up. I think, also, this is a
bunch of pros who have lost some and won
a lot, and they are not going to lose it.
As long as they have the spirit—that is
the thing I really note-as long as they
still have it here, in their hearts, they are
going to do all right.
Also, all teams have had their injury
problems, but the Redskins have had more
than their share. Look what a difference
it would make, for example, if Charley
Taylor had been in these last four games.
They would have won them all. You see,
McNeil has not played with the team
enough, so you don't have a wide receiver
down there, you know, that big threat. If
Taylor had been in there!
And then, when you look at Larry
Brown, now he was really playing. He
didn't have as sharp a cut as he usually
has when he was playing on Sunday. Har-
raway was really not up to par. And ba-
sically, when Brown or Harraway are go-
ing, so you gain 150 to 200 yards. When
they are injured, you gain 60 yards. That
puts an enormous amount of pressure on
the passer.
So, my feeling is that as this team gets
well, at the end of the year, for example,
if Smith-you see, they also need that
tight end to throw to; Dowler is terrific,
but Dowler doesn't play the whole game-
and if you get Smith back in the game,
that is going to make a great difference.
So, if you get Smith back, then for the
playoffs you get Taylor-you get Smith
back, you get Taylor back, you get Brown
and Harraway well, and Petitbon back,
because on the defense, of course, they
missed him a lot; the other fellow played
well, but they had to kind of screen him
a bit but if they get those fellows back
in the playoffs, the Redskins will be very,
very tough.
The President spoke at approximately
2 p.m. at the Park near Dulles Airport in Lou-
doun County, Va.
The Redskins football players to whom the
President referred were: Charley Taylor, wide
receiver, Clifton McNeil, wide receiver, Larry
Brown, running back, Charley Harraway, run-
ning back, Jerry Smith, tight end, Boyd Dowler,
tight end, and Richie Petitbon, safety.
1137
