[303] Sept. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Could I just add one thing to this, be-
cause somebody may feel that I don't
want to comment more on the qualifica-
tions for the Supreme Court judge. First
the two Justices that I will appoint, as I
indicated in Detroit, will be men, or in-
dividuals [laughter], who first-and this
is the most important qualification-share
the general judicial philosophy and ap-
proach of the two men on the Court whom
I previously have appointed. That gives
you an indication of my direction. That is
the most important qualification, in addi-
tion, of course, to the basic qualification
that the man must be one who is schooled
in the law and particularly in constitu-
tional law.
I should also point out that that means
that the individual can come from any
section of the country. It means that he
can come from a court. He can come from
the bar, be a practicing lawyer. He can
come from a law school. He can be, for
example, a law professor, as was Mr. Jus-
tice Frankfurter, or he can come from the
Congress or the Senate, provided his
specialty in the Congress and the Senate
has given him the equivalent of experience
in the legal field that either active prac-
tice of the law or serving on a court or
teaching law would give.
So, you see, I will not rule out, as some
want me to do, anybody who has not
served on the circuit court of appeals. My
other two appointees, that I just men-
tioned, both had served on the circuit
court of appeals, and the appointments
may be from the circuit court of appeals.
But I am not limiting it to that because
here we have to go for the best qualified
people who have the judicial philosophy
that I think is needed in the Court today.
And even an old woman could have
that philosophy!
DEFENSE CAPABILITY
[12] Q. Mr. President, in view of the
report on comparative missile capabilities
on the reduction of our armed forces, both
as to Army and fleets, do you care to com-
ment, sir, on our present or future defen-
sive capability at this time?
THE PRESIDENT. This is Ferd Menden-
hall? 2
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. I thought so. There
are no old men, incidentally, either.
[Laughter] I have known Ferd Menden-
hall for 20 years, too.
Let's look at that relative balance be-
tween the Soviet Union and the United
States. There is a tendency to point out
that because the Soviet Union has been
moving ahead during the past 10 years, at
a time when the United States has been
somewhat limited to the numbers-as far,
at least, as the number of missiles are con-
cerned that we had back in 1962, that
because of that fact that the United States
has become already inferior.
Now, I would answer your question by
saying, first, that what the Soviet Union
needs to have a sufficient military estab-
lishment to carry out its foreign policy is
different from what the United States
needs. The Soviet Union is primarily a
land
power, and it needs, therefore, a dif-
ferent mix than we have.
The United States is a combination of
a land and a sea power. Consequently,
whereas the United States must have, in
order to have an effective foreign policy
to meet our needs around the world, su-
periority on the sea, what the United
States
may need in terms of divisions on
2 Ferdinand Mendenhall, editor, Valley News
and Green Sheet, Van Nuys, Calif.
992
