[156] May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
pen to some of the Congressmen and Sen-
ators and others who talk about police
states is to take a trip-I mean a trip
abroad, of course [laughter]—and when
they go abroad, try a few police states.
This isn't a police state and isn't going
to become one.
I should also point this out: Where
were some of the critics in 1968 when
there was Army surveillance of the Demo-
cratic National Committee-at the con-
vention, I mean? We have stopped that.
This Administration is against any kind
of repression, any kind of action that in-
fringes on the right of privacy. However,
we are for, and I will always be for, that
kind of action that is necessary to protect
this country from those who would imperil
the peace that all people are entitled to
enjoy.
CONSIDERATION OF A TAX CUT
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Director Shultz
of the Office of Management and Budget
said a couple of weeks ago that the per-
formance of the economy in the first quar-
ter did not come up to your high goals.
If the performance continues in this
way for the next few months, are you
considering a cut in taxes, or some other
action?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
the goals that we set, while the perform-
ance in the first quarter did not reach
that goal, it was, nevertheless, a very
strong first quarter, and I am not going
to venture a guess as to what the second
quarter will be.
I will say this: that this Administration
is prepared to act in the event that we
feel that the economy is not moving as
well as it should. But at the present time,
particularly based on the March figures-
because when you break out the first
quarter, when you break March out from
February and January-you find that it
was a very strong March.
If the economy continues at its
present
level, at its present rate, the rate that we
had in March and as it seems to be moving
in April, or has moved in April--we won't
get the figures for April for about an-
other week-then I see no need for the
kind of action you suggest. If on the other
hand, the economy does not move
strongly, we will act.
LOAN GUARANTEES FOR LOCKHEED
[8.] Q. Mr. President, getting to the
question of the depressed defense industry
in California, are you prepared to go to
Congress and ask for loan guarantees for
Lockheed, for the TriStar airbus?
THE PRESIDENT. I have seen, inciden-
tally, some speculation after my meeting
with former Prime Minister Wilson, on
that point. I was delighted to learn in my
conversation with Mr. Wilson that he had
had dinner with Senator Humphrey the
night before, and that Senator Humphrey,
who had opposed the SST, had indicated
that he now would support the Admin-
istration in the event that we did go to the
Congress for the necessary guarantee for
Lockheed.
We are going to make the decision on
that either Tuesday or Wednesday of next
week. Secretary Connally is in charge, and
he will make his recommendations to me.
I will only say this: that Lockheed is one
of the Nation's great companies. It pro-
vides an enormous employment lift to
this part of the country, and I am going to
be heavily influenced by the need to see to
it that southern California-after taking
the disappointment of not getting the
610
