[287] Sept. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now let us be inspired by our faith.
If our forefathers had consulted their
fears we would not be here today.
America would never have been
discovered.
The West would have never been
explored.
Our freedom would never have been
defended.
Our abundance would never have been
created.
As we renew our faith, let the challenge
of competition give a new lift to the Amer-
ican spirit.
A nation becomes old only when it
stops trying to be great.
That is why we cannot remain a great
nation if we build a permanent wall of
tariffs and quotas around the United
States and let the rest of the world
pass
us by. We cannot live behind a wall that
shuts out the rest of the world. The world
is too small, and the United States is too
important a part of that world. If we were
not a great power, we would not be the
America we know. If we do not stay a
great power, the world will not stay safe
for free men.
We cannot turn inward. We cannot
drop out of competition with the rest of
the world and remain a great nation. Be-
cause when a nation ceases to compete,
when it ceases to try to do its best, then
that nation ceases to be a great nation.
America today is number one in the world
economically. Let's keep America number
one in the world economically.
General de Gaulle once said that
France is never her true self unless she is
engaged in a great enterprise.
My colleagues in the Congress, America
can be her true self only when she is en-
gaged in a great enterprise.
To build a full generation of peace is
a great enterprise.
To help the poor and feed the hungry,
to provide better health and housing and
education, to clean up the environment,
to bring new dignity and security to the
aging, to guarantee equal opportunity for
every American-all these are great
enterprises.
To build the strong economy that
makes all these possible to meet the new
challenges of peace, to move to a new
prosperity without war and without infla-
tion-this truly is a great enterprise,
worthy of our sacrifice, worthy of our
cooperation, and worthy of the greatness
of a great people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:32 p.m. in
the House Chamber at the Capitol to a joint
session of Congress. His address was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, introduced the President.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
288 Statement on the Death of Senator Winston L. Prouty
of Vermont. September 10, 1971
AMERICANS everywhere join the peo-
ple of Vermont in mourning the death of
a distinguished United States Senator and
an outstanding patriot. Mrs. Nixon and I
share acutely in this public grief and in
the personal bereavement of Senator
Winston Prouty's family.
Win Prouty was my good friend. He
was a beloved and able leader in the
United States Senate, entirely dedicated
944
