Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
this looking back at our policies in the
field of foreign policy and defense pol-
icy, many southern Democrats in the
House and the Senate are our best sup-
porters-best supporters of this President,
not because he is a Republican, but be-
cause they think it is in the best interests
of the country.
So, in my view, I do not believe that
either the Republican or the Democratic
Party will have a decisive majority such as
the Republican Party had before 1932,
such as the Democratic Party had in the
period of the Roosevelt years.
What I think will happen is that both
parties will vie for building the new coali-
tion, starting with their hard core of
hearty supporters and then moving into
that group of Independents trying to get
a field of the Independent voters and also
moving over into the other party and
picking up a considerable number of
them.
THE 1972 CAMPAIGN
[15.] MR. SMITH. Talking about form-
ing a coalition, the first Republican Presi-
dent in our history, he wanted to unite the
Nation, when he ran for reelection he de-
cided the best thing he could do was to
choose a Democrat as a running mate.
Now, I know you admire Abraham Lin-
coln. Do you think there are ever circum-
stances in which you will want to imitate
him in this respect?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Smith,
when I went on this program, you remem-
ber I told you you could ask me anything,
but I would have to determine what I
answered.
As you may recall, I said after the elec-
tion of 1970 that 1970 was a political year,
and I, therefore, did my job working for
the candidates of my party; 1971 is a non-
political year, and that I would not en-
gage in political activities in 1971.
I recognize that is an intriguing ques-
tion. I have probably a very good answer.
But I think that I will defer giving any an-
swers at this time. Maybe ask me next
year at this time, and I will give you an
answer.
MR. SMITH. Mr. President, I will tell
you a secret: I didn't expect an answer.
In one of your speeches you said you
would rather be a one-term President
than settle in Vietnam dishonorably. And
a columnist recently has said that you
have told a private person that you might
voluntarily become a one-term President
if your plans do not succeed by 1972.
Have you given serious thought to vol-
untarily becoming a one-term President?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith, let me say,
first, I have made no decisions with regard
to what I will do in 1972, either for myself
or for whoever may be the man who runs
for Vice President.
On the other hand, I could say cate-
gorically that I have certainly made no
decisions indicating that I will not be
a candidate in '72, not that I will be or
I will not be.
The idea of what you call voluntary
retirement, I would suggest, is quite pre-
mature where I am concerned, and I
would say that anybody who reads my life
would perhaps take that kind of a story
with a grain of salt.
CAMPAIGN SPENDING
[16.] MR. SMITH. Let me ask you a
question you can give an answer to, sir.
Regarding elections, to me the greatest
danger to our democracy is soaring elec-
tion costs. The costs are getting ridiculous.
A candidate has to resort to rich vested
461
