Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 24 [72]
executives gathered in any one, perhaps,
as we have here tonight, but each of them
is enormously important.
You entertain legislators and VIP's and
so forth and so on.
And we, the men, think it is tough. We
have got to get up; we have got to make a
speech; we have got to sort of make excit-
ing conversations so that somebody will
remember what we said, or forget it, we
hope.
In any event, whatever the case might
be, the ladies have an enormous responsi-
bility. Look at this room, the flowers, the
menu, the wines, the entertainment, who
sits by whom and, what is often very im-
portant, who does not sit by whom, all of
this is in the domain of the First Lady.
And I feel tonight that certainly, as all
of
you do, that we are very fortunate,
those of us who are in positions as chief
executives, whether in this house or in the
statehouses or in the capitals of this coun-
try, that we have first ladies who have pre-
sided with such dignity, with such charm,
who have saved us from ourselves so often,
and it is for that reason that I simply want
to say that for those who may have en-
joyed this evening, the credit should go,
naturally, to my First Lady and to yours.
And so, Governor, to introduce you
rather than toasting you alone, I suggest
that all of us rise, the men at least, and
toast the first ladies.
The first ladies.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:58 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Following the President's toast, Gov. Warren
E. Hearnes of Missouri, chairman of the con-
ference, responded. His remarks are printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 7, p. 287).
72 Special Message to the Congress on Consumer
Protection. February 24, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
The history of American prosperity is
the history of the American free enterprise
system. The system has provided an
economic foundation of awesome propor-
tions, and the vast material strength of the
nation is built on that foundation. For
the average American, this strength is re-
flected in a standard of living that would
have staggered the imagination only a
short while ago. This constantly rising
standard of living benefits both the con-
sumer and the producer.
In today's marketplace, however, the
consumer often finds himself confronted
with what seems an impenetrable com-
plexity in many of our consumer goods,
in the advertising claims that surround
them, the merchandising methods that
purvey them and the means available to
conceal their quality. The result is a degree
of confusion that often confounds the
unwary, and too easily can be made to
favor the unscrupulous. I believe new
safeguards are needed, both to protect the
consumer and to reward the responsible
businessman.
I indicated my deep concern for this
matter in my special message to the Con-
gress of October 30, 1969. At that time I
urged the Congress to enact a legislative
program aimed at establishing a "Buyer's
Bill of Rights." This proposal found little
success in the 91st Congress. But putting
203
