[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
-A new U.S. International Develop-
ment Corporation will be our instru-
ment for bilateral development lend-
ing. It will rely on the recipients of
its loans to identify their own devel-
opment priorities clearly and to sub-
mit sound proposals for development
financing. It will work increasingly
within a framework set by the inter-
national development institutions.
-A new U.S. International Develop-
ment Institute will break new ground
in technical assistance. It will mobi-
lize the vast expertise of the Ameri-
can scientific and technological com-
munity, focusing it on development
problems and matching up Ameri-
can skills with specific needs abroad.
-The Overseas Private Investment
Corporation, which I proposed in
1969 and which came into being last
month, will manage our investment
insurance and guaranty programs
and thus assist U.S. private firms to
invest-to the extent desired by host
countries-in constructive develop-
ment projects in lower income
countries.
I have also proposed that all donor
countries cooperate for development by
ending the requirement that each nation's
development assistance be used only to
purchase goods and services produced in
that nation itself. Such untying would
both increase the value of aid to the lower
income countries, and reduce the frictions
which develop from the inherently sensi-
tive relationship between donors and re-
cipients. We have submitted our specific
proposals to the OECD, and active
negotiations with the other member coun-
tries are now in progress. I am pleased
that virtually all of the industrialized
countries have agreed with our proposal
in principle, and we hope and expect that
actual untying will commence this year.
To be effective, full sharing of respon-
sibility for development must be multi-
lateral and worldwide. It must link the
industrialized and the lower income
countries in a network of cooperation.
This is fundamental to our new approach
to foreign assistance.
The United States will therefore chan-
nel an increasing share of its development
assistance through multilateral institu-
tions as rapidly as practicable. We shall
provide our bilateral development aid
largely within the framework established
by these institutions. These changes will
maximize the contributions of the recip-
ient countries and the other donor coun-
tries alike, reduce the political complica-
tions of our aid, and reduce the extensive
involvement of U.S. Government person-
nel overseas in advising governments and
monitoring programs.
Accordingly, I will shortly propose that
the Congress authorize an annual con-
tribution of $320 million over the next
three years as our appropriate share to
permit the International Development
Association to double its "soft" (low-
interest) lending capacity. I have also
pressed strongly for expanding American
contributions to the regional development
banks of which we are members-the
Asian Development Bank and the Inter-
American Development Bank-and we
are exploring a way to provide financial
assistance to the African Development
Bank. These banks play a major role in
helping the lower income countries to ex-
pand their trade and mutual support on a
regional basis. The Congress made a start
last
year on an expanded U.S. investment
in the Inter-American Development
Bank, and I again urge the Congress to
298
