[274]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Aug. 19
is to the credit of the United States of
America that we do maintain strength,
the greatest strength in the world, but
that that strength will never be used to
break the peace, only to keep it; never
used to destroy freedom, only to defend
it. This, we can be proud of as a nation.
And now at last we find grounds to
hope that the potential aggressors of this
world will turn away from war, which
costs so much and buys so little. We are
realistic. We are pragmatic. We take
nothing for granted. We maintain our
strength until we can negotiate the reduc-
tions which will be mutual in their
character.
Yet peace itself, as William James dis-
covered, brings new challenges of its own.
If we simply think of peace as the absence
of war, and that everything is just fine,
that is not true. It poses the deep question
of whether a nation, without some ex-
ternal threat to unite and motivate it,
can find a higher inspiration to lift us all
above the mire of softness and stagnation
and division and decay. When people
don't have a challenge, they do not be-
come a great people.
Throughout the turmoil of the sixties,
America struggled for the answer to that
question. Now, in the seventies an answer
begins to come closer.
James' heroic and universal ideal does
exist in a form both rich with age and
new with promise. It goes by many
names-the
-the "American Dream" some call
it, the "Spirit of '76." But essentially it
is a unique mixture: liberty and order,
we stand for that; justice and opportu-
nity, that is an American ideal; competi-
tion and teamwork; knowledge and faith,
which our forefathers envisioned two
centuries ago and which, though not per-
fectly realized even today in America, has
ennobled millions of Americans who have
striven for it down the years.
The
great challenge of peace is for each
of us individually and for all of us as "one
nation under God," to rededicate our-
selves to this magnificent American
dream. With this as our moral equivalent
of war we can move into a generation of
peace. We can blaze a trail toward a new
prosperity, with freedom, with justice,
with opportunity—without war.
With this new "Spirit of '76" in our
hearts we can make the third American
century the greatest century of all.
Over the past 3 days I have had a very
great privilege, both as the President of
this country and just as an American citi-
zen, to see great parts of America very
quickly and to see hundreds of thousands
of American people in various States.
I was in New York Tuesday night. The
next day I flew to Illinois, to the Illinois
State Fair where there were 125,000
Americans joined there in the great tradi-
tion of State fairs that we have all over
the country.
The next day, on to Idaho to Idaho
Falls, where tens of thousands of people
were out there at an airport. And then to
Wyoming to the Grand Tetons, where
there were people from all over the
United States having a holiday there at
one of the most beautiful places I have
ever seen.
Finally, today, down to Dallas, seeing
that magnificent skyline which seems to
grow every day-the progress here is
fantastic-and finally before you. All of
America I see out here. I feel all of
America among you.
Let me tell you how someone feels who
holds the office I do, after he travels over
America, as I have, and sees thousands of
Americans in the space of 3 days. First,
912
