[104] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
ture. The American spirit reflects contri-
butions from every nation. But the charm
of the Irish culture has permeated life in
this country in a manner which has been
especially profound.
I have always felt particularly close to
Ireland. One could hardly feel any other
way when some of his own ancestors came
from that country-and when his wife
is the former Pat Ryan, and celebrates her
105
birthday on St. Patrick's Day.
On this St. Patrick's Day, I am especi-
ally pleased to greet my fellow Americans
of Irish descent-and all Americans who
share a feeling of deep gratitude for what
the Irish have given us-with this tra-
ditional Irish greeting: "Joy be with you
all."
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The statement was posted for the press.
Statement on the Death of Thomas E. Dewey.
March 16, 1971
ALL AMERICA is poorer tonight for the
loss of Governor Thomas E. Dewey-a
great patriot, a distinguished statesman,
and a fine human being.
New York will remember him as a man
of the law whose service spanned four
decades: enforcing the law as a prosecutor
in the thirties, administering it as Gov-
ernor in the forties and fifties, and prac-
ticing it privately right into the seventies.
The Nation will remember him as a man
of politics who led the loyal opposition
with vigor and vision in the presidential
contests of 1944 and 1948, and who played
such a vital role in giving Americans Gen-
eral Eisenhower as their President in 1952.
For my own part, I will remember
Thomas Dewey as a close personal friend
and political associate for over 20 years.
His wise counsel has been of immense val-
ue to me on many occasions during the
years I served in the House, the Senate,
as Vice President, and as President. I
found invariably that when a problem was
most difficult he could always be counted
on to be at his best in giving his advice.
Governor Dewey was to have been a
guest at the White House tonight, and
the occasion is diminished beyond words
for both Mrs. Nixon and me by his death.
What consoles us, and what may help to
console his family and countless friends,
is the high distinction of his long life. John
Quincy Adams' dying words-"This is the
last of earth! I am content"-speak well
the satisfaction which Thomas Dewey also
deserved to feel in his full and varied ca-
reer of service to this Nation.
NOTE: Governor Dewey, 68, died of a heart
attack in Bal Harbour, Fla.
On March 19, 1971, the President attended
funeral services for Governor Dewey at St.
James Episcopal Church in New York City.
106 Eulogy Delivered at Burial Services for Whitney
M. Young, Jr., in Lexington, Kentucky. March 17, 1971
Mrs. Young, friends of Whitney Young:
It is customary on such an occasion for
the one who has the honor to deliver the
eulogy to say that we are gathered here
to pay our last respects to the deceased.
I do not say that today. I say, rather,
436
