[415] Dec. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
on Mutual and Balanced Force Reduc-
tions should be fully coordinated within
the Alliance. Agreed criteria for such re-
ductions must insure that the Alliance's
defense capability remains unimpaired.
The U.S. will not negotiate its troop levels
in Europe on a bilateral basis.
The President and the Chancellor
agreed that a conference on European
security and cooperation needs to be care-
fully prepared. In preparing common po-
sitions for CSCE and MBFR the United
States and Western Europe will harmo-
nize their views in the interest of improv-
ing East-West relations.
The President and the Chancellor wel-
comed the solidarity and close coordina-
tion between the three Western Powers,
the Federal Republic of Germany and the
other NATO allies throughout the nego-
tiation of the Quadripartite Agreement
on Berlin as well as the implementing
agreement between the Federal Republic
of Germany and the GDR [German
Democratic Republic], which are impor-
tant elements of the common Western
policy.
NOTE: The joint statement was released at
Key Biscayne, Fla.
On December 28, 1971, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing by
Secretary of State William P. Rogers on his
meeting in Key Biscayne with Walter Scheel,
German Minister of Foreign Affairs.
416 Remarks Following Meetings With Chancellor Brandt
of the Federal Republic of Germany.
December 29, 1971
Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Foreign Minister,
ladies and gentlemen:
The Chancellor and I have just finished
2 days of very intensive discussions. Those
discussions covered the whole range of
bilateral problems between the United
States and the Federal Republic and also
international problems with particular
emphasis, of course, on the problems of
Europe.
I can say without qualification that the
state of German-American relations is ex-
cellent at this time. I can also say that
in terms of the other discussions that we
have had, that we found substantial agree-
ment, as the statement which has been
issued to the press has indicated, in eco-
nomic areas and also on the problem of
maintaining adequate forces in Europe in
our commitment to NATO.
With regard to that commitment, inci-
dentally, I am today announcing the ap-
pointment of Ambassador Kennedy as
our Ambassador to NATO.' This indi-
cates, as I have told the Chancellor, the
commitment that the United States has
to NATO-the importance that we attach
to that commitment, sending a man who
has such broad experience, who has my
total confidence, as our Ambassador to
that very important post.
Finally, Mr. Chancellor, on a personal
note, may I here, before American tele-
vision, speak for all the American people
1A White House announcement of the in-
tention to nominate Ambassador at Large
David M. Kennedy as United States Permanent
Representative on the Council of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization was released on
December 29, 1971, and is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 9).
1214
