[88] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I would suggest that
you ladies and gentlemen all have always
pretty much underestimated what I am
capable of doing in terms of withdrawing
forces and so forth.
Let me just put it all in perspective, as
I can. We have had a great deal of dis-
cussion about Laos at the last press con-
ference, and I can see that it is still an
interest here, and the question of Cam-
bodia still troubles many of you.
I recall at the time that we went into
Cambodia-and all of you out there look-
ing on television will remember what I
said-I said the purpose of our going into
Cambodia was to cut American casualties
and to ensure the success of our with-
drawal program.
Many of the members of the press dis-
agreed with me. They thought that was
not an accurate description of what would
happen. They were entitled to that view.
Night after night, after I announced the
decision to go into Cambodia, on tele-
vision it was indicated that that decision
would have the opposite effect: that it
would increase American casualties and
that it would mean that it would prolong
the war.
Now we can look at it in retrospect.
Casualties are one-half of what they were
before Cambodia, and our withdrawal
program has continued, and actually we
were able to step it up some during the
last of 1970.
In Laos, the purpose of the Laotian op-
eration was the same as that of the Cam-
bodian operation. This time no American
ground forces, only American airpower.
I said then, and I repeat now, the pur-
pose is not to expand the war into Laos;
the purpose is to save American lives, to
guarantee the continued withdrawal of
our own forces, and to increase the ability
of the South Vietnamese to defend them-
selves without our help, which means, of
course, their ability to help our Vietnam-
ization program and our own withdrawal
program.
I realize that night after night for the
past 3 weeks on television there is a drum-
beat of suggestion, not from all but from
some commentators. And I can under-
stand why they disagree, from the same
ones who said that Cambodia wouldn't
work, that this isn't going to work.
Well, I had analyzed the thing very
carefully when I made the decision. I have
had reports all day today from General
Abrams and, speaking today, I can say
there is some hard fighting ahead, but the
decision to go into Laos, I think, was the
right decision. It will reduce American
casualties. The 200,000 rounds of am-
munition, the 2,000 heavy and light guns
that have already been captured and de-
stroyed, the 67 tanks that have been de-
stroyed are not going to be killing
Americans.
And, most significant, I checked the
flow of supplies down the trails from the
area in which the North Vietnamese and
and the South Vietnamese are engaged.
And General Abrams reports that there
has been a 55 percent decrease in truck
traffic south into South Vietnam, which
means that those trucks that do not go
south will not carry the arms and the men
that will be killing Americans.
We can all, of course, here in a press
conference-we can debate as to whether
or not my view of it is right or the rest. I
hope for the good of the country mine is,
and if it is right, what you say now doesn't
make any difference.
I am only suggesting while the jury is
still out, remember the purpose of this, like
the purpose of Cambodia, is to reduce
392
