[403] Dec. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
the custom to, as we have, very properly,
toast the Queen, we have toasted the Pres-
ident of the United States, I think that all
of you would like to join me in a toast
to our host, the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime
Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:20 p.m. on
board the British guided missile destroyer
H. M. S. Glamorgan in response to a toast
proposed by Prime Minister Heath.
Excerpts of the Prime Minister's remarks,
made available by the British Embassy in Wash-
ington, follow:
We are meeting at a time of great mone-
tary and economic problems but also great polit-
ical problems. These are the problems of a
world that is changing more now than at any
time in the last 25 years.
These problems call for careful examination
and discussion. Whether we are talking about
the monetary system, commercial practices, de-
fence, or relations between East and West, this
is the way that we must proceed between
friends. You, Mr. President, are having a whole
series of meetings with world leaders. There
are also to be meetings among the Six¹ and
between the Six and others.
We in the West must never forget our re-
sponsibilities towards the Third World. The
developing nations, too, must be part of this
process of discussion and examination. Their
interests must be taken fully into account in
any decisions.
A healthy relationship can withstand
change, and, as the date of Britain's entry into
the European Community approaches, there
will indeed be some changes in our relations. I
see no cause for alarm or dismay in this. In
many fields our traditional ties will remain un-
changed. We have always made it clear that
we believe that a united Europe should main-
tain the closest possible links with the United
States, based on the vast area of common in-
terests which we shall continue to share.
1 The Six, member countries of the European
Economic Community, were Belgium, France,
Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxem-
bourg, and the Netherlands.
404 Remarks of the President and Prime Minister Heath
of the United Kingdom Following Their Meetings
in Bermuda. December 21, 1971
Mr. Prime Minister:
I want to express my appreciation for
the very warm welcome you have given
us here in Bermuda on this historic occa-
sion, and to say first that the remarks that
you have just made are ones that I can
subscribe to completely.
As you have pointed out, we are enter-
ing a new era in the relations between our
two countries, and a new era in the history
of the world. That is exemplified by the
fact that Britain will be going into Europe.
It is also exemplified by the reference that
you made to the fact that I will be visiting
Peking and Moscow during the next year.
As we look at those changes in the
world, as we look at what is really a new
world, we also realize, however, that there
are some things that have not changed.
One thing that has not changed, and that
will not change, is the friendship, the com-
munication, the fact that our two coun-
tries, and the leaders of our two countries,
have met here on, now, four occasions and,
despite some tactical differences, find that
on the great issues we see the problems of
the world in exactly the same way.
I would put it very briefly in this way:
As Britain goes into Europe, there will be
a new Europe. The United States is, at
the present time, embarked on creating
what is really a new America, and we do
1200
