Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 2 [379]
I will therefore propose to the Congress
a new program to reform our private pen-
sion system. Here are some of the reforms:
They will include measures designed to
expand pension coverage, to ensure that
pension funds are soundly managed, and
also, I will recommend new laws to require
the vesting of pensions so that an individ-
ual who works in a job, has money invested
in a pension, and then moves from that
job, doesn't lose what he has put in. He is
entitled to that and should get it when
he retires.
Now, there is one other item where I am
going to talk about something that in-
volves not what the Congress and what the
Administration can do for older Ameri-
cans, but what you can do for the country
and for yourselves.
I am sure you have been reading and
hearing in your newspapers, on television,
and on radio a lot about our new economic
policy-the freeze on wages and prices for
90 days, Phase 2, some of the arguments
that have taken place with regard to what
the application should be. Let me say that
as far as this program is concerned, its
primary design is to stop the rise in the
cost of living. As far as this program is
concerned, it is inevitable that anything
that we do is going to cause some sacrifice
on the part of some Americans.
For example, some labor leaders, not all,
but some of them object to the fact that
labor increases and wage increases cannot
be as high as they would like. Some busi-
ness leaders are objecting to the fact that
we have laid down regulations in which
their profit margins are not allowed to be
as high as they would like. And some
stockholders are objecting to the fact that
we have laid down regulations where their
dividend payments cannot be as high as
they would like.
Let me say, I would like to have a pro-
gram that would satisfy them all, because
it is not pleasant to have any segment of
the population object to a program that
we have adopted. But let me lay it right
on the line. Where a wage increase or a
profit increase or a dividend increase can
be controlled and the result will be stop-
ping the rise in the cost of living for all
Americans, that is worth doing, and that
is what we plan to do.
The support for this program has been
stronger perhaps, among older Americans,
according to all the polls, than among all
others. On the other hand, 70 percent of
Americans do support it. We ask your con-
tinued support, because no matter how
much the pensions may be, no matter how
much payments for social security may go
if the rise in the cost of living eats it up
it doesn't make any difference. That is
why this program is one in which those
who are retired, living on relatively fixed
income, have the biggest stake of all Amer-
icans, and we hope you will continue to
support it right to the hilt.
up,
Now, I have been talking about income
and taxes and how we control prices, but
even with higher income, we all know that
many older Americans face problems
beyond their individual control. I am go-
ing to talk for a moment about the one
million Americans who live in nursing
homes.
I can talk with great feeling about this
because my own mother was in a nursing
home. She was very ill and had a stroke
during the last 2 years of her life. It was a
very good nursing home, and I will al-
ways be thankful that the nurses there
treated her just as I would have wanted
to treat her if I could have been there.
Many of these nursing homes, like the one
my mother was in and like the one my
1157
