Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 1 [79]
being to maintain and develop viable
communities of all sizes.
-My proposed welfare reform. In this
needed change of our welfare system,
many Americans in rural areas would
benefit immediately, while strong incen-
tives would be created to move those able
to work into productive employment.
Not only would this reform assist many
families operating on small farms and
working in the rural communities of this
country, but we know it would also help
revitalize the economy of rural areas.
-My proposed comprehensive health
strategy. My recent special message on
health sets forth proposals to provide min-
imum national health insurance stand-
ards for all Americans, regardless of where
they live, or what their income. At the
same time, my proposals recognize that
even with these improvements in the
power to purchase medical care for all,
they would be frustrated without assuring
that care can be supplied where it is
needed.
There is a shortage of doctors and med-
ical personnel in this Nation; but there is
also a problem of distribution of medical
79 Remarks to a Joint Session
Legislature in Des Moines.
Governor Ray, Mr. President, Mr.
Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, members of
the Legislature, members of the Supreme
Court, Senator Miller, all of our distin-
guished guests on this very special
occasion:
As Governor Ray has indicated, this is
my first visit to Iowa as President of the
United States. And I am honored that it
takes place here in an address to the Leg-
islature of the State of Iowa.
services. Those in remote rural areas often
feel this lack more acutely than those in
inner cities. We mean to provide Federal
assistance to guarantee that the sick and
injured in the rural sectors of America
have the opportunity for the same high
quality care that is available to Americans
in other places. To help bring such serv-
ices to rural areas, we propose to establish
new area health education centers in med-
ically underserved areas, and expand pro-
grams to encourage doctors, nurses, and
physicians' assistants to serve in scarcity
areas.
It is gratifying to be able to report to
you that this administration is demonstrat-
ing its commitment to the restoration and
enhancement of the vitality of rural
America.
The White House
March 1, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to the
Congress on the Availability of Government
Services to Rural Areas" (19 pp. plus
appendixes).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the report.
of the Iowa State
March 1, 1971
I should point out that Vice President
Agnew has made a visit to Iowa since we
came into office. You may recall that in
a speech that he made in Des Moines on
November 13 [1969] he received quite a
bit of national publicity. I was talking to
him on the phone yesterday about my
pending visit to Iowa, and he suggested
that if I really wanted to make major
news that I might address myself to the
subject of the news media when I ap-
355
