Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 14 [12]
team. It is a splendid thing to be cham-
pions. But a more splendid thing, I believe,
is the process by which a team becomes
champion, the long struggle through
defeat, through doubt, and then on to
victory.
There is satisfaction here, and for all
of us there are valuable lessons as well.
For as vital as the understanding we gain
in the classroom is the deeper understand-
ing of ourselves that comes from compet-
ing against others and competing against
ourselves.
In these endeavors, we go beyond
awareness of what we are and we discover
a higher understanding of what we can be
if we know and have the courage and if
we have the will.
It is in this way that we learn to believe
in our dreams.
Nothing matters more to the future of
this Nation than insuring that our young
men and women learn to believe in them-
selves and believe in their dreams, and
that they develop this capacity-that you
develop this capacity, so that you keep
it all of your lives.
As this great university looks to a new
century so does our Nation. In this decade
we Americans will celebrate the anniver-
sary of the greatest experiment in liberty
the world has ever known. It has suc-
ceeded for what, in the year 1976, will
be 200 years. But like the continued suc-
cess of this university, the continued suc-
cess of the American experiment depends
on one thing: on the qualities of heart
and mind and spirit that our young people
bring to both.
This Nation will not run on inertia. It
could fail in one generation or it can last
another 100 years or another 1,000 years.
The answer lies in what you and your
generation bring to the task of being an
American and what you pass on to others.
These depend, in turn, upon what your
Nation gives to you and gives to you now.
And if we are to benefit fully from the
energies and the ideals of our young peo-
ple, we must break down the barriers to
the exercise of those energies, the pursuit
of those ideals.
Let me discuss one of those barriers
that I know is on the minds of many of
you here and many all over this Nation.
The war in Vietnam has taken a very
heavy toll of our young men. This Admin-
istration has no higher priority than to
end that war. But to end it in a way that
we will have a lasting peace.
For one thing, I want to end it because
this Nation has positive priorities, right
here at home, that young men and women
now occupied in war could turn their
hands to in peace. Beyond this, I have
some very personal reasons that I would
like to end it.
Every week, as President of the United
States, I write letters to the parents and
the wives or even sometimes the children
of men who have given their lives in Viet-
nam. It is no comfort to me that when I
came into office I wrote 300 of those let-
ters a week and that this week I will write
27. One is too many.
They were precious human lives and
what they might have brought to America
in peace no one will ever know. But there
would have been poets among them and
doctors and teachers and farmers; there
would have been builders of America.
I want nothing in the world so much.
as to be able to stop writing those letters.
I know you realize, you who have
studied history, that every American gen-
eration in this century has known war. I
31
