[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
come our friendship. We can make a
significant contribution, as we have in the
past, to the development of the Arab
world in the fields of education and tech-
nical training, business management, and
investment. The value of the contribution
we can make, and wish to make, creates
a common interest in the maintenance of
decent relationships which may offset
pressures to disrupt them.
ISSUES FOR THE FUTURE
The search for peace-especially an
Arab-Israeli settlement-and the quest
for a stable U.S.-Soviet relationship that
will help preserve the independence and
integrity of each nation in this area will
remain our top priorities. Our aim is to
see an epoch begin in which strong in-
dependent nations in this area-in as-
sociation with each other as they choose-
relate freely and constructively with the
world outside. The U.S. is prepared to
consider new and fresh ways to assist in
the development of the region to the bene-
fit of both Arabs and Israelis once a real
peace agreement is achieved.
In pursuing those goals, the United
States will face these principal issues in
the months ahead:
First, if the United States is to play a
major role—as we have promised to do—
in helping to bring about an Arab-Israeli
settlement and provide supplementary
guarantees, what should be the nature
and extent of our diplomatic involve-
ment? As I pointed out at the United Na-
tions last October, the primary respon-
sibility for peace rests on the nations of
the Middle East. What is the
proper rela-
tion between the efforts of the interna-
tional community to encourage a settle-
ment and the responsibility of the
negotiating parties themselves?
Second, our bilateral relations with
Arab nations are in flux. With some, for-
mal diplomatic relations have been sus-
pended. In others, attitudes toward the
U.S. and the West are undergoing reas-
sessment. The changing relationships in
the Persian Gulf necessarily raise new is-
sues for American policy. How do we
best encourage and assist the constructive
forces in the area to build a regional sys-
tem of stable relationships?
Finally, there is a range of broader
worldwide issues that form the back-
ground to Middle East politics. Limiting
the external supply of arms to the area
is one such issue. The U.S.-Soviet military
relationship in the Mediterranean area is
another. Beyond this, what is our policy
toward the broadening commercial as-
sociation which the European Common
Market is establishing with nations in the
area? How can we help assure the access
of Western Europe and Japan to the sup-
ply of oil, and also help assure that the
producing states receive fair revenues for
their oil?
On some of these issues, our work is
already well advanced. With others we
are coming to grips for the first time. Our
purpose is to resolve them in a way that
helps us and every nation involved in the
Middle East, including above all the
states of the area, to build and strengthen
the relationships-at every level—that
will hold together the structure of peace.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY
"Peace has an economic dimension. In
a world of independent states and inter-
dependent economies, failure to collabo-
292
