[332] Oct. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
AN EXPANDED BUDGET
With these considerations in mind, I am
calling today for a significant expansion
of our minority enterprise budget. In
addition to the $3.6 million appropriation
which we originally requested for the
Office of Minority Business Enterprise in
fiscal year 1972 we have asked the Con-
gress to budget an additional $40 mil-
lion-bringing the total budget for the
current fiscal year to $43.6 million. I re-
peat that request today---and in order to
provide for continued expansion of the
minority enterprise program, I intend to
propose that OMBE be given a budget
for fiscal year 1973 of $63.6 million. Al-
together, we are asking for a new two-year
program of $100 million.
What would this money be used for?
Primarily, these funds would provide for
an expanded program of technical assist-
ance and management services. Approxi-
mately 10 percent of these new funds
would be used at the national level-to
strengthen minority business and trade
organizations, to generate broad private
programs of marketing and financial as-
sistance, to develop training programs,
and to foster other national efforts. The
remaining 90% of the new money would
be spent on the local level-supporting a
variety of efforts to identify, train, advise
or assist minority businessmen and to put
them in touch with one another and with
non-minority businessmen who can pro-
vide them with additional help.
In talking about encouraging expanded
ownership, we are talking about an im-
pulse which is already strong among mi-
nority groups in this country. The desire
to gain a bigger piece of the action is
already there; it is not something that de-
pends on government stimulation. What
government must do, however, is to help
eliminate the artificial obstacles to ex-
panded ownership-including the com-
plex array of regulations and forms and
bureaucracies which often stand between
minority entrepreneurs and the resources
which are available to help them.
This is why we are emphasizing the de-
velopment of local centers which can
bring together a vast array of training,
advice and information for minority busi-
nessmen. Such centers can help them put
together in an effective way the many
elements which are necessary to build a
successful business. We hope to develop
more than 100 of these centers over the
next three years.
I would emphasize that the money we
are requesting for OMBE does not include
grants, loans, guarantees, and purchases
with minority businessmen by many other
Federal agencies. Such direct aid, how-
ever, will also be expanded. We have, in
fact, budgeted for $700 million in minority
loans, grants guarantees and purchases in
the current fiscal year, an advance of half
a billion dollars-more than three-fold
increase over 1969.
BOLSTERING THE MESBICS
In addition to expanded budgets, I am
also submitting to the Congress legisla-
tion to strengthen our growing program
for Minority Enterprise Small Business
Investment Companies. This legislation
would:
(1) Lower the level of private financ-
ing required to qualify for financing from
the Small Business Administration on a
three for one basis. At present, a MESBIC
must raise $1 million before it can obtain
1044
