[93] Mar. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
of procedure, administration, and train-
ing for State and local judges and their
administrative personnel; it could serve
as a clearinghouse for the exchange of in-
formation about State court problems and
reforms. A Federal Judicial Center along
these lines, as you know, already exists
for the Federal court system. It has proved
its worth; the time is overdue for State
courts to have such a facility available
for them. I will look to the conferees here
in Williamsburg to assist in making rec-
ommendations as to how best to create
such a center, and what will be needed for
its initial funding.
I can pledge our cooperation in what
you recommend.
Speaking for the executive branch of
the Federal Government, we will con-
tinue to try to help in every way. But the
primary impetus for reforming and im-
proving the judicial process must come
from within the system itself. Your pres-
ence here is evidence of your deep con-
cern; and my presence here bears witness
to the concern of all of the American
people regardless of party, occupation,
race, or economic condition, for the over-
haul of a system of justice that has simply
been neglected too long.
I began my remarks by referring to an
episode involving Justice Oliver Wendell
Holmes. There is another remark of
Holmes that is not very well known, but
it reveals an insight it would be well for
us to have today.
Judge Learned Hand told of the day
that he drove Justice Holmes to a Su-
preme Court session in a horsedrawn car-
riage. As he dropped the Justice off in
front of the Capitol, Judge Learned Hand
said, "Well, sir, goodby. Do justice." Mr.
Justice Holmes turned and said, most se-
verely, "That is not my job. My job is
to play the game according to the rules."
The point of that remark, the reason
that Learned Hand repeated it after he
had reached the pinnacle of respect in
our profession, was this: Every judge,
every attorney, every law enforcement of-
ficial wants to "do justice.” But the only
way that can be accomplished, the only
way justice can truly be done in any so-
ciety, is for each member of that society
to subject himself to the rule of law-
neither to set himself above the law in
the name of justice, nor to set himself
outside the law in the name of justice.
We shall become a genuinely just so-
ciety only by "playing the game accord-
ing to the rules" and, when the rules
become outdated or are shown to be un-
fair, by lawfully and peaceably changing
those rules.
The genius of our system, the life force
of the American way, is our ability to
hold fast to the rules that we know to be
right and to change the rules that we
know to be wrong. In that regard, we
would all do well to remember our con-
stitutional roles: for the legislatures, to set
forth the rules; for the judiciary, to in-
terpret them; for the Executive, to carry
them out.
The American Revolution did not end
two centuries ago; it is a living process.
It must constantly be reexamined and
reformed. At one and the same time, it is
as unchanging as the spirit of laws and
as changing as the needs of our people.
We live in a time when headlines are
made by those few who want to tear down
our institutions, to those who say they
defy the law. But we also live in a time
when history is made by those who are
willing to reform and rebuild our insti-
tutions that can only be accomplished
by those who respect the law.
422
