Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 29 [33]
By improving the organization and
management of government, we will make
it more responsive to the needs of the
people and the new priorities of the
Nation.
REFORMING THE BUDGET PROCESS
Reform of the budget process is long
overdue. Fifty years have passed since the
Federal budget system currently in use
was adopted. The system was a major step
forward in 1921. Because of congressional
inaction, it has become a travesty a half-
century later.
Enactment of appropriations 6 months
or more after the start of the fiscal year
they are supposed to cover is evidence of a
major weakness. I have sent two budgets
to the Congress. In each, I have had to
formulate budget proposals for the year
ahead without knowing what the Con-
gress would provide in its action on the
prior year's budget, which was trans-
mitted II months earlier. Even now, as
this message is being written, action on
last year's appropriations request for one
department has not been completed.
I have, therefore, had to act on parts
of the budget without knowing the totals
that would result. This is an intolerable
situation, but one that the Congress seems
to accept as the normal way of doing busi-
ness. It completes action on appropriation
bills over a 10- to 12-month period with-
out any goal or determination of the total
expenditures that will result after the last
bill is passed.
Excess in the number and detail of ap-
propriations often diverts attention to
minutiae. It also impairs the ability of
agency heads to manage their agencies
responsibly and economically.
The budget is our principal instrument
for coordinated management of Federal
programs
and finances. Close cooperation
between the executive and legislative
branches is needed now to make the
budget an efficient and effective instru-
ment for this purpose. Therefore we must
seek a more rational, orderly budget proc-
ess. The people deserve one, and our Gov-
ernment, the largest fiscal unit in the free
world, requires it.
Furthermore, Federal credit programs
which the Congress has placed outside the
budget-guaranteed and insured loans, or
loans by federally sponsored enterprises—
escape regular review by either the exec-
utive or the legislative branch. The
evaluation of these extrabudgetary pro-
grams has not been fully consistent with
budget items. Their effects on fiscal policy
have not been rigorously included in the
overall budget process. And their effects
on overall debt management are not co-
ordinated well with the overall public debt
policy. For these reasons, I will propose
legislation to enable these credit programs
to be reviewed and coordinated along with
other Federal programs.
TOWARD A FULL GENERATION OF PEACE
Our goal is a full generation of peace in
which all nations can focus their energies
on improving the lives of their citizens.
To achieve this, we must continue to
work in close cooperation with our allies,
move from confrontation to negotiation
with those with whom we differ, and-
together with our allies-maintain enough
military strength to deter aggression. Suf-
ficient and effective programs of military
and economic assistance to help our
friends help themselves are an integral
part of our program.
NATIONAL SECURITY.-This Nation's
87
