[406] Dec. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
of new jobs. The Emergency Employment
Act which I signed on July 12 will pro-
vide many jobs in the public sector; nearly
125,000 jobs in areas such as education,
environmental protection, law enforce-
ment, public works, and transportation
have already been funded. The budget
that I will present to Congress in Jan-
uary will also be designed to stimulate the
economy and create additional jobs.
On the international scene, our major
trading partners have agreed to adjust
the dollar prices of their currencies up-
ward and to negotiate for adjustments in
trade barriers, while we in turn will elimi-
nate our import surtax and, with Con-
gressional approval, will lower the price
of the dollar in relation to gold. The
result of these efforts will be more mar-
kets for American goods abroad and thus
more jobs and higher incomes for the
American people.
Already, the stimulative effect of our
new economic policies has been evident.
It now appears that the gross national
product will rise at an annual rate of
more than 6 percent in the fourth quar-
ter of 1971, compared to 4 percent in the
third quarter and 5 percent in the second
quarter. Since July, employment has
grown by over 1 million, and more jobs
are being created each month. Industrial
production is rising and businesses are
now planning to increase investment by
some 62 percent during the next 6
months because of the favorable economic
environment.
All of these efforts are designed to
create a new prosperity in peacetime for
America. The extension of the Economic
Stabilization Act assures that we will not
see our prosperity neutralized-as so often
in the past-by the forces of inflation.
We can now confidently say that 1971
is ending on a most encouraging economic
note and that 1972 will begin as a year
of great economic promise.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 2891) is Public
Law 92-210 (85 Stat. 743).
407 Statement on Signing Executive Orders Prescribing
Federal Civilian and Military Pay Increases.
December 22, 1971
THE Economic Stabilization Act Amend-
ments which I have signed into law today
provide in section 3 that adjustments in
statutory pay systems for Federal em-
ployees shall be effective in January 1972,
and that such adjustments shall not be
greater than permitted by the guidelines
established for the private sector. Accord-
ingly, I have today also signed an Execu-
tive order [11637] which provides a 5.5
percent increase in the statutory pay sys-
tems covering those employees.
A 1967 law provides that pay of mili-
tary personnel shall be increased auto-
matically whenever adjustments are made
in the rates of pay for Federal civilian em-
ployees covered by the basic statutory sys-
tem. Therefore, I have also signed an
Executive order [11638] which will grant
comparable increases in pay for military
personnel. These increases are in addition
to the pay increases provided for military
personnel when the Selective Service Act
was extended last September.
1204
