Richard Nixon, 1971
June 2 [192]
silence of talking publicly today, but we
are going to give you the opportunity to
at least hear from him and from Mrs.
Hopkins, because we have set up at the
back of the lawn there some refreshments.
We would like for all of you to join the
Hopkins family there. Come up and con-
gratulate him. And maybe he will tell you
how he did it, because some place in this
crowd is somebody who, maybe 40 years
from now, is going to get a Medal of Free-
192
dom just as he has, if you can do as well
as he did over 40 years.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:12 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House at a
reception honoring Mr. Hopkins, who had re-
tired as Executive Assistant to the President
on May 28, 1971.
On June 2, the White House released bio-
graphical data on Mr. Hopkins and a fact
sheet on the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Message to the Senate Transmitting the International
Wheat Agreement, 1971. June 2, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a copy of the Interna-
tional Wheat Agreement, 1971, which
was open for signature in Washington
from March 29 through May 3, 1971. The
Agreement was formulated at the United
Nations Wheat Conference, 1971, held in
Geneva.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Secretary of
State and the memorandum enclosed
therewith concerning this Agreement.
The Agreement is in two parts, the
Wheat Trade Convention and the Food
Aid Convention, covered by a common.
preamble. Both Conventions were signed
in behalf of the Government of the
United States of America. The Wheat
Trade Convention was signed also for the
European Economic Community and its
six member States and for the govern-
ments of 26 other countries. The Food
Aid Convention was signed also for the
European Economic Community and its
six member States and for the govern-
ments of six other countries.
The International Wheat Agreement,
1971, is intended to succeed the Interna-
tional Grains Arrangement, 1967, which
will terminate by its own terms on
June 30, 1971.
The new Wheat Trade Convention
continues international cooperation in
wheat trade, maintaining the Interna-
tional Wheat Council and most of its func-
tions and establishing a new Advisory
Sub-Committee on Market Conditions
charged with the task of continuously re-
viewing current market conditions and
making prompt reports to the Executive
Committee of the Council concerning the
existence or threat of market instability.
On the basis of such reports, the Execu-
tive Committee is to meet, review the situ-
ation, and consider the possibility of mu-
tually acceptable solutions. The Council
may also be convened to review such
situations.
In contrast to previous wheat agree-
ments, the 1971 Convention does not con-
tain price provisions and purchase and
supply obligations, principally because the
exporting countries were unable to agree
on the reference wheat or wheats to be
699
