Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
essary to encourage our European allies to
take up a greater share of the collective
responsibility. They are doing so, and the
Alliance is stronger for it.
EAST-WEST RELATIONS IN EUROPE
Security in Europe depends on more
than NATO's military strength. The close
ties of friendship in the West and the
stability of the military balance set the
stage for renewed effort at a broader
reconciliation.
East-West conflict in Europe springs
from historical and objective causes, not
transient moods or personal misunder-
standings. For 25 years Europe has been
divided by opposing national interests and
contrary philosophies, which clash over
specific issues: the military confrontation
of opposing coalitions, the division of
Germany, the situation in and around
Berlin, the nature of relations between
Western and Eastern countries and insti-
tutions, and the barriers to travel and cul-
tural and intellectual intercourse.
These issues will not be quickly re-
solved. To relax tensions means a patient
and persistent effort to deal with specific
sources and not only with their manifes-
tations. The West will be conciliatory on
substance, but we are determined to deal
with substance and not simply with
atmosphere.
We in the West are convinced by the
history of the postwar period that a
détente that does not apply equally to
Eastern and Western Europe will be in-
herently unstable. In our view, détente
means negotiating the concrete conditions
of mutual security that will allow for
expanded intra-European contact and
cooperation without jeopardizing the
security of any country. Soviet policies and
doctrines, however, too often interpret
détente in terms of Western ratification of
the status quo and acknowledgment of
continuing Soviet hegemony over Eastern
Europe. Beyond this, Soviet policy has
been tempted to offer a relaxation of ten-
sion selectively to some allies but not to
others, and only on limited issues of pri-
mary interest to the USSR. In view of
this fundamental difference, a major ques-
tion for the Alliance to face is whether we
can overcome the East-West stalemate
while maintaining unity among ourselves
and avoiding internal divisions in our
countries.
A Western Consensus. In the postwar
period, East-West relations were almost
an exclusive preserve of Soviet and
American policies and negotiations, just
as the major European crises of this pe-
riod were predominantly Soviet-American
confrontations.
Today, our Western European allies are
properly anxious to make their own con-
tribution to East-West negotiations. They
will increasingly assert their own judg-
ment and interests in doing so. A wide
variety of contacts and negotiations are
proceeding today, involving different par-
ticipants in different forums on several
issues:
-The United States is negotiating with
the USSR in SALT.
-The United States, the Soviet Union,
the UK and France are holding Four
Power talks at the UN on the Middle
East.
-The same four powers are negotiat-
ing in Europe on Berlin.
-The Federal Republic of Germany
has negotiated new treaties with the
USSR and Poland, and may soon
open talks with Czechoslovakia. For
the first time the Chancellor of the
237
