[111] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
chairman and 120 volunteers from all
walks of life serving on its board, the Na-
tional Center for Voluntary Action has
become an active force in stimulating new
volunteer programs across the country.
The Center's clearinghouse, sorely needed
for many years, has now gathered 4,000
descriptions of actual volunteer efforts so
that other communities, groups, or in-
dividuals can find out what has been tried
and what solutions have been discovered
by volunteers in the past. A national
volunteer awards program has also been
established to recognize outstanding in-
dividuals, and a large-scale communica-
tions program is underway.
I know that since the resignation of
Charles B. Wilkinson on September 1,
1970, the Center has conducted
long and careful search for its new presi-
dent. I congratulate the Center on its
selection of Mr. Etherington, and I con-
gratulate Mr. Etherington on his selection.
He can count on the enthusiastic coopera-
tion of this Administration and on my own
deep and continuing personal interest.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news conference by
Robert H. Finch, Counsellor to the President,
and Mr. Etherington on Mr. Etherington's
election.
Mr. Etherington was guest of honor at a
private dinner hosted by the President at the
White House in the evening.
112 Message to the Congress Transmitting Reorganization
Plan 1 of 1971 To Establish ACTION.
March 24, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
America is a nation unique in the po-
litical history of the world. More than
any other nation, it is the sum of the
energies and efforts of all of its people.
The American tradition of voluntary
involvement of freely committing one's
time and talents in the search for civic
improvement and social progress-gives
an extra dimension to the meaning of
democracy. In the past decade, the Fed-
eral Government has built on this tra-
dition by developing channels for joining
the spirit of voluntary citizen service in
America with public needs, both domes-
tically and abroad. Many of these efforts
have had marked success. But the circum-
stances in which these efforts were con-
ceived have changed.
National and international needs have
altered. The opportunities for voluntary
service must be adapted and improved to
meet these new needs.
Recognizing that private channels of
voluntary action are a vital source of
strength in our national life, I have sup-
ported the establishment and develop-
ment of the National Center for Volun-
tary Action. The National Center is a
private, non-profit partner in the effort to
generate and encourage volunteer service.
The Center works to promote the estab-
lishment of local Voluntary Action Cen-
ters, as well as to assist in the expansion
of voluntary action organizations already
in existence. It stimulates voluntary ac-
tion by providing information on success-
ful voluntary efforts, and it assists in
directing those who wish to volunteer serv-
ices to areas and endeavors in which their
services are needed.
The National Center for Voluntary
466
