[10] Jan. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
labor force), as a means of increasing
competitiveness of U.S. goods in world
markets, and as a major force for longrun
economic growth.
Several months later, in announcing
broad revisions in depreciation guidelines,
Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon
pointed to the job-creating impact of
rising investment. In this respect, econ-
omists have long recognized that, in a
highly industrialized society such as ours,
each productive worker has to be
equipped, in effect, with tools and
machinery costing many thousands of
dollars.
Depreciation reform is especially de-
sirable today when we are requiring the
diversion of significant amounts of busi-
ness capital into the financing of pollu-
tion control facilities and away from
those investments which would ordinarily
go to increasing material productivity.
The specific administrative changes
which I have approved are consistent with
the recommendations of the President's
Task Force on Business Taxation. I ap-
pointed this task force in September 1969
and asked the members to "concentrate
I I
on the role of business taxes in promot-
ing growth, full employment, and a
strong progressive economy." The task
force included leading businessmen,
lawyers and accountants, economists, a
former U.S. Senator, and two former
Secretaries of the Treasury.
A liberalization of depreciation allow-
ances is essentially a change in the timing
of a tax liability. The policy permits busi-
ness firms to reduce tax payments now,
when additional purchasing power is
needed, and to make up these payments
in later years.
Clearly, therefore, these steps toward
meaningful depreciation reform are im-
portant for the present-in light of cur-
rent economic conditions-and for the
future to maintain the growth which has
made this Nation the strongest and most
productive the world has ever known.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the de-
preciation provisions of the tax laws by Charls
E. Walker, Under Secretary, and John S.
Nolan, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tax
Legislation, Department of the Treasury.
Message to American Jewish Leaders About Recent
Acts of Violence Against Soviet Facilities in the
United States. January 11, 1971
ALL DECENT and law-abiding Ameri-
cans share your outrage at recent criminal
acts of violence against Soviet facilities in
this country. You may be certain also that
this Administration, reflecting the tradi-
tional liberties upon which this country
was founded, joins with you in urging
freedom of emigration as explicitly pro-
vided in Article 13 of the Universal Decla-
ration of Human Rights and in its com-
mitment to cultural and religious freedom
at home and abroad.
But acts of violence and lawlessness
such as those that have occurred in this
country lately will not advance our com-
mon cause; they are, as you say, morally
wrong and injure that very cause.
This Administration, in cooperation
with local authorities, will use every
means at its disposal to prevent such acts
28
