Richard Nixon, 1971
May 7 [161]
petitive capacity of American industry.
And we could go down the line. Oh,
there are many industries where compet-
itively we have stayed ahead and moved
ahead. There are others where we have
fallen behind.
But the most dramatic, the most excit-
ing statistic of all is what has happened
in agriculture. I sat in a meeting recently
with a group of America's business leaders
and labor leaders. They disagreed on
many things. But they all agreed that
insofar as increases in productivity were
concerned that American agriculture led
not only the United States but led the
world.
Another statistic that will bring it
home: In the last 20 years, the total of the
American economy or American industry,
its part of the total, increased its output
per man-hour by 150 percent. That is, of
course, a significant increase. But in that
last 20 years, American agriculture, Amer-
ica's farmers and farm families, increased
their output per man-hour by 300 per-
cent-almost twice as much.
Now we come to the problem. It is a
rule in a free society that whoever pro-
duces more should be compensated for
more. The income per capita of those who
live on America's farms has gone up in
the last 20 years. But in terms of sharing
in this increased productivity, those who
live on America's farms, those who pro-
duce from America's farms have not had
the rewards from increasing productivity
that their colleagues who work in Amer-
ican industry have had for their increases
in productivity.
It is that problem that we have been
addressing ourselves to. It is that problem
in which, of course, we need cooperation
between all branches of government, the
Administration, the Congress, and the
farm community to see how we can see
that America's farmers receive their fair
share of dramatically increasing
productivity.
Then there is a third area where, in the
past 2 years, I have seen how much this
Nation owes and, beyond that, how much
the world owes to American agriculture.
That is in the field of foreign policy.
Secretary Hardin mentioned the fact
that Mrs. Nixon had been active in 4-H.
As a matter of fact, she was a member of
4-H. She didn't win the blue ribbon, but
she won the red ribbon, I recall. This was
before I was married, so I cannot question
her veracity with regard to which ribbon
it was.
But she has also done some other things.
She has traveled to many countries in the
world. And a few months ago, you may
recall, she went to Peru where they had a
terrible earthquake, where over 50,000,
maybe 70,000, people were killed.
And on that occasion she was able to
pledge from the people of the United
States and from the Government of the
United States millions of dollars in as-
sistance, assistance in many ways, but as-
sistance, among other things, in terms of
food.
There have been other disasters in the
world. For example, a flood in Romania.
And as President of the United States I
was able to sign a particular instrument
which would enable us to provide as-
sistance, millions of dollars of assistance,
to those who suffered from this flood.
And as I look at that situation, I then
come to American agriculture. Why was I
able to do it? We are not the only good-
hearted, generous people in the world.
There are many people all over this world
living in countries who have very dif-
ferent systems of government who would
625
