[61] Feb. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
South Vietnamese felt that they were able
to undertake it. Our commanders agreed
and, therefore, it was undertaken.
INVOLVEMENT OF MAINLAND CHINA
[3] Q. Mr. President, could you dis-
cuss with us your evaluation of the pos-
sibility of Communist China entering this
situation now that it is expanded into
Laos, or if the South Vietnamese go into
North Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me refer to the
situation as it presently exists rather than
the hypothesis of whether the South Viet-
namese might go into North Vietnam.
As far as the actions in southern Laos
are concerned, they present no threat to
Communist China and should not be in-
terpreted by the Communist Chinese as
being a threat against them.
As you know, the Communist Chinese
have been operating in northern Laos for
some time. But this action is not directed
against Communist China. It is directed
against the North Vietnamese who are
pointed toward South Vietnam and to-
ward Cambodia.
Consequently, I do not believe that the
Communist Chinese have any reason to
interpret this as a threat against them or
any reason therefore to react to it.
EVALUATION OF LAOTIAN OPERATION
[4] Q. Mr. President, if I could fol-
low up, could you give us your evaluation
of how the Laotian operation is really
going militarily and otherwise?
The President. And incidentally, don't
hesitate in this smaller forum to ask for
follow-up. To the extent I can cover all
the questions, I will be glad to take them.
As far as the Laotian operation is con-
cerned, the reports that have come from
the field I think generally give an accurate
picture, except, of course, for the day-to-
day tendency to hypo this or that inci-
dent into a crisis.
The operation-and I read a complete
report from General Abrams this morn-
ing-the operation has gone according to
plan. The South Vietnamese have already
cut three major roads-and we call them
"roads," let's say trails-which lead from
Tchepone down into Cambodia and, of
course, into South Vietnam.
The South Vietnamese have run into
very heavy resistance on the road going
into Tchepone. We expected that
resistance.
Putting it in the context of the earlier
reply, the Cambodian action in May and
June cut one lifeline, the lifeline from
Sihanoukville into the southern half of
South Vietnam.
This action would either cut or seriously
disrupt the other pipeline or lifeline, the
lifeline coming from-down through
Laos, the Ho Chi Minh Trail, into the
northern half of South Vietnam.
Therefore, we expected the North Viet-
namese to fight here. They have to fight
here or give up the struggle to conquer
South Vietnam, Cambodia, and their in-
fluence extending through other parts of
Southeast Asia.
Finally, I think it is quite important to
note General Abrams' evaluation, which I
specifically asked him to give me by cable
just a few days ago, his evaluation of how
the South Vietnamese are conducting
themselves. They are fighting, he said, in
a superior way. I use the word that he
used. They are proceeding in a way that
he believes is in accordance with the plan
and holding their own against enemy
attack.
160
