Richard Nixon, 1971
[265]
Aug. 17
was broadcast live on radio and television.
On the same day, the White House released
an advance text of the President's address and
the transcript of a news briefing on the new
economic policy by John B. Connally, Secre-
tary of the Treasury, George P. Shultz, Direc-
tor, Office of Management and Budget, and
Paul W. McCracken, Chairman, Council of
Economic Advisers.
In Dallas, Tex., on August 19, 1971, Press
Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler read a statement
about the reaction of the Governor of Texas
to the wage-price freeze. It is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 7, p. 1204).
On August 20, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Caspar W.
Weinberger, Chairman, Regulations and Pur-
chasing Review Board, and Deputy Director,
Office of Management and Budget, on the
efforts of the Board to insure that the sup-
pliers of Government purchases are in full
compliance with the wage-price freeze.
265 Statement on the 10th Anniversary of the
Alliance for Progress. August 17, 1971
TEN YEARS ago the United States
joined the countries of Latin America in
an Alliance for Progress. The occasion of
this anniversary gives us an opportunity
to reflect upon the achievements and ex-
periences of our cooperative endeavors
over the past 10 years to improve the lives
of the people of the Americas.
The Charter of Punta del Este, which
was signed on August 17, 1961, added to
the inter-American system a vital dimen-
sion of the concern for the welfare of
people. It called for an unprecedented in-
vestment of human and financial re-
sources. That investment has been made,
and the proof of what our countries have
accomplished together is now visible
throughout the Americas in increased
schooling for millions of children and
adults, improved health, rising agricul-
tural productivity, new industries, and a
surge forward in transportation, com-
munications, and power. Countless num-
bers of citizens who had been outside the
social and economic mainstream have
gained access to opportunity, and eco-
nomic development and social reform
have become the dominant concern of
peoples and governments alike.
Despite the great strides made in the
past 10 years, we have come to recognize
that our work has only begun. We have
learned that the complex and difficult
problems of economic and social develop-
ment will not all be solved within the next
decade or within the next generation. We
have also learned that each nation must
take the initiative and primary respon-
sibility for meeting the challenges of its
development if progress is to be effective
and enduring. We have understood, there-
fore, that we must establish a more bal-
anced relationship, one which will permit
positive collaboration attuned to the
realities of the decade we are entering.
The tasks ahead are formidable. Many
people in the hemisphere still do not share
in the benefits of growth and development.
Education, housing, and health care still
lag far behind growing needs. Jobs must
be found for the unemployed who stand
idle in the countryside and strain the re-
sources of overcrowded cities. The nations
of the hemisphere must also confront
891
