[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
1960's, the United States saw this as a
threat to us and our allies and responded
energetically. We offered advice, training,
resources, reform programs, and new
theories and techniques of counterinsur-
gency.
During those years, direct involvement
was deemed appropriate in some cases.
The United States, indeed, sometimes
acted as if defense against conventional or
guerrilla aggression anywhere in the world
was principally an American responsibil-
ity. But it is not in our interest or that of
our friends to act as if their security is
more important to us than it is to them.
The effectiveness of American assist-
ance depends on the will and the effort of
the threatened country or region. Unless
a country mobilizes its own resources, the
effect of our assistance can only be limited.
The best way to prevent insurgency is to
meet economic and social imperatives;
the best way to control it is a determined
security effort by the country itself. Noth-
ing we can do is an adequate substitute for
a government supported by its people and
for a nation unified and determined to
defend itself. If they do make that effort,
our assistance can make a crucial differ-
ence to their security and world stability.
Security assistance has been an impor-
tant aspect of United States foreign pol-
icy for nearly 25 years. Today it is more
important than ever, for without it our
effort to share responsibilities more widely
with our friends and allies cannot suc-
ceed. As Secretary Laird has pointed out:
"Many nations are willing and able to
provide manpower for their own defense
but lack the means to convert it to well-
trained and properly equipped armed
forces." Our materiel and training can
enable nations whose security is important
to us to deal with threats against them
and to help each other to do so.
But it is not simply a matter of helping
friends and allies to do more for them-
selves. Particularly in the areas of the
world where we are reducing our man-
power, we must make resources available
to help them complete the transition with
us. In some cases this will require sub-
stantial assistance during the period of
adjustment. This is central to our new ap-
proach to American foreign policy in the
1970's.
By fostering local initiative and self-
sufficiency, security assistance enables us
in some instances to reduce our direct
military involvement abroad. An effec-
tive security assistance program will lessen
the need for and the likelihood of the en-
gagement of American forces in future
local conflicts. Thus it will ease the bur-
dens upon the United States. But at the
same time it signals to the world that the
United States continues to help and sup-
port its allies.
We have addressed the specific issues
and programs of security assistance with
the care that befits its importance to our
new foreign policy. The Peterson Report
treated the purposes and structure of se-
curity assistance programs in its compre-
hensive analysis of U.S. foreign assistance
in the 1970's. We gave specific emphasis
in our FY 1971 programs to important
needs of friends and allies who are
shouldering the burden of their own and
regional security. The passage by the
Congress of the appropriation I requested
a year ago, and the overwhelming support
for the supplemental request I submitted
last November, demonstrated fulfillment
318
