Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 5 [322]
the drug abuse problem. If America means
anything, it means freedom-free men,
free ideals, freedom to reach new heights
of greatness and progress. The slavery of
drugs is the very opposite of this cherished
dream. So, as you fight to conquer it, you
are doing a great service to America and
to the cause of freedom for which this
Nation stands.
Thank you very much for giving me the
opportunity to talk to you at this great
conference.
CONGRESSMAN PASSMAN. Thank you,
Mr. President. Your message has been re-
ceived most enthusiastically. The thou-
sands assembled here are giving you an
outstanding and enthusiastic ovation. I
have never witnessed anything like that
before. Thank you again, Mr. President,
for your message.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:13 a.m. from
Key Biscayne, Fla., to participants attending the
seminar in the Monroe Civic Center.
During his remarks the President referred to
John J. McKeithen, Governor of Louisiana;
James A. Noe, a former Governor of Louisi-
ana; Robert Kostelka, district attorney of Mon-
roe; Jack Howard, mayor of Monroe; and Bert
Hatten, mayor of West Monroe.
322 Statement on Signing Bill
Authority of the Farmers Home Administration.
October 5, 1971
Extending the Insured Loan
I HAVE today signed into law H.R.
10538, a bill extending the authority of
the Secretary of Agriculture to insure
loans through the Farmers Home Ad-
ministration that will benefit rural people
throughout the United States.
The largest appropriation in these pro-
grams is for the insuring of loans to enable
farmers to buy and expand farms. This
fiscal year that appropriation is $350
million, an increase over last year of
almost $82 million.
The second largest appropriation in
these programs is for the insuring of loans
for water supply facilities and waste dis-
posal systems. This fiscal year that appro-
priation amounts to $300 million, an in-
crease of 15 percent over last year.
I am delighted that the permanent
extension of this insured loan authority
also makes it possible for the Secretary of
Agriculture to double loans for Indian
tribes.
Earlier in the year, this Administration
urged extending the insured loan author-
ity of the Farmers Home Administration
for these purposes. I am pleased that the
Congress approved this bill with reason-
able speed, so that the continuity of opera-
tion of these insured loan programs has
not been interrupted. This credit assist-
ance is of significant importance to the
agricultural and rural sectors of our
economy.
Since this Administration took office,
the water and waste disposal loan program
has almost doubled in size and the farm
ownership program has increased by al-
most one-third. Farm and rural people all
over America will benefit from the enact-
ment of this legislation.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10538 is Public Law
92-133 (85 Stat. 364).
71-234-7268
1021
