[221] July 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
popular abroad-not popular because,
after all, people who do not have as much
as we have wonder, how do we get it, how
are we going to use it.
You can be very proud in that respect,
too. You can point out that as far as our
wealth is concerned, that it isn't something
that is an end in itself. We are not proud
of it because we are rich. We are proud
because what we have in the way of wealth
enables us to do good things.
For example, there was a terrible flood
in Romania, a Communist country, a few
months ago. We were able to send $10
million to the people in that land. You all
read about the terrible earthquake in
Peru, you know, where 50,000 people were
killed. We sent millions of American dol-
lars to that country.
Whenever people in other lands have
problems, we are able to help them. In
fact, since World War II, $100 billion
has come from America to help both our
friends and those who had been our
enemies. We could not have done that
unless we were rich.
Then here at home, what does wealth
mean? Well, it isn't an end in itself; it
should never be. If it does become an end
in itself, then we are simply a rich coun-
try or a rich person living selfishly, think-
ing only of what is good for us.
But the reason that our wealth means
something far more than that is that it
enables us today to set out goals higher
than any people in the history of the
world. We can do more in building better
education. We can do more, for example,
in improving health care in this country.
We can do more in campaigning on a pro-
gram against poverty, in raising the level
of all of our people, than any nation in the
world, and the reason we can do it is be-
cause America is a rich country.
Therefore, we are not proud of the fact
that we are rich simply because of that,
but we say we-in view of the fact that
we produce so much-that we are very
privileged to be able to do good things,
and may it always be that way.
Finally, I would like to leave this
thought with you: I think more than con-
veying to the people of Europe, what is
the truth, that America is strong and that
America is rich and that we will use our
strength and our wealth for good things,
I think that what they would like to hear
from young Americans is what I know
you convey as I see you here today, and
that is that we stand for something far
more important than wealth and far more
important than strength.
We stand for something that made this
country the wonder of the world 195 years
ago. Just think of it: 3 million people
then, very poor, very weak by world stand-
ards, and yet Thomas Jefferson was able
to say, we act not "for ourselves alone,
but for the whole human race." He could
not have said that and the world would
not have believed him-and they did be-
lieve him-unless America stood for some-
thing other than wealth and strength.
What did it stand for? Well, first, it
was a young nation, and second, it was an
idealistic nation, and third, it was a nation
that believed in itself, that had faith in
God, and also that set very high purposes
and very high goals for all people. That
is why people came to America when they
had the opportunity, because here there
was more chance, more opportunity than
in any nation in the world.
It is significant, incidentally, that this
very desk on which we have certified this
amendment was the desk that Thomas
Jefferson used at the Continental Con-
gress during the time that that Congress
800
