Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 16 [359]
that the Department of Housing and
Urban Development assist in the develop-
ment of special housing arrangements to
facilitate independent living for retarded
persons in the community.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on mental retardation and
the transcript of a news briefing, on the na-
tional effort to prevent and treat mental retar-
dation, by Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare; and Clair
W. Burgener, Vice Chairman, Joseph H.
Douglass, Executive Director, and Margaret B.
Ulle and Kenneth S. Robinson, members,
President's Committee on Mental Retardation,
following the Committee's meeting with the
President.
359 Statement About the Thanksgiving Day Salute to
Senior Americans. November 16, 1971
THE Thanksgiving Day Salute to Senior
Americans is an effort to pay tribute to our
older citizens by including them in a spe-
cial way in our Thanksgiving Day festivi-
ties. The first Thanksgiving Day Salute
was held in Washington, D.C., in 1964
and has since become an annual event in
the Nation's Capital. In 1969, Mrs. Nixon
and I participated in this event by hosting
a White House Thanksgiving Day dinner
for 220 senior Americans.
This year, the Thanksgiving Day Salute
to Senior Americans will be observed in all
50 States and in Puerto Rico. As a part of
this program, Governors of the 50 States
and Puerto Rico and their wives have
been invited to host Thanksgiving Day
dinners for elderly men and women who
are living alone or without families. Many
Governors have already responded by issu-
ing proclamations supporting this effort
and many plan to share their holiday
festivities with older citizens in their areas.
Senators and Congressmen have indicated
that they will participate in the Salute by
visiting homes for the aging on Thanks-
giving Day.
This program was originated by VIP, a
nonpartisan, nonprofit organization, com-
posed of prominent Americans and col-
lege students and headed by Johnny
Unitas, president. Mrs. Mamie Eisen-
hower is serving as honorary national
chairman for the Thanksgiving Day
Salute.
This expression of concern for older
Americans grows out of a deep respect for
the part they have played-and continue
to play-in the growth and development
of our Nation and in the personal life of
each and every one of us. It provides a
special way to express to them the appre-
ciation, the admiration, and the affection
of their countrymen. I, therefore, call
upon all Americans to join in this special
tribute, and I sincerely hope that the
Thanksgiving Day Salute to Senior
Americans will become a national
tradition.
NOTE: On the same day, the President met
with Dr. Arthur S. Flemming, Chairman, White
House Conference on Aging; John B. Martin,
Commissioner, Administration on Aging, De-
partment of Health, Education, and Welfare:
and John Unitas, president, and Carmella
LaSpada, executive director, VIP, to discuss
the Salute.
1113
