Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 15 [143]
142 Message to the Senate Transmitting Convention for
the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft.
April 15, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a copy of the Conven-
tion for the Suppression of Unlawful
Seizure of Aircraft, signed at The Hague
on December 16, 1970. I transmit also for
the information of the Senate the report of
the Secretary of State with respect to the
Convention.
The problem of aircraft hijacking has
become a serious global threat to interna-
tional aviation. No country or area is im-
mune from this threat.
The Diplomatic Conference which met
at The Hague December 1-16, 1970
had before it the urgent task of prepar-
ing a Convention to ensure that all
hijackers, wherever found, would be sub-
ject to severe punishment for an act which
endangers the safety and lives of pas-
sengers and crew aboard. I believe that
the Conference achieved this objective
and that it will be fully realized when
States have ratified or acceded to the
Convention and it has become widely
accepted.
Because of the worldwide threat of hi-
jacking, the Convention provides that all
States may become parties. I hope that
143
it will be applied universally. I made my
views clear on September 11, 1970 when
I stated that:
"It is imperative that all countries ac-
cept the multilateral convention provid-
ing for the extradition or punishment of
hijacking [hijackers] which will be con-
sidered at the international conference
which will be held under the auspices of
the International Civil Aviation Organi-
zation. I affirm the support of the United
States both for this convention and for
the Tokyo convention, which provides
for the prompt return of hijacked air-
craft, passengers and crew. I call upon
other governments to become parties to
these conventions."
I believe that the Convention will be
an important step in the development
of international law and practice with re-
spect to deterring hijacking. I urgently
recommend, therefore, that the Senate
give early and favorable consideration to
the Convention.
The White House
April 15, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention is printed
in United States Treaties and Other Inter-
national Agreements (22 UST 1641).
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Plan
for United States Participation in the World
Weather Program. April 15, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Through the World Weather Program,
the nations of the world are combining
their efforts to gain new knowledge of the
global atmosphere, provide better weather
forecasts and warnings to all countries,
71-234-72-37
533
