[180] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. at
the Alabama State docks.
Gov. Louie B. Nunn of Kentucky and Gov.
George C. Wallace of Alabama were presi-
dent and president-elect, respectively, of the
181
Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway Development
Authority.
On May 24, 1971, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the waterway project.
Remarks on Arrival in Birmingham, Alabama.
May 25, 1971
Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen:
I wish to express my very great ap-
preciation for this wonderfully warm wel-
come here in the heart of Dixie.
We have some very distinguished guests
who flew up on Air Force One from Mo-
bile, and I think you would like to see
them all here.
I will not try to introduce them in or-
der of protocol. But I think you will be
interested in meeting first a member of
my Cabinet who has served in a very
distinguished way, your own, Alabama's
own, Postmaster General "Red" Blount.
And your own Governor, Governor
George Wallace.
Then from the neighboring State of
Kentucky, Governor Louie Nunn of
Kentucky.
And from the State of Mississippi, a
man who came to the Congress with me
24 years ago, John Bell Williams of
Mississippi.
And from the State that I just came
from this morning, the State of Florida,
Governor Askew of Florida.
Now there are a number of other dis-
tinguished people here, Members of Con-
gress and others, but I simply want to say
that when the mayor came in to invite
me to come to Birmingham, I did not
think it would be possible, particularly to
come at the period of time that he issued
the invitation.
As you know, you celebrate your 100th
anniversary, your centennial, this fall.
Now I would like to come then for two
reasons: One, because the 100th birth-
day is very unusual and a special occa-
sion; and, two, because I know this is the
football capital of the South as well as
the Nation.
I was unable to come, however, in the
fall, and so I will have to see that occa-
sion on television. But I do want you to
know that coming here in the spring, to
have an opportunity to be here with you,
has a very special meaning to me.
I have checked history for those
younger people who are here, and some of
you older ones will remember-but not
very many-the last time that a President
of the United States came to Birmingham
was 50 years ago, in 1921. And while can-
didates for President have been here-as
a matter of fact, I was here one year as
a candidate for President-since that time
50 years ago, no President of the United
States, while he was in office, has visited
Birmingham.
May I say I am proud to be here, and
I trust that more Presidents will come
more often in the future to Birmingham.
Now when I talked to the mayor and
to Congressman Buchanan and the others
about this visit, I know that they felt very
deeply about this ceremony, and in this
large crowd, where so many of you have
been standing so long in the hot sun, I
am trying to think of what will really
662
