[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
hand, our alliance commitments and
their regional military programs
caused us to base our tactical aircraft
abroad; we also retain air power on
carriers.
-The USSR has deployed an Anti-
Ballistic Missile defense system, thus
far in the Moscow area. We have
initiated an ABM program based on
different strategic principles and mis-
sile systems.
Our analysis indicated critical areas of
prospective strategic instability:
-Offensive systems have clearly de-
veloped to a point where certain fur-
ther improvements, as well as in-
creased launcher deployments, could
pose a threat to land-based missile re-
taliatory forces and thus threaten
stability.
-Instability also could develop
through the unchecked extension of
defensive capabilities. One side
might believe that its defenses could
clearly limit the damage it might
suffer from retaliation, and therefore
that it was in a position to strike first.
We took these factors into account in
shaping negotiating positions for SALT.
There have been three phases so far, alter-
nating between Helsinki and Vienna:
Helsinki I (November 17-December 22,
1969); Vienna I (April 16-August 14,
1970); Helsinki II (November 2-Decem-
ber 18, 1970). The negotiators are now
slated to reassemble in Vienna on
March 15.
THE COURSE OF SALT NEGOTIATIONS
There has been speculation both here
and abroad concerning the talks. Progress
has been facilitated by our agreed policy
of privacy with respect to the negotiating
exchanges. I will, of course, respect that
agreement. I am, therefore, free to discuss
only the general character of the talks and
underlying issues which have emerged.
We believed that progress could best be
made if the initial exchanges encouraged
agreement on the definition of the subject
matter and the nature of the issues. Thus,
we did not launch discussions in the tradi-
tional manner of hard, detailed proposals
that might lead to early deadlock, each
side supporting its opening position. In-
stead, we explored some general concepts
of strategic stability and related them to
the issues posed by limiting individual
weapons systems. Our negotiating team,
ably led by Ambassador Gerard Smith,
reviewed our analysis, explaining how we
thought agreements might evolve and
their verification requirements.
This essentially exploratory approach,
which included a general treatment of
verification, enabled each side to gain
greater understanding of the other's
thinking. There was broad consensus on
certain general strategic concepts. At the
same time there were clear differences on
whether certain systems should be in-
cluded in discussions of an initial
agreement.
Both sides proceeded in a thoughtful,
non-polemical manner. Calm, reasoned
dialogue produced a common work pro-
gram for future sessions.
In the later phases of the talks, we
moved from an analysis of issues to a dis-
cussion of concrete measures. Initially, the
U.S. suggested possible approaches in-
volving both numerical and qualitative
limitations on strategic offensive and de-
fensive systems, including MIRV's. We
also put forward an alternative compre-
hensive approach which would not con-
strain MIRV's, but would involve
322
