[222] July 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
where Chinese are there-they are crea-
tive, they are productive, they are one of
the most capable people in the world. And
800 million Chinese are going to be, in-
evitably, an enormous economic power,
with all that that means in terms of what
they could be in other areas if they move
in that direction.
That is the reason why I felt that it was
essential that this Administration take the
first steps toward ending the isolation of
Mainland China from the world com-
munity. We had to take those steps be-
cause the Soviet Union could not, because
of differences that they have that at the
present time seem to be irreconcilable. We
were the only other power that could take
those steps.
Let me be very, shall I say, limited in
what I would discuss on this particular
issue, because we should not consider
that more has happened than has hap-
pened. What we have done is simply
opened the door-opened the door for
travel, opened the door for trade.
Now the question is whether there will
be other doors opened on their part. But
at least the doors must be opened and the
goal of U.S. policy must be, in the long
term, ending the isolation of Mainland
China and a normalization of our relations
with Mainland China because, looking
down the road-and let's just look ahead
15 to 20 years-the United States could
have a perfectly effective agreement with
the Soviet Union for limitation of arms;
the danger of any confrontation there
might have been almost totally removed.
But Mainland China, outside the world
community, completely isolated, with its
leaders not in communication with world
leaders, would be a danger to the whole
world that would be unacceptable, un-
acceptable to us and unacceptable to
others as well.
So consequently, this step must be taken
now. Others must be taken, very precisely,
very deliberately, as there is reciprocation
on the other side.
But now let's see how this all fits into
the economic program that I mentioned a
moment ago, and the economic chal-
lenge. The very success of our policy of
ending the isolation of Mainland China
will mean an immense escalation of their
economic challenge not only to us but to
others in the world.
I again come back to the fundamental
point: 800 million Chinese, open to the
world, with all the communication and
the interchange of ideas that inevitably
will occur as a result of that opening, will
become an economic force in the world of
enormous potential.
So, in sum, what do we see? What we
see as we look ahead 5 years, 10 years,
perhaps it is 15, but in any event, within
our time, we see five great economic super
powers: the United States, Western Eu-
rope, the Soviet Union, Mainland China,
and, of course, Japan.
Now, I do not suggest, in mentioning
these five, that Latin America is not im-
portant, that Africa is not important, that
South Asia is not important. All nations
are important, and all peoples in under-
developed or less developed countries will
play their role. But these are the five that
will determine the economic future and,
because economic power will be the key
to other kinds of power, the future of the
world in other ways in the last third of
this century.
Now let's see what this means to the
United States. It means that the United
States, as compared with that position we
806
