[379] Dec. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
erage to include prescription drugs and
for accelerating the rate at which the in-
come floor comes into effect under H.R. I.
Now, as you know, these programs in-
volve very, very substantial budget prob-
lems for the Administration. Therefore,
they are ones that will need a great deal
of consideration and study. Because of the
interest which you have expressed in these
programs, I have directed the Domestic
Council, under John Ehrlichman who has
already addressed you, to carefully con-
sider both proposals, to make recommen-
dations to me at an early date.
Your work is not yet over. You have a
message to take home with you from this
Conference, a message which must now
be heard in every community in this land.
Let me tell you what it is.
We need a new national attitude toward
older people in this country. That attitude
must be one which recognizes that Amer-
ica, whatever it does for its older citizens,
fully appreciates what our older citizens
can do for America.
Only a new national attitude toward
aging can end the throwaway psychology
which I understand was so graphically
demonstrated in the film you saw Sunday
night. Only a new attitude toward aging
can reopen the doors of opportunity which
have too often been closing on older men
and women.
To borrow another phrase from your
multimedia presentation-only a new at-
titude toward aging can keep older Amer-
icans from "slipping through the cracks."
We are entering a period when people
will be retiring even earlier from their
regular jobs, and when it will, therefore, be
more important than ever to recognize
that retirement from work does not mean
retirement from life. This concept must be
at the heart of our new national attitude
toward aging.
I see a great number of people in the
White House, young people, middle-aged,
older people, not nearly as many as I
would like to see, but every day some come
through to receive an award, recognition,
and some just want to come in and see the
President for some reason. A few months
ago I met with a remarkable man. His
name was George Black. For more than 80
years, this man has been making bricks by
hand in Winston-Salem, North Carolina,
his own special way of doing it. He is a
master craftsman.
When he came in to see me, he didn't
look it, but he told me he was 93 years
old. But his productive years were not
over. So our Government, under one of
the programs that we fortunately had, sent
this remarkable man to a country that
needed to learn about that almost forgot-
ten skill of making bricks by hand. George
Black went to Guyana, in South America,
so that he could share his skills with the
people of that less developed country.
When I asked him about his trip, this is
what he said: "I've always asked the Lord
to let my last days be my best days. I feel
like He's answering my prayers."
George Black's prayer is the prayer of
millions of Americans "to let my last
days be my best days." And for them, as
for him, its answer depends not only on
what they are given but on what they
continue to give.
Older Americans have much to give this
country. The best thing this country can
give to them is the chance to be a part of
it, a chance to play a continuing role in
the great American adventure.
In a real sense, therefore, this Confer-
ence is just beginning, for all of us are
1160
