Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
stand-and therefore support-sweeping
and seemingly permanent overseas in-
volvement in local problems, particularly
when other countries seem able to make
greater efforts themselves.
The intellectual adjustment is a healthy
development for other nations as well as
for us. It requires them to think hard
about some issues that had been removed,
or had never appeared, on their national
agendas. It is no more in their interest
than in ours to place on the United States
the onus for complicated decisions-the
structure of an army, the outline of a de-
velopment plan, the components of an
economic policy, the framework of a re-
gional alliance.
The Nixon Doctrine, then, should not
be thought of primarily as the sharing of
burdens or the lightening of our load. It
has a more positive meaning for other
nations and for ourselves.
In effect we are encouraging countries
to participate fully in the creation of plans
and the designing of programs. They must
define the nature of their own security
and determine the path of their own prog-
ress. For only in this manner will they
think of their fate as truly their own.
This new sharing requires a new, more
subtle form of leadership. Before, we often
acted as if our role was primarily one of
drawing up and selling American blue-
prints. Now, we must evoke the ideas of
others and together consider programs
that meet common needs. We will concen-
trate more on getting other countries en-
gaged with us in the formulation of
policies; they will be less involved in try-
ing to influence American decisions and
more involved in devising their own
approaches.
More than ever before in the period
since World War II, foreign policy must
become the concern of many rather than
few. There cannot be a structure of
peace unless other nations help to fashion
it. Indeed, in this central fact lie both
its hope and its elusiveness: it cannot be
built except by the willing hands—and
minds-of all.
It was in this context that at Guam
in the summer of 1969, and in my Novem-
ber 3, 1969 address to the Nation, I laid
out the elements of new partnership.
"First, the United States will keep all
of its treaty commitments." We will re-
spect the commitments we inherited-
both because of their intrinsic merit, and
because of the impact of sudden shifts on
regional or world stability. To desert those
who have come to depend on us would
cause disruption and invite aggression. It
is in everyone's interest, however, includ-
ing those with whom we have ties, to view
undertakings as a dynamic process. Main-
taining the integrity of commitments re-
quires relating their tangible expression,
such as troop deployments or financial
contributions, to changing conditions.
The concrete results vary. In South
Korea fewer U.S. troops are required, but
Korean forces must receive more modern
equipment. In NATO a continuing level
of U.S. forces and greater European con-
tributions are in order. The best way of
maintaining stable relationships with our
allies is jointly to reach common conclu-
sions and jointly to act on them.
In contemplating new commitments we
will apply rigorous yardsticks. What pre-
cisely is our national concern? What pre-
cisely is the threat? What would be the
efficacy of our involvement? We do not
rule out new commitments, but we will
relate them to our interests. For as I said
in last year's report:
"Our objective, in the first instance, is
223
