[337] Oct. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion of criminal justice.
Lewis Powell is from Virginia. But like
another great Virginian, Chief Justice
Marshall, Lewis Powell is recognized by
his legal colleagues throughout the Nation
as being a man who represents not just
Virginia and the South-he is first and
foremost a very great American.
WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
William Rehnquist has been outstand-
ing in every intellectual endeavor he has
undertaken. He was graduated from
Stanford University Phi Beta Kappa,
1948. He graduated first in his class from
the Stanford University Law School in
1952. And then he was awarded one of
the highest honors a law graduate can
achieve: He was chosen as law clerk for
Mr. Justice Robert Jackson, one of the
most outstanding members of the Supreme
Court in the past half-century.
In this position, he acted as legal assist-
ant to the Justice, and his duties included
legal research of the highest order.
Upon leaving the Court, Mr. Rehnquist
engaged in the general practice of law for
16 years in Phoenix, Arizona, until 1969,
when I appointed him Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legal Counsel.
Now, that is a very technical name. Let
me tell you what it means. The Legal
Counsel has a very special function in the
Department of Justice, serving as the
chief interpreter, for the whole Govern-
ment, of the Constitution and the statutes
of the United States. He is, in effect, the
President's lawyer's lawyer.
I was a member of a major New York
law firm, a senior partner. I have had the
opportunity both in Government and in
private practice to know the top lawyers
in this country, and, as a matter of fact,
some of the top lawyers in the world, and
I would rate William Rehnquist as hav-
ing one of the finest legal minds in this
whole Nation today.
He has discharged his responsibility in
his capacity as the President's lawyer's
lawyer with such great distinction that,
among the thousands of able lawyers who
serve in the Federal Government, he rates
at the very top as a constitutional lawyer
and as a legal scholar.
Lewis Powell. William Rehnquist.
Those are names you will remember, be-
cause they will add distinction and ex-
cellence in the highest degree to the
Supreme Court of the United States.
I am asking the Senate to approve their
nominations promptly, so that the Court
can move forward in the backlog of cases
that is building up because of the two
vacancies which have occurred in recent
weeks.
Let me add a final word tonight with
regard to a subject that is very close to
my heart because of my legal background
and because of years of study of the Amer-
ican system of government. I have noted
with great distress a growing tendency in
the country to criticize the Supreme Court
as an institution. Now, let us all recognize
that every individual has a right to dis-
agree with decisions of a court. But after
those decisions are handed down, it is our
obligation to obey the law, whether we
like it or not; and it is our duty as citi-
zens to respect the institution of the Su-
preme Court of the United States.
We have had many historic, and even
sometimes violent, debates throughout our
history about the role of the Supreme
Court in our Government. But let us never
forget that respect for the Court, as the
final interpreter of the law, is indispensa-
ble if America is to remain a free society.
1056
