Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 26 [29]
maximum a decade ago. I am renewing
the administration's proposal that these
benefits be increased to a level more in
line with the increased wages and living
costs since the present levels were set.
Other liberalizing provisions of the Long-
shoremen's and Harbor Workers' Com-
pensation Act are being resubmitted as
part of this proposal.
Under this legislation the recovery of
damages by employees from their em-
ployers, including shipowners, would be
limited to those specified under the Act.
We seek to eliminate situations in which
longshoremen are permitted to recover
damages in suits against shipowners,
which usually require the longshore em-
ployer to indemnify the shipowner for the
damages paid.
AMERICA'S OVERDUE DEBTS
There are three groups of peoples, two
of them among the earliest inhabitants of
the Western Hemisphere, to whom this
nation has outstanding obligations that
ought to be met.
AMERICAN INDIANS AND ALASKA NATIVES
The first two of these are the American
Indians and the Alaska Natives. After full
consultation with Indian leaders is com-
plete, the unenacted legislation outlined
in
my Message of last July 8 will be re-
viewed and promptly submitted again.
An Alaska Native Claims bill will also be
submitted which I believe will equitably
resolve the Native claims in that State.
These legislative proposals would take
America in a new more hopeful direc-
tion in dealing with the problems of a ter-
ribly neglected minority of our people.
THE MICRONESIANS
Under the Executive Agreement of
April 18, 1969 between Japan and the
United States, inhabitants of the Trust
Territory of the Pacific Islands are to be
compensated for damages suffered during
World War II. The agreement stipulates
that each government will make ex gratia
contributions of $5 million for the welfare
of the people of Micronesia.
I am renewing the administration's
request that the Congress authorize ap-
propriations of $5 million to meet that
commitment, and also that the Congress
establish a five-member commission to set-
tle the claims of individual Micronesians
resulting from World War II and to de-
termine the validity of additional claims
for property damage arising after the
war.
Congressional action on these matters
would render overdue justice to the peo-
ple of Micronesia.
PURE FOOD AND DRUGS
Two pieces of "preventive" legislation
are being resubmitted dealing with the
health of the American people. The first
has to do with the wholesomeness of fish
and fish products which form so signifi-
cant a segment of the American diet;
the second with preventing illness and
death from accidental misuse of prescrip-
tion drugs.
FISH INSPECTION
Fish and fish products, a major source
of protein in the American diet, are highly
perishable foods. Improperly handled,
they become a medium for bacterial
63
