Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 17 [61]
REVENUE SHARING
[15.] Q. Mr. President, have you been
disappointed with the reaction in Congress
to your revenue sharing plan, and what
do you feel about the prospects of that
right now?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I am not disap-
pointed. All reforms have rough sledding.
When we consider reforms, we must re-
member that they are always opposed by
the establishment. And by the establish-
ment, I don't refer to what we used to talk
about in 1964, some used to talk about-
the eastern establishment-I am referring
to the establishment of Congress, the es-
tablishment of the Federal bureaucracy,
and also great organizations, labor organi-
zations, farm organizations, business or-
ganizations have all gotten used to dealing
with government as it is and they are
always afraid of change.
As far as the Congress is concerned and
the bureaucracy is concerned, as I pointed
out in the State of the Union, they are
very, very reluctant to give up power. We
expected a difficult time in getting reve-
nue sharing through.
But let me put it, if I can, in other
terms. We have been talking about foreign
policy. We in Washington, in Govern-
ment, live at the very summit of govern-
ment. And here we do find opposition,
dug-in establishmentarians fighting for
the status quo or for just a little change or
for putting more money into existing pro-
grams rather than really reforming them.
That is the case here. But that is what
is happening at the summit. Down in the
valleys, where the people live, you will find
there that the people in the frontlines, the
leaders in the frontlines, the Governors,
the mayors, the county officials, an over-
whelming majority of them, are for reve-
nue sharing-both general revenue shar-
ing and the other an overwhelming
majority, and also an overwhelming
majority of the people of this country are
for revenue sharing.
Eventually, then, it will be approved. I
am not suggesting exactly in the form we
have submitted it, but it will be approved
because those of us who are in Washing-
ton have to reflect eventually what the
majority of the people of this country feel.
And as I look at the situation now, I
would say I expected that we would have
this kind of opposition. However, I must
say that the favorable reaction that we
have had at the grassroots and among
Governors and mayors and county officials
has been greater than I expected, and that
will be the decisive factor in getting it
through.
Q. What do you visualize with regard to
accounting procedures on this-what the
GAO role would be-for the States and
the county and city governments?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let's distinguish
the procedures with regard to civil rights
guarantees. Those procedures, of course,
will be set up in our revenue sharing pro-
grams, and the civil rights laws and re-
quirements will be enforced.
We cannot have programs that are paid
for by the tax money of all the people and
benefit only some of the people.
Second, however, with regard to ac-
counting procedures, I can assure you
that
despite some speculation on this score we
don't intend to set up a huge network of
bureaucrats to go down and examine the
cities and the counties and the States with
regard to whether or not they are properly
expending funds.
What we are going to do there is to
167
