Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [135]
When I left Washington in January of
1961, after serving 8 years as Vice Presi-
dent under President Eisenhower, there
were no American combat forces in Viet-
nam. No Americans had died in combat
in Vietnam.
When I returned to Washington as
President 8 years later, there were 540,000
American troops in Vietnam. Thirty-one
thousand had died there. Three hundred
Americans were being lost every week
and there was no comprehensive plan to
end the United States involvement in the
war.
I implemented a plan to train and
equip the South Vietnamese, to withdraw
American forces, and to end American
involvement in the war just as soon as
the South Vietnamese had developed the
capacity to defend their country against
Communist aggression. On this chart on
my right, you can see how our plan has
succeeded. In June of 1969, I announced
a withdrawal of 25,000 men; in Septem-
ber, 40,000; December, 50,000; April of
1970, 150,000. By the first of next month,
May 1, we will have brought home more
than 265,000 Americans-almost half of
the troops in Vietnam when I took office.
Now another indication of the progress
we have made is in reducing American
casualties. Casualties were five times as
great in the first 3 months of 1969 as they
were in the first 3 months this year, 1971.
South Vietnamese casualties have also
dropped significantly in the past 2 years.
One American dying in combat is one too
many. But our goal is no American fight-
ing man dying anyplace in the world.
Every decision I have made in the past
and every decision I make in the future
will have the purpose of achieving that
goal.
Let me review now two decisions I have
made which have contributed to the
achievements of our goals in Vietnam that
have seen on this chart.
you
The first was the destruction of enemy
bases in Cambodia. You will recall that
at the time of that decision, many ex-
pressed fears that we had widened the
war, that our casualties would increase,
that our troop withdrawal program would
be delayed. Now I don't question the sin-
cerity of those who expressed these fears.
But we can see now they were wrong.
American troops were out of Cambodia in
60 days, just as I pledged they would be.
American casualties did not rise; they
were cut in half. American troop with-
drawals were not halted or delayed; they
continued at an accelerated pace.
Now let me turn to the Laotian opera-
tion. As you know, this was undertaken
by South Vietnamese ground forces with
American air support against North Viet-
namese troops which had been using Lao-
tian territory for 6 years to attack
American forces and allied forces in South
Vietnam. Since the completion of that
operation, there has been a great deal of
understandable speculation—just as there
was after Cambodia-whether or not it
was a success or a failure, a victory or a
defeat. But, as in Cambodia, what is im-
portant is not the instant analysis of the
moment, but what happens in the future.
Did the Laotian operation contribute
to the goals we sought? I have just com-
pleted my assessment of that operation
and here are my conclusions:
First, the South Vietnamese demon-
strated that without American advisers
they could fight effectively against the
very best troops North Vietnam could put
in the field.
Second, the South Vietnamese suffered
heavy casualties, but by every conservative
523
