Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. II [93]
courts willing and partially able to as-
sume the burden of its gravest problems.
Throughout a tumultuous generation, our
system of justice has helped America im-
prove itself; there is an urgent need now
for America to help the courts improve
our system of justice.
But if we limit ourselves to calling for
more judges, more police, more lawyers
operating in the same system, we will pro-
duce more backlogs, more delays, more
litigation, more jails, and more criminals.
"More of the same" is not the answer.
What is needed now is genuine reform—
the kind of change that requires imagina-
tion and daring, that demands a focus on
ultimate goals, just as you have indicated
imagination and daring and are focusing
on ultimate goals.
The ultimate goal of changing the proc-
ess of justice is not to put more people in
jail or merely to provide a faster flow of
litigation. It is to resolve conflict speedily
but fairly, to reverse the trend toward
crime and violence, to reinstill a respect
for law in all of our people.
The watchword of my Administration
has been reform. As we have undertaken
it in many fields, this is what we have
found: Reform as an abstraction is some-
thing that everybody is for, but reform as
a specific is something that a lot of people
are against.
A good example of this can be found in
the law: Everyone is for a "speedy trial"
as a constitutional principle, but there is a
good deal of resistance to a speedy trial in
practice.
The founders of this Nation wrote these
words into the Bill of Rights: "the accused
shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public
trial." The word "speedy" was nowhere
modified or watered down in that Consti-
tution or any time since by a court opin-
ion. We have to assume they meant exactly
what they said—a speedy trial.
It is not an impossible goal. In criminal
cases in Great Britain today, most accused
persons are brought to trial within 60 days
after arrest. And most appeals in Britain
are decided within 3 months after they
are filed.
Let's look at the situation in the United
States. In case after case, the delay be-
tween arrest and trial is far too long. In
New York and Philadelphia, the delay is
over 5 months; in the State of Ohio, it is
over 6 months; in Chicago, an accused
man waits 6 to 9 months before his case
even comes up.
In case after case, the appeal process
is misused to obstruct rather than to ad-
vance the cause of justice. Throughout
the State systems, the average time it takes
to process an appeal is estimated to be as
long as a year and a half. The greater
the delay in commencing a trial, or retrial
resulting from an appeal, the greater the
likelihood that witnesses will be unavail-
able and other evidence difficult to pre-
serve and present. This means the failure
of the process of justice.
The law's delay creates bail problems,
as well as overcrowded jails; it forces
judges to accept pleas of guilty to lesser
offenses just to process the caseload-in
other words, as some have said, to "give
away the courthouse for the sake of the
calendar." Without proper safeguards,
this can turn a court of justice into a
mill of injustice.
In his perceptive message on "The State
of the Federal Judiciary," Chief Justice
Burger makes the point that speedier trials
would be a deterrent to crime. I am cer-
tain that this holds true in the courts of all
jurisdictions, not just the Federal courts.
Justice delayed is not only justice de-
419
