[297] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
we properly floated our dollar, our U.S.
controls on capital exports by banks and
industry are now counterproductive. They
help the foreign governments keep their
currencies like the yen and the mark
artificially cheap in relation to our dollar,
and this hurts our American jobs.
Why don't we eliminate the capital ex-
port controls immediately, and, inciden-
tally, then we would have some people we
could put to work on the wage-price
freeze?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
the capital export controls, this is a mat-
ter that we have considered, and it is a
goal to which we are dedicated. As we
move from this temporary period with a
surcharge, with the dollar floating, our
goal is to move toward a new system with
regard to international exchange rates
which will be more responsive to the
changing dynamic world scene in which
we presently find ourselves. The old rigid
pattern can't be patched up so that it
will work again, and work effectively.
With regard to the burden sharing—
which is the term usually used for the
Japanese and the Europeans, for whom
we provide a defense umbrella, assuming
more of a share of the burden-with re-
gard to burden sharing, this is a matter
that is constantly under discussion be-
tween the United States and our friends
in Japan and our friends in Europe.
I do not think, however, it would be
helpful to answer the question in a way
that would, in effect, be belligerent, that
would put them on the spot from a
domestic political standpoint at this time.
Just let me respond this way: We are
going to meet with the International
Monetary Fund next week. There will be
other meetings in the future. The position
of the United States is going to be strong
and firm with regard to seeing that our
American producers get a fair deal and
fair trade throughout the world.
On the other hand, the position of the
United States is going to be outward, not
inward. We are going to try to build a
new international monetary system under
which we can all live and compete more
effectively.
And the position of the United States,
I think should also be interpreted as one
which will recognize this fact: 25 years
ago, the United States could afford to be
very generous as it dealt with the nations
that were on their backs; there was no-
body in the world that could compete with
us.
Today the United States has some diffi-
cult competitive problems, due to some
artificial barriers that I have mentioned,
due to unfair exchange rates which we
will attempt to correct. As far as we are
concerned, we say, therefore, we will not
give up the surcharge as some have ad-
vocated in order to placate our friends
who are concerned about it; we are not
going to give up the surcharge, and we
are not going to move precipitately with
regard to the international monetary situ-
ation until we can be assured that we are
building a permanent foundation for fair,
free international trade in the future.
That is our goal and consistent with
that goal, of course, would be getting rid
of these capital controls to which you
referred.
PROBLEMS OF THE CITIES
[17] Mr. Hastings.
Q. Mr. President, we are all terribly
concerned about the deterioration of cities
978
