[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
and as long as there is still a time needed.
for the South Vietnamese to develop the
capability of self-defense.
IMPACT OF INDOCHINA POLICY ON
ASIAN LIVES
[10.] MR. DICKINSON. Just one more
question on Indochina. Most of your com-
ments on our Indochina policy have em-
phasized that it is saving American lives.
What I want to ask is, what about the
lives of Asians and the many, many
refugees created by the incursions into
Laos and Cambodia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Dickinson,
let's look at the Asian lives. I think of the
50,000 South Vietnamese civilians who
have been murdered by North Viet-
namese and VC since this war began. I
think of a half million, by conservative
estimates, in North Vietnam who were
murdered or otherwise exterminated by
the North Vietnamese after they took over
from the South.
I visited South Vietnam just after the
North Vietnamese took over in North
Vietnam. As a matter of fact, I am one
of the few people, at least in public life,
who has been to Hanoi. I was there in
and then came back in 1956. I visited
1953
a refugee camp. A million refugees came
from North Vietnam to South Vietnam.
And they came there because of the ter-
rible atrocities that were visited upon
them by the Government of North
Vietnam.
Now, let's talk for a moment to put that
in balance. We say, what about the people
in Laos? As far as the activities in Laos
are concerned, the bombing activities in
Laos are concerned, if you will look at that
particular area that is totally occupied by
the North Vietnamese at this time, the
number of civilians could be very, very
small. As far as civilian casualties in South
Vietnam are concerned from airstrikes,
they are very, very small, because the war
has moved out of South Vietnam. The
South Vietnamese now have taken it over.
And as far as our activities are concerned,
on balance I would say that the United
States, by its actions in South Vietnam—
and I say I understand the controversy,
the difficulty, the moral concern that
many Americans have about all wars, and
particularly this kind of a war, so difficult
to understand-but on balance, I will say
this: that if the United States were to fail
in Vietnam, if the Communists were to
take over, the bloodbath that would fol-
low would be a blot on this Nation's his-
tory from which we would find it very
difficult to return.
Now, it is not necessary-we are now
in a position where we can and, I can
confidently say, we are ending American
involvement; we are going to end it in a
way that will, we believe, give South Viet-
nam a chance-not guarantee it—to
defend itself against a Communist take-
over. And I believe that this will save
many more thousands of Asian lives than
it is contended were lost because of
American activities.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[11.] MR. DEDMON. Mr. President,
when you last appeared before this con-
vention prior to becoming President, you
mentioned that laying the groundwork
for future relations with the People's
Republic of China would be one of the
primary goals of your Administration.
In light of recent events, as well as the
trade review which you have ordered, it
looks like this is one area where you are
542
