Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [256]
some are social, some are political. But
among the most substantial barriers to
progress in this area are those which are
institutional in nature.
In my environmental messages of 1970
and 1971 and in my message accompany-
ing the Council's first annual report, I
emphasized the pressing need to reform
the machinery through which government
carries out its environmental programs.
These reforms have been progressing
rapidly at the Federal level. In the Execu-
tive Office of the President, environ-
mental policy is now being developed by
the Council on Environmental Quality, a
group which has been working effectively
to broaden our perspectives and sharpen
our insights concerning the underlying
causes of environmental problems and the
best methods of solving them. The Coun-
cil is also responsible for coordinating all
Federal environmental programs and for
seeing that environmental values are given
full consideration by all Federal agencies
as they make their own policy decisions.
To administer and enforce our pollu-
tion control laws, we have established a
new Environmental Protection Agency,
giving new muscle-on a day-by-day
basis to our commitment to a cleaner
environment, EPA brings together under
unified direction our air and water pollu-
tion programs and our efforts in the fields
of solid waste management, noise abate-
ment, pesticide regulation, and radiation
standard-setting. Already, during the first
half-year of its existence, EPA has pro-
vided vigorous new leadership in all these
areas. Together, the Environmental
Quality Council and the Environmental
Protection Agency provide a forceful
institutional team for Federal environ-
mental actions.
Finally, I have recommended to the
Congress a new Department of Natural
Resources with unified responsibility for
energy, water and natural resource pro-
grams. Pollution control is not the only
solution to the difficulties of our environ-
ment. We must also provide wide and co-
ordinated management of all our natural
resources so that man can live and work
in greater harmony with the natural sys-
tems of which he is a part. I consider the
Department of Natural Resources an inte-
gral element in our reform program and I
again urge the Congress to approve this
high priority proposal.
State governments are likewise moving
boldly. From New York to Illinois to the
State of Washington, the machinery for
policymaking and for administration of
environmental programs has been re-
formed and strengthened. As expected,
the diversity of our country has been re-
flected in the many unique and innovative
approaches that various States have taken
to meet environmental challenges. Ver-
mont, for example, has already adopted a
program of State-wide land use authori-
ties and it plans to supplement its water
pollution controls with effluent charges.
New York, Washington and Illinois have
created new agencies and combined old
ones in an effort to relate more effectively
the functions of government to the prob-
lems of the environment. Other States are
also moving to approach environmental
issues in a new way.
2. FEDERAL DECISION-MAKING-THE
NEW GROUND RULES
The National Environmental Policy
Act requires that Federal agencies take
environmental factors into full account in
all their planning and decision-making. It
requires agencies to describe in writing the
869
