[379] Dec. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
an older person's income may be even
going down.
Property tax collections have increased
by 40 percent in the last 5 years alone.
Now, here is where older Americans come
in. We have checked and found that 70
percent of older Americans own their own
homes. For many, these homes represent
a lifetime of careful saving, and yet, be-
cause of property taxes, the same home
which has been a symbol of their inde-
pendence often becomes the cause of their
impoverishment.
Take the 30 percent that don't own
their homes. Those who rent their homes
often bear an unfair burden since property
tax increases are often passed along in the
form of higher rents.
The inequity of the property tax is often
the greater because it takes money from
those who have already educated their
own children, and uses it largely for the
education of other children.
I received a letter recently from a
woman whose parents brought her and
five other children to this country from
Switzerland many years ago. They settled
in California as homesteaders. They were
full of hope and pride. Over the years that
followed, they made their dreams come
true. But today, many, many years later,
things have changed so much that Mrs.
Ewing begins her letter to me by saying,
"Was it just an empty dream after all?"
Her father, at 73, is too ill, too tired,
to work. His family is grown and scattered.
To meet his real estate taxes, he is now
being forced to sell the property for which
he worked so hard and so long. Then she
goes on to say, "If this is really the country
I grew up believing it to be, these in-
humane property tax laws must be
changed."
She is right, and they should be
changed. That is why we need a complete
overhaul of our property taxes and of our
whole system of financing public educa-
tion, because the property tax, as you
know, in California as well as in many
other States, is the primary tax which can
and must be used at this time for financing
public education.
Our revenue sharing proposals which
were made a year ago, and which still have
not been acted upon, can help relieve the
pressure on property taxes, and older
Americans have a large stake in enacting
those proposals. But I believe we have to
move in another front, more directly on
the problem of property taxes. I am,
therefore, working with our Domestic
Council, and working specifically with
Secretary of the Treasury Connally, pre-
paring specific proposals to ease the crush-
ing burden of property taxes for older
Americans and for all Americans.
The President's Commission on School
Finance, which I appointed last year, has
been carefully studying a range of possible
remedies. These remedies will involve
large sums of money. But we are prepared,
however, to make the hard decisions we
are going to have to make to provide prop-
erty tax relief.
The time has come, in this subject as
in others, to stop talking about the impact
of property taxes on older Americans, to
act in their behalf and in behalf of other
citizens in similar circumstances.
Now, I want to go to another matter
that I know has had consideration here,
and one on which I find very fundamental
agreement with your conclusions. That is
the inadequacy of private pension plans.
One-half of our work force is not even
enrolled in such a plan, and many of those
who are enrolled have inadequate or un-
reliable coverage.
1156
