Appendix B
June
2 The President announced the designation
of Charles A. Meyer, Assistant Secretary
of State for Inter-American Affairs, and
Hewson A. Ryan, United States Ambassa-
dor to Honduras, as his Personal Represent-
atives with the rank of Special Ambassador
to attend the ceremonies incident to
the inauguration of His Excellency Ramon
Ernesto Cruz as President of the Republic
of Honduras, on June 5-7 in Tegucigalpa.
In addition, the President designated As-
sistant Secretary Meyer as head of the
delegation and John R. Breen, Country
Director for Central America, as a member
of the delegation.
2 President Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua
met with the President at the White House.
President Nixon hosted a dinner in honor
of President Somoza and distinguished
members of the 1946 West Point graduating
class, President Somoza's class.
3 The President met with the Secretary of
Defense, the three Service Secretaries, mem-
bers of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and other
Administration officials involved in dealing
with drugs and related problems, to dis-
cuss the problem of drug abuse in the mili-
tary services.
3 Members of the Poznan Boys Choir of
Poland and the All-Philadelphia Boys
Choir met with the President in the Rose
Garden, where they sang several numbers.
3 The President and Mrs. Nixon held a recep-
tion at the White House for members of the
80th Congressional Club and other Mem-
bers of the 92d Congress who also served in
the 80th Congress, and their wives. The 80th
Congress was the President's freshman
Congress.
4 The President met with the President's For-
eign Intelligence Advisory Board.
4 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York,
who was in Washington to attend the meet-
ing of the President's Foreign Intelligence
Advisory Board, met with the President at
the White House.
June
7 Gov. A. Linwood Holton of Virginia met
with the President at the White House.
7 William D. Brewer, United States Ambas-
sador to Mauritius, paid a courtesy call on
the President.
8 Members of the Board of Directors of the
National Railway Passenger Corporation
met with the President at the White House.
8 Mayor John Driggs of Phoenix, Ariz., called
on the President to present a commemora-
tive centennial medallion.
8 The President has designated Secretary of
Agriculture Clifford M. Hardin to head an
official United States Delegation to the
second Kinshasa International Trade Fair
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
on July 2-4. Secretary Hardin and other
representatives will participate in America
Day ceremonies there on July 4.
8 The President announced that a 141-acre
federally owned site adjacent to the Fort
Snelling State Historical Park in Min-
nesota is being offered to the State for
recreational purposes.
8 The President greeted bipartisan leaders of
the House of Representatives who came to
the White House for a briefing on long-
range goals for the country and on the
international trade and monetary situation.
The briefing was conducted by Peter G.
Peterson, Assistant to the President for
International Economic Affairs. Members
of the Senate were unable to attend because
of votes and debate scheduled on pending
legislation on the draft.
9 Members of the Vincent T. Lombardi
Memorial Athletic Center Committee met
with the President to discuss plans for the
Center at Fordham University.
10 Jacob D. Beam, United States Ambassador
to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
met with the President at the White House.
10 The President met with executives of na-
tional railroads for a discussion of the rail-
way industry and prospects for the future.
1257
