Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
international structure in the Pacific re-
gion. The challenge for the future is to
ensure that it is a structure of stability.
THE PAST-LAYING THE FOUNDATION FOR
A STABLE EAST ASIA
For several decades, our approach to
Asia has been rooted in conceptions, once
valid, but now increasingly overtaken by
time. They stemmed from our experi-
ences, for World War II and its after-
math served to dramatize the fragility of
Asia, and nowhere was the menace of the
cold war more strongly evident.
Both the economies and the political
institutions of East Asia were shattered
by World War II. Most of the states of
the region were just emerging from the
trauma of colonialism. They faced the
common menace of a thrusting Com-
munist ambition, and the awesome task
of attempting to handle the most grievous
domestic problems with untested and un-
familiar institutions. In dealing with
neither challenge could they count on any
dependable relationship among them-
selves or with the rest of the world. Their
problems threatened to overwhelm them.
They were not sure they had a future,
much less that it could be reached with-
out the sacrifice of human and demo-
cratic values.
In such a situation a stable Asia was not
conceivable. We therefore acted to pro-
vide the margin of time and resources
which the free nations of Asia needed so
desperately.
We provided the security shield which
made credible their plans for their own
future. Behind that shield we undertook
a leading role in supporting the political
and economic progress of East Asian na-
tions. In short, we accepted the responsi-
bility of helping to create the foundation
necessary for an international structure in
the Pacific region of stability and progress
and security.
THE PRESENT THE NEED FOR A NEW
APPROACH
It is precisely the success of that policy
that makes a new approach both possible
and desirable. For the central fact of East
Asia today is the remarkable political and
economic growth of the area, and the
justifiable self-confidence that has re-
sulted from it.
Asia of today is vastly different from
the Asia which required, over the past
several decades, so activist an American
role. Asian nations now generally have a
strong and confident sense of their own
national identity and future. They have
generally established healthier relation-
ships with each other, and with the out-
side world. They have created institutions
of proven vitality. Their armed forces are
stronger.
There is, to be sure, still a need for a
strong American role. The development
of Asian nations has not taken place
evenly. The credibility and intensity of
outside threats to their national security
and integrity is greater for some than for
others. Despite the general economic
progress of Asia, the standards of living
are still far too low, and we have more
than a moral interest in seeing those
standards improved. For poverty in Asia
is inconsistent with our political interest
in the stability of the area, and our eco-
nomic interest in a prosperous Asia with
which we are a natural trading partner.
However, the new strength in Asia is a
fact, and it requires a different and more
restrained American approach, designed
269
