[350] Nov. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
ticularly in areas which have been most
severely affected. Unfortunately, despite
the fact that the Department of Labor
made funding available almost immedi-
ately, hiring has not kept pace in some
areas of the Nation.
Therefore, I urge you to move with
speed and vigor to fill the job vacancies
now funded in your jurisdiction. If you
should encounter any funding or admin-
istrative difficulties under this program,
please feel free to contact the Secretary
of Labor and his staff directly.
As you make use of this program, I
especially hope that you will also make
every effort to meet and exceed the one-
third goal established for employment of
veterans. This Nation owes a great debt to
those who have served in the Vietnamese
conflict and who have been returning
35I
home in increasing numbers. I have as-
signed the highest priority to the hiring of
Vietnam veterans, and I hope that you
will do the same with respect to the funds
available to you under this statute.
This Administration is dedicated to the
task of creating the new jobs needed for
an expanding America-a goal which I
know you share. This program is vital to
our combined efforts; I earnestly solicit
your active cooperation.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The letter was dated November 3, 1971,
and was made available to the press at Key
Biscayne, Fla., on November 7.
Copies of the letter were sent to some
14,000 State, county, and local officials, in-
cluding Governors, mayors, and county officials
in jurisdictions of 100,000 or more.
Remarks at a "Salute to the President" Dinner in
New York City. November 9,
Governor Rockefeller, Governor Meskill,
Governor Cahill, Senator Javits, Secretary
Rogers, all of the distinguished guests here
at this dinner, and all the distinguished
guests at the other dinners on this closed-
circuit television:
I know that these dinners have been
advertised as a "Salute to the President."
I think I should return the salute, and
tonight I would like to salute several of
those that you have heard, and also those
that are at the other dinners.
First, I want to salute the really big-
gest contributors. I don't mean those that
bought the most tickets-you were big
contributors, too-but the really big con-
tributors to this dinner tonight are people
like Bob Hope and the other celebrities
all over America. You gave your money;
1971
they gave time we couldn't possibly af-
ford to buy. Thank you, Bob Hope.
I also would like to salute all of those
who have participated in these programs,
not only at this dinner but at the others
that are on this closed circuit throughout
the eastern seaboard: to Governor Rocke-
feller and his fellow Governors, to the
Senators, the Congressmen, to those all
over this part of the country who have
made such a contribution, and, of course,
to my fellow members of the Cabinet.
May I also say that New York can be
proud of the fact that not only are you so
well represented here at this dinner, but
that your own Senator, Jim Buckley, is
speaking in Dallas at the closed-circuit
television there.
Finally, of course, I want to salute the
1086
