[12] Jan. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
want yours to be the first generation in this
century to enjoy a full generation of
peace.
I have a plan which we are imple-
menting to obtain that kind of peace. I
can tell you confidently today it is succeed-
ing. I believe yours will be a generation
of peace. And then the question comes,
and this is a bigger question, more pro-
found: What will we do with the peace?
I am not one of those who believe that
we will have instant tranquillity when we
have peace. I was talking to a European
statesman a few months ago about the
common problems that we had in both of
our countries with student unrest, and he
said to me, "The problem with your youth
is war. The problem with our youth is
peace."
What he meant, of course, was that the
challenges of peace are as great as the
challenges of war and as difficult to meet.
There needs to be something more than
the mere absence of war in life. Young
people need something positive to respond
to, some high enterprise in which they can
test themselves, fulfill themselves. We must
have great goals-goals that are worthy
of us, worthy of our resources, our capac-
ities, worthy of the courage and the wis-
dom and the will of our people. And we
do have such great goals at home in
America.
Consider, for example, the problems of
our environment. To subdue the land is
one thing. To destroy it is another, and
we have been destroying it. And now we
must undo what we have done. You must
help in this venture. It will require all the
dedication you can bring to it-your
brains, your energy, your imagination,
those special qualities you possess in such
abundance-idealism, impatience, and
faith. To preserve the good earth is a
great goal.
Consider the problems of our cities.
Through time, cities have been centers of
culture and commerce, and nowhere has
this been more true than in America. But
today, many of our great cities are dying.
We must not let this happen. We can do
better than this. We must do better than
this. Only if the American city can prosper
can the American dream really prevail.
Consider the problems of rural America.
We are a nation not only of cities but of
towns, of villages and farms. In the soul
and substance of rural life in this country
the most abiding values of the American
people are anchored. Rural America, too,
needs our attention. We must create a new
rural environment, a new rural prosperity,
which will not only stem the migration
from rural areas to the cities but which
will bring people back to the heartland of
America.
Consider the problems of overpopula-
tion, the problems of education, the prob-
lems brought about by technology, the
problems of achieving full and equal op-
portunity for all of our people, of health,
the problems of prosperity itself, of pov-
erty in a land of plenty. Those are just a
few of the challenges that face us.
We must face them together. There
can be no generation gap in America. The
destiny of this Nation is not divided into
yours and ours. It is one destiny. We share
it together. We are responsible for it to-
gether. And in the way we respond, history
will judge us together.
There has been too much emphasis on
the differences between the generations in
America. There has been too much of a
tendency of many of my generation to
blame all of your generation for the ex-
32
