Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 25 [116]
strengthening the ten Regional Councils
which include as members the Regional
Directors of various departments
given area of the country.
In the first months of my administra-
tion I moved to establish common regional
boundaries and regional headquarters for
certain domestic departments. I observed
at that time that the Federal Government
has never given adequate attention to the
way in which its departments are orga-
nized to carry out their missions in the
field. It is now time that we remedied
this pattern of neglect. Even the best
organized and best managed departments
in Washington cannot serve the people
adequately if they have to work through
inadequate field structures.
Industry and government both have
found that even the largest organizations
can be run effectively when they are or-
ganized according to rational principles
and managed according to sound tech-
niques. There is nothing mystical about
these principles or these techniques; they
can be used to make the Federal Govern-
ment far more effective in a great many
areas.
As we consolidate and rationalize
Federal functions, as we streamline and
modernize our institutional architecture,
as we introduce new managerial tech-
niques and decentralize Government ac-
tivities, we will give Government the
capacity to operate far more efficiently
than it does today. It will be able to do
more work with fewer mechanisms and
fewer dollars. It will be able to use its
work force more productively. This could
mean significant savings for our taxpayers.
I would emphasize, however, that any
reductions in the Federal work force at-
tributable to this proposal would come by
normal turnover; no civil servant should
lose his job as a result of this plan.
It is important that these reforms be
seen by our civil servants not as a threat
to their security but as an opportunity for
greater achievement. We have worked
hard to bring able people into Govern-
ment employment. Executive reorganiza-
tion can help the Nation make even
better use of their talent and their dedica-
tion and it can also make it easier for us
to attract more men and women of great
vision and competence into public service
at the Federal level.
FOCUSING POWER WHERE IT CAN BE
USED BEST
These proposals for reorganizing the
Federal Government are a natural com-
plement to my proposals for revenue shar-
ing; there is a sense in which these two
initiatives represent two sides of the same
coin. Both programs can help us decen-
tralize government, so that more decisions
can be made at levels closer to the people.
More than that, both programs are con-
cerned with restoring the general capacity
of government to meet its responsibilities.
On the one hand, through revenue
sharing, we would give back to the States
and localities those functions which belong
at the State and local level. To help them
perform those functions more effectively,
we would give them more money to spend
and more freedom in spending it. At the
same time, however, we must also do all
we can to help the Federal Government
handle as effectively as possible those
functions which belong at the Federal
level. Executive reorganization can help
us achieve this end by bringing together
related activities which are now frag-
487
