Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 9 [287]
job for everyone—and that fighting in-
flation is everybody's business. Let us
remember also, that nothing would be
more detrimental to the new prosperity in
the long run than to put this Nation's
great, strong free enterprise system in a
permanent straitjacket of Government
controls.
Regimentation and Government coer-
cion must never become a way of life in
the United States of America. That
means that price and wage stabilization,
in whatever form it takes, must be only a
way station on the road to free markets
and free collective bargaining in a new
prosperity without war. Freedom brought
America where it is today, and freedom
is the road to the future for America.
Now, the long-term matter on which I
seek the cooperation of the Congress cen-
ters on this fact: We must set as our goal
today an economy that within 10 years
will provide 100 million jobs for America.
To meet that goal, we need new tax incen-
tives, other than the one I have discussed
today, for the creation of additional jobs.
And to meet that goal, we need new pro-
grams to insure that America's enormous
wealth of scientific and technological tal-
ent is used to its fullest in the production
for peace.
Later today, in this great chamber,
the Congress will pay tribute to three
splendid Americans back from the moon.
Theirs was a magnificent achievement, a
stunning testament to their personal skill
and courage, and also to what American
technology can achieve.
Let us find the means to insure that in
this decade of challenge, the remarkable
technology that took these Americans to
the moon can also be applied to reaching
our goals here on earth.
That is why, in the next session of the
Congress, I shall present new proposals in
both these areas: tax reform to create
new jobs and new programs to insure the
maximum enlistment of America's tech-
nology in meeting the challenges of peace.
Achieving these goals will be in the vital
interest of the United States not just for
the next year, not just for the next 10
years, but for the balance of this century,
and beyond. I look forward to working
with the Congress, to getting the best
thinking of the Congress in preparing for
this great experience.
As we consider these new economic
policies, it is important that all of us here
today consider the stakes that are
involved.
America has entered a new era in its
economic relationships with the rest of the
world.
For a quarter of a century, now, since
the end of World War II, America has
borne the principal burden of free world
defense, of foreign aid, of helping old na-
tions back onto their feet and new nations
to take their first, sometimes faltering,
steps. We have paid out nearly $150 bil-
lion in foreign aid, economic and military,
over the past 25 years. We have fought
two costly and grueling wars. We have
undergone deep strains at home as we
have sought to reconcile our responsibili-
ties abroad with our own needs here in
America.
In this quarter century, America has
given generously of itself and of its re-
sources and we have done this because
we are America, and America is a good
and a generous nation.
In the years ahead, we will remain a
good and a generous nation-but the time
has come to give a new attention to Amer-
ica's own interests here at home.
Fifteen years ago a prominent world
941
