[93] Mar. 1I
Public Papers of the Presidents
nied, it is also justice circumvented, justice
mocked, the system of justice undermined.
What can be done now to break the
logjam of justice today, to ensure the right
to a speedy trial to enhance respect for
law? We have to find ways to clear the
courts of the endless streams of what are
termed "victimless crimes" that get in
the way of serious consideration of serious
crimes. There are more important mat-
ters for highly skilled judges and prosecu-
tors than minor traffic offenses, loitering,
and drunkenness.
We should open our eyes-as the medi-
cal profession is doing-to the use of para-
professionals in the law. Working under
the supervision of trained attorneys,
"parajudges" could deal with many of the
essentially administrative matters of the
law, freeing the judges to do what a judge
only can do: and that is to judge. The
development of the new office of magis-
trates in the Federal system is a step in
that right direction. In addition, we
should take advantage of many technical
advances, such as electronic information
retrieval, to expedite the result in both
new and traditional areas of the law.
But new efficiencies alone, important as
they are, are not enough to reinstill respect
in our system of justice. A courtroom must
be a place where a fair balance must be
struck between the rights of society and
the rights of the individual.
We all know how the drama of a court-
room often lends itself to exploitation and,
whether it is deliberate or inadvertent,
such exploitation is something we all must
be alert to prevent. All too often, the right
of the accused to a fair trial is eroded by
prejudicial publicity. We must never for-
get that a primary purpose underlying the
defendant's right to a speedy and public
trial is to prevent star-chamber proceed-
ings and not to put on an exciting show or
to satisfy public curiosity at the expense of
the defendant.
In this regard, if I may step into con-
troversial territory for a moment, I
strongly agree with the Chief Justice's
view that the filming of judicial proceed-
ings, or the introduction of live television
to the courtroom, would be a mistake.
The solemn business of justice cannot be
subject to the command of "lights, cam-
era, action."
The white light of publicity can be a
cruel glare, often damaging to the inno-
cent bystander thrust into it and doubly
damaging to the innocent victims of vio-
lence. Here again a balance must be
struck: The right of a free press must be
weighed carefully against an individual's
right to privacy.
Sometimes, however, the shoe is on the
other foot: Society must be protected
from the exploitation of the courts by pub-
licity seekers. Neither the rights of society
nor the rights of the individual are being
protected when a court tolerates anyone's
abuse of the judicial process. When a
court becomes a stage or the center ring
of a circus, it ceases to be a court. The vast
majority of Americans are grateful to
those judges who insist on order in their
courts and who will not be bullied or
stampeded by those who hold in contempt
all this Nation's judicial system stands for.
The reasons for safeguarding the dig-
nity of the courtroom and clearing away
the underbrush that delays the process of
justice go far beyond the questions of
taste and tradition. They go to the central
issue confronting American justice today.
How can we answer the need for more
and more effective access to the courts, for
the resolution of large and small contro-
versies, the protection of individual and
420
