[69] Feb. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Foundation has played a magnificent role
in the public interest for science, and the
National Institutes of Health have played
a similar role for health.
The National Foundation for Higher
Education would fulfill a new role in the
Federal Government. It would have as its
mandate a review of the overall needs of
the American people for post-secondary
education. It would have as its operating
premises, the principles of selectivity and
flexibility. Its constituency would include
people as well as institutions—and not
only the usual secondary student entering
college, but also others such as the per-
son who wants to combine higher educa-
tion with active work experience, or the
one who has left school and wants to
return.
The Foundation can do much to
develop new approaches to higher
education:
-New ways of "going to college." I am
impressed with the need for new and
innovative means of providing higher
education to individuals of all ages
and circumstances (Britain and
Japan, for example, have already
taken significant steps in the use of
television for this purpose).
-New patterns of attending college. A
theme of several recent reports is
that students are isolated too long in
school, and that breaking the educa-
tional "lockstep" would enable them
to be better and more serious students
(as were the GI's after World War
II). If so, student bodies would re-
flect a greater mix of ages and experi-
ence, and colleges would be places for
integrating rather than separating the
generations.
-New approaches to diversify insti-
tutional missions. Colleges and uni-
versities increasingly have aspired to
become complex and "well rounded"
institutions providing a wide spec-
trum of general and specialized edu-
cation. The Foundation could help
institutions to strengthen their indi-
viduality and to focus on particular
missions by encouraging and support-
ing excellence in specific areas—be it
a field of research, professional train-
ing, minority education, or whatever.
SPECIAL HELP FOR BLACK INSTITUTIONS
Colleges and universities founded for
black Americans are an indispensable na-
tional resource. Despite great handicaps
they educate substantial numbers of black
Americans, thereby helping to bring about
a more rapid transition to an integrated
society.
Black institutions are faced with an
historic inadequacy of resources. To help
these institutions compete for students and
faculty with other colleges and universi-
ties, the combined help of government at
all levels, other institutions of higher
learning, and the private sector must be
summoned.
This administration has taken a series of
actions to assist these institutions:
-The proposed reform of student aid
programs, with its concentration of
funds on the neediest students, would
significantly aid students at black
institutions.
-The National Foundation for Higher
Education will direct special efforts
toward meeting the needs of black
colleges.
-Additional funds for black colleges
have been requested for fiscal year
198
