Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [257]
father's advice, both of whom were proud
members of the United States Army, has
joined the Navy and now is a Navy ensign
and, having served with the Sixth Fleet,
is back in Florida. Julie and David are
here with us today. I think you would
like to see them. Come up here, Julie and
David.
Julie, incidentally, is going to follow in
her mother's footsteps, and she is going
to be teaching next year in the second
grade. I must say, if she can handle those
second graders, that will prove that she is
really able to handle anybody.
One other thing on a personal note
that I would like to say: On July 3 I had
a very great honor-and, of course, the
President has so many great honors-on
that occasion we initiated, as you may re-
call, the Bicentennial Era for the United
States of America, because just 5 years
from last July 4th the United States will
be 200 years old.
So on July 3, in the Archives Building,
the Chief Justice of the United States,
the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives, and the President, I, participating
in this particular program, initiated this
Bicentennial Era.
On that occasion I made a little speech.
I said several things in the speech that I
thought were worthwhile. But I want you
to know that that section of the speech
that got the most reaction, the most let-
ters from clear across this country, was
a quotation from a talk that had been
made by the valedictorian of a high school
class right here in New Hampshire,
Cynthia Frink. She is here. She is going
on to Smith College, which is the college
that Julie attended. I think all of New
Hampshire and all of America can be
proud of this fine, young American for
that wonderful speech she made when
she graduated from high school. Here is
Cynthia.
Incidentally, I was interested to know
that Cynthia is working in a supermarket
to get ready and earn some expenses for
college, which reminds me that when I
was her age I was working in a grocery
store. So we were both starting the same
way. Who knows, this might be the first
woman President that you have just seen
right here.
Now, one final word, if I could, to all
of
you here. I am so glad to see every-
body here, of course, particularly happy
to see so many old friends that we have
met on other occasions, on other visits,
and particularly happy that so many
young people could be here. I know that
school is out and, consequently, you have
an opportunity to come to affairs like this
that you would not normally have.
We look at America today and its role
in the world, and I know that many are
worried about that, because when you
listen to television and you read your
newspapers, naturally what makes news is
what is wrong with America, and what is
wrong with what we do in the world. And
that is legitimate. When anything is
wrong, we ought to point it out.
But just let me say, if I may paraphrase
what Cynthia Frink tried to say, and said
so very, very well in that valedictory
speech, let me tell you that at this time in
America's history, on a day like this, with
thousands of people out in the State of
New Hampshire on this beautiful day,
people, young people, older people,
Democrats, Republicans, people of all
walks of life-let me say that when I look
over a crowd like this, when I hear and
feel your warm welcome, I just want to
say this is not an ugly country; this is a
good country. It is a beautiful country, it
875
