Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 28 [414]
change habits. Once you have developed
the habit of getting up early, it is hard to
sleep in. I will try to sleep in, but Christ-
mas morning I usually get up anyway. I
like to get up and see the expressions on
the faces of everybody when they see what
is around the tree, and we do have a tree,
too.
REPORTER. Merry Christmas, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Merry Christmas to all
of you.
NOTE: The President met with reporters before
noon at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center,
Md.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Brig. Gen.
Walter R. Tkach, USAF, Physician to the
President, on the President's annual physical
examination.
413 Statement About the Death of General Emmett
O'Donnell, Jr. December 27, 1971
ACROSS the Nation and around the
world, Americans of all ages and every
walk of life mourn the death of one of
the greatest friends they ever had and one
of this country's foremost patriots.
His unmatched warmth, human com-
passion, and consideration for the needs
of others earned General Rosy O'Donnell
the affection and respect of all who knew
him. His courage in combat, his profes-
sional excellence and dedication, and his
continuing concern long after his retire-
ment for those in uniform won him a spe-
cial place in the annals of our military
history.
He was as sensitive as he was strong,
and he never lacked the ability to lift the
spirits of others and make them forget
their sorrows. His death is a loss for each
of us, but his life was our enduring gain,
and a gain for the country he loved and
served with such tireless energy and
devotion.
My thoughts are particularly with his
family, and we all pray that they may be
strengthened by their remembrance of
him—just as America will be for many
years to come.
NOTE: General O'Donnell, 65, died of a heart
attack in his home in McLean, Va., on Decem-
ber 26, 1971. General O'Donnell was Com-
mander in Chief of the Pacific Air Forces,
Hawaii, 1959-63. He retired from active duty
in 1963, and was president of United Service
Organizations, Inc., from 1964 until his death.
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
414 Statement on Signing a Bill Amending the Social
Security Act. December 28, 1971
I AM today signing into law H.R. 10604
which covers four unrelated subjects and
makes desirable changes in portions of
the Social Security Act.
Two provisions of the measure are
technical in nature.
The first would provide more favorable
treatment for certain social security bene-
ficiaries, particularly parents who lost
their sons in Vietnam, by paying lump-
sum death benefits when the body is not
recovered for burial.
1211
