[73] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
lead it has taken in working within the
United Nations, and within the NATO
alliance, to come to grips with these prob-
lems and with these opportunities.
Our work here is a beginning, not only
in coping with the new challenges of tech-
nology and modern life but of developing
a worldwide "sense of community" that
will ease tension, reduce suspicion, and
thereby promote the process of peace.
That process can only flourish in a
climate of mutual respect.
We can have that mutual respect with
our friends, without dominating them or
without letting them down.
We can have that mutual respect with
our adversaries, without compromising
our principles or weakening our resolve.
And we can have that mutual respect
among ourselves, without stifling dissent
or losing our capacity for action.
Our goal is something Americans have
not enjoyed in this century: a full genera-
tion of peace. A full generation of peace
depends not only on the policy of one
party or of one nation or one alliance or
one bloc of nations.
Peace for the next generation depends
on our ability to make certain that each
nation has a share in its shaping, and that
every nation has a stake in its lasting.
This is the hard way, requiring patience,
restraint, understanding, and—when nec-
essary-bold, decisive action. But history
has taught us that the old diplomacy of
imposing a peace by the fiat of great
powers simply does not work.
I believe that the new diplomacy of
partnership, of mutual respect, of dealing
with strength and determination will
work.
I believe that the right degree of Amer-
ican involvement-not too much and not
too little-will evoke the right response
from our other partners on this globe in
building for our children the kind of
world they deserve: a world of oppor-
tunity in a world without war.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 a.m. in a
room adjoining the Oval Office at the White
House. His remarks were broadcast live on
radio.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
74 Message to the Congress Transmitting Second Annual
Report on United States Foreign Policy.
February 25, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In a democracy, policy is the public's
business. I believe the President has an ob-
ligation to lay before the American people
and its Congress the basic premises of his
policy and to report fully on the issues, de-
velopments, and prospects confronting the
Nation.
Shortly before my inauguration, I con-
cluded that an annual Presidential report
on foreign policy would serve these ends
well. Each report would measure progress
and outline what remains to be done.
I hereby transmit to The Congress the
second annual Presidential review of
United States foreign policy.
218
