Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is the chal-
lenge of our time, Mr. Smith. That is why
environment has been one of the six great
goals that I have set out for the American
people. We can clean up the air; we can
clean up the water; we can also clean up
the congestion; we can work on the prob-
lems of mass transit. But in order to do it
we need what I have called a new Ameri-
can revolution.
The trouble with government today in
this country-and I think I can sum-
marize it in a word-is this, that to the
average person out there in New York,
in California, in Florida, wherever he may
live, to that average person he looks at
government, all government, and he is fed
up with it, and the reason he is fed up
with it is that it costs too much, it doesn't
work, and he can't do anything about it.
That is why our new revenue sharing
proposals, I think, have very, very great
meaning, because they will reduce the cost
of government, it will make it work better,
but, more important, it is going to give
people in New York and other places a
chance to do something about it. As far
as these programs are concerned, the other
point that we have to bear in mind is that
whether it is education, whether it is wel-
fare, whether it is health, what we need
is reform, not simply pouring billions of
more dollars into these old programs-we
can't do that-but what we need to do is
to reform all of these programs, and that
is why this Administration-and due to
the fact that the problems of our foreign
policy have not only in this Administra-
tion but in the previous Administration
have been so predominant, people have
failed to recognize it—that this Adminis-
tration has the most progressive proposals
in the area of reform of any administra-
tion in this century. And it is needed, it is
desperately needed.
We are either going to have to reform
the machinery of government in the
United States or it is going to break down
completely.
MR. SMITH. Well, now, sir, that is often
cited as the great objection to revenue
sharing-giving money without strings to
States whose governments are not very
good. And I would beg you to consult your
Vice President who used to be the Gover-
nor of Maryland and tried to reform the
constitution and couldn't get it done. They
can't handle these modern problems with
money. In the case of the cities, the last
town fathers of Newark are mostly under
indictment or in jail for misuse of funds.
Don't you have to attach strings to them
to make them reform before you give them
money?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith, I don't be-
lieve in that doctrine. I think it is repug-
nant to the American system that only a
bureaucratic elite at the top of the heap
in Washington knows what is best for the
people out in the sticks. Sure, there are
people-there are dishonest people in gov-
ernment, but there are dishonest people
in National Government, too. There are
dishonest people in State government.
But the way to make people more re-
sponsible, the way to get better people in
the government, is to give them, it seems
to me, more responsibility.
What I mean by that is that if your peo-
ple who are mayors, county officials, and
Governors are simply errand boys for the
purpose of disbursing the money that is
handed out with strings, all the decisions
made by someone else, you are not going
to get competent people to do the job.
But if, on the other hand, they have
463
