[192] June 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
used for setting minimum and maximum
prices. Major changes in the Canadian
grading system made uncertain the trad-
ing relationships among the several top
quality wheats that were being considered
as reference wheats. The negotiating con-
ference decided that progress on estab-
lishing minimum and maximum prices
and the related supply and purchase pro-
visions must await the establishment and
the testing in trade of the new Canadian
grading system.
The Food Aid Convention continues
the commitment initiated under the 1967
Food Aid Convention whereby parties
contribute specified amounts of wheat,
coarse grains, or products derived there-
from, or the cash equivalent, to develop-
ing countries. The principal changes in
the new Convention are a reduction in
the number of donors from 12 to 9, a
slight reduction in the total minimum an-
nual contribution, and a broadening of the
193
terms under which contributions can be
made.
Both Conventions provide that instru-
ments of ratification shall be deposited no
later than June 17, 1971. The Wheat
Council may, however, grant an extension
of time to any signatory government that
had not deposited an instrument of ratifi-
cation by that date.
It is my hope that the Senate will give
early and favorable consideration to the
two Conventions of the 1971 Agreement
so that ratification by the United States
can be effected and an instrument of rati-
fication can be deposited without undue
delay.
The White House
June 2, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the agreement is printed in
United States Treaties and Other International
Agreements (22 UST 820).
Remarks to Delegates Attending the National
Explorer Presidents' Congress.
I WANT to express my appreciation to
you, Bill Stephany,ยน and to all of the Ex-
plorers that are here, for this plaque that
you have presented to me, and to tell
you
that I really envy you being in Washing-
ton at this time, being Explorers, and also
envy you for all the
for all the years that you have
ahead.
Now having said that, I realize that
isn't the usual thing you may sometimes
hear these days. I know that for people in
the younger generation, you naturally
think, as you should think, of all the prob-
ยน William Stephany, chairman of the Youth
Steering Committee for the Congress.
June 2, 1971
lems we confront in the world today, the
problems America has abroad, the prob-
lems America has at home, and you won-
der whether this is really a good time to be
young, whether this is a good time to be
an explorer, an explorer with a capital
"E" or a small "e"; whether this is a good
time to be an American, to live in this
country.
Well, I just want to tell you that I have
a great deal of faith in not only this coun-
try but in you. And one of the reasons I
have faith in this country is because of my
faith in you and in your generation.
Let me put it in this context: At the
present time, I think that your generation,
700
