[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
percent of its GNP. We anticipate Japan
will take a leading role in international
and regional aid efforts, hopefully with
less emphasis on commercial financing
than in the past.
We are two strong nations of different
heritages and similar goals. If we can
manage our extensive relationship effec-
tively and imaginatively, it cannot help
but contribute significantly to the well-
being and prosperity of our two peoples
and to the nations of the entire Pacific
Basin.
THE PROBLEM OF CHINA
The People's Republic of China faces
perhaps the most severe problem of all in
adjusting her policies to the realities of
modern Asia. With a population eight
times greater than that of Japan, and
possessing a much greater resource base,
Mainland China nonetheless sees the free
Japanese economy producing a gross na-
tional product two and a half times that
of her own. The remarkable success of the
Chinese people within the free economic
setting of Taiwan and Singapore, and
the contributions of the overseas Chinese
to growth elsewhere in Asia, stands as an
eloquent rebuttal to Peking's claim of
unique insight and wisdom in organizing
the talents of the Chinese people.
The People's Republic of China is mak-
ing a claim to leadership of the less devel-
oped portions of the world. But for that
claim to be credible, and for it to be pur-
sued effectively, Communist China must
expose herself to contact with the outside
world. Both require the end of the insula-
tion of Mainland China from outside
realities, and therefore from change.
The twenty-two year old hostility be-
tween ourselves and the People's Re-
public of China is another unresolved
problem, serious indeed in view of the
fact that it determines our relationship
with 750 million talented and energetic
people.
It is a truism that an international
order cannot be secure if one of the major
powers remains largely outside it and
hostile toward it. In this decade, there-
fore, there will be no more important
challenge than that of drawing the
People's Republic of China into a con-
structive relationship with the world com-
munity, and particularly with the rest of
Asia.
We recognize that China's long his-
torical experience weighs heavily on con-
temporary Chinese foreign policy. China
has had little experience in conducting
diplomacy based on the sovereign equality
of nations. For centuries China domi-
nated its neighbors, culturally and politi-
cally. In the last 150 years it has been
subjected to massive foreign interventions.
Thus, China's attitude toward foreign
countries retains elements of aloofness,
suspicion, and hostility. Under Com-
munism these historically shaped atti-
tudes have been sharpened by doctrines
of violence and revolution, proclaimed
more often than followed as principles in
foreign relations.
Another factor determining Commu-
nist Chinese conduct is the intense and
dangerous conflict with the USSR. It has
its roots in the historical development of
the vast border areas between the two
countries. It is aggravated by contem-
porary ideological hostility, by power
rivalry and nationalist antagonisms.
A clash between these two great powers
is inconsistent with the kind of stable
Asian structure we seek. We, therefore,
see no advantage to us in the hostility be-
276
