Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [88]
ing forces in Vietnam and assures even
more the success of our troop withdrawal
program.
One other point that has been assured.
I just had a report from General Abrams
today with regard to the performance of
the South Vietnamese. You ladies and
gentlemen will recall that at the time of
Cambodia I pointed out that the South
Vietnamese Army had come of age. But
then they were fighting side by side with
American ground forces. Now in southern
Laos and also in Cambodia, the South
Vietnamese on the ground by themselves
are taking on the very best units that the
North Vietnamese can put in the field.
General Abrams tells me that in both
Laos and in Cambodia his evaluation after
3 weeks of fighting is that—to use his
terms-the South Vietnamese by them-
selves can hack it, and they can give a
better account of themselves even than
the North Vietnamese units. This means
that our withdrawal program, our Viet-
namization program is a success and can
continue on schedule, and we trust even
ahead of schedule, assuming that there is
more progress in Laos.
POLICY CONCERNING ACTION IN NORTH
you
VIETNAM
[2] Q. Mr. President, this is a ques-
tion that addressed yourself to, at your
last news conference, but I would like to
ask it again in view of the fact that Pres-
ident Thieu has publicly said several
times-has publicly raised the possibility
of South Vietnamese forces invading
North Vietnam. Would the United States
support such an invasion of North Viet-
nam by the South Vietnamese?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Risher [Eugene V.
Risher, United Press International], I
think it is important to restate the answer
that I gave at the last news conference,
because you will recall that was in the
office where only you ladies and gentle-
men who regularly cover the White House
were present, and the television audience
did not hear the answer.
To restate it completely, let me break
it down into its component parts. First,
the question is: What will President Thieu
in South Vietnam do? The second ques-
tion is: What will the United States do?
And third: What might we do together?
Now, on the first question, President
Thieu has stated that he would consider
the necessity of invading North Vietnam.
Let's look at his position. There are no
South Vietnamese in North Vietnam.
There are 100,000 North Vietnamese in
South Vietnam, and they have already
killed over 200,000 South Vietnamese.
Therefore, President Thieu has to take
the position that unless the North Viet-
namese leave South Vietnam alone, he
has to consider the possibility of going
against the North. That is his position,
and I am not going to speculate on what
position he might take in the future in
order to defend himself, the right of self-
defense, in view of the fact that he is
being attacked, he is not attacking North
Vietnam.
The second part of the question deals
with what we will do. And there, as you
will recall, I stated that American policy
is that we will have no ground forces in
North Vietnam, in Cambodia, or in Laos,
except, of course, for rescue teams which
go in for American fliers or for prisoners
of war where we think there is an oppor-
tunity in that case.
On the other hand, I have stated on 10
different occasions, usually before press
conferences in which ladies and gen-
you
387
