[61] Feb. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
So casualties are down and I should
point out that casualties in the first month
that we came into office were five times
as great as they were in the month of
January. One is too many. But that, at
least, is progress, in terms of casualties.
In terms of troop withdrawals, the
Cambodian incursion insured it and al-
lowed us, as a matter of fact, to set our
sights somewhat higher.
The success of this operation guarantees
the continued program and gives the
prospect of a greater troop withdrawal
during the months ahead.
I am not going to speculate, however,
as to what the troop withdrawal an-
nouncement will be on April 15. That will
deal with the situation at that time and,
at that time, we will not yet see the end
of the Laotian operation.
Q. Mr. President, if I could follow
that up, is it possible to say now, without
talking about numbers of troops to be
withdrawn, when the United States
might be able to forgo a ground combat
role in South Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. There will be an an-
nouncement on that score at some point.
I am not going to indicate it now.
At this time, when the negotiations are
going on at Paris still-when I say nego-
tiations, with no progress-we are not
going to remove any incentive for a pos-
sible negotiation by announcing what our
plans are further down the road.
Q. Mr. President, my question does
follow his somewhat. How far can you
go in withdrawing U.S. troops without a
resolution of the prisoner-of-war issue?
THE PRESIDENT. As I have indicated,
and as everyone I am sure would agree,
as long as the North Vietnamese have any
Americans as prisoners of war, there will
be Americans in South Vietnam and
enough Americans to give them an incen-
tive to release the prisoners.
Q. Mr. President, could I follow that
up. Would you be willing to join with
Congress, as Senator Javits has suggested,
in a resolution saying that it is our inten-
tion to withdraw all troops from South
Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. Not needed, because
you see, in my October [7, 1970] speech, as
you will recall, I called for a cease-fire,
I called for a political settlement, and I
also called for a total withdrawal of all
forces if it was mutual. So, the policy of
this Government is for a total withdrawal,
provided there is a withdrawal by the
other side.
MEETING WITH BLACK CONGRESSMEN
[6.] Q. Would you explain, Mr.
President, why you have not found time
to see these 12 black Congressmen who
have been asking to see you for about a
year?
THE PRESIDENT. I talked to Senator
Brooke about that just a few days ago and
asked him to speak to some of those who
had made this request.
As you know, I have seen a great num-
ber of Congressmen. And, of course, not
only these 12 but all the Members of
Congress, by the time I finish the breakfast
tomorrow, will have been invited to the
White House since the new Congress came
here. Some have not accepted.
But Senator Brooke now has been
talking with, I understand, Congressman
Diggs, whom I know-and I know several
of them, several of the older ones at least,
from previously serving with them—and
I think that a meeting is going to be
162
