[296] Sept. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
sire to rejoin their mother country. Japan
recognized that the presence of United
States forces in the Far East constituted
a mainstay for the stability of the area,
and that the security of countries in the
Far East was a matter of serious concern
for Japan. More specifically, Japan rec-
ognized that United States forces in Oki-
nawa played a vital role in the present
situation in the Far East and agreed that
the United States would retain, under
the terms of the Treaty of Mutual Coop-
eration and Security, such military fa-
cilities and areas in Okinawa as required
in the mutual security of both countries.
After intensive negotiations, agreement
was reached on the terms and conditions
for reversion and the Agreement which I
now commend to the Senate was signed
on June 17, 1971.
This Agreement is founded upon the
common security interests which are re-
flected in the United States-Japan Treaty
of Mutual Cooperation and Security
signed in 1960 and in the Communique
which Prime Minister Sato and I jointly
issued on November 21, 1969. The Agree-
ment stipulates that, even after reversion,
the Mutual Security Treaty and related
arrangements, such as the Status of Forces
Agreement of 1960, will apply to Oki-
nawa without modification. The same
will be true of the Treaty of Friendship,
Commerce and Navigation, signed in
1953.
The new Agreement provides that after
reversion Japan will grant the United
States the use of facilities and areas in the
Ryukyus in accordance with the Mutual
Security Treaty of 1960 and its related
arrangements, such as the Status of Forces
Agreement. This means that the United
States will continue to have the use of
bases in Okinawa necessary for carrying
out our mutual security commitments to
Japan and for maintaining peace in the
Far East. Under this Agreement, these
facilities will be provided to us on the
same terms as those now available to us
in Japan. After reversion, a sovereign
friendly government will give us permis-
sion to maintain these facilities in the
Ryukyus, as in Japan, in recognition of
mutual security interests. This is the only
sound basis for long-term cooperation and
I am convinced that it will enable us
effectively to protect our own security
interests.
The Agreement and related arrange-
ments also deal with other important mat-
ters. They provide for appropriate pay-
ment to the United States for assets to be
transferred to the Government of Japan
and for certain costs which will be in-
volved in connection with reversion. They
provide protection for United States busi-
ness and professional interests in Okinawa
after reversion. They transfer to Japan
responsibility for the immediate defense
of the Ryukyus, which will result in sub-
stantial savings for the United States, in
terms of both budget and foreign
exchange.
In summary, then, I am strongly con-
vinced that this Agreement is in the best
interests of both countries. It meets United
States security needs and it places our re-
lationship with our major Asian ally on a
more sound and enduring basis. It fulfills
long-held aspirations of the Japanese peo-
ple, including the people of Okinawa, for
the reunification of these islands with
Japan.
I believe the return of Okinawa to
Japanese administration will be one of
the most important accomplishments of
our postwar policy in the Far East. It
should enhance the prospects for peace
964
