Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
I
stability, East-West détente. Two
strong powers in the West would add
flexibility to Western diplomacy. Two
strong powers could increasingly
share the responsibilities of decision.
This will not be automatic. To link
together the foreign and defense policies
of a uniting Europe and the United States
will be another test of our sense of com-
munity and of our ability to perceive and
pursue our common interest.
The Problems of Modern Societies. The
North Atlantic Treaty embraces the over-
whelming majority of the advanced indus-
trial nations, and more than half the
wealth of the world. The environment has
suffered grievously from our common
technological triumphs; we share the ex-
perience of seeing the technological, en-
vironmental, and social problems of
modern societies grow to alarming propor-
tions. But we also have the skills and re-
sources needed to redress the balance. And
we share a tradition of exchanging ideas.
It is no accident that we are in the fore-
front of the world's attack on these global
problems.
In 1969, the United States suggested
that NATO form a Committee on the
Challenges of Modern Society, as a frame-
work for joint effort in this new dimension
of partnership. The Committee
formed, and launched action programs in
1970 with pilot studies on a range of prob-
lems. For example:
was
-Several allies have begun cooperative
production of experimental road ve-
hicles for maximum passenger safety.
-All NATO members agreed in No-
vember to bring to an end by 1975, if
possible, the deliberate discharge of
oil and oily wastes into the sea.
-Allied experts explored the problems
of flood control and relief.
-The Committee made plans to co-
sponsor a major international confer-
ence on the problems of cities at In-
dianapolis in May 1971.
These problems affect the societies of
all of us; they can affect our relations with
one another; shared experience can be the
basis of finding solutions.
These are world problems, not limited
to the Atlantic region. As the Charter of
the Committee makes explicit, we allies
see our own cooperation in the widest
perspective as a bridge between our
community and the rest of the world.
Japan, which works with us in the OECD,
and other friendly nations have joined us
in bilateral and multilateral programs. We
link our efforts and will share what we
learn with the United Nations and its
agencies, and other multilateral organiza-
tions. We hope to help developing nations
anticipate and avoid some of these by-
products of modernization. We are pre-
pared to have the Communist world share
in our effort.
ALLIANCE DEFENSE
In last year's annual report, I noted the
variety of views on some central questions
of defense policy that had to be faced
candidly among the allies:
-What is a realistic assessment of the
military threats to Western Europe?
-How long could NATO sustain a
conventional forward defense against
a determined Warsaw Pact attack?
-How should our tactical nuclear pos-
ture in Europe be planned to counter
specific military threats?
-How should our tactical nuclear
capabilities be related to our con-
ventional posture?
-What relative burdens should be
233
