[129] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
devote to the rising costs of education. At
the present time, State and local govern-
ments spend forty percent of their reve-
nues for education. Under general revenue
sharing, which would distribute a fixed
portion of the Federal tax base to the
States and localities to use as they deter-
mine, education would most certainly be
a major beneficiary. These funds would
total $5 billion in the first full of
year op-
eration. Similarly, the administration's
proposals to reform the Nation's failing
welfare system would free the States of a
significant portion of fast-growing welfare
costs at the same time that it would pro-
vide a better and more stable home en-
vironment for millions of children.
To strengthen the Federal leadership
role in reforming and renewing our Na-
tion's schools, I proposed a year ago the
creation of a National Institute of Educa-
tion to bring to education the intensity and
quality of research and experimentation
which the Federal Government has, for
example, devoted to agricultural and med-
ical research. The National Institute of
Education would serve as a focal point for
identifying educational problems, devel-
oping new ways to alleviate these prob-
lems, and helping school systems to put the
results of educational research and ex-
perimentation into practice.
As an example of the concentration of
Federal resources to meet urgent national
problems during a period of intense need,
I proposed in May 1970 an Emergency
School Aid Act to provide $1.5 billion
over a two-year period to help meet the
special problems of desegregating our Na-
tion's schools. Progress in school desegre-
gation has been accelerating. The Emer-
gency School Aid Act would help local
communities expedite and adjust to this
change, while maintaining and improving
the quality of education in affected
schools.
Taken together, the National Institute,
the Emergency School Aid Act and Edu-
cation Revenue Sharing represent a bold
new approach to fulfilling the Federal role
in education and to meeting the educa-
tional needs of the 1970s.
CONCLUSION
The education of our children tran-
scends partisan politics. No one benefits
from failures in our system of education,
and no one can fail to benefit from im-
provements in the means by which edu-
cation in America is given all the assist-
ance proper at the Federal level. The
effort to provide that proper assistance,
the effort to encourage reform where re-
form is needed, and the effort to extend
to all American children the advantage of
equal educational opportunity have all
been a concern of this administration as,
indeed, they have been of other adminis-
trations. These efforts continue.
I believe we must recognize that the
Federal Government cannot substitute its
good intentions for the local understand-
ing of local problems, for local energy in
attacking these problems, and for local
initiatives in improving the quality of
education in America. We must also
recognize that State and local authorities
need Federal resources if they are to meet
their obligations and if they are to use
the peculiar advantages of State and local
knowledge, responsibility, and authority
to their fullest potential. Education Rev-
enue Sharing accommodates the Federal
506
