Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 29 [154]
occurred in 1962. President Johnson was
President when more men went in later.
But both President Johnson and President
Kennedy, I am sure, were making deci-
sions that they thought were necessary for
the security of the United States.
All that I am saying now is this: We
are in this war, and the way the United
States ends this war is going to determine
to a great extent whether we are going to
avoid this kind of involvement in the
future.
If we end it in a way that encourages
those who engage in aggression to try it
again, we will have more wars like this.
But, if we end it in a way that I have laid
out, one that will end it in a way that the
South Vietnamese will have a chance to
defend themselves and to choose the kind
of government they want in a free elec-
tion, then we will have a chance to have
peace in their time that I referred to a
moment ago.
PRISONERS OF WAR AND TROOP
WITHDRAWALS
[5] Q. Mr. President, the United
States position has been that North Viet-
nam has not genuinely offered the release
of American prisoners, but rather only to
discuss the release of American prisoners.
My question is: Does your rejection of
setting a deadline for the withdrawal of
American troops include the possibility
that North Vietnam might in the future
offer the actual release of American pris-
oners rather than simply the discussion of
that question?
THE PRESIDENT. You very well have
put the problem that we always are con-
fronted with. You may recall very well
that when President Johnson ordered the
bombing halt it was with the assumption
that the North Vietnamese would negoti-
ate seriously on ending the war.
They didn't do it. So a promise to dis-
cuss means nothing from the North Viet-
namese. What we need is far more than
that. We need action on their part and
a commitment on their part with regard
to the prisoners.
Consequently, as far as any action on
our part of ending American involve-
ment completely—and that means a total
withdrawal-is concerned, that will have
to be delayed until we get not just the
promise to discuss the release of our pris-
oners but a commitment to release our
prisoners, because a discussion promise
means nothing where the North Viet-
namese are concerned.
Q. Your rejection is not a categorical
rejection of setting a deadline for the
withdrawal of American troops?
THE PRESIDENT. We have set forth,
both in my speech of October 7 and then
on April 7, a complete American proposal
for negotiation. I am not going in a press
conference to depart from those proposals.
Those proposals include a cease-fire;
they include an exchange of prisoners;
they included, as you know, a mutual
withdrawal of forces and an Indochina
peace conference.
Today in Paris, as you may note, we,
along with the South Vietnamese, offered
to repatriate as a matter of fact, we are
going unilaterally to repatriate, without
regard to what the North Vietnamese do,
540 [570] North Vietnamese sick and
wounded.
And, in addition to that, we offered to
send to a neutral country 1,600 [1,200]
North Vietnamese prisoners who have
been prisoners for 4 years or longer. We
trust that the North Vietnamese will
respond.
595
