Richard Nixon, 1971
June 1 [189]
This Administration is proud of its
record insofar as putting women in top
positions of responsibility. We have
women, as you know, as not just members
of commissions, but one is the Chairman
of the Maritime Commission, and I have
just appointed a woman as Chairman of
the Tariff Commission. These are break-
throughs. There will be more. They were
appointed to these positions not because
they were women, but because they were
the best qualified people for those jobs.
There are many women who are the
best qualified people for jobs in Govern-
ment, and wherever we can get women
to take those jobs, they will be appointed.
I have asked my staff and particularly
in this case we have Mrs. Franklin work-
ing on this to give me any recommen-
dations that they possibly can that will
bring qualified women into Government,
because finding qualified people is very
difficult and we don't want to rule out
such a great source of qualified people
as the women might provide.
-
THE MIDDLE EAST
[7.] Q. Mr. President, what effect will
the Soviet-Egyptian treaty have on your
efforts to get a peaceful settlement in the
Middle East?
THE PRESIDENT. The Soviet-Egyptian
treaty will have effect only in terms of
how it might affect the arms balance. In
the event that this will be followed by
an introduction of more weapons into the
Middle Eastern area, it can only mean
a new arms race and could greatly jeop-
ardize the chances for peace. We trust
that that is not the case.
It is too early to appraise the treaty
in terms of what it could mean, in terms
of introducing arms into the area.
As far as we are concerned, we continue
to support the truce which is now in its
tenth month. We continue to work for an
agreement, either an interim agreement
if necessary; of course, a comprehensive
one if possible.
And we are not going to allow this
treaty to discourage us insofar as seeking
that agreement is concerned. We seek
normal relations with all the countries in
the area, including the U.A.R. And we
believe that the chances for an agreement
are still there. Whether the Soviet follows
up with large-scale arms shipments into
the area will determine whether or not
it increases the chances for peace or
sharply increases the chances for war.
CONGRESSMAN MC CLOSKEY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, a Republican
Congressman who is a Marine Corps vet-
eran from your own State, Paul Mc-
Closkey, has been going around the
country talking against your Vietnam pol-
icies and has plans to run against you in
the primaries next year. Do you welcome
this as a challenge, or does it make you
the least bit nervous?
THE PRESIDENT. I realize that there are
probably many political questions in the
minds of reporters and, of course, many
of our listening audience. I, however,
have decided as a matter of policy that
the Presidential press conference is not a
proper forum to comment on any partisan
political matters or political questions.
Consequently, I will not comment on
that, and I will not comment on any
other political questions.
PRISONERS OF WAR
[9.] Mr. Horner [Garnett D. Horner,
Washington Evening Star].
691
