[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
our goal, Mr. Chancellor. I am not going
to indicate what the number actually will
be, because even though I am willing to
predict on football games and also the
stock market, to say what the unemploy-
ment number is going to be a year and a
half from now, of course, would be com-
pletely irresponsible. But our goal is full
employment by the end of 1972.
TAXES
[7.] If I could come back, Mr.
Sevareid, to another point that
you raised,
I also should point out that we do not
plan-despite the speculation that you
have heard about-I do not plan to ask
for new taxes. I have considered the pos-
sibility of the value-added tax as a sub-
stitution for some of our other taxes, and,
looking to the future, we may very well
move into that direction.
But this year, I do not think it is realis-
tic to propose a new tax, either new taxes
or tax reform, because I am going to give
the Congress-and particularly the Ways
and Means Committee of the House and
the Finance Committee of the Senate—a
very full plate in other areas requiring
their attention, including, for example,
welfare reform that I will submit again;
and including also a new health program
which will go to those committees; and
including also a new, what we will call
revenue sharing, going far beyond any-
thing that we have suggested to date.
COMMUNICATION WITH THE
UNEMPLOYED
[8.] MRS. DICKERSON. Mr. President, I
would like to ask you a little bit more
about the man who is unemployed, as you
mentioned the man who went into your
father's store. There are an awful lot of
those people now and their unemploy-
ment insurance is running out, and the
idea of expansionary programs just-it
doesn't really quite get to them.
How do you convince that man who is
out of a job and his wife has had to go
back to work and his children are leaving
college because they don't have any
money-how do you convince him right
now to keep cool because you think that
things are going to be reasonably better
in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one way you
cannot convince him, I can say, Mrs.
Dickerson, is simply by what we call jaw-
boning. People are too smart to listen to
even the President of the United States
and be convinced that things are going
to be better the day after tomorrow. The
way he is convinced is by what happens.
For example, notice the area of south-
ern California, which you referred to, the
fact that we are going to have by far the
biggest year in housing in the history of
this country is going to have a rather
dramatic effect on employment in south-
ern California; the fact that in areas like
the environment we are going to have ex-
panding programs; the fact that in the
proposals that we are making to the Con-
gress, that these will have an effect in
stimulating the economy.
Now, as this movement occurs, that
man who is unemployed will see that the
rolls go down. That is the only thing that
is going to convince him, not any prom-
ises, not any talk.
I can only say that I am convinced that
our policies are right. I am committed to
an activist policy, and I will assure that
man who is unemployed that the Presi-
dent of the United States knows what it
means, and I intend to do everything that
ΙΟ
