[79] Mar. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
peared before this group.
As a matter of fact, that is the most
risky idea the Vice President has advanced
since he invited me to play golf with him
a few weeks ago.
I want you to know that I appreciate
this invitation both to share with you a
few of my thoughts about America's
future and to reaffirm my own strong
conviction that in the State capitals of
America there is a wealth of wisdom and
compassion and understanding of the
great needs that confront our Nation's
people.
This is my first appearance before a
legislative body since I delivered my State
of the Union before the Congress of the
United States-and I am especially
pleased that it is before this legislature,
which I note was recently cited by the
Citizens Conference on State Legislatures
as one of the best in the Nation. I con-
gratulate you for getting that kind of
recognition.
In that address, I outlined six great
goals for America, and I urged the Con-
gress to join in bringing about a new
American revolution, a peaceful revolu-
tion, in which power was turned back
to the people, in which government at all
levels was refreshed and renewed and
made truly responsive to the people of
this country.
It is especially appropriate that that
appeal to the Congress should be followed
by this, the first appearance as President
of the United States I have had an op-
portunity to make before a State legisla-
ture. For as we consider the changes that
are needed in American government, we
must remember that we have not one
chief executive in America, but many;
not one legislature, but many-and that
each of these is a vital part of the Amer-
ican system.
One of my key proposals to the Con-
gress is that we make a $16 billion invest-
ment in renewing State and local
government by sharing Federal revenues
without the cumbersome restrictions that
now follow Federal funds. I have noted
that this legislature has already expressed
its support for the principle of revenue
sharing. I have also proposed a sweeping
reorganization of the Federal Govern-
ment itself to make it more responsive to
the needs of the people.
Together, these changes can give us,
can give us all here in Iowa and across this
great Nation, better government, but they
have a special meaning, these proposals
have, to what we call rural America.
First, in terms of dollars, I am an-
nouncing today that I am increasing by
an extra $100 million the amount that I
originally proposed in special revenue
sharing for rural community develop-
ment. That brings the total to $1.1 billion
for the coming year. This is 24 percent
more for rural development programs
than is being made available to the States
under existing categorical grants this year.
The direct dollar benefit to rural Amer-
ica is obvious. In addition, rural America
will share substantially in general revenue
sharing funds, and also in special revenue
sharing for manpower, education, trans-
portation, and law enforcement. And all
of these, of course, cut across all of Amer-
ica, whether it is rural or urban or a mix of
the two.
Funds for urban community develop-
ment will also go in part to urban com-
munities, like the city of Des Moines, in
largely rural areas.
A second reason that these changes that
356
