Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 5 [89]
Laotian operation this year would save
American lives, save American lives by
destroying or capturing equipment that
otherwise might move into I Corps where
a number of Americans are located. And
that next year it would serve to guarantee
the continued success of our withdrawal
program.
The more that the disruption of the
complex of trails leading from North
Vietnam to South Vietnam occurs in the
operation now being conducted on the
ground by the South Vietnamese in
southern Laos-the more that that occurs,
the more successful that it is, the greater
the possibility that the United States may
be able to increase the rate of its troop
withdrawal.
I am not prepared to make that deci-
sion yet, but we can say at this time the
troop withdrawal will continue at its
present level. I can say, incidentally, that
even since the Laotian operation began,
with all the news, 10,000 Americans have
come home in this period.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: President Nixon's fourteenth news con-
ference was held at 9 p.m. in the East Room
at the White House on Thursday, March 14,
1971. It was broadcast live on radio and
television.
89 Special Message to the Congress on Special Revenue
Sharing for Urban Community Development.
March 5, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
As the size of Federal programs for re-
newing our cities has grown in recent
years, so has the evidence of their basic
defects. Plagued by delay and duplication,
by waste and rigidity, by inconsistency and
irrationality, Federal grant-in-aid pro-
grams for urban development have simply
not achieved the purposes for which they
were established. Sometimes, they have
even worked to complicate and extend the
very problems they were designed to
remedy.
The time has come for us to stop merely
giving more money to these programs and
to begin giving more thought to them.
That is why I am proposing today two
new instruments for renewing and re-
building our cities. One is a new plan of
Special Revenue Sharing for Urban Com-
munity Development. The other is a new
program of Planning and Management
Assistance for State and local govern-
ments which will benefit both urban and
rural areas.
GROWING NEEDS AND GROWING
EXPENDITURES
The Federal Government's first signifi-
cant involvement in community develop-
ment came with the passage of the
Housing Act of 1949, which established as
a national goal the realization of "a decent
home and a suitable living environment
for every American family. . . ." We
were already a nation of cities when that
legislation was passed. In the two decades
since that time we have become even more
highly urbanized.
In 1950, some 56 percent of our popula-
tion lived in metropolitan areas; today the
comparable figure is almost 69 percent.
The recent Census shows that three-
395
