Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 26 [77]
the most spectacular of which, long re-
membered as Mrs. Adams' ball, was held
for General Jackson in 1824, on the ninth
anniversary of the Battle of New Orleans,
at which some 1,000 persons danced their
way
into the wee hours of the morning.
In 1829, after 4 years in the White
House, for a moment she believed they
would go back to Quincy and live out
their lives in the peace and quiet of coun-
try life. But as it turned out, Adams was
on the threshold of another and great
career. We are all familiar with his 15
courageous years in the House of Repre-
sentatives and his fatal stroke at his desk
in the House in 1848. Where could death
have found him but at his post of duty?
His career has been eloquently summed
up in a few words. He served his country
in every department of public occupation.
He was Minister to five great powers in
succession. He negotiated and signed the
Treaty of Ghent, the Commercial Treaty
of 1815, the French Treaty of 1822, the
Prussian Treaty, and the treaty which
acquired Florida from Spain. He was Sen-
ator, Representative, Foreign Minister,
Secretary of State, and President. And he
breasted the stormy waves of the House
of Representatives at the age of 80.
When he died in the Capitol, he left
no purer or loftier fame behind him, but
he left a devoted wife who survived him
4 long years. And we have an affectionate
picture of her by her grandson Henry
Adams.
"Little Henry," he wrote, "first remem-
bered her from 1843 to 1848 sitting in her
paneled room at breakfast with her heavy
silver teapot, sugar bowl and cream jug.
By that time she was 70 years old or more,
Louis Seize, like the furniture, thoroughly
weary of being beaten about a stormy
world, more remote than the President,
but more delicate.
"To the boy she seemed a fragile crea-
ture, singularly peaceful, a vision of silver
gray, presiding over her old President and
her Queen Anne mahogany; an exotic,
like her Sèvres china; and of great defer-
ence to everyone and affection to her son
Charles, but hardly more Bostonian than
she had been 50 years before on her wed-
ding day in the shadow of the Tower of
London."
Now in a later and different century,
through the generosity of another John
Quincy Adams, strictly in keeping with
Adams' tradition of the primacy of coun-
try before personal considerations, and
after a lapse of more than 140 years, we
here today can welcome back the first
John Quincy Adams and his wife to their
house, the President's house, to the White
House, to what the President and Mrs.
Nixon have so graciously said, "All Amer-
icans might call our house."
MRS. NIXON. Thank you very much.
That was just great, reliving a little bit of
history.
I am going to get your books and read
them because I think they must be very
fine.
Now, since we are accepting the pic-
tures of the sixth President of the United
States and his wife, I thought it appro-
priate that the 37th President make the
acceptance remarks.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Adams, Dr. Oli-
ver, all of our distinguished guests:
I, of course, make many appearances in
my role as President of the United States,
and each differs somewhat. Let the record
show this is the first time my wife has ever
introduced me, and I am very happy.
I, as most Presidents happen to be, am
351
