[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
order in the Pacific region. For our past
policies have been the heart of the general
equilibrium which has been maintained
for the past twenty years.
In the next decade our Asia policy will
be dealing simultaneously with three
phases of Asian development. In some
countries, there will still be an absolute-
though we hope diminishing-need for
us to play a central role in helping them
meet their security and economic require-
ments. In others, we will complete the
process of adjusting our relationship to
the concepts of the Nixon Doctrine. And
with all countries, we will be striving to
establish a new and stable structure re-
flecting the renewed vigor of the smaller
Asian states, the expanding role of Japan,
and the changing interests of the Soviet
Union and the People's Republic of
China. In the past twenty years the
American people have sacrificed much,
both in blood and treasure, to help set the
stage where such a structure can be
created in the Pacific region. It is now in
sight.
The major elements of the emerging
structure are clear. The nations of Asia
acting in concert will play the key role.
So will the individual policies of Japan,
China, the Soviet Union, and the United
States. But the relationship of these ele-
ments to each other is not yet clear. They
will depend largely upon decisions still to
be made. I would like to discuss the more
salient problems involved, and their im-
plications for American policy.
THE CONTRIBUTION OF ASIAN NATIONS
WORKING TOGETHER
Asian regionalism has an essential role
to play in the future structure of Asia. It
is already a source of growing strength to
the individual Asian nations. Through
joint action, their potential influence on
the future of the region far exceeds that
which they can exert acting individually.
In this connection the return of Indo-
nesia, the fifth most populous country in
the world, to full participation in the
regional activities of the Asian states is a
signal contribution.
Some years ago an unstable Indonesia
was a source of considerable concern to
its neighbors. It was in a continuing state
of internal tension and turmoil, and
seemed a fertile ground for subversion
supported from abroad. Today, under
the leadership of President Suharto-who
paid a State Visit to the United States in
May 1970-a stable Indonesia has
emerged which has reordered its goals
with a sense of national purpose and
direction.
But the way ahead for Indonesia is still
difficult. Although it possesses motivation
and enlightened leadership, it still has not
recovered from the upheavals of the past
to the point where it can stand alone. For
the United States, the choice seems clear:
to assist Indonesia in moving ahead,
rather than to see it relapse into the
frustrations and confusion of the past.
Accordingly, the United States has
joined with other nations in the Inter-
Governmental Group on Indonesia to
provide the external resources necessary
to complement Indonesia's own efforts.
We have also helped Indonesia with a
modest military assistance program in-
tended primarily to help meet its internal
security needs.
Indonesia has made good use of this
assistance. Its exports have increased, its
foreign exchange holdings have gone up,
and rice production has improved. Most
dramatically, Indonesia has cut inflation
272
