[42]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Feb. 4
quantity of medical care, let's not destroy
the quality of medical care in the United
States of America.
For example, when I go into a doctor's
office, I know that for an annual physical
they have to fill out a form. And I know
they go over the same questions they have
gone over year after year. I get so tired
of answering those same questions. They
read it-last year's. But they say the an-
swer might be different this year. So, I
try to not give a different answer just to
be sure. I am going to bring a mimeo-
graphed form next time.
But in any event, I also know this: that
I don't want my doctor to spend so much
time filling out forms that he doesn't
spend enough time doing what is needed
to be done as a doctor for the patient.
And that is why in the emphasis on the
medical program that I will be submitting
to the Congress of the United States, it
will properly, as I think all of us would
want it, try to provide more adequately
for the needs of all Americans and of all
incomes, the needs that they may have for
acquiring medical care when they need it.
But on the other hand, let us be sure
that in doing so that we remember that
what is most important is not to be able to
afford a doctor, but to be sure that it is a
good doctor. Let us also remember that
we do not want the doctors and those in
the medical profession to be smothered
under a whole, huge bureaucracy and un-
der a great pile of government forms.
in
Let us do everything that we can,
other words, to keep the doctor, the
professional man or the professional
woman, free from the terrible crushing
burden of bureaucracy which would
otherwise not only take his time but de-
stroy his initiative.
That is, in other words, the objective
that we must try to achieve in this area
as we deal with the problem of medical
care in the United States.
Now, in order to achieve that objec-
tive, we need assistance. And that is why
I say to my friends in the medical profes-
sion: I know how you are concerned, and
you should be concerned, about what is
the government going to do to us now.
How many more forms are we going to
have to fill out? Is the government going
to adopt a program in this country that we
think has failed in other countries and,
therefore, should not be applied on us?
And the answer is there is no program
for medical care in the United States or
in any other [nation of the] world that
will be good for the patient unless it is
one that the doctors support, because we
have to have the cooperation of the medi-
cal profession.
So we want your advice, we want your
cooperation, we want to work together
with you in developing a program that
will do what is needed to be done and do
the best for our patients, your patients, but
also that will enable you to meet your re-
sponsibilities as unhampered as is possible
by Federal bureaucracy, redtape, and the
like.
say
That is our objective, and I will simply
in conclusion that as this debate goes
on through the year that I know that we
will have your cooperation.
I know the dedicated men and women
that are in this profession. And I can as-
sure you that we will listen. We want your
advice because, as I said in the State of
the Union, we have one great goal.
The United States is very fortunate
that we are truly the wealthiest nation in
the world, and, with your help, we will
112
