[72] Feb. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Federal agencies. I proposed then
that this function be performed by a Con-
sumer Protection Division created for the
purpose and located within the Depart-
ment of Justice. That proposal was not
acted on.
Since that time my Advisory Council
on Executive Organization has completed
its Report on Selected Independent Reg-
ulatory Agencies. This report makes
sweeping recommendations on the reor-
ganization of those agencies for the pur-
pose of helping them better serve the
interests of the consumer.
One specific recommendation involves
the creation of a new Federal Trade Prac-
tices Agency dealing exclusively with mat-
ters of consumer protection. This Agency
would result from a general restructuring
of the Federal Trade Commission. The
report specifically suggests that a con-
sumer advocate might be placed within
the Federal Trade Practices Agency.
I believe that this is a better approach
than the creation of still another inde-
pendent agency which would only add to
the proliferation of agencies without deal-
ing with the problems of effectiveness to
which the Advisory Council report ad-
dresses itself.
As I indicated at the release of the
Advisory Council's report, I am delaying
legislative proposals on these issues pend-
ing full public discussion of the findings
and recommendations of the Council. I
urge that those who comment on the Ad-
visory Council recommendations also
focus on the manner in which the con-
sumer interest can best be represented in
Federal agency proceedings. I further
urge the Congress to view the problems of
consumer advocacy and agency structure
as part of the general problem of making
the Federal Government sufficiently re-
sponsive to the consumer interest.
After April 20, when comments have
been received, I will make the recom-
mendations I consider necessary to pro-
vide effective representation of consumer
interests in the regulatory process. If the
Congress feels it must proceed on the
matter of consumer advocacy prior to re-
ceiving my recommendations, then I
strongly urge and would support, as an
interim measure, the placement of the
advocacy function within the Federal
Trade Commission.
A PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
Technology, linked with the American
free enterprise system, has brought great
advantages and great advances to our way
of life. It has also brought certain hazards.
The increasing complexity and sophis-
tication of many of our consumer goods
are sometimes accompanied by the in-
creasing possibility of product failure,
malfunction, or inadvertent misuse result-
ing in physical danger to the consumer.
Therefore, I propose legislation pro-
viding broad Federal authority for com-
prehensive regulation of hazardous con-
sumer products.
This product safety legislation will en-
compass five major responsibilities which
would be assigned to a new consumer
product safety organization within the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare. Through this organization the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare will:
1. Gather data on injuries from con-
sumer products;
2. Make preliminary determinations of
the need for particular standards;
206
