Richard Nixon, 1971
June 5 [196]
had a warmer welcome than she had in
Tulsa a few weeks ago. And she would
like to have come today, but, as you know,
she is working on a White House wedding.
I think she and Tricia will get through it,
but I don't know whether I will make it.
I can assure you, too, that on this occa-
sion, I only wish I could have been present
for the earlier parts of the program. I read
the scenario, and I saw some of the won-
derful numbers that were planned. I want
to express appreciation to all of them, and
I know that all of you will want to join in
a round of applause for that television;
for everybody that has performed up to
this point.
I particularly want to pay my respects
to the Tulsa University Choir, and also to
Mr. "Sugar Bowl" Al Hirt; and to the one
that all of us who know her great work
for all patriotic causes is really Miss Amer-
ica, Anita Bryant.¹
While you can well understand that on
such an occasion like this it is a pleasure
for me to be here on the Oklahoma sea-
coast. [Laughter] I remember, when I
visited Oklahoma in the campaign of
1968, being lobbied a bit on this project.
I flew over all of this area. And I re-
member that on that occasion Dewey
Bartlett, Senator Bellmon, Bud Wilkinson,
Page Belcher 2 talked to me about the
enormous promise and, of course, the fact
that this project was to be completed-
and that I must return to participate in
its dedication. Well, I promised to be
back on the day when the Gulf of Mexico
¹Al Hirt, jazz musician, and Anita Bryant,
popular singer.
2 Dewey F. Bartlett, Governor of Oklahoma
1969-71; Senator Henry L. Bellmon of Okla-
homa; Charles B. Wilkinson, head coach of the
University of Oklahoma football team 1947–64,
and Special Consultant to the President; and
Representative Page Belcher of Oklahoma.
came up to Catoosa. I am delighted to
make good on that promise. Here I am.
The friendliness of the people here,
which you have demonstrated so elo-
quently today, the beauty of the land that
I have seen around us as we flew in on
the helicopter, always makes me glad to
return to what is Will Rogers country.
But this is the first time I have had a
chance to go one up on that great cowboy
philosopher. You know, with him—and
all of us will remember reading him, out
in Los Angeles he had a little column, as
he did all over the country, and it was
"must" reading for everybody, even in
those days-the joke was usually, for Will
Rogers, on the Government. One time in
1923 he was spoofing the Congress about
its public works spending, and he made
his point by saying that with all that
money being passed out he could probably
even get himself a harbor built on the
Verdigris River at Oologah. I think that
is the way you pronounce it. I practiced
it on the way out on the airplane.
Well, this magnificent new port is still
a few miles downstream from Oologah,
but it is close enough that this time the
Corps of Engineers and the people of the
supposedly landlocked Sooner State can
have the last laugh. For years there were
many who dismissed the idea of an Arkan-
sas River waterway as a foolish dream.
But there were others, men like Senator
Bob Kerr and John McClellan,³ who
held it as a bold and achievable vision.
The completed project that we dedicate
today has proved that they were right.
With the opening of this great naviga-
tion system, the new "maritime States"
of Oklahoma and Arkansas can look for-
The late Robert S. Kerr, United States
Senator from Oklahoma 1949-63; and Senator
John L. McClellan of Arkansas.
715
