Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
ments of the Geneva Prisoner of War
Convention, by which they are bound.
They violate common standards of de-
cency as well.
They have not permitted impartial in-
spection of prison camps despite constant
attempts to arrange such visits. They have
refused to repatriate seriously sick and
wounded prisoners. They have failed to
identify all prisoners and to allow many
of them to correspond with their families.
We and the South Vietnamese have
made intensive efforts this past year to
secure better treatment and the release of
allied prisoners through global diplo-
macy, through proposals in Paris, and
through the courageous raid at Son Tay.
Congressional expressions have been val-
uable in underlining American public con-
cern. The world increasingly condemned
the other side's practices, and the UN
General Assembly passed a resolution this
fall which underscored the international
obligation to treat prisoners humanely.
I repeat my October 7 proposal for the
immediate and unconditional release of
all prisoners of war held by both sides. All
prisoners, journalists, and other civilian
captives should be released now to return
to the place of their choice. Such action
would not only meet humanitarian con-
cerns; it might also lead to progress on
other aspects of a peace settlement.
As first steps, the Republic of Vietnam,
with our support, has offered to repatriate
all sick and wounded prisoners of war. It
has unilaterally returned groups of such
prisoners, despite North Vietnam's re-
fusal to make orderly arrangements for
their repatriation. And it has proposed
the release of all North Vietnamese pris-
oners of war in return for all U.S. and
allied prisoners in Indochina and any
South Vietnamese prisoners held outside
South Vietnam. We profoundly regret the
other side's refusal to respond to these
initiatives.
The treatment of prisoners of war any-
where is not a political or military issue,
but a matter of simple humanity. As I
said on October 7:
"War and imprisonment should be over
for all these prisoners. They and their
families have already suffered too much."
This government will continue to take
all possible measures to secure the end of
imprisonment as well as the end of the
war.
No discussion of Vietnam would be
complete without paying tribute to the
brave Americans who have served there.
Many have sacrificed years of their lives.
Others have sacrificed life itself.
These Americans have fought in a war
which differed from our previous experi-
ence. We have not sought a traditional
military victory. The complex nature of
this conflict posed unprecedented difficul-
ties for those involved.
It is to their lasting credit that Ameri-
cans in Vietnam have overcome these dif-
ficulties and conducted themselves in our
best tradition.
Problems for the Future
There are sobering problems still re-
maining in Vietnam:
-Enemy Capabilities and Intentions.
Despite heavy losses, the North Viet-
namese have the manpower, the lo-
gistical network, and the dedication
to continue fighting if they wish. Al-
though their main force units have
been greatly reduced, they still pose
a considerable threat, especially in
Military Regions I and II in South
Vietnam. Hanoi could instead use its
buildup of forces in South Laos and
261
