[270] Aug. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congressman, Senator, Vice President, out
of office, and as President. I have traveled
over 70 countries. And one of the major
areas in which the United States of Amer-
ica is tremendously fortunate is in the
productivity of American agriculture.
Now, there are some places in some in-
dustries where other countries, because
they have lower costs than we have, or
because maybe they even do better than
we have, where they have passed us. But
you can be proud of the fact that Ameri-
271
can agriculture today is the most produc-
tive in the world. We produce more food
at less cost than any country in the world.
And we can be proud. We are proud
of all those, the older people and the
younger people, who have made America
first in the world, and you are going to
keep us first in the world in agriculture.
We thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Junior Livestock Pavilion at the fairgrounds.
Statement About Agriculture and the
Economy. August 18, 1971
THERE are few occasions which reflect
the strength and spirit of America more
impressively than a great State fair in our
Nation's agricultural heartland. In 1952,
I had the pleasure of visiting the Illinois
State Fair in Springfield-and I am happy
for this opportunity to come back this
year.
I am especially glad to be making this
visit at a time when our Nation is giving
new attention to the economic challenges
it faces around the world. For in meeting
those challenges, one of our greatest
strengths is the productivity of American
agriculture a quality which is most im-
pressively displayed at this great
celebration.
The new economic policies I an-
nounced on Sunday were designed to pro-
vide new jobs, to provide increased pur-
chasing power, and to curb the rise in the
cost of living here at home, and also to
improve America's position in world
trade. Our agricultural exports are ex-
tremely important not only to the pros-
perity of America's farmers but also to
our efforts to maintain and improve the
Nation's trading position.
Only a few years ago farm exports were
dropping. In the last fiscal year, however,
they reached the $7.8 billion level, an all-
time record high. To mention just one
example, exports of soybeans-of which
Illinois is the country's number one pro-
ducer-have climbed 45 percent in the
last 2 years; $1.9 billion of our $3 billion
soybean crop now goes into exports. What
is more, we intend to see that these and
other agricultural export figures go on
rising in the months and years ahead. In
this and many other ways, we will be
working constantly to increase the pros-
perity of the American farmer, to en-
hance the quality of rural life, and to give
the farmer the better break he deserves.
Here I would underscore again our de-
termination to call a halt to the relent-
less rise in the cost of living and—what is
of special importance to the farmer-the
cost of doing business. America's farmers
know, perhaps better than anyone else, the
devastating effects of the cost-price
902
