Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 3 [284]
therefore, to commemorate our aviation
history through the outstanding collec-
tions of the United States Air Force
Museum. The new building which we are
dedicating today will do much to enhance
the scope, the attractiveness, and the use-
fulness of these exhibits. On behalf of all
Americans, I extend deepest thanks to
those whose contributions have made this
project possible. I especially salute the Air
Force Museum Foundation, its late chair-
man-Eugene W. Kettering-the Ketter-
ing family, and the people of Dayton for
their central role in creating this great
facility as a gift to the United States Air
Force and to the American people.
The United States Air Force Museum
demonstrates in a most compelling fashion
the tremendous progress which American
aviation has made in a remarkably brief
time. It will afford a valuable opportunity
for future generations of Americans to
learn about the dedication and courage
and skill which have made that progress
possible.
We honor today the spirit of American
aviation—a spirit which is always striving
to test the limits of what is possible, a spirit
which thrives when it is pursuing the un-
known. This is the spirit which drove the
Wright brothers in the early years of this
century and which has characterized all
those who have since followed in their
steps. It is this spirit which we now must
demonstrate anew-in every area of life-
if we are to meet our current challenges
and fulfill the American promise in our
own time.
NOTE: The statement was released at Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio.
284 Remarks at the Annual Convention of the Associated
Milk Producers, Inc., Chicago, Illinois.
September 3, 1971
Mr. Nelson, Governor Ogilvie, Mayor
Daley, Reverend Clergy, Members of the
Senate, Members of the House, all of the
distinguished guests on the platform,
and all of those attending this great
convention:
In that period over the past 25 years
that Mr. Nelson referred to, when I first
entered public life, I have probably ad-
dressed more conventions than any Amer-
ican political figure. I have probably
addressed more audiences in America and
in the world than any American political
figure. I think I have seen some pretty
big crowds. I can say to you here tonight,
however, that by all odds, this is the big-
gest convention and the biggest indoor
crowd I have ever seen in my life, and
I am proud to be here.
With 40,000 in this hall, I just wonder
who is home milking the cows.
It is significant, too, that this conven-
tion is taking place in the city of Chicago.
In doing some of my homework before
coming to Chicago, I found that this is
the 100th anniversary of the great
Chicago fire, and as most of you will re-
call, the fire was started by a milk pro-
ducer. But whatever Mrs. O'Leary's cow
did 100 years ago did not stop the spirit
of Chicago. The city was built back
stronger and more vigorous than ever
before.
Then it is interesting to note that before
927
