[166] May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
166 Statement on Signing Executive Order on Protection
and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment.
May 13, 1971
SEVERAL years ago the intervention of a
President averted planned construction of
two huge Federal office buildings fronting
on Lafayette Square opposite the White
House. Instead, restoration and recon-
struction of the historic 19th-century
townhouses along Madison and Jackson
Places was undertaken, with provision for
the old residences themselves to accom-
modate government offices and for the
large modern structures to be placed be-
hind them. It was a significant example
of the way intelligent planning can meet
modern urban needs without sweeping
away the gracious presence of the past.
Unfortunately, the preservation of La-
fayette Square's historic character was the
exception, not the rule, in recent Federal
treatment of properties with special his-
toric and cultural value. America's
awakening consciousness of environmental
protection has brought new respect for
the best works of man as well as for the
realm of nature-and the number of prop-
erties nominated for listing on the
National Register of Historic Places has
increased dramatically in recent years. Yet
the number of nominations of federally
owned properties has lagged, even though
the Federal Government-particularly in
its military installations-owns an impor-
tant share of the Nation's historic sites and
buildings.
One reason for this lag appears to be
that State and local historic preservation
officials have been reluctant to undertake
surveys and evaluation on federally
owned property. This has to change. It is
time for a truce between the bulldozer of
progress and the treasures of the American
past.
In my environmental message last Feb-
ruary, I announced that I would take ac-
tion "to insure that no federally-owned
property is demolished until its historic
significance has first been reviewed." To-
day I am directing Federal agencies to
begin evaluating their properties to deter-
mine which may possess historic, archae-
ological, or architectural significance. This
comprehensive evaluation of all currently
owned Federal properties is to be com-
pleted by July 1, 1973. Until that time
Federal agencies will exercise caution to
assure that properties which might qualify
for listing on the National Register of His-
toric Places are not inadvertently trans-
ferred, sold, demolished, or altered. In
addition I am directing the Federal agen-
cies to encourage and cooperate with State
and local historic preservation officials in
making surveys on federally owned
property.
Besides providing an example of leader-
ship in preserving its own culturally sig-
nificant sites, buildings, and artifacts, the
Federal Government must take steps to
encourage preservation by other levels of
government and by the private sector. In
my legislative proposals this year I have
recommended the establishment of Fed-
eral insurance guarantees for restoration
of privately owned historic properties. I
have also recommended, as part of the Na-
tional Land Use Policy Act of 1971, that
States control land uses in historic dis-
tricts to assure that construction in such
areas is consistent with preservation of
634
