[19] Jan. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
19 Remarks Announcing Appointment of Peter G. Peterson as
Assistant to the President for International Economic
Affairs and Executive Director, Council on
International Economic Policy.
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are sorry that we delayed our meet-
ing with you, but we have had a rather
long Cabinet meeting this morning for the
purpose of going over the various pro-
posals that will be presented to the Con-
gress, and particularly those proposals that
will be included in the State of the Union
Message.
At the Cabinet meeting I presented one
of the men who will be playing a very
active role with several members of the
Cabinet over the next few months and, we
trust, the next few years.
A statement has been distributed to you
with regard to the setting up of a Council
on International Economic Policy. And as
the man who will be the Executive Direc-
tor of that Council and as the man who
also will be Assistant to the President for
International Economic Affairs, I am an-
nouncing today the appointment of Mr.
Peter Peterson, the chief executive officer
and also the chairman of the board of Bell
and Howell.
All of you who follow business affairs
know of Mr. Peterson's rather remark-
able record in that field. He is, as you can
see, a very young man. He is a man that
has been described by his colleagues in
the business community as one of the
ablest-and some have even used the term
brilliant chief executive officers of this
generation.
We feel very fortunate that he would
take this assignment. While his primary
responsibilities at Bell and Howell have
been domestic, he has had a great deal of
January 19, 1971
experience in international affairs, and
we think that having him on the White
House Staff as an Assistant to the Presi-
dent for International Economic Affairs
will be a great asset to our staff.
If I could just spend one moment to
use some examples as to why this kind of
council is needed, let me just tell you
about my schedule for the last 4 days.
I was talking to the Secretary of State
this morning, and we reminisced, as we
were talking about Mr. Peterson, about
the fact that over the past 4 days either
personally or by phone we have been dis-
cussing matters in the field of this Council
which were of great concern to the Nation.
For example, you read of the oil crisis
in the Mideast. You also read of the deci-
sion of the Tariff Commission, a split
decision, which now will have to come to
the President, with regard to a shoe im-
port [quota] for shoes. And you, of course,
have been following the situation with
regard to possible British entry into the
Common Market and what decisions that
may require, what impact that may have
on our policies.
In all of these areas we have direct ex-
amples of matters that cut across foreign
policy and domestic policy which in-
volved, in the one instance the Depart-
ment of Commerce and the Department
of State, in another instance the Depart-
ment of State and the Tariff Commis-
sion, in another instance the Department
of State and the Department of
Agriculture.
There has long been needed in the
42
