[268] Aug. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Americans are deeply grateful for, and
we thank him today for that.
I have been trying to think of something
appropriate to say with regard to my good
friend, John Volpe, the former Governor
of Massachusetts. And incidentally, he lost
once and won the next time, too. I think
perhaps I can put it in a timely fashion
by pointing out that in Washington, as
you know, these days it is said that it is
impossible to keep a secret-the Pentagon
papers.¹ In fact, I think the only secret
people said has been kept was the an-
nouncement of the trip I was going to take
to Peking.
There is one other. When I learned
that I was going to have the privilege and
honor of addressing this dinner, and I
had a talk with John Volpe about the or-
ganization and everything that it meant,
and he told me everything. The one thing
he would not, however, tell me at all was
the ceremonial. I said, "Well, John, how
do I learn what the ceremonial is?" He
said, “Mr. President, you have got to join
us." Well, I am here in spirit. That is for
sure.
I would like to address this organiza-
tion tonight on America's problems, and
particularly one which I addressed myself
to just two nights ago. I think you
will see
how it is related to everything you stand
1 The President was referring to the printing,
by the New York Times and other publications,
of excerpts from a top secret Pentagon
study detailing U.S. foreign policy decision-
making on Vietnam during the Kennedy and
Johnson Administrations.
A statement, announcing the President's
decision to make the entire 47-volume study
available to the Congress, was read by Press
Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler during his regu-
lar news briefing at the White House on June
23 and is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 974).
for-a strong and vigorous United States
of America.
You will recall that I talked about the
competitive spirit of the United States in
the economic field when I addressed the
Nation on Sunday night. I pointed out
then that it was necessary to take bold
action to rekindle that spirit in America. I
announced a new economic policy with
three goals in mind:
First, to generate more jobs, because I
believe that everyone who wants to work
in America should have the chance to
work. In the next 10 years, we must create
20 million new jobs for the American
people. We can do it, and our program
is designed to do that.
Second, I took action to call a halt in
the rise of the cost of living. That is the
inevitable legacy of war, one that steals
away the life savings of so many of our
people, and it has made it impossible for
millions of American families to balance
their family budgets.
Third, I took action to defend the
American dollar against the attack of in-
ternational speculation. I am determined
that the American dollar must never again
be hostage to the world's money
manipulators.
Now, these are all Government actions.
There is a need for these actions, because
only by coming to grips with all of our
problems can we expect to solve any of
them.
And there is a need for bold, decisive
action, because a nation can remain great
only if it acts with a sure sense of destiny.
As Knights of the Catholic faith,
Knights of Columbus, you, as much as
anyone in this great Nation, feel that sense
of destiny. From the beginning, America
has seen its destiny-a call to set an exam-
ple and to serve mankind, and that is why
894
