[73] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
73 Radio Address About Second Annual Foreign Policy
February 25, 1971
Report to the Congress.
Good morning, my fellow Americans:
Over the past 10 years, Presidents of
the United States have come before the
American people in times of crisis to talk
about war or the threat of war.
Today I am able to talk to you in a
more hopeful and positive vein-about
how we are moving this Nation and the
world toward a lasting peace.
We have brought ourselves to a time
of transition, from war toward peace, and
this is a good time to gain some perspective
on where we are and where we are headed.
Today I am sending to the Congress
my second annual comprehensive report
on the conduct of our foreign affairs. It
discusses not only what we have done but
why we have done it, and how we intend
to proceed in the future.
I do not intend to summarize all that
is in my detailed report on foreign policy
at this time. Instead, I would like to focus
on three key points:
-How we are getting out of the war
this Nation has been in for the past 6
years;
-How we have created a new and dif-
ferent foreign policy approach for the
United States in a greatly changed
world; and
-How we are applying that approach
in working with others to build a last-
ing peace.
The most immediate and anguishing
problem that faced this Administration 2
years ago was the war in Vietnam.
We have come a long way since then.
Two years ago, when this Administra-
tion took office, there were almost 550,000
Americans in Vietnam. Within 60 days we
will have brought home 260,000 men, and
this spring I will announce a new schedule
of withdrawals.
Two years ago, our casualties each
month were five times as high as they are
today.
Two years ago, the additional demands
of the Vietnam war cost us approximately
$22 billion per year. That cost has been
cut in half.
Much of the progress in Vietnam was
due to the success of the allied operations
against the enemy sanctuaries in Cam-
bodia last spring.
The clear proof is in this figure: Amer-
ican casualties after Cambodia have been
half the rate they were before Cambodia.
Our decision to clean out the sanctuaries
in Cambodia saved thousands of Ameri-
can lives. And it enabled us to continue
withdrawing our men on schedule.
Just as last year's cutoff of supplies
through Cambodia has saved lives and
insured our withdrawal program this
year,
the purpose of this year's disruption of the
Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos is to save
lives and insure the success of our with-
drawal program next year.
The disruption of the Communist sup-
ply line through Laos is being accom-
plished by South Vietnamese troops, with
no U.S. ground troops or advisers. Their
army is doing the fighting, with our air
support, and the intensity of the fighting
is evidence of the importance of that
supply line to the enemy.
Consider this combination of events
that many people thought was impossible
only 2 years ago:
We have kept our commitments as we
have taken out our troops. South Vietnam
now has an excellent opportunity not only
212
