Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 6 [129]
a great many of our men in uniform--
some sixteen hundred of them-who have
not seen a ball game in a long time, much
less seen their homes or their families. Like
Sergeant Pitzer, they are brave American
men who risked their lives in serving their
country. And they still are missing in ac-
tion in Southeast Asia or are held prisoner
in North Vietnam, South Vietnam or
Laos.
Sergeant Pitzer stands before you as a
symbol of our deep and continuing na-
tional concern for the plight of these
young men-and of our national deter-
mination to hasten the day when they too
can come home.
NOTE: The President's message was read by
Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird at Rob-
ert F. Kennedy Stadium. The text of the mes-
sage was made available to the press at San
Clemente, Calif.
M. Sgt. Pitzer of Fairview, W. Va., was re-
leased from captivity in South Vietnam on
November 13, 1967. He was assigned to the
Fifth Special Forces Group, Fort Bragg, N.C.
The official party also included the sons
and daughters of five U.S. military men who
are missing in action or prisoners of war in
Southeast Asia.
129 Special Message to the Congress on Special Revenue
Sharing for Education. April 6, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
A very substantial part of what Ameri-
can government does is directed to the
future and to the creation of a suitable
legacy for generations to come. In this
sense, government reflects a central pur-
pose of the basic family unit and seeks to
serve that purpose: as we move to con-
dition the future, we move also to pre-
pare our children to take their place in
that future. In this task, all levels of gov-
ernment recognize the Nation's responsi-
bility for educating its youth.
Primary responsibility, of course, rests
with State and local governments, as
should. The Federal Government can
help provide resources to meet rising
needs, but State and local education au-
thorities must make the hard decisions
about how to apply these resources in
ways that best serve the educational needs
of our children. To enable State and lo-
cal authorities to do this more effectively,
I am proposing today a new system of
special revenue sharing as a means of
pro-
viding Federal financial assistance for ele-
mentary and secondary education.
This message is the last of six special
revenue sharing proposals which I have
put forward over the past two months.
Combined with the administration's $5
billion general revenue sharing plan and
welfare reform proposals, special revenue
sharing—as a new and more flexible ap-
proach to Federal aid—would fundamen-
tally reform the fiscal roles and relation-
ships of American federalism. The other
five special revenue sharing proposals
have been in the areas of urban commu-
nity development, rural community devel-
opment, transportation, manpower train-
ing and law enforcement assistance.
The plan I am putting forward today
for Education Revenue Sharing brings
together more than 30 Federal aid cate-
gories and deals with one of the Nation's
most complex systems for providing pub-
lic services. There are 46 million students
presently enrolled in public schools in
America, with more than five and a half
71-234-72--35
501
