[204] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
ences of this year, except for one that I
had in San Clemente where I limited it to
domestic policy, and I found, of course,
that that was exactly the case. Eighty-five
percent of all questions asked at Presi-
dential press conferences since I have be-
come President, and also 85 percent of all
the questions asked when I have appeared
before editors' groups, as I did before the
ASNE [American Society of Newspaper
Editors] in Washington, have been on for-
eign policy or national security-related
issues.
Consequently, we thought that in these
media briefings it might be important to
bring to the attention of the opinion lead-
ers in this part of the country, as we have
tried to do and will be trying to do in other
parts of the country as well, the very im-
portant domestic issues, issues which, be-
cause foreign policy at the moment seems
to be so important that it obscures the
others-we cannot have an effective for-
eign policy unless we are able effectively
to deal with our problems at home.
I will return to that theme in my con-
clusion, but let me begin by touching on
several of the issues that you have already
heard discussed and give you, if I may,
some predictions about what is going to
happen in the Congress.
I will predict flatly that in this session
of the Congress revenue sharing in some
form will pass. I will predict flatly that
in this session of the Congress welfare
reform in some form will pass.
As far as the second is concerned, it may
be that the problem in the Senate will be-
come so difficult that it may slop over into
the next session. But in this Congress both
revenue sharing and welfare reform will
pass.
And also, I will predict flatly that Gov-
ernment reorganization-and here Gover-
nor Connally is the real expert in this field
because he was on the committee that
recommended it-Government reorgani-
zation will begin; at least one of the reor-
ganization plans will be passed.
Let me say in that respect that I have
been very pleased, and I think Governor
Connally has been pleased, by the bi-
partisan approach that the chairmen of
the committees have taken to this. Chair-
man Holifield, for example, who very
bluntly is opposed to the reorganization
plans at first blush, and Chairman Mc-
Clellan in the Senate, have both said that
they wanted to have hearings and give the
Congress an opportunity to decide.
If the Congress gets an opportunity to
decide on Government reorganization, on
welfare reform, on revenue sharing, the
majority of the Congress will reflect the
majority of the country.
The reason why I am confident that
welfare reform and revenue sharing will
pass is because a majority of the country
want changes made. I use the term "in
some form" deliberately. This Administra-
tion is working with a Congress of the
other party. Even if we had one of our
own party, the Congress always needs to
and must work its will on administration
proposals. Sometimes the Congress im-
proves them. Sometimes we think the ac-
tion of the Congress does not improve
them.
But be that as it may, it must be a joint
enterprise, particularly when the Congress
is in the hands of one party and the Pres-
idency in the hands of another. But we
believe that we have the cooperative
framework worked out for these three
areas.
Now let me go precisely, if I could, to
the first: revenue sharing.
On revenue sharing, great emphasis has
750
