Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 29 [279]
279 Informal Exchange With Reporters at the
United States Coast Guard Station, Newport
Beach, California. August 29, 1971
Q. How did you enjoy your trip?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we enjoyed it
very much. I have never done that before,
even though I have grown up in Cali-
fornia. What was the most fun was to see
the boats and to see what a great time
everybody was having.
The Queen Mary brought back some
memories.ยน In 1947, the first time I had
ever gone to Europe, I went as a Congress-
man, as a member of the Herter Com-
mittee.2 I tried to pick out, as we came
back alongside the ship, the room that we
had stayed in. I think I guessed where it
was, about amidships. It is rather sad to
see the ship no longer in service, but I am
glad it is getting such good use. I under-
stand about 10,000 people were looking
at it today.
I think it is quite remarkable that so
many people, from the smallest boats to
the largest, get out here on a Sunday or
Saturday afternoon and have such a great
time. We have never had such an escort.
Q. Was it rough out there, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Not on our boat. I
understand it was rougher on yours. Ours
had stabilizers, so that we had a pitch,
ยน The luxury ocean liner R.M.S. Queen Mary
was retired in 1967. She was anchored in Long
Beach Harbor and then converted into a mari-
time museum and hotel-restaurant-shop and
tourist complex.
2 The House Select Committee on Foreign
Aid, named after its chairman, the late Rep-
resentative Christian A. Herter of Massachu-
setts, toured 18 European nations in the sum-
mer of 1947 to survey war damage and make
suggestions on the need for U.S. aid.
but not a roll, and for seasickness, they tell
me, the roll is the worst thing. I think
yours may have gotten both the roll and
the pitch. It bounced around a bit.
I know the first time I went to Catalina
when I was in college I got terribly sick,
but it wasn't on this kind of a boat.
Q. You didn't take the helm at any
time, did you?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, for a little while.
It is very easy. It is just like driving an
automobile. This has so much equipment
on it that it is very, very easy to operate.
Another thing, the captain of this boat,
coincidentally, was Dick Powell's 3 cap-
tain, and he recalled that we had met the
last time just a few days before Dick
Powell's death when I called on him at his
home. And Dick Powell at that time was
planning a trip on a boat that he had, and
this man was the captain and they were
going down to lower California. I was
going along, so we had a good time talking
about those days many years ago.
Q. When you can get away for a few
hours like this, Mr. President, do the
problems of the country seem a little less
pressing on you?
THE PRESIDENT. You never really get
away from the problems, of course. On
the other hand, there is an opportunity,
I think, to put the problems more in per-
spective. For example, I get a chance to
read a little more when I am on a boat
or when I am in San Clemente or Camp
David, and the rest. On this boat I hap-
pened to just be reading a little history,
* Motion picture and television actor, direc-
tor, and producer.
921
