[70] Feb. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Construction contractors and labor lead-
ers will have the full cooperation of this
Administration as they strive to carry out
this crucial responsibility.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's action by Secretary of Labor James
D. Hodgson.
71 Toast of the President at a Dinner Honoring Governors
Attending the National Governors' Conference Winter
Session. February 23, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
We have good news for you tonight. We
have no speeches. I know that you have
have been somewhat surfeited with
speechmaking during the afternoon, the
presentations of members of our Cabinet
and of our White House Staff.
So tonight our remarks will be brief. I
will speak briefly to welcome you, and I
am going to ask Governor Hearnes to re-
spond, if he will. Everybody from Missouri
speaks briefly, so we have no problem on
that score.
I simply want to say first, that as far as
my remarks are concerned, I am not go-
ing to direct them to the Governors. I
spoke to you earlier about some very prac-
tical matters that we were all interested in.
But I think in this great room, the State
Dining Room, with all of the feeling of
history in it and all of the magnificent
events that have been held here, we some-
what like to think of those that have been
honored here, really chief executives, em-
perors, kings, and prime ministers. And
we think of the names—I have been here
for dinner with de Gaulle and Churchill
and Nehru. We go back through the years
and you think of Lincoln in this room, and
clear back to Jackson, and T. R. with all
the excitement that he must have brought
to this room, and F.D.R., and so on down
the line.
But, in any event, we also think of the
First Ladies who have presided in this
room. And that is really the burden of my
remarks. Mrs. Rockefeller 1 said some-
thing very nice a moment ago. She said
this is a happy house.
Now, I reject any political connotation
to that. In any event, what she meant to
say was that, and we want you to feel
that, this is your house. It belongs to all
of us, whoever may be here.
I have noted that in the 182 years since
Washington was President of the United
States, that 50 percent of the time people
who have been Governors have been
President of the United States. So each
of
you can sort of look to the possibility.
This is a happy house, in any event.
But in that respect I would also say,
though, that we think back of the First
Ladies and all that goes into the planning
of a party.
I was talking to the first ladies of the
States at this table and the first lady from
Mississippi and the first lady from Arizona,
from Connecticut, and from New York.
And I thought of all the parties that
all of the first ladies have put on in your
various capitals and all of them aren't
like this. You won't have as many chief
'Margaretta "Happy" Rockefeller, wife of
Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York.
202
