[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
eral's Special Representative, could use as
a catalyst for talks between the parties.
By May of 1970 these efforts were
stalled. And while they had proceeded,
the intensity of the conflict had again
reached the critical level. Fighting was
taking place daily along the Suez Canal.
In retaliation, Israeli air power
power had
reached deep into Egypt. Fedayeen at-
tacks had provoked serious incidents on
the ceasefire lines between Israel and Jor-
dan, Lebanon and Syria. The Soviet
Union had taken steps to alter the mili-
tary balance in the UAR's favor. Forces
opposed to any kind of settlement were
increasingly assertive in many Arab
countries.
Obviously, the situation was once again
about to go out of control. A new ap-
proach in the search for a settlement was
urgently required.
Our experience over the past year had
convinced us that no serious movement
toward peace was possible unless the par-
ties to the conflict themselves came to
grips with the issues between them.
On June 19, therefore, the United
States launched an initiative to get both
sides to:
-re-establish the ceasefire.
-observe a military standstill in an
agreed zone on both sides of the
Israel-UAR ceasefire line.
-agree on a set of principles as the
basic starting point for Arab-Israeli
talks under the auspices of Ambas-
sador Jarring.
The essence of this proposal was de-
scribed by Secretary Rogers publicly on
June 25 as a major political initiative "to
encourage the parties to stop shooting and
start talking." The UAR, Jordan, and
Israel accepted the proposal, as did the
Soviet Union. Our initiative produced
significant results:
-It halted the bloodshed along the
ceasefire line, and thereby helped re-
duce national passions to a level more
conducive to sober consideration of a
political settlement.
—It obtained, for the first time, agree-
ment by Israel, Jordan, and the UAR
to seek "a just and lasting peace be-
tween them based on (1) mutual ac-
knowledgment by the United Arab
Republic, Jordan and Israel of each
other's sovereignty, territorial integ-
rity and political independence, and
(2) Israeli withdrawal from terri-
tories occupied in the 1967 conflict,
both in accordance with" the UN Se-
curity Council Resolution of Novem-
ber 22, 1967.
However, the ultimate goal of our initi-
ative, a serious peace negotiation, did not
follow immediately. For the Soviet and
Egyptian buildup of military forces along
the Suez Canal continued after the cease-
fire went into effect on August 7, in vio-
lation of the agreement for a military
standstill. The fragile opening toward
peace was further endangered in early
September by the actions of Palestinian
groups which attempted to force the Gov-
ernment of Jordan to withdraw from the
effort to reach a settlement.
The situation in Jordan deteriorated
into open conflict, and the subsequent in-
tervention of armored forces from Syria
created the gravest threat to world peace
since this Administration came into office.
More was at stake than Jordanian
policy. As always with dangers avoided,
it is not easy in retrospect to demonstrate
how close to greater dangers the world
really came. But the prospect which
288
