Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 20 [403]
402 Remarks in Bermuda Announcing Removal of
December 20, 1971
Surcharge on Imports.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I have just had my first meeting with
the Prime Minister. He felt that it would
be well that I make this announcement
prior to the time that we go into our more
extended meetings this afternoon.
I have today made the first decision
implementing the agreement which was
reached over the weekend by the Group
of Ten in their meetings in Washington.
After consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury and the Secretary of State
today, I have signed a proclamation
[4098] removing the 10 percent sur-
charge.
This first step having been taken, we
can now move on to the trade areas and
the monetary areas in which agreement
was also reached over the weekend.
Later today, on the American side, Sec-
retary Connally and Secretary Rogers will
brief the press, and on the British side I
know arrangements will probably be
made for proper briefings also.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:50 p.m. on
the grounds of Government House, Hamilton,
Bermuda, following a preliminary meeting with
Prime Minister Edward Heath of the United
Kingdom.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Secretary
of State William P. Rogers on his meetings in
Bermuda with Sir Alec Douglas-Home, British
Secretary of State for Foreign and Common-
wealth Affairs. The White House also released
the transcript of a news briefing by Secretary
of the Treasury John B. Connally on his meet-
ings in Bermuda with British Chancellor of the
Exchequer Anthony Barber and on interna-
tional trade and monetary affairs. The tran-
scripts of the briefings are printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 7,
pp. 1694 and 1695).
403 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Edward
Heath of the United Kingdom at a Dinner During
Their Meetings in Bermuda. December 20, 1971
Mr. Prime Minister, Your Excellency the
Governor, gentlemen:
I could well respond to the Prime Min-
ister's remarks by saying, as I can, with
great conviction, that I agree with every
word that he has uttered. However, I
think the occasion demands a bit more
than that because of its historic signifi-
cance, and so it is important on such an
occasion that I, on my part, state on behalf
of all of our officials who are here, our
appreciation for the hospitality that has
been extended and our hopes for the fu-
ture as that future will be affected by this
meeting.
First, I think we will all agree that we
could not have selected a better place in
which to meet, as far as its historical
significance.
The Prime Minister had some mar-
velous historical anecdotes with regard to
Bermuda. I think the best one that our
staff was able to think up was one from
Mark Twain. Mark Twain once visited
Bermuda, and he said to a friend at the
conclusion of his visit, he said, "You may
1197
