[79] Mar. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
collectors, is very good at collecting reve-
nues and often very bad at dispensing
services.
So it makes elementary good sense to
turn over some of the money collected by
the Federal tax system to meet State and
local needs.
It makes good sense because people on
the scene are often the best judges of what
those needs are.
It also makes sense because our people
need relief from the mounting burden of
State and local taxes.
Here in Iowa, with our revenue shar-
ing program, let me tell you what it would
do for you. It means you would make a
choice. Your choice could be to increase
services, if you desire to do so, or to avert
a deficit, if you desire to do so, or perhaps
to increase appropriations for the agricul-
tural land tax credit, if you desire to do so.
The point is you make the choice as to
what should happen to those revenues.
And you would choose according to your
best judgment of the needs and wishes of
the people of Iowa. And that is the way it
should be here in Iowa and in every State
in this country.
Let me also say a word about my pro-
posal to reorganize the Federal Govern-
ment—and particularly as it affects the
farmer.
One of the automobile companies has
recently been using the advertising
slogan-you have heard it on television
and radio-"You've changed. We've
changed." But when we look at the farmer
and the way the Federal Government is
organized, it is a very different story. The
only way to state the case, sadly enough,
is that he has changed and we have not.
The farmer is a man of many talents
now-he is a businessman, a technician,
a scientist-often a man who makes his
living in more lines of work than farming
alone. The term "agribusiness" is often
used here in Iowa, in my own State of
California, to describe this great, new,
powerful instrument of American agri-
culture, which has made America first in
the world in productivity in agriculture;
first in the world in terms of this very
important fact: that the housewife in
America, the best fed country in the
world, pays less of her budget for food
than in any country of the world.
This is an indication of what the farmer
has done for America.
And when the farmer and American
agriculture has done that, when it is the
most productive of all of the various
phases of our economy, certainly Ameri-
can agriculture and the American farmer
deserve a fair share of America's increas-
ing prosperity.
But now let's take it a little beyond that
farmer. Let's look at the rural community
in which he lives or here, the city where
the farmer comes from time to time.
We find that that rural community is
becoming increasingly diversified in its
economic base, in its land use, in its
population patterns. While all this has
gone on, we have sat in Washington with
the same Department of Agriculture that
we have had there since 1862.
Oh, changes have been made in the
organization. New functions have been
added. But the Department of Agricul-
ture, as far as its mission is concerned, is
the same as it was then when the prob-
lems were very different. "You've changed
and we haven't"-this could become the
epitaph for rural America, for the coun-
tryside where the Nation's roots are. But
to be able to say that you have changed
and so have we-that could be the key-
note for a new surge of vitality and prog-
358
