Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 11 [58]
[At this point, the oath of office was admin-
istered by Associate Justice Harry A. Black-
mun of the Supreme Court.]
SECRETARY CONNALLY, Mr. President,
Mrs. Nixon, distinguished members of the
Cabinet, Members of Congress, members
of my family, and friends:
Mr. President, will you permit me one
big sigh? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. This is a lot easier
forum than the Senate of the United
States, I can assure you.
SECRETARY CONNALLY. I finally made
it. Today I go on the payroll. [Laughter]
If there is justification for this levity, it
is to keep me from being too serious.
Mr. President, to serve one's country
under any circumstances to me is a rare
privilege indeed. To serve one's country
in a position of such responsibility is truly
more than a challenge. It is a rare and a
great opportunity. To be able to do so
in the Administration of a President who
so dedicated and so committed, so sin-
cerely doing all within his power to bring
about basic changes in the structure of
this Government and the delivery of serv-
ices to its citizens, is an opportunity that
any man would be grateful to have.
pur-
I assure you, Mr. President, in the
suit of my duties, in the assignments which
by law and by delegation are already those
of the Secretary of the Treasury, and in
the pursuit of those assignments which
you shall give me in the future, I assure
you I shall approach them with the deep-
est humility, and with a sense of hope
that I can live up to your appointment, to
your expectations, and that I might prove
worthy of the trust that has been placed
in me by you, by the Members of the
Senate who confirmed me, by my friends
who, right or wrong, have always believed
in me, and, most of all, for the benefit of
the people of this Nation. Thank you very
much.
THE PRESIDENT. Ladies and gentle-
men, that concludes the ceremony. And
at this time, the new Secretary of the
Treasury and Mrs. Connally and I will
walk to the entrance to the State Dining
Room. We would like to have all of you
who have the time to join us there for
coffee. And I understand there are some
nice rolls and other things which I never
try but they tell me they are very good.
Mrs. Nixon cannot join us because she
has a luncheon to attend, but we will be
glad to welcome all of you there.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
58 Statement on the Anniversary of the Birth
of Abraham Lincoln. February 11, 1971
ONE of the first things most Americans
learn about the Republican Party is that
it is the party of Abraham Lincoln. As we
observe the anniversary of his birth, it is
appropriate that we think again about the
principles he observed and how they can
be implemented in our time.
Lincoln knew that free people and open
opportunities were the driving force of
America; today we must protect individ-
ual freedom and expand individual op-
portunity. Lincoln knew that our State
and local governments were vital to our
people and should work with, not against
our Federal government; we must en-
hance the innovativeness, responsiveness
153
