Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 24 [72]
of information which the United States
Government, as the nation's largest single
consumer, collects on the products it uses.
In my message of October 30, 1969, I an-
nounced that I was directing my Special
Assistant for Consumer Affairs to develop
a program for providing the buying pub-
lic with this information.
On the strength of her recommenda-
tions, on October 26, 1970, I signed
Executive Order 11566 which establishes
a means for making available to the public
much of the product information which
the Federal Government acquires in mak-
ing its own purchases. A Consumer Prod-
uct Information Coordinating Center has
been established in the General Services
Administration with continuing policy
guidance from my Special Assistant for
Consumer Affairs to make these data
available to the public through Federal
information centers and other sources
throughout the country.
In addition, the Committee on Con-
sumer Interests has made significant
strides in developing Federal, State and
local cooperation in consumer programs,
encouraging establishment of strong State
and local consumer offices, and advising
on the enactment of effective consumer
laws and programs.
Nevertheless, further cooperation
among Federal, State and local govern-
ments is essential if we are truly to insure
that the consumer is properly served.
Therefore, I am asking my Special As-
sistant for Consumer Affairs to intensify
her efforts on behalf of the consumer at
the State and local level. I am also direct-
ing her to conduct regional meetings with
State officials concerned with consumer
issues, with consumer groups, and with
individual consumers to discuss common
problems and possible solutions.
But I believe the greatest overall ac-
complishment of this office has been to
give the consumer new assurance of this
administration's concern for his and her
welfare in the marketplace. In manifest-
ing this concern during the past two years,
the responsibility of the President's Com-
mittee on Consumer Interests has grown,
as has its impact on consumer problems.
I have therefore signed today a new
Executive Order [11583] creating a new
Office of Consumer Affairs in the Execu-
tive Office of the President. I am appoint-
ing my Special Assistant for Consumer
Affairs to be Director of this new office.
This change reflects the increasingly broad
scope of responsibilities assigned to the
Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs
and will increase the effectiveness of the
Office. The Office will advise me on mat-
ters of consumer interests, and will also
assume primary responsibility for coordi-
nating all Federal activity in the consumer
field.
Finally, while I am deeply concerned
with obtaining justice for all consumers, I
have a special concern to see justice for
those who, in a sense, need it most and
are least able to get it. Therefore, I am
directing my Special Assistant for Con-
sumer Affairs to focus particular atten-
tion in the new Office on the coordination
of consumer programs aimed at assisting
those with limited income, the elderly,
the disadvantaged, and minority group
members.
A CONSUMER ADVOCATE
In my message of October 30, 1969, I
pointed out that effective representation
of the consumer requires that an appro-
priate arm of the government be given
the tools to serve as an advocate before
205
