Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 31 [121]
121
Remarks Announcing Plans To Make Land in Camp
Pendleton, California, Available for Public Recreational
Use. March 31, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am sending today to the Secretary of
Defense a directive that he is to report to
the House and Senate Committees on
Armed Services that 6 miles of beach and
3,400 acres of upland, which presently
are part of Camp Pendleton, will be de-
clared excess and will become available
for public use.
In the case of the beach property-and
Mr. Ehrlichman will brief you later with
regard to the technical details—in the case
of the beach property, 3 miles of it will
be available starting this Sunday, because
there will be approximately a 30-day, and
maybe a 45-day period, in which the two
committees have an opportunity to veto
the President's declaration of the prop-
erty being excess. If they do veto it, and
I do not expect them to, that would mean
that we would have to reconsider what
we are doing.
But in that 30-day period, and partic-
ularly with the Easter vacation period
coming up, we have arranged on a tem-
porary basis to lease 3 miles of beach, the
best beach, right in this area, so that start-
ing Sunday all of the many people that
like to go to the beach in the Easter vaca-
tion period will have 3 more miles of the
best beach in the world to go to.
I should point out that this action, while
it deals with property very close to my
home in California, relates to the whole
Nation, but I should also point out that
what we are doing here has triggered my
thoughts with regard to activities through-
out the Nation.
Just 2 years ago I was walking along
this beach, and I realized that here in
southern California there were millions
of people who wanted to go to the beach,
and that when you go by Santa Monica
or Long Beach or any of the other great
beaches that I used to go to as a youngster,
that they are just too crowded these days,
and there is a great need for more beaches
where people can go.
Consequently, I checked and found,
and with the cooperation of the Marine
Corps, that they did not need the total
of 18 miles of beach which they presently
occupy. So we have worked out that this
6 miles will be declared excess, and that in
the future, millions of particularly young
people in California, and older ones as
well, that enjoy the beach will have
greater access to this property which has
been closed since World War II when the
Marine Corps took it over for obvious
reasons.
In addition to that, having made that
decision 2 years ago with regard to this
particular property, I asked that a survey
be made of all properties held by the Fed-
eral Government, properties held by the
Department of Defense, by the GSA, by
the Veterans Administration, by the De-
partment of the Interior.
Over half the land, for example, in the
Western States is owned by and controlled
by the Federal Government. This is apart
from parklands. This is land which is used
by, controlled by [the Federal Govern-
ment], and denied to the public, as far
as their use is concerned.
Much of this use is not proper in terms
of the best use. And consequently, this is
493
