Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 9 [351]
replaces confrontation, the challenges of
competition economically enormously
increase.
Look around the world today. Compare
it to what it was 25 years ago. Twenty-
five years ago the United States was pre-
eminent economically in the world. With
7 percent of the world's people we cre-
ated and produced over 50 percent of
the world's wealth. No one was our com-
petitor in the world.
Now, today, 25 years later, much of it
as a result of our very proper and generous
assistance to those that were defeated in
World War II, as well as those who
were our allies, we have new competitors,
strong competitors: Western Europe, join-
ing together in one of the most powerful
economic blocs that the world has ever
seen, a strong competitor, whereas it was
not one 25 years ago; Japan, prostrate 25
years ago, now the third most powerful
economic force in the world; the Soviet
Union, of course, the second strongest eco-
nomic power in the world and, of course,
a super power in terms of its nuclear
power; and the People's Republic of
China, not yet strong in terms of its eco-
nomic productivity, but with 750 million
capable people with the potential of being
as strong as it wants to be, because of their
potential power.
So we see the world a very different
one-one in which the United States can-
not rest on its laurels; one in which the
United States cannot afford inefficiency,
not economically, not governmentally, not
spiritually or morally. To meet this chal-
lenge of peace it is necessary that the
United States have first a new economic
policy, one that will build in this country
something that we have not had since
the Eisenhower years of 1955 and 1956:
a prosperity without inflation, and with
full employment without war. This we can
have, and this we can build.
It means, in addition, developing the
economic strength of the United States
in such a way that we can compete. We
cannot afford the luxury of inefficiency
any more if we are to compete with the
new economic super powers that are de-
veloping in both Asia and Europe. And it
is essential, therefore, that American busi-
ness and American labor, working to-
gether, meet that challenge and meet it
effectively, if we are to maintain the eco-
nomic leadership of the world which is
essential, incidentally of course, for our
military and, even more important, our
diplomatic leadership for peace.
Then, when we speak of America's be-
ing ready to meet the challenges of peace,
we must also look to the necessity for
America to have a government which
speaks to this time and not simply to the
time 200 years ago, or 100 years ago, or
even 25 years ago.
We must realize that our cities are in
trouble, our States are in trouble—not
just New York City or New York State,
but every major State, many of the small
ones as well. And that is why this Ad-
ministration has offered new programs of
reform. They are historic. They are revo-
lutionary. They are controversial. And
they have not been acted upon by the
Congress.
Whether it is revenue sharing, which
will revitalize local or State government,
or whether it is welfare reform, which
is vitally needed in this country to get rid
of a system that is now one that deserves
condemnation all over this country, or
whether it is in the case of government re-
organization, the first government reor-
ganization of significance that has really
taken place since this country began, or
1089
