[89] Mar. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
and to report periodically on how the
money was expended. This requirement
is included merely to insure that funds
would be used for eligible activities.
As is the case with all other revenue
sharing programs, there could be no dis-
crimination in the use of these funds. The
rights of all persons to equitable treatment
would be protected. Any monies expended
under this program would be considered
as Federal financial assistance within the
meaning of Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964.
THE TRANSITION PROCESS
The Department of Housing and
Urban Development has already taken a
number of steps designed to achieve more
coordination among grant programs and
greater decentralization on decisionmak-
ing within the present structure of categor-
ical grants. For example, the Department
has been encouraging cities to create total
community development strategies and
has been working to fit categorical aids
into such strategies wherever possible. It
has also delegated substantial authority to
its own regional and area offices. Such
efforts are helping to lay a foundation
for Special Revenue Sharing and all of
them will continue.
One of the most important existing
stepping stones to revenue sharing is the
Model Cities program which was designed
to provide a local community with flexible
funding and sufficient freedom so that it
can coordinate a wide variety of develop-
ment programs in a given target area. The
Model Cities idea grew out of a mounting
frustration with traditional categorical
grants. Ideally, it embodies-on a limited
basis—the principles we are trying to ex-
tend to all development aid through
Special Revenue Sharing.
Even in the Model Cities program,
however, the ideal has not yet been fully
realized. The program is still limited in
scope and it still suffers from certain re-
strictions-the need to negotiate projects
with Washington, for example, and the
fact that some programs are still limited
to certain neighborhoods. The Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment has worked to minimize these
limitations and it will continue to do so.
At the same time, I hope that the Con-
gress will enact this Special Revenue
Sharing program and thus complete the
work which began when the Model Cities
program was set up five years ago.
I would emphasize that there will be
no lessening of Federal support for urban
development activities between now and
January 1, 1972, the proposed starting
date for the new program. Our problems
will not take "time out" and neither can
our efforts to deal with them. Where long-
range commitments have been made to
fund urban renewal projects, those com-
mitments will be honored. Amenda-
tories-supplementary pledges which
cover cost increases in urban renewal
projects will also continue to be funded.
We will, however, discourage applications
for new conventional urban renewal
projects—since they would tie up future
funds today which would mean cash
through Special Revenue Sharing in fu-
ture years. Instead, we will prepare for
Special Revenue Sharing by placing
greater emphasis in all programs on an-
nual incremental funding-of the sort
that is now used in Neighborhood Devel-
opment Programs.
Similarly, all other affected programs
402
