[29] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
RURAL AMERICA
Two measures again being proposed
concern Americans living in the country-
side or on farms. One would establish a
mixed-ownership bank to make loans to
telephone borrowers, along the lines of the
Farm Credit Administration; the other
would reduce Federal expenditures by
replacing direct loans to some farmers
with government guaranteed loans.
THE TELEPHONE BANK
I
propose creation of a mixed-ownership
bank to make loans-at from 4 percent
to market interest rates-to telephone
companies and cooperatives which now
rely almost exclusively on the Rural
Electrification Administration for their
financing.
The bank would be partially capitalized
through Treasury purchase of stock at a
rate of up to $30 million annually until
the Treasury holdings reached $300
million.
When total capital stock plus paid-in
surplus reached $400 million, the bank
would begin to retire the Federal invest-
ment. Further, the bank would be em-
powered to sell stock to its borrowers, and
to borrow from private investors up to
eight times the paid-in capital and re-
tained earnings of the bank. This could
bring about bank loans during Fiscal
Year 1972 of $94.5 million to telephone
borrowers and the 1972 budget assumes
timely enactment of this legislation.
INSURED FARM OPERATING LOANS
This proposal would permit the
Farmers Home Administration to sub-
stitute insured for direct loans to farmers
up to a level of $275 million for the
coming fiscal year.
This could reduce Treasury outlays by
$275 million, while leaving a Federal
guarantee for the loans. It is consistent
with our belief in maximum use of the
private sector in achieving public pur-
poses, and its enactment is assumed in our
1972 Budget.
GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE
REFORM
A number of proposals being resub-
mitted deal with the smoother, more effi-
cient and more responsive operation of
the Federal Government. They argue for
themselves on their own considerable
merits.
GRANT CONSOLIDATION
First, I urge the Congress to enact leg-
islation permitting the President to merge
related Federal assistance programs, sub-
ject to Congressional review and con-
currence. This authority, similar to presi-
dential power to reorganize the Executive
Branch, would be a vital part of our total
effort to simplify the Federal system and
make the delivery of goods and services
at the regional, State and local level more
effective. The consolidation of programs
will make possible broader and more flexi-
ble use of funds and facilitate program
administration at all levels of government.
Originally submitted almost two years
ago, this request for authority is thoroughly
in keeping with the administration's un-
precedented revenue sharing proposals
contained in my State of the Union Mes-
sage. The time has come to move on this
bill.
68
