[257] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
is a great country, and I am proud to be
here right in the heart of this country, in
New Hampshire.
As I think of the future, I think a bit
of the past. When I came to New Hamp-
shire on February 2, 1968, over 300 Amer-
icans a day were being killed in Vietnam,
and there was no end in sight in that war.
The casualties in Vietnam-I mean 300
a week, I meant to say-the casualties in
Vietnam this past week were 14. That is
too many, but we now are reaching the
point when not only have we cut the cas-
ualties from 300 a week to 14 a week and
12 a week, but when we can see that the
American involvement in that war, which
has been so long and so difficult, will come
to an end, and America can be at peace
with every nation in the world. This is
what we are doing, and this is what we
plan for the young people of America.
But even more important, may I say
to all of the young people here today, the
new generation, the next generation, and
to your parents, my generation, that our
interest goes far beyond simply ending a
war that we are in. It goes far beyond
simply having peace for the next elec-
tion or the next 5 years.
As I look back over the history of this
country, over the past century, America
has been in four wars; we have had a
war every generation. There has not been
a generation without a war. We can be
proud of our role because we have fought
every one of those wars, we have fought it
with sacrifice, with bravery, and we have
not gotten an acre of territory or anything
out of it. We have fought always for the
freedom of others; we have fought for
peace, not to break the peace.
But, on the other hand, I think it is
time that we develop in America a foreign
policy in which Americans can have peace
for a generation and not have it broken
by war, in which we can develop a policy
in which we can have prosperity based on
peace and not at the cost of war. That is
what we want for America, and that is
what we are working for in this Nation
today.
That is the reason why in our foreign
policy-and some will be critical of it, and
I understand that-that we look not only
to keeping America strong, which we
must; we look not only to finding a way to
end the war in Vietnam, which we are
doing in a way that will contribute to a
lasting peace rather than in a way that
will encourage those who might start
another war; but we must also look far
down the road, 25 years from now when
these young people will be standing in this
place, or in the place of the Congressmen
and the Senators, and we want that to be
a world in which there is the better chance
for peace.
That is why I am taking a long journey
in a few months, a journey that will take
me to a land in which 800 million people
live. I take this journey for this purpose—
I take it for the purpose of ending the iso-
lation of 800 million of the most able
people in the world from the rest of the
world, because, my friends, let me tell
you: Unless that is done, we will have a
tremendous threat to the peace of the
world which I do not want to see be borne
by these young people that are here.
So to all of you, let me say: The Presi-
dent of the United States, Senators, Con-
gressmen, Democrats or Republicans, all
share one great goal. We want peace in
our time, but we want peace in your time,
you, your young people as well. We are
working for it. We want a world that is
876
