Richard Nixon, 1971
June 22 [206]
ple, older people, people in all walks of
life; people who respect the office of
the Presidency; people, also, who love this
country and believe in America. It is good
to be here.
I particularly want to say a word-I
noticed a few signs along about young
people and their future. If there is any-
thing, one thing we all think about, it, of
course, is about the lives that we are living.
I am going to talk to the doctors about
many of the problems, as to how they can
keep America physically healthy. But let
me say that the greatest responsibility that
those of us in public life have is to see to
it that the young people that we see
here-and we see so many, I see the Boy
Scouts, the Girl Scouts, and the others-
to see that they can grow up in a world
and in a land that is at peace with the
world. We are going to do that. We are
going to accomplish that so that they can
have what we have not had in our
generation.
And most important, I can tell you,
and
I am sure that whether we are Democrats
or Republicans on this platform, or what-
ever you are in the audience, as I speak to
the doctors about physical health, there
is another kind of health that is even
more important. You can have a strong
physical body and an empty shell with no
spirit, no morality, no character, and you
don't have an individual who really can
contribute to his country.
Let America be strong-strong physi-
cally—and rich, but, above everything
else, let's have the moral and spiritual
strength that America has had from the
time of its beginning.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
11:15 a.m. in front of the Chalfonte-Haddon
Hall Hotel.
206 Remarks to the American Medical Association's
House of Delegates Meeting in Atlantic City,
New Jersey.
June 22, 1971
Dr. Bornemeier, all of the distinguished
guests on the platform, and all of the dis-
tinguished delegates to this convention:
I very much appreciated that reference
by Dr. Bornemeier to the year 1966. Let
me say he had a lot more confidence in my
future then than I had, I can assure you.
I recall, too, the pleasure that I have had
in addressing the AMA on another oc-
casion in Atlantic City, in 1951. Some of
you will be old enough to remember that.
I was then just a Senator. So this makes
the third time that I have had the priv-
ilege to address this organization in this
session.
In doing a little checking with regard
to when Presidents-at least that means
Presidents of the United States; I under-
stand all of these front rows are either
presidents or past presidents of AMA-
but in checking the record I find that as
far as Presidents of the United States are
concerned, in the 120 years of this orga-
nization only four have had the privilege
of addressing you. The last time was Pres-
ident Eisenhower in 1959. I am honored
to be here as President, after having had
the opportunity to address you as a Sen-
ator, as a former Vice President, and now
as the Chief Executive of the Nation.
761
