[30] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
will receive the same warmth, be accorded
the same dignity that the head of state of
the United States would receive and be
accorded.
And now, having spoken of the past, of
what we owe to Spain historically, having
spoken also of the fact that Spain is known
not only in the United States but through-
out Europe and throughout the world as
a place that everybody enjoys going to,
because of what it offers in the way of
tourism, let me come to something which
for the future is far more important, far
more significant.
There is a tendency for some in the
United States to think of our relationship
with Spain as being primarily and almost
exclusively because of our common inter-
est in defense. That, of course, is
important.
But far more important for the future
is the fact that Spain, a country with a
very proud and glorious past, is now mov-
ing into an era of great progress for the
future.
Spain has the youngest Cabinet of any
country in Europe. Spain has, as you see,
a very young man and a young Princess
who will be in the future, and have
already been designated as, heads of state.
And one who visits Spain realizes that
there in that country is a vibrant, dynamic
force for growth which has already meant
that Spain has the fastest growth rate of
any country in Europe, but that looking to
the future, that this nation with its proud
past is now entering an era of even a
greater future.
And so we in the United States feel that
we are very fortunate to be able to be
partners in cooperating toward that
future, not simply in our defense, which
is very important, but also in terms of our
economic cooperation, our cultural coop-
eration, and in every other area in which
two great peoples with so many ties in the
past have the opportunity to work to-
gether for a greater future.
And so at this moment, when for the
first time, at long last, we honor as the
guest of the United States of America one
who will be the head of state, a very proud
and great country, and a very great friend
of the United States, I know that all of
you will want to join me in the toast that I
will propose. And that toast will be to his
Royal Highness, to Princess Sophia, and
to Generalissimo Franco, the President of
Spain.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:51 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
See also Item 28.
Prince Juan Carlos responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
Both Princess Sophia and myself deeply
appreciate your hospitality.
Our visit today to Washington as your guests
symbolizes, in my opinion, the bonds that unite
our two countries. These bonds are not new,
Mr. President.
Men of the world from which I come, men of
my homeland, lent their efforts and initiative
to the creation of those bonds. Their moral
tenacity, the sweat of their brows, and their
intelligence contributed to the discovery and
formation of America, and today they are part
of your history:
Men like Junipero Serra, founder of Cali-
fornia, your home State, Mr. President, whose
statue rises above the capitol dome; a woman
such as Queen Isabella, my ancestress, who
with the ships of Columbus made possible the
discovery of this continent; or King Charles III,
whose moral and material efforts aided this
country to achieve its national independence.
But we must not confine ourselves to the
glorious deeds of the past. I feel a duty of our
time and also of my own generation to look
toward the future and hope that the signifi-
cance of this visit will remain alive long after
our departure.
Spain admires, above all, your country's
moral virtues. Yours is the land of the liberty
74
