i
Appendix B—Additional White House Announcements
NOTE: This appendix lists those items of general interest which were announced to the press
during 1971 but which are not noted elsewhere in this volume.
January
5 Three Republican Governors met with the
President at the White House to discuss
revenue sharing and welfare reform. They
were: Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York,
Louie B. Nunn of Kentucky, and Raymond
P. Shafer of Pennsylvania.
5 British Ambassador John Freeman paid a
farewell courtesy call on the President at
the White House.
8 The President flew from the Western White
House to Santa Catalina Island, where he
was greeted and accompanied on a tour of
the Island by Mayor Harvey Cowells.
12 The President has directed the Cabinet
Committee on Economic Policy to review
the effect of steel price increases, the import
of foreign steel, and related problems, and to
report to him promptly suggestions for
action.
13 The President visited Concordia Elementary
School in San Clemente, Calif., to meet with
fourth and fifth grade students who had sent
him cards for his birthday January 9.
15 The President met, in separate meetings,
with John A. McKesson 3d, United States
Ambassador to Gabon, Henry A. Byroade,
United States Ambassador to the Philip-
pines, and Luther I. Replogle, United
States Ambassador to Iceland.
15 Officers of the Women's National Repub-
lican Club, Inc., met with the President to
present their 50th Anniversary Distin-
guished Political Service Award.
January
15 Printing industry representatives presented
the President with the industry's 20th An-
nual Franklin Award for Distinguished
Service. The ceremony marked the 265th
anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Frank-
lin and the start of International Printing
Week, 1971.
15 Mrs. Louise D. Perry of West Winfield,
N.Y., called on the President. Mrs. Perry,
79, had sent a Presidential Seal in needle-
work as a birthday gift.
15 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
reception for members of the Republican
National Committee and their wives or
husbands.
18 Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird met
with the President at the White House to
report on his trip to Vietnam.
23 Gov. Ronald Reagan of California met
with the President at the White House to
discuss Federal-State relations, welfare, and
revenue sharing.
23 The bipartisan leadership of the new Con-
gress met with the President at the White
House.
24-29 In the course of the week, the President
and members of his staff held a series of
meetings with Members of Congress to dis-
cuss the programs outlined in the State of
the Union Message.
On Monday, January 25, the President
met with the Republican Congressional
leadership and with the chairman and rank-
ing minority member of the House Com-
mittee on Ways and Means. On the same
day, he also participated in two meetings
1247
