[189] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, what does a refusal
of all but a handful of the sick and dis-
abled prisoners that South Vietnam had
planned to return to the North do to the
chances for exchange of such prisoners?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Horner, you will
remember that we went through some-
what the same thing in Korea many years
ago when the Korean prisoners, many
of them, refused to go back. As far as
this is concerned, there are a few, less
than 20, who have agreed to go back, and,
of course, they will be returned.
We hope that the refusal of the others
to go back will not deter the North Viet-
namese at least to consider some kind of
action on their part with regard to sick
and disabled prisoners.
Mr. Rather [Dan Rather, CBS News].
Q. Mr. President, thank you. And I
especially appreciate it because it gives
me an opportunity to follow up on Mr.
Horner's question. Some of the wives-
by no means all-but some of the wives
of prisoners of war held by North Vietnam
are critical of you and your policies con-
cerning their husbands, saying specifically,
among other things, that you should set
a date for withdrawal of all U.S. troops
in Vietnam contingent upon release of all
the prisoners; that, if North Vietnam
doesn't respond, then you lose nothing by
that.
The question is, first, generally, would
you respond to that criticism, and then
specifically, what is there to lose by setting
a date contingent upon release of all
prisoners?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Rather, I dis-
cussed this matter with Ambassador Bruce
when he was here. And I asked him what
success he had had in raising this question
with the North Vietnamese, because, as
you note, they have even put out stories
to the effect that if we would set a date
certain, way in the future, they would be
willing to move on the prisoner issue. It
always comes back to the same thing. If
we end our involvement in Vietnam and
set a date, they will agree to discuss pris-
oners, not release them.
Now, we have been around this track
before. I should point out that when Pres-
ident Johnson agreed to the bombing halt
in October of 1968, he did so with the
understanding that there was going to be
progress in the negotiations, that there
was going to be discussions, and for 22
years we have had discussions in Paris
and no progress.
Now, as far as we are concerned, we at
this time are not going to make any kind
of agreement with regard to prisoners
that is not going to be followed by action
or concurrent with action; from the
standpoint of the North Vietnamese, we
have yet no indication whatever that they
would be willing to release prisoners in
the event that we took certain steps.
POLICE ACTION DURING DEMONSTRATIONS
[10.] Mr. Kaplow [Herbert Kaplow,
NBC News].
Q. Mr. President, it has been about a
month now since the Mayday demon-
strations, and in that period, several peo-
ple have raised the question as to whether
the police handled it properly. And also
the charges against, I think, more than
2,000 people arrested on that Monday
have been dropped.
I wonder with that perspective now of
a month, whether you think the police
handled it properly; and the broader con-
stitutional question involved of protecting
individual rights in a difficult situation of
control.
692
