Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 28 [31]
and efficiency that today has been called upon
to play a decisive role in the free world.
You can be sure, Mr. President, that my
country with its deeply rooted past under-
stands and appreciates all the valuable efforts
of your great Nation and fully shares your ideals
of justice, because only justice will bring peace
to nations and to man's conscience.
For these reasons, you have in Spain a coun-
try who has always been at the crossroads of
civilization and cultures, a good friend and
sincere ally.
My country believes in the qualities of nobil-
ity and generosity. We like friendship and we
admire, above all other things, justice and
loyalty.
Spain is capable of making great sacrifices for
an ideal, to aid and to defend those countries
who offer her their friendship, and we also
hope that those whom we call our friends will
return this gesture accordingly.
You may be certain that Spain will always
repay loyalty with loyalty, the understanding of
our problems with the understanding of yours.
Therefore, I do not hesitate in predicting
a lasting and fruitful understanding between
our two countries.
Spain is today again a young country, with
hard-working and hopeful people who have
their eyes set on the future.
Through many years of effort under the
leadership of Generalissimo Franco we achieved
our reconstruction and development. We are
adapting the structure of our society to better
assure our prosperity.
One of our main goals is to raise the stand-
ard of living of all the Spanish people. We
know that we are not alone in pursuing this
goal, because you, Mr. President, also attach
great importance to the American welfare pro-
gram in your State of the Union Address.
Now, as we approach the end of the 20th
century, we are prepared to follow the path
of liberty, peace, and justice and to offer our
contribution toward harmony among nations.
And with this desire and hope in mind, I
would like to raise my glass and toast the
friendship of our two nations, the prosperity
of the United States, and the personal well-
being of you, Mr. President, and you, Mrs.
Nixon.
31 Special Message to the Congress About Draft Reform.
January 28, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
On April 23, 1970, in a message to the
91st Congress, I proposed that the nation
embrace a new approach to meeting our
military manpower requirements—an ap-
proach that recognized both the necessity
for maintaining a strong national defense
and the desirability of ending the draft.
In that message I put forth two sets of
proposals.
The first set of proposals dealt with the
fundamental question of how this nation
should raise the armed force necessary to
defend the lives and rights of its people
and to fulfill its existing commitments
abroad.
After carefully weighing both the re-
quirements of national security and the
desirability of reducing infringements on
individual liberties, I urged that we should
begin moving toward an end of the draft
and its replacement with an all-volunteer
armed force, with an eye to achieving this
goal as soon as we can do so without en-
dangering our national security.
The second set of proposals dealt with
reforming the draft system itself, while
this continues to be needed in the im-
mediate future to maintain our armed
strength as we
we move toward an all-
volunteer force.
Now, more than nine months later, I
am even more strongly convinced of the
rightness of these proposals. Now, as then,
the objective of this administration is to
reduce draft calls to zero, subject to the
75
