[199] June 1I
Public Papers of the Presidents
authorized to go beyond antidiscrimina-
tion efforts, and to use their program
money leverage as a means of requiring
local communities to subordinate their
land use policies to the goal either of
breaking up racial concentrations or of
promoting "economic integration."
POLICIES OF THIS ADMINISTRATION
It will be the firm purpose of this Ad-
ministration to carry out all the require-
ments of the law fully and fairly.
Racial discrimination in housing is
illegal, and will not be tolerated. In order
to fulfill their responsibility for eliminat-
ing this discrimination, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and
the Justice Department have been de-
veloping and elaborating a wide-ranging
program aimed at creating equal housing
opportunity.
By "equal housing opportunity," I
mean the achievement of a condition in
which individuals of similar income levels
in the same housing market area have a
like range of housing choices available to
them regardless of their race, color, re-
ligion, or national origin.
At the outset, we set three basic require-
ments for our program to achieve equal
housing opportunity: It must be aimed
at correcting the effects of past discrimi-
nation; it must contain safeguards to en-
sure against future discrimination; and it
must be results-oriented so its progress
toward the overall goal of increasing hous-
ing opportunities can be evaluated.
The Administration is embarked upon
this course. It must and will press forward
firmly.
The chief components of such a pro-
gram include the firm enforcement of
laws relating to equal housing opportu-
nity, the development of appropriate equal
housing opportunity criteria for partic-
ipation in programs affecting housing,
the development of information pro-
grams, and the development of policies re-
lating to housing marketing practices.
It is obvious that not all individuals will
exercise the full range of choices made
available to them. Those are matters for
individual decision.
What is essential is that all citizens be
able to choose among reasonable loca-
tional alternatives within their economic
means, and that racial nondiscrimination
be scrupulously and rigorously enforced.
We will not seek to impose economic in-
tegration upon an existing local jurisdic-
tion; at the same time, we will not coun-
tenance any use of economic measures as
a subterfuge for racial discrimination.
When such an action is called into ques-
tion, we will study its effect. If the effect
of the action is to exclude Americans from
equal housing opportunity on the basis of
their race, religion, or ethnic background,
we will vigorously oppose it by whatever
means are most appropriate-regardless
of the rationale which may have cloaked
the discriminatory act.
Access to federally assisted housing, like
access to all housing, must be nondiscrimi-
natory as to race. But simply to apply this
principle will not answer all the practical
problems raised by our national commit-
ment to expanded and equal housing
opportunity.
Pressures for the construction of new
housing and the rehabilitation of existing
housing are growing all across the Na-
tion-in central cities, in suburbs, in small
towns, in rural America. Demand for
housing at all income levels is increasing
dramatically.
As a major part of our national effort
730
