Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 17 [61]
South Vietnam, it means that the respon-
sibility for the negotiation, increasingly,
then becomes that of South Vietnam.
But I can only say that looking to the
future, we constantly are reexamining
the possibility of any diplomatic initia-
tives. However, I believe that what I
stated in October is a very far-reaching,
it is very comprehensive, it is a very fair
proposal, and we stand on that at this
time.
I do not want to suggest that there are
any more concessions coming from our
side to North Vietnam. We are not going
to make any more concessions. The time
is for them to negotiate on the principles
that we have laid down.
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
[11] Q. Mr. President, I have a ques-
tion on the economy. Sir, the construction
unions and the industry apparently are
not going to be able to come up with a
voluntary plan to hold down wage and
price increases. What actions will you
take?
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Hodgson is
going to report to me Monday when he
returns from Miami, where, as you know,
he has been meeting with the leaders of
the construction industry.
I will not indicate now what action we
will take until I get his report. But there
will be action. The reason there has to be
action in this field, in addition to the
reasons that all of you have-in your
various columns and reports-have indi-
cated, I would put it very simply as this:
The construction industry is a sick in-
dustry. It is a sick industry not because of
the quality of construction in the United
States- it is the highest quality construc-
tion in the world-but because it has had
too rich a diet.
When you find that
find that wage increases-
wage increases have been high in a num-
ber of industries-but when they are on
an average of 16 percent, what has hap-
pened is that that has not helped the
workers in the construction industry ex-
cept those that are employed.
We find that unemployment in the
construction industry is double the na-
tional average and we also find that the
Federal Government has a major stake
in this, because, looking at this budget, I
have found that $14 billion of our budget
in the next fiscal year will go into
construction.
Now, with that kind of financial interest
in construction, it is essential that the
Federal Government use its power to the
extent that it can to bring about more
reasonable settlements within that in-
dustry, wage and price stability.
Having stated that goal, you are all
aware of some of the actions that have
been discussed. I will consider them all
and then make a decision, and we will
announce it when it is made.
NORTH VIETNAM AND THE DEMILITARIZED
ZONE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask a
question, if I could get back to Vietnam
for just one moment? There has been
quite a bit of speculation about the pos-
sibility of the North Vietnamese coming
down through the DMZ.
Would this scrap any obligations that
you may have under the bombing ban in
the North and would you be in a position
then of having to retaliate for any crossing
of the DMZ?
165
