[164] May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
sage to the Congress in February that
"of all our research endeavors, cancer
research may now be in the best position
to benefit from a great infusion of
resources."
MORE MONEY AND BETTER
ORGANIZATION
The time has now come for us to put
our money where our hopes are. In the
first full budget developed by this Ad-
ministration last year, an increase of $20
million was provided for cancer programs.
For fiscal year 1972, the Administration
request for cancer programs is slightly
over $332 million-an increase of $100
million from the 1971 fiscal year. If these
resources are provided by the Congress,
we should be able to finance a new and
massive assault on cancer. If it should turn
out that we need more money, however,
I will not hesitate to ask the Congress to
provide whatever funds can be effectively
utilized. But I would also emphasize this
important point: More money alone will
not be enough. Money can help set the
stage for faster progress, but in the end
it is brainpower alone which can lead us
to our goals. This means, of course, that
we need to mobilize the intelligence and
imagination of our doctors and scientists.
And it also means that we must do a better
job of tapping the Nation's administrative
and organizational skills, which can help
remove many roadblocks to success. Our
capacities for efficient management were
instrumental in our efforts to split the
atom and travel to the moon. Now we
need to apply those same capacities to the
conquest of cancer.
This means, for one thing, that a wide
variety of research activities in all parts
of the country, in many areas of society,
and in a great number of disciplines must
be carefully coordinated. There must be
as much cross-fertilization as possible be-
tween various scientific pursuits.
In the past, the National Institutes of
Health have had considerable success in
fostering such coordination and coopera-
tion, and, in the process, they have earned
both the respect of the scientific commu-
nity and the gratitude of thousands who
live happier and healthier lives because
of NIH successes. It is for this reason that
I have asked the Congress to establish a
cancer cure program within the Na-
tional Institutes of Health, where it can
take the fullest advantage of other wide-
ranging research.
At the same time, it is important that
this program be identified as one of our
highest priorities, and that its potential
for relieving human suffering not be com-
promised by the familiar dangers of bu-
reaucracy and redtape. For this reason, I
am asking the Congress to give the can-
cer cure program independent budgetary
status and to make its Director responsible
directly to the President. This effort needs
the full weight and support of the Presi-
dency to see to it that it moves toward its
goals as expeditiously as possible. I am
further recommending that this Director
be supported by a strong management
group which has as its one goal the cure
of cancer, and which can pursue that goal
with single-minded tenacity.
In addition, I am recommending that
a new cancer cure advisory committee
be set up to provide a broad range of
632
