[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
others to build a stable system free from
crises. The continued improvement in in-
ternational monetary cooperation in the
past few years helped make 1970 a year of
relative tranquility in the monetary sys-
tem, in contrast to the recurrent monetary
crises which punctuated the 1960's.
The size of the United States in the
world economy and the dollar's key role
in the international monetary system levy
a special responsibility upon us. We must
manage our own economy responsibly for
international as well as domestic reasons.
Inflation or contraction in this country
has a disruptive effect on the rest of the
world economy. We intend to meet this
responsibility.
In 1970, we made solid progress toward
restoring stability as well as growth in the
U.S. economy. Our economic policies
moderated the rate of domestic inflation.
Our trade surplus improved, providing a
more satisfactory structure for our balance
of payments. We expect to reduce infla-
tion still further in 1971, even as our
economy begins to expand again at a more
satisfactory pace.
U.S. interest rates have also receded
greatly from the record highs of a year
ago, while interest rates in other countries
have declined more gradually. We there-
fore no longer exert the strong pull on
capital from other countries which con-
tributed to sizable surpluses in our balance
of payments on the official reserve transac-
tions basis in 1968 and 1969; instead, a
sharp reversal of short-term capital move-
ments has temporarily but sharply in-
creased the underlying deficit in our
payments position. The continued strength
of international cooperation has helped to
absorb these shifts without serious impact
on the monetary system, but the potential
reoccurrence of such rapid and large-scale
movements of funds, along with the U.S.
deficit, pose important issues for the
future.
Cooperation in the monetary sphere
has three major objectives:
-to assure an adequate growth in the
supply of international money.
-to improve the means for adjusting
payments imbalances and thus relat-
ing nations' economies to one an-
other.
—to handle large-scale shifts of liquid
capital without exchange crises or
losses in the ability of individual na-
tions to pursue their own monetary
policies.
The first objective means assuring satis-
factory growth in the supply of interna-
tionally acceptable money and credit
which is needed for financing payments
imbalances among countries. An inade-
quate rise of such reserves can lead govern-
ments to deflate their economies unneces-
sarily to protect their own reserves or,
more likely, to take restrictive measures
which directly depress the flow of trade
and investment transactions. Excesses of
world reserves, in contrast, can permit
deficit countries to delay too long the steps
needed to correct their payments im-
balances, and impart a tendency toward
inflationary pressures in surplus countries
as a result.
Part of the easing of tensions in the
monetary system in 1970 can be attrib-
uted to the decision in 1969 to create a
new form of reserve asset-Special Draw-
ing Rights (SDRs) at the International
Monetary Fund—a step I called “of pro-
found importance" in last year's report.
In 1970, member countries of the IMF
joined to take the historic step of creating
$3.4 billion of this truly international
money. Another $2.9 billion of SDRs were
294
