[250] Aug. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
summitry when it comes in an unprepared
form. But both sides will be well prepared,
well in advance, on all points of major
difference, and we will discuss any points
of difference that could affect the peace of
the world.
THE SOVIET UNION
[4] Q. Mr. President, is there any
diplomatic reason why you might not visit
the Soviet Union before going to Peking?
It has been suggested and speculated
upon.
THE PRESIDENT. In view of the an-
nouncement that we have made on Pe-
king, the visit to Peking will be the first
visit that I will make. Obviously, it takes
a great deal of time to prepare a visit, and
to attempt now to-and the Soviet Union,
I am sure, feels exactly the same way--
to attempt to rush around and have a
summit meeting in Moscow before we go
to Peking would not be in the interest of
either country.
I would add this point, too: When For-
eign Minister Gromyko was here, we dis-
cussed the possibility of a possible summit
meeting, and we had a very candid dis-
cussion. He agreed and said that his gov-
ernment leaders agreed with my position,
which was that a meeting at the highest
level should take place and would be use-
ful only when there was something sub-
stantive to discuss that could not be
handled in other channels.
With regard to the Soviets, I should
also point out that we are making very
significant progress on Berlin. We are
making good progress on SALT. Discus-
sions are still continuing on the Mideast,
although there I will not speculate about
what the prospects for success are in view
of the fact that Mr. Sisco 2 is presently in
the area exploring with the governments
concerned what the possibilities of some
interim settlement looking toward a final
settlement may be.
Having mentioned these three areas in
which we are negotiating with the Soviet
Union, I will add that if the time comes,
as it may come, and both sides realize
this, then the final breakthrough in any
of these areas can take place only at the
highest level, and then there will be a
meeting. But as far as the timing of the
meeting before the visit to Peking, that
would not be an appropriate thing to do.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION TALKS
[5] Q. I was thinking of such a thing
as a settlement on the SALT talks.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Theis [J. William
Theis, Hearst Newspapers and Hearst
Headline Service], when I said there was
good progress being made on SALT, it is
still a very technical and sticky problem for
both sides because it involves our vital
interests. Let me emphasize that in SALT,
both sides are asked to make an agree-
ment which limits them. This is not uni-
lateral. We, on our part, will be having
very severe limitations with regard to our
defensive capability, with ABM. They, on
their part, will have limitations on their
offensive capability, their buildup of
offensive missiles.
Neither side can make those decisions
lightly, without very, very basic discus-
sions, but the fact that we have at the
highest level committed ourselves to
working toward an agreement simultane-
Joseph J. Sisco, Assistant Secretary of State
for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs.
852
