Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 1 [81]
$1,100 million. However, rural America
will share in funds which are in other
packages, funds for education in special
revenue sharing, funds for housing, and
other areas.
But insofar as rural development spe-
cifically is concerned, there is an amount
of $1,100 million. What is important to
note about this is that this is a 25 percent
increase over the funds that all of existing
categorical programs specifically directed
toward rural America would produce.
Now, why this emphasis? The why I
have already, I think, indicated. It is es-
sential that this part of America, which
has not received the fair treatment and
the equal treatment that it should receive,
get that treatment. Because what happens
is that two-thirds of the counties of this
country, rural counties, are emptying out
of people and emptying out of promise.
And where do they go? They move into
the great cities and they create there
enormous problems.
Approximately 40 percent of the people
of this country, as we look toward the end
of the century, and perhaps over 50 per-
cent, will be living in three great com-
plexes in the Boston to Washington
complex, in the Chicago to Pittsburgh
complex, and in the Pacific Coast com-
plex running from San Diego to San
Francisco.
What needs to be done is for us to
recognize that if this is the kind of Amer-
ica we want, then let's face up to what the
problems will be.
There are varying estimates on how
much the population of the United States
will increase between now and the end
of the century. Some say 100 million;
some say 60 million.
Well, let's take 70 million. Where are
those 70 million people going to go? Well,
I can assure you if they go to Los An-
geles, if they go to Chicago, if they go to
Cleveland, if they go to New York, it is
going to create enormous problems on an
already overburdened structure of urban
life.
It is essential-and I use those cities
only as examples, others could be
named-it is essential that there be de-
veloped in urban America not only a
sound farm economy, and we here must
recognize that the basis of a sound farm
economy, as Cliff Hardin so often empha-
sized, is a family farm adequately financed
and adequate in size to be a viable
enterprise.
But not only do we need a sound farm
economy, but we need to develop in rural
America the opportunities, the opportu-
nities for employment, the opportunities
for different kinds of activities, some re-
lated to farming, some not related to farm-
ing, which will reverse this trend or at
least stop this trend of people moving from
rural America into the already over-
crowded industrial urban complexes of
this Nation.
Now, that is a big order. How can it be
done?
We don't have any simple answer to
that. No one can sit here and tell you what
an individual is going to do, what is going
to motivate him, whether he is going to
want to move to the city, a big city, or
whether he is going to stay in a small town
or move to a slightly larger town or what-
ever the case might be.
But at the present time, we want to
remove those disincentives for living in
rural America.
I remember an interesting conversation
I had at the airport in Fargo, North
Dakota, when we had a similar meeting of
this type just a few months ago. I talked
365
