[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, these games are going to be
played. The efforts will be made, it is true,
by Members of the Senate, Members of
the House, and some of them with the very
best of intentions, to hamstring the Execu-
tive, the President. When it is the proper
thing to do, it will be done.
But I think, generally speaking, you will
find that in these great battles that have
occurred through the years, between the
President and the Congress, that some-
times the Congress wins, sometimes the
President wins. But where the President's
responsibility as Commander in Chief of
the Armed Forces is concerned, and where
the lives of American men are involved,
usually the President wins and for good
reason. You can have only one Com-
mander in Chief.
We get back to this business of why not
pass a resolution saying that we will get
out of Vietnam by Christmas of this year.
It is very easy to pass a resolution. It
would be very popular for me, as a matter
of fact, to sponsor it.
On the other hand, it is my judgment,
as I have already indicated, that such a
resolution would not be in the interest of
the security of our own forces, not be in
the interest of the negotiations, the pos-
sibility of negotiating release of our pris-
oners, and not in the interest of the United
States long run in terms of ending this war
in a way that might discourage another
war coming.
That is my judgment. I have to fight for
that judgment. If the Congress determines
to move in another direction, so be it. I
don't think it will, though, and I don't
think the American people will support
the Congress whenever it fights the Pres-
ident in his honest effort to serve as Com-
mander in Chief and, in that service, to
protect the lives of American men and
to, in addition, conduct policy in a way
that will avoid those lives being lost, we
hope, at some future time.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[14.] MR. SMITH. Mr. President, let me
ask you some political questions now, be-
cause we are approaching a political year.
As you have acknowledged, the Repub-
lican Party is the Nation's minority party.
No matter how often we reporters pro-
nounce the old FDR coalition dead-the
blacks, the poor, labor, and so on-every
election it seems to pull together enough
to keep the Democrats the majority party.
What plans have you got, what strate-
gies do you intend to pursue to try to put
the Republican Party back where it was
before 1932, the permanent majority
party?
THE PRESIDENT. That probably will
not happen, Mr. Smith, to either the Re-
publican or the Democratic Party. The
Democratic Party is not a majority party
either, as you know, because approxi-
mately if you take the pollsters—ap-
proximately 42 to 43 percent of the people
consider themselves to be Democrats. And
then approximately 30 percent consider
themselves Republicans and the other
30 percent consider themselves to be
Independents.
So, we will never have a time again, in
my opinion, in this country when you are
going to have a polarization of Democrats
versus Republicans. I think you are going
to have the Independents controlling ba-
sically the balance of power.
Also, when you look at the Democratic
Party, you must remember that 43 percent
is somewhat overblown because it has par-
ticular weight because of the South. And
many southern Democrats, and I can say
460
