[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
American forces in South Vietnam.
And as Commander in Chief, I had
that responsibility. I had met it, and I
believe this is correct.
[4] MR. SMITH. Sir, another case, the
other day, I think, in your press confer-
ence you said that Communist traffic on
the Ho Chi Minh Trail had been cut by
55 percent. Now the same day, the UPI
quoted the military command in Saigon
as saying it had been cut only 20 percent,
which was quite a drastic difference. Can
you match those-
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, yes. The military
commander in Saigon was actually com-
pletely correct and so was I. We were talk-
ing about two different things. You see,
there is traffic on the Ho Chi Minh Trail
north of the area around Tchepone,
where the operation of the South Viet-
namese was taking place. There is traffic
south of the area of Tchepone.
Now, as far as the traffic coming down
the trail to Tchepone, where the battle
was taking place between the South Viet-
namese forces and the North Vietnamese
forces, that traffic actually was very
greatly increased. But as far as the traffic
south of Tchepone was concerned, that
traffic was substantially reduced.
As a matter of fact, I have since found
that 55 percent, my estimate, was too
low-that actually the traffic had been cut
more than that. I would say that perhaps
75 percent of the traffic has been cut
south, at that time, south of the area of
the fighting.
And it, of course, stands to good rea-
son why. Because the units fighting-the
North Vietnamese fighting in that area
against the South Vietnamese-they
needed those supplies, they needed the
trucks, they needed all the other things
that normally would go south. And they
chewed them up.
[5] MR. SMITH. Now, you also said
that the Laos operation showed the South
Vietnamese could hack it by themselves.
Now, that seems partly so, but it has to
be added that they do that to that degree
only with tremendous U.S. air support,
40,000 helicopter sorties, against an ad-
versary that has no airpower at all. And
that is cited as a case of overstatement.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let's look at two
different areas, Mr. Smith. First, let's look
at the area of Cambodia. As you know—as
a matter of fact, as you and some other
commentators have pointed out at the
time when all eyes have been on Laos, a
very significant operation has been going
on in Cambodia.
Perhaps it is not as well known that at
that time, in that operation where over
4,000 North Vietnamese who have already
been casualties-in that operation, it has
been entirely conducted by the South
Vietnamese, and 75 percent of all the air
sorties in that operation are South Viet-
namese. South Vietnam has a very good
air force. It isn't yet big enough, however,
to handle the kind of operation that they
have in Cambodia as well as the one in
Laos.
Now, when we look at the situation in
Laos what do we find there? We found
that the South Vietnamese went in with
forces that numerically were very inferior
to the forces that they found. As a matter
of fact, the North Vietnamese had twice
as many ground forces in the area of
Laos, of southern Laos, as South Vietnam
had.
South Vietnam had, of course, to have
support, firepower support, through our
airpower, which would equalize that dif-
450
