[338] Oct. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
assume that we have it-what does that
mean for America?
Well, peace in the absence of war is one
thing, but that is a very limited and a very
inadequate goal. What we must recognize
is: As we have peace in the world, the
challenges of peace become very great,
because as the danger of war goes down,
the challenge of peace inevitably rises.
You can see how that would be the case.
Nations that before this have not been our
competitors will be our competitors. Take
the situation even since World War II.
Who would have thought 25 years ago
that Japan and Germany, on their backs
economically as a result of the war, would
now be the two major competitors in the
free world of the United States of
America?
As we look further down the road, cer-
tainly the Soviet Union, Mainland China
with its 750 million very able people, will
be increasingly competitors of the United
States in the world economically, militar-
ily perhaps, but also competitors in those
things of the spirit to which your conven-
tion is addressed.
I want to say to this group of ladies
today: You are a group of Republicans,
but the cause in which you are engaged,
working for "The Spirit of '76" becoming
infused throughout this land of ours,
among our people, is bigger than party;
it is as big as America; it is as big as the
whole world itself. I want to tell you to-
day that in this last third of a century as
we have peace and as we work for peace,
we must use it.
We must remember that in order to
keep the
peace
America must be strong-
strong militarily as long as that strength
is necessary. We, therefore, must not re-
duce our arms strength unless we have an
agreement with others, who might
threaten us, to reduce theirs. This is a
sound position.
We need also be strong economically.
That is why we have a new economic
policy. And let me say that there has
been nothing more gratifying during the
years I have been in public life than to
hear from thousands of Americans all
over this country-workers who gave up
a wage increase, businessmen who gave
up a price increase-to find that Ameri-
cans are willing to give up a wage increase
or a price increase that would benefit
some of the people in order to stop the
rise in the cost of living for all of the
American people.
A strong economy means employment
for Americans and jobs for Americans.
But it means employment and jobs with-
out war. Do you realize that you have to
go clear back to the Eisenhower Adminis-
tration, 1955 and 1956, to find full em-
ployment in America without war? We
can get it again, and that is what we are
working toward at the present time.
But a strong America also means an
America that is strong in spirit. I often
refer to the time when America's spirit
was probably strongest. It is hard to say
"certainly," but certainly we can say
"probably." I refer to the period 1776.
Just think of that country then: 1776-
13 colonies, 3 million people, weak mili-
tarily, poor economically, and yet with the
spirit, a flaming idealism that caught
the imagination of the whole world. That
was the America that we had and that we
inherit today.
It was that spirit—a spirit that did not
not depend on military strength, that did
not depend on economic wealth, a spirit
that came from the soul, from the hearts
of the American people-it was that spirit
that has made this country move now into
1060
