Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 23 [111]
jawed, aggressive young man who would
fight at the drop of a hat over those
things?
THE PRESIDENT. The jaw is still there.
As my wife has often said, there is not
much I can do about my image. I was
born with it.
But as far as the problems that we con-
front in this country are concerned, it is
the responsibility of whoever reaches what
Disraeli once referred to as the top of the
greasy pole when he became Prime Minis-
ter, or whoever is in that Oval Office over
there, he must see the problems of the
world and the problems of his country in
a very different perspective.
What is most important for the man
who is President-I have often thought
about it—what would you look for? Well,
of course, you want a man who is intelli-
gent. You hope he is reasonably intelli-
gent, a man with courage, and a man who
III
can give some political leadership, maybe
make a speech, and that sort of thing.
But the most important single factor is
that he must be one who has perspective
and poise, what the Quakers call peace
at the center, one who isn't knocked off
balance by the stories, the crises of the
moment, one who having that peace at
the center then will make decisions, deci-
sions with regard to our foreign policy,
decisions with regard to the lives of men
that you have referred to, in a way that
will be in the best interests of the country.
MR. SMITH. There is one tyrant over all
of
us,
and that is time. They tell me we
are out of time. I thank you very much
for this evening.
Good night.
NOTE: The interview began at 9:30 p.m. in the
Library at the White House. It was broadcast
live on ABC radio and television.
Statement About the Election of Edwin D. Etherington
as President of the National Center for Voluntary
Action. March 23, 1971
THE ELECTION of Edwin D. Ethering-
ton to the presidency of the National
Center for Voluntary Action assures
vigorous leadership for a vital endeavor.
He brings to his new responsibility an ad-
mirable blend of energy, experience, and
sensitivity, especially to the concerns of
our young and disadvantaged.
In 1968 I pledged that in this Adminis-
tration there would be "a new measure of
reliance on voluntary efforts, and a new
level of official public recognition of their
immense contribution to the betterment
of life in America."
In November 1969, after consulting
with the Cabinet and seeking the advice of
citizens representing some 250 voluntary
organizations, I announced the formation
of the National Center for Voluntary Ac-
tion as part of the broader national
program.
The National Center was conceived as
a private, nonprofit, nonpolitical organi-
zation to work in a "creative partnership"
with both the Federal Government and
private volunteer agencies in encouraging
a resurgence of voluntarism in America.
Its efforts were to complement those pro-
grams already sponsored by the Federal
Government such as the Peace Corps
and VISTA.
Today, with Henry Ford II acting as
465
