Richard Nixon, 1971
[332]
Oct. 13
and compare it with the others around this
room, there is one difference. The dif-
ference is that in the lapel of Eddie
Hébert is an American flag.
That does not mean that others would
not have had American flags in their lapels
if that had been the custom in their time,
but I think that all of us would say today,
in our tribute to Eddie Hébert on his three
score and ten birthday, in appreciation
for his years of service to the country, in
recognition of his chairmanship of this
great committee, that he not only wears
that flag in his lapel, he wears it in his
heart.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:57 p.m. in the
Carl Vinson Room in the Rayburn House
Office Building.
Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives, John W. McCormack, the former
Speaker, the Most Reverend Philip M. Hannan,
Archbishop of New Orleans, and Secretary of
Defense Melvin R. Laird were present for the
unveiling. Representative Leslie C. Arends,
Chairman of the Portrait Committee and rank-
ing minority Member of the House Committee
on Armed Services, presided over the ceremony.
Representative Hébert of Louisiana was
elected to the Congress in 1940. He served as a
member of the House Committee on Armed
Services for 30 years and as its chairman from
February 4, 1971.
331
Statement on the Death of Dean Acheson.
October 12, 1971
OF THOSE who stand for a time in
places of power, many are quickly for-
gotten. It is a measure of Dean Acheson's
stature as man and statesman that almost
20 years after his service as Secretary of
State, he continued to be recognized as
one of the towering figures of his time. He
was a man not only of great achievement
but also of rare intellect, of rigorous
conscience, and of profound devotion to
his country. As President, I have been
deeply appreciative of the advice that I
have asked, and that he has so freely and
graciously given. I shall greatly miss both
his wise counsel and his penetrating wit.
The Nation, the Western Alliance, and
the world all share in the loss of one of
their staunchest champions.
NOTE: Mr. Acheson, 78, died of a heart attack
at his home, Harewood Farm, in Sandy Spring,
Md. He had served as Secretary of State from
1949 to 1953.
The statement was posted for the press.
On October 13, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11626 providing for the flying
of the flag at half-staff as a mark of respect to
the memory of Mr. Acheson.
Secretary of State William P. Rogers repre-
sented the President at memorial services for
Mr. Acheson at the Washington Cathedral on
October 15.
332 Special Message to the Congress Urging Expansion
of the Minority Business Enterprise Program.
October 13, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Approximately 35 million Americans
are of Black, Spanish-speaking, or Indian
ancestry-about % of our total popula-
tion. Yet these same minority Americans
presently own only about 4% of Amer-
1041
