Richard Nixon, 1971
[75]
Feb. 25
threatened can be described: If Jordan
had succumbed to either internal sub-
version or external aggression, the danger
of another full-scale Middle East war
would have been at hand. With the Soviet
Union so deeply involved in the military
operations of the UAR, and with firm
U.S. support for the survival of Israel,
the risk of great-power confrontation
would have been real indeed.
The United States had no responsible
choice but to prevent events from running
away with the ability to control them. We
took a firm stand against the Syrian
intervention. We acted to stabilize but not
to threaten, to discourage irresponsibility
without accelerating the momentum of
crisis.
The Syrians withdrew, the Government
of Jordan reestablished order, and a
fragile agreement was reached on the
future role of the organized Palestinians.
This sobering experience should dem-
onstrate to all the parties involved the
extreme volatility of the present state of
affairs. The entire world has seen how
precarious is the balance and how great
the danger in the Middle East.
The Shape of Peace in the Middle East.
It is not for the United States to attempt
to set the precise terms of a Middle East
peace settlement. That can be done only
by the parties directly in conflict, and
only by a process of negotiation with each
other.
However, some of the principles and
elements that must be included if a set-
tlement is to be reached are clear and
evident:
-The Arab Governments will not ac-
cept a settlement which does not
provide for recovery of territories lost
in the 1967 War. Without such ac-
ceptance, no settlement can have
the essential quality of assured
permanence.
-Israel will not agree to withdraw
from occupied Arab territories, which
she sees as enhancing her physical
security, unless she has confidence in
the permanence of the peace settle-
ment. She also believes that the final
borders to which she will withdraw
must be negotiated and agreed in a
binding peace settlement. She must,
therefore, have confidence that no
attack is forthcoming, and confidence
in her acceptance by her neighbors
and in other assurances.
-The lack of mutual confidence be-
tween Israel and the Arab countries
is so deep that supplementary major
power guarantees could add an ele-
ment of assurance. Such guarantees,
coupled in time with a reduction of
the armed strength of both sides, can
give the agreement permanence.
-No lasting settlement can be achieved
in the Middle East without address-
ing the legitimate aspirations of the
Palestinian people. For over two
decades they have been the victims
of conditions that command sym-
pathy. Peace requires fruitful lives
for them and their children, and a
just settlement of their claims.
The immediate task is to help the
belligerents construct an agreement that
will achieve a workable balance between
the security and recognition that Israel
seeks and a just resolution, which the
Arab states seek, of the territorial and
Palestinian issues. Only in such a balance
can peace be found.
289
