[273] Aug. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
caused their formation. But at the same
time, the beauty, the quiet, and the fresh-
ness of this area are healing qualities
which work to renew our spirit and our
sense of purpose.
Next year representatives from nearly
90 nations will gather here in the Grand
Tetons for the Second World Conference
on National Parks. I cannot think of a
more appropriate setting for these dele-
gates to discuss what good parks can do
for people and how we can make them
even better.
Another important event will occur
next year, when the United States cele-
brates the centennial of the beginning of
its own national park system—a system
which not only has enhanced the Ameri-
can landscape but has also inspired other
nations to act in similar ways to save their
most valued natural wonders for the en-
joyment of future generations. It was in
1872 that Congress established our first
national park at Yellowstone and laid the
foundation for the creation of other parks
in later years. That was a time when
Americans were more interested in taming
the wilderness than preserving it; yet far-
sighted and sensitive men and women
were able to begin the great work of
preservation even then.
In this century that work has been
accelerated. In 1916, when the National
Park Service was established, we had 37
national parks and monuments. Since that
time we have added 246 new areas for the
enjoyment of all Americans. Thirteen
new areas have been added to the na-
tional park system since January of 1969
alone. In 1916, less than one-half million
people visited our parks; last year there
were 170 million visitations in our na-
tional park areas; and as our system has
grown to include not only national parks
but also national seashores, lakeshores,
recreation areas, monuments, parkways,
historic sites, and wilderness areas, we
have also been learning to meet the many
new challenges brought on by the in-
creased prosperity and mobility of our
people.
At the same time, the growing popular-
ity of our parks has created a number of
serious new problems as millions of
Americans have sought the recreation and
respite they provide. Traffic congestion
and crowded campsites are becoming
more common. In many places, natural
systems have been overburdened and
damaged by the presence of too many
people. Wild animals and unique plants
have often been crowded out of their
traditional habitat. In short, we are be-
ginning to understand that there are limits
to the amount of use our parklands can
withstand, and that as more and more
people seek the great rewards of outdoor
life, the experience can be somewhat di-
minished for each of them.
But these problems are not insoluble.
We can meet them, if only we have
enough will and imagination and disci-
pline. I believe, for example, that our
growing management expertise can teach
us how to use our existing parks and for-
ests more efficiently. And I am also con-
vinced that we can substantially expand
the acreage of our parklands, providing
more adequate and more convenient rec-
reational opportunities for all of our
people.
This is why, in my State of the Union
Message this year, I proposed the most
comprehensive program in the history of
this Nation to provide more lands for all
Americans. From small city lots to massive
wilderness tracts, such lands can stand as
a great legacy to future generations. In
906
