Richard Nixon, 1971
May 29 [188]
country, I know that you will not fail; that
those who know the blessings of peace will
be forever in your debt.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:27 p.m. on
the Parade Ground.
Maj. Gen. William A. Knowlton was Su-
perintendent of the United States Military
Academy.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
188 Remarks Announcing a Proclamation of Amnesty
for Cadets at the Military Academy.
May 29, 1971
General Knowlton and First Captain
Pyrz and gentlemen of the Corps:
In the ceremony that has just been
completed, I want you to know that I was
enormously impressed, as all the rest of
your visitors today, by the precision, the
magnificence, of your appearance there on
the Parade Ground. It made us all very
proud to be Americans, to see you march-
ing by.
Also during the course of my apperance
here today, I had a lot of things on my
mind. I just finished my speech late last
night, and my Military Aide, General
Hughes,¹ a graduate of West Point—who
will be celebrating his 25th anniversary
this year and he is coming back-came
up
and nudged me just a few minutes ago.
He said, "You forgot, sir." I said, "What
did I forget?" "You forgot something in
your speech. You forgot the most impor-
tant thing."
I began to ask him what it was, and
he just handed it to me now.
So I would like to ask First Captain,
¹ Brig. Gen. James D. Hughes, USAF, Mili-
tary Assistant to the President.
if
you would have the Adjutant read this
to the Corps, or you read it, I don't know
how this is done.
[At this point, Brigade Adjutant Calvert P.
Benedict, Jr., read the Amnesty Proclamation,
the text of which follows:]
AMNESTY FOR CADETS
THE UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY
Whereas, it is customary and traditional that
a visiting Head of State at the United States
Military Academy grant amnesty to those
cadets who are undergoing punishment for hav-
ing committed certain infractions of United
States Military Academy regulations; and
whereas, my duties as Commander-in-Chief of
the Armed Forces of the United States include
responsibility in matters of discipline; therefore,
I do proclaim amnesty for all cadets who have
committed violations of the regulations of the
United States Military Academy for which or-
dinary and special punishment has been im-
posed or is being considered.
The White House
May 28, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:33 p.m. in
Washington Hall at the Academy, West Point,
N.Y.
First Captain Thomas A. Pyrz was senior
ranking cadet in the Corps.
687
