[349] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
senting, as she does, the greatest democ-
racy in terms of numbers in all the history
of the world-500 million people. I could
also speak of her as one who, as I men-
tioned earlier today when I welcomed
her on the South Lawn, who received
more votes through the parliamentary
system than any person has ever received
in the whole history of the world. I also
could speak of her as one who, in the field
of politics, has never lost an election, and
that really impresses me.
I could also speak of her as the daugh-
ter of Prime Minister Nehru, as a woman.
But today we honor her not because she
is a woman heading the largest democ-
racy in the world, not because she is the
daughter of one of the world's most
legendary and distinguished statesmen,
but because in her own right, as demon-
strated by a fantastic, brilliant success in
an election in a free country, she won.
She represents her people. She has a
mandate from her people. And so she is
with us today as one who deserves our
honor and our respect because of the
country she represents, because of her own
achievements, and because of, also, what
she stands for.
I have understood that Prime Minister
Nehru-whom many in this room have
had the opportunity to meet, as Mrs.
Nixon and I did, both in 1953 and 1957
when he was here-had as one of his
favorites among poets our American poet
Robert Frost, and that on his desk, until
the day he died, he had a little saying, an
excerpt from Mr. Frost's poems, which
went something like this: But I have many
promises to keep, and many miles to travel
before I sleep.
Prime Minister Nehru did not live to
see his promises kept. But in this historic
moment, how proud he would be to see
his daughter honored as we honor her—
not because she was his daughter, but be-
cause in her own right she represents his
country, because in her own right she is
working to fulfill the promises that he
made.
Those promises are ones that we share:
the promise of progress for people who
want it and need it and deserve it; the
promise of progress through freedom, a
great experiment in democracy when it
would be so easy to turn to a totalitarian
system to solve such difficult problems;
and the promise of peace.
I shall never forget the conversation I
had with Prime Minister Nehru on the
occasion that he received us so graciously
in 1953 when I was Vice President. On
that trip around the world, of 73 days in
20 countries, I asked every head of gov-
ernment and state what he wanted most
for his country. Some said roads; others
said industrial development; others said
better agricultural development; others
said education. Prime Minister Nehru
did not answer in that way. He thought a
moment, and he said: What India needs,
what the world needs, is a generation of
peace.
Many of you have heard me speak of a
generation of peace. India is committed
to that great goal. The Prime Minister is
committed to it. I am. Our Government
is certainly committed to it.
And so tonight, Madam Prime Minis-
ter, we honor you not simply as the daugh-
ter of a great leader, but as Prime
Minister of the world's most populous
democracy, but as one who is working to
fulfill those promises, those dreams of
progress and freedom and peace for your
people and all people in the world.
That is why this is truly an historic
occasion.
1082
