Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
and stability in that area, and it is essen-
tial to the continuation of friendly and
productive relations between the United
States and Japan. I therefore urge that
the Senate give its early and favorable
consideration to this Agreement so that
reversion can take place during 1972.
The White House
September 21, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the agreement and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive J (92d Cong., 1st sess.).
On September 10, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11618 providing for the ad-
ministration of the Ryukyu Islands until their
reversion to Japan. An announcement of the
signing was released by the White House on the
same day and is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p.
1257).
297 Remarks at a Question-and-Answer Session With a
10-Member Panel of the Economic Club of
Detroit. September 23, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Mr. President, mem-
bers of the Economic Club of Detroit, all
of your distinguished guests who are with
you
here tonight, and all of those who are
listening on national radio and also on
television:
I first want to express my appreciation
to this distinguished organization for in-
viting me back. I have appeared on two
occasions in other capacities. I am hon-
ored to be here for the first time as Presi-
dent of the United States.
I particularly appreciated, too, the
warm welcome that not only we have
received in this hall, but as we drove in
from the airport. The signs that we saw on
some of the buildings, and all the other
various activities that we witnessed, were
something that we deeply appreciated.
Let me say, too, that having spoken to
this club on other occasions, I have recog-
nized that the usual format is for the
speaker to speak awhile and then to an-
swer questions. I know those members of
the club, however, who greatly favor the
questions and the answers, certainly the
questions, more than they favor the speak-
ing. So tonight I am following the format,
a format that all of those listening on radio
and television should know-you in the
hall have already been informed-of
making this an entire question period.
I will not take the time of the ques-
tioners except to pay tribute to some of
those who have come from Michigan to
Washington to work with this Administra-
tion and have made contributions to it.
They have come with me on the plane
tonight.
First, to the former Governor of this
State, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development George Romney, one of the
trusted members of our Cabinet, a man
who is one of my top advisers on domestic
matters, and also one who is the driving
spirit behind one of the greatest housing
booms this country has ever had, with,
incidentally, a new high this month as
well.
Second, the Chairman of the Council
965
