[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
GREAT POWER CONTEST
For over a century the Middle East has
been an area of great concern to the major
powers. To NATO and Europe its inde-
pendence is vital, militarily and econom-
ically. Similarly the Soviet Union has
important interests which we recognize.
Despite the depth of these interests-
perhaps to some extent because of them-
the major powers have not established a
pattern of relationships with the Middle
East which accommodates the interests of
all. The concern caused by that fact is
magnified by the instability and volatility
of the region.
Any effort by any major power to secure
a dominant position could exacerbate
local disputes, affect Europe's security,
and increase the danger to world peace.
We seek no such position; we cannot al-
low others to establish one.
We believe that the stability of the
Middle East requires establishing a bal-
ance in the activities of the various outside
powers involved there. Each must be free
to pursue its own legitimate interests, but
within the limits imposed by respect for
the legitimate interests of others and the
sovereignty of the nations of the area.
On this basis, the United States sought
in 1969 and 1970 to enter into discussions
with the Soviet Union on the Middle East
question which would have global signifi-
cance for us and them, and would also
contribute to making constructive peace
negotiations between the Arabs and
Israelis possible.
We repeatedly made clear to the Soviet
leaders our desire to limit the arms race
in the Middle East on a reciprocal basis:
-On February 4, 1970, I proposed to
Chairman Kosygin that the United
States and the Soviet Union discuss
the question of limiting the arms
which our two countries provide to
the Middle East. The Soviets re-
jected this proposal as they had done
similar proposals in the past.
-On March 23, Secretary Rogers an-
nounced that we would hold in
abeyance a decision on Israel's re-
quest for additional aircraft, point-
ing out that: "Restraint will be re-
quired on the part of other major
suppliers to the Middle East. No
nation can pursue a policy of seeking
unilateral advantage in the area if
peace is to be achieved."
The Soviet Union responded by step-
ping up the shipment of air-defense mis-
siles and aircraft, manned by Soviet com-
bat crews to Egypt-the first time that
Soviet combat crews have been moved to
a nation outside the Communist orbit.
While indicating that the U.S. prefer-
red restraint in the shipment of arms, I
have also repeatedly stated that the mili-
tary balance between the Arab states and
Israel must be maintained:
-In my February 4 letter to Chairman
Kosygin, I made clear that the
United States would not hesitate to
provide arms to Israel if they were
required in order to maintain that
balance.
-On July 31, I said publicly: "It is an
integral part of our cease-fire pro-
posal that neither side is to use the
cease-fire period to improve its mili-
tary position in the area of the cease-
fire lines. All would have to refrain
from undertaking a military
buildup of any kind in such an area.
The Soviet Union's disregard for this
essential foundation for peace talks raised
serious doubts about its readiness to co-
operate in the effort to achieve peace.
•
·
·
290
