[284] Sept. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Bureau announced that it had plotted the
new population center of the United
States. And that point where half of the
population lives to the north and half to
the south and half to the east and half
to the west, they found right here in the
State of Illinois. They put a marker at
the spot. It is about 5 miles outside of the
town of Mascoutah.
I remember thinking how symbolic it
was in this age of urbanization, great cities
like Chicago, that the spot which had
marked the exact center of population in
America was right in the middle of a
farmer's field.
But if we really consider the basic re-
sources of this country-our natural
abundance, our economic power, our
physical and spiritual health-then we
must still conclude in 1970, as in 1790, that
the heart of our Nation's strength still lies
in our Nation's farms.
Look back just 75 years: Again, here
in Illinois, in the great city of Chicago, a
Democratic National Convention, Wil-
liam Jennings Bryan taking that conven-
tion by storm and winning the Democratic
nomination—his speech is remembered by
every student of American history and of
political science as one of the great
speeches of all time. And this was some-
thing he said: “. . . the great cities rest
upon our broad and fertile prairies." He
said, "Burn down your cities and leave our
farms, and your cities will spring up again
as if by magic; but destroy our farms and
the grass will grow in the streets of every
city in the country."
·
Now there are many more cities and
many fewer farmers today in America
than there were in 1896, but now as well
as then American agriculture contributes
enormously to America's strength. There
is one achievement of our Nation's farm-
ers that is particularly pertinent to the
remarks I have made with regard to the
competitive position we have in the world
today. It is the success of American agri-
culture in raising the level of productivity
on our farms.
Productivity holds the key to America's
ability to compete in the world. Only by
increasing productivity can we achieve a
higher standard of living without ramp-
ant inflation at home and only by increas-
ing productivity can we win a stronger
position over the long run in the market-
places and the trading lanes of the world.
Now, let's look at productivity in Amer-
ica over the past 20 years. It has not
moved up fast enough in some areas, but
American agriculture is an exciting excep-
tion. In the nonfarm sector of our econ-
omy, productivity has gone up over 150
percent in the last 20 years. In the field of
agriculture, however, productivity in the
last 20 years has gone up 300 percent-
nearly twice as much.
Now, what is the result of this? Well,
first, the American people are getting a
great deal more value for their food and
clothing dollar. Secretary Hardin, at our
Cabinet table, often eloquently makes this
point: We are the best fed people in the
world-except for the 3,500 that were not
able to get served tonight, I understand,
at this convention.
But despite all the talk about high farm
prices and support prices and the rest,
when you add it all up, the American
housewife puts a smaller percent of her
budget into food than any housewife in
the world today. That is to the great credit
of American agriculture.
Now, many of you have been reading
about the crisis we have in our interna-
930
