Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 31 [123]
Pendleton beach front, located on both
sides of the San Onofre nuclear generat-
ing station, for parkland and public use,
by transfer of title to the State of Cali-
fornia. Another 3,400 acres of undevel-
loped land lying in back of Highway 101
on the San Clemente side of the base will
also be made available either to public
bodies, or for public sale, in which case
the proceeds would under the law be
added to the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund and used for Federal and local
park development. In accordance with
statute, Secretary Laird will inform the
interested committees of the Congress that
this property is to be released.
On Tuesday the Department of the
Navy signed a lease agreement making
some 3 miles of beach front south of the
nuclear generating station available for
immediate public use. This is a temporary
arrangement undertaken in order to pro-
vide immediate public access to the beach
area and to avoid any interference with
plans which have been made by the State
of California to open this segment of the
beach front to the public during the school
holidays in April. As soon as it becomes
possible formally to declare that the entire
6 miles of beach front are in excess of Fed-
eral Government needs, the lease will be
terminated and the 6-mile beach front
area-with the exception of the site of
the San Onofre nuclear generating sta-
tion-will be deeded to the State of Cali-
fornia for park purposes.
The Property Review Board, which I
established last year, has studied the Camp
Pendleton lands at my request, and has
recommended the action I am announcing
today. The Board is continuing its survey
of the real property held by the Federal
Government in every area of the country,
and will make further recommendations
concerning lands which can be better uti-
lized if they are opened to the public.
Further announcements will be forthcom-
ing as quickly as additional properties can
be cleared for improved use. I am con-
fident that the result will be better Federal
property management, improvements in
the preservation and enjoyment of our
natural environment, and a growing
legacy of parks and recreational facilities
that will benefit all Americans just as the
Camp Pendleton action does.
NOTE: The statement was released at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
123 Letter to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member
of the House Committee on Ways and Means About the
Welfare Reform Bill.
AS YOU know, I have been following
closely the House Ways and Means Com-
mittee deliberations on the welfare reform
bill, H.R. 1. I appreciate your continued
support of the basic principles of the pro-
posal and your determination to obtain
early enactment. There is no doubt in my
mind that the Nation earnestly wants and
needs the reforms in welfare that we seek.
March 31, 1971
The present system is a demoralizing dis-
grace and must be changed. There is no
time to lose.
From the earliest days of the 92nd Con-
gress, we in the Administration have ex-
pressed our willingness to consider
Committee proposals that would further
strengthen H.R. 1 and facilitate Congres-
sional passage. At this time, I want to
495
