[92] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
our cities have, in short, become inefficient
and less and less governable. At times, this
has led to near-paralysis of public services
in our largest cities. Current trends indi-
cate that unless there is a marked shift in
public and private attitudes, the increase
of population in and around our great
metropolitan centers will continue, and
the problems of urban management will
be further aggravated.
In addition, by even conservative esti-
mates, there will be some 75 million ad-
ditional Americans by the end of the
twentieth century. Whether this growth is
beneficial or burdensome depends on our
foresight in planning and preparing for
it-a process that must begin now and
must take a broader view than merely
feeding the expansion of the megalopolis.
As never before, the Nation is begin-
ning to see that urban America has a vital
stake in the well-being and progress of
rural America. This is one Nation, and
for the good of all Americans we need one
national policy of balanced growth.
FEDERAL RESOURCES FOR RURAL
DEVELOPMENT
For the sake of balanced growth, there-
fore, but even more for the sake of the
farmer and all his neighbors in rural
America-first-class citizens who deserve
to live in first-class communities-I am
proposing that the Federal Government
re-think America's rural development
needs and rededicate itself to providing
the resources and the creative leadership
those needs demand.
It takes many different kinds of activi-
ties to create rural development-to cre-
ate opportunity. One must start with the
individual-his education, his skill train-
ing, and his health. Next the individual
needs to be linked to resources and mar-
kets through transportation. Public sector
infrastructure such as water and sewers is
needed to encourage industry to locate in
new areas. The environment is also be-
coming an increasingly important factor
in industrial locations.
Essentially what I am proposing is to
unite the funding for a number of pro-
grams operating directly in rural areas
and smaller cities into a Rural Commu-
nity Development Revenue Sharing Pro-
gram, to add $179 million to that fund,
and then to bolster this effort with new
initiatives in critically related areas, such
as health and welfare reform.
The following chart shows the programs
which I propose to combine into the Rural
Development Revenue Sharing Program:
PROGRAMS COMBINED UNDER RURAL
DEVELOPMENT REVENUE SHARING
GENERAL
New Money $179 Million
Title V Regional Commissions
Appalachian Regional Commission
Economic Development Administration
Resource Conservation and Development
Program
EDUCATION
Cooperative Agricultural Extension Service
WATER AND SEWER
Rural Water and Waste Disposal Grants
ENVIRONMENT
Rural Environmental Assistance Program
Forestry Assistance Grants
Great Plains Agricultural Conservation
Program
Water Bank Program
Tree Planting Grants
Altogether, the eleven programs listed
above are spending $921 million in Fiscal
1971.
But much more is needed to extend to
410
