Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [182]
ful and vibrant and dynamic part of the
country can make the contribution of
which it is capable, then America will
have a better chance to meet the respon-
sibility that it must meet in the world to
be strong militarily, economically together
with the ideological and spiritual strength
which will enable us to meet
challenges.
our
I simply close with a last thought. There
is another point of view, I recognize it, I
respect it, I totally disagree with it. It is
that at this time America should turn
away
from the problems of the world and
turn inward. It is a point of view which
rejects new ventures, whether it is an SST
or an exploration in space or whatever the
case might be, because we have such
terrible problems at home.
It is one in which every time we see a
chance for progress we consult our fears
rather than our hopes. And I would sim-
ply say that I am convinced that as opin-
ion leaders in this country, you and me, we
all have an obligation to see that America,
after 190 years, now that we are the
strongest nation in the world, still the
richest, with more freedom, more oppor-
tunity here than any place in the world,
that we do not, at this point, because of
internal differences, differences between
races, between religions, between regions,
between ages, turn inward to attempt to
solve those problems at the exclusion of
moving forward, whether it is in playing
our role in the world or exploring the
unknown.
I don't agree with everything General
de Gaulle said, because he said many
things about this country that were very
uncomplimentary and other things that
he may have been wrong about. But he
was a great judge of the spirit of the
people. That was his contribution to
France. And he restored the French spirit
and he said France is her true self only
when she is engaged in a great enterprise.
And America, in my view, will cease
to be her true self when we cease to be
engaged in an enterprise greater than
ourselves, whether it is in playing our role
in the world to bring peace with freedom
wherever we can, whether it is exploring
the unknown, whether it is moving for-
ward in these problems, very difficult ones,
human problems that we have between
races and religions and generations in this
country.
I simply want to say that one of the
reasons that these regional briefings, I
think, are very important to me as an
individual, it gives me an opportunity to
meet the opinion leaders, to share with
you my concerns and to tell you that I
will, of course, do everything that I can
to end the war that we are in, to have
better relations to build a lasting peace, to
keep the Nation strong militarily, to get
this economy moving so that we can get.
at unemployment and resist the high
inflation.
But in this other field we desperately
need your help to restore America's sense
of confidence and sense of faith. Don't
gloss over our failures. They are many.
But recognize that this is a great country;
that we are very fortunate to live here.
As we travel over the world, much as
we see, much as we may want to go
again, that when we return we realize that
we have had good fortune to live in
this country at a time when what we do
matters--matters to us, matters to the
world. We must meet that challenge, and
we can meet it materially.
The question is, can we meet it spirit-
675
