[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
terest in this case. There was concern
expressed throughout the Nation with re-
gard to that decision, going far beyond
the innocence or guilt of Captain [Lieu-
tenant] Calley with regard to the specific
charges.
I felt that under the circumstances, I
should take two steps that I think are com-
pletely consistent with upholding the judi-
cial process of the Armed Forces.
One, it seemed to me that if in civilian
cases where an individual is charged with
a crime, he can get out on bail, it seemed
to me that the least that could be done
would be to say that Captain [Lieutenant]
Calley, pending the time that an appeal
made his sentence final, should not be
sent to Leavenworth Prison, but should be
confined to his quarters.
I think that was the right decision to
make about that man at that time.
The second point had to do with my de-
cision that I announced, as you recall,
you and Mr. Cormier, in California on
Saturday morning, when I said that I, as
President and as Commander in Chief,
would exercise the authority which I had
in such cases to review the case, that I
would not pass the buck to a commission,
I would not pass it to the Secretary of the
Army, but in this case, because of the
great public interest in the case and be-
cause it went beyond simply the inno-
cence or guilt of this one man, that I
would review the case personally before
final sentence was passed.
Now, as far as Captain Daniel's charge
is concerned, I can only say that the action
of the President, I think, was proper
in
terms of releasing him from going to
Leavenworth and confining him to quar-
ters on the base, and, second, I think it
was proper to indicate that at some point
in the judicial process, without impinging
upon or impugning that process, that I
would review the case.
That is what I intend to do. I think it
is consistent with the judicial process.
Yes, do you want to follow up? Go
ahead.
[6.] FRANK CORMIER (White House
correspondent, Associated Press). A fol-
low-up on that.
When John Ehrlichman told us of your
decision to make the final review, he said,
"Certainly, the widespread public inter-
est in the case is a factor. It is not a deter-
mining factor." And he was rather vague
as to what the determining factor was,
apart from the flood of telegrams and so
forth.3
Could you enlighten us on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Cormier,
the widespread public interest was a fac-
tor in the sense that when people all over
the Nation, their Congressmen and their
Senators, are stirred up about a particular
issue, a President, the President, has a
responsibility to do what he can within
the law to try to quiet those fears, to try
to bring some perspective into the whole
matter.
I think a pretty good indication that the
action that I took was effective in that
respect is that since that action we have
seen the fears with regard to the Calley
case subside because they know that he is
going to get a fair review and a final re-
view by the President of the United States.
Now, as far as the other factors, how-
ever, are concerned, it goes to this: As I
The transcript of a news briefing by John D.
Ehrlichman, Assistant to the President for Do-
mestic Affairs, on the President's decision to
review the Calley case was released by the
White House on April 3, 1971.
538
