[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
The seven hundred million people of
the subcontinent face perhaps the world's
most cruel imbalance between human
needs and available resources. Even with
the full application of modern science
and technology, with all its potential for
righting such an imbalance, the problem
remains severe. For India, the mere size
of its population and the need for large
infusions of external resources, make ex-
tremely difficult the task of organizing the
society to meet its problems. For Paki-
stan, the difficulties are compounded by
the need to harmonize the interests of two
regions widely diverse in social patterns
and traditions and physically separated.
The smaller countries of South Asia face
similar or greater barriers to progress
given their limited trained manpower and
natural resources.
South Asia's progress is important to
us. We cannot deny our humanitarian in-
terest in the well-being of so many people
with such exigent needs. Nor can we be
indifferent to the fact that a lack of prog-
ress in South Asia could encourage the
polarization of the world between the
developing and the industrial countries.
Finally, we recognize that the unmet
needs of South Asia, and its unresolved
enmities, could make the area vulnerable
to an undesirable level of foreign
influence.
We have a deep interest in ensuring
that the subcontinent does not become a
focus of great power conflict. Over the
past decade the major countries of South
Asia have profoundly changed their re-
lationships with the rest of the world.
Pakistan has gradually moved from its
position of close association with us to a
complex triangular relationship, balanc-
ing her contacts with the three great
powers with interests in South Asia-
China, the USSR, and ourselves. India
continues to follow a policy of non-align-
ment but of a cast significantly changed
since the Chinese attack of 1962. These
policy changes, by definition, affect the
intimacy of our relationship with the
countries of South Asia. We have no de-
sire to try to press upon them a closer rela-
tionship than their own interests lead
them to desire. Our current posture in
South Asia, therefore, accords with the
restraint implied in the Nixon Doctrine.
During the past year we have con-
tinued our bilateral programs of financial,
technical, and food assistance. South Asia
is, in fact, the largest recipient of our
economic aid. We are also providing
large-scale assistance to India's crucial
family planning efforts. We will continue
to help through those programs, and
through the activities of the World Bank
and the Asian Development Bank. Our
effort to reinvigorate our whole system of
economic aid is directly related to our
desire to do this more effectively.
We have also helped deal with the con-
sequences of one of this century's worst
natural disasters. In response to the
November tragedy in East Pakistan, the
United States provided both immediate
emergency relief and longer term aid to
assist in the task of reconstruction. We are
also working with the Government of
Pakistan to provide greater safety for the
people there in the future.
We were faced during the past year
with a particularly difficult decision in
regard to Pakistan's request for an excep-
tion to our general embargo on the sale of
lethal weapons to the subcontinent. We
decided on a one-time sale of a limited
amount of military equipment. We be-
lieve that this modest exception should
not upset the military balance in the area
280
