[382] Dec. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is with this conviction and in the spirit of
fraternal friendship that I come to you today.
Mr. President, let this first moment be one
brimming with faith and confidence-faith in
that which we shall build together for the
well-being of our people, and common confi-
dence in the cause of justice, progress, and
peace.
This is the message I bring you from the
Brazilian people, asking you to convey it to
the American people.
383 Toasts of the President and President Médici of
Brazil. December 7, 1971
Mr. President, Mrs. Médici, and our very
distinguished guests from Brazil and from
the United States of America:
It is always a very special occasion when
the largest country in South America and
the most populous country in North
America meet, today, as they do, on a
state visit. But this occasion is distin-
guished from other occasions in which the
leader of Brazil and the leader of the
United States have met, whether here or
in that country.
Brazil is a country that, for us in the
United States, has always been one of
great promise, great mystery, great excite-
ment, and I think the description of
Brazil which is contained in one section of
its national anthem perhaps tells us why
Brazil has such a special meaning to those
of us in the United States who look to this
great country to the south and think of its
future.
As I recall, Brazil is described there as
a great sleeping giant lying eternally in a
magnificent cradle. That was true of
Brazil 150 years ago when it had its inde-
pendence, and the United States was the
first country in the world to recognize its
independence. It was true of Brazil 100
years ago, 50 years ago, maybe even 25
years ago, or 10 years ago. But it is not
true today.
The giant is awakened. The people of
Brazil know it. The people of the world
are discovering it, and the visit of the
President of Brazil to this country will tell
this message to our people and tell it
better, also, to the people of the world.
This great giant is now awake-100 mil-
lion people, unlimited natural resources,
developing now not only on the coast, the
beautiful cities that we all know, but de-
veloping, due to the leadership of our guest
of honor tonight and those who have
worked with him, developing the heart-
land of the country through highways and
cities and exploration such as was only
dreamed of before, but now is being
actually done.
This has meant that Brazil and all of its
promise that people have dreamed about
through the years is now being realized.
The international historian, Arnold Toyn-
bee, in 1934, wrote that Brazil's possibil-
ities would be unlimited once it had the
leadership in its government that would
attract the kind of investment from its
own people and from abroad that would
explore and develop its resources. And I
think the greatest tribute that I can pay to
our distinguished guest tonight is that in
the brief time that he has been President
of Brazil there has been more progress than
in
any comparable time in the whole his-
tory of that country.
This is a great record. It is one which
the people of Brazil thank him for. It is
one that we, his very good and devoted
1166
