Richard Nixon, 1971
June 29 [214]
213 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on National Housing Goals. June 29, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit the third annual
report on national housing goals as re-
quired by Section 1603 of the Housing
and Urban Development Act of 1968.
This Report, prepared by the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development,
notes the progress toward meeting the
Nation's housing needs. Increased housing
opportunities have been provided for
lower income families through the greatly
expanded federally assisted housing pro-
grams. Lower interest rates and the in-
creased availability of mortgage capital
will permit greatly expanded housing pro-
duction during the current year.
The Report also makes it quite obvious
that we must not be complacent about
the progress we have made in the past
two years. Several types of problems are
emerging. Housing costs continue to rise,
pricing many families out of the market
for adequate homes. This Administration
has taken firm steps to control the infla-
tion in construction costs, but we cannot
consider the problem solved.
Other problems highlighted in this
Report are equally or more difficult to
solve:
• The need to deal with inequities which
arise when some families receive subsi-
dies and others do not, the inevitable
result of having to allocate scarce
resources.
The need to assure that the effort to
meet housing production objectives goes
forward in consonance with our deep
concern for assuring a desirable overall
living environment.
These problems are complex; simplistic
solutions will not do the job. This Report
raises the problems in a straightforward
way so that they can be aired and each
of the possible solutions explored openly.
Only in this way can realistic answers be
found. This Administration is committed
to the search for those answers, working
in full cooperation with the Congress, pri-
vate industry, labor and the American
people.
I commend this Report to the Congress
and to the public as a major step forward
in our efforts to meet the housing needs of
the American people.
The White House
June 29, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The Third Annual Report on National
Housing Goals, as transmitted to the Congress,
consisted of 64 pages plus appendixes.
214 Veto of the Accelerated Public Works Bill.
June 29, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
Expansion of job opportunities for those
presently unemployed is one of this ad-
ministration's highest priorities. Measures
to expand job opportunities must be ef-
fective; they must hold real promise of
providing the jobs when they are needed,
where they are needed, for the persons
who most need them.
In recent weeks, the Congress has acted
785
