Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 2 [346]
will build on that friendship and that al-
liance; and that your visit here is welcome
to us-welcome to us because you repre-
sent a country and a people for whom
we have such great respect and welcome
to us because you, in our view, are and
do serve as a statesman of the first rank
in the world. As our talks have demon-
strated-they have been most useful
in discussing not only bilateral affairs but
the problems of the world generally and
for this we are most grateful for the long
journey which you have taken.
An Australian poet, I understand, once
wrote that Australia's future is a prophecy.
Anyone that has been to this wonderful
country-and my wife and I were there
for the first time in 1953, and I was there
again in 1965-but anyone who has been
there would know that Australia has a
proud past, but it has an enormously ex-
citing future.
And the man who has played such a
great role in building that past, who pres-
ently leads Australia in the present, at
this time, and the man who is contribut-
ing to the fulfillment of the prophecy for
the future of Australia is the man we
honor tonight. I know you will want to rise
again and join in a toast to the Prime
Minister.
Prime Minister McMahon and Mrs.
McMahon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:51 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Prime Minister McMahon responded as
follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon:
Sir, you were good enough to remind me
and to inform the whole of the audience to-
night that that song, the last song that was
played by the strings tonight, was the song
that was played at the time that I proposed
to my wife.
What you didn't say was that I had already
sung it to her 10 times, and I was just about
to give up when a faltering voice made some
declamation--yea or nay, I know not-but
at least I thought I had better take advantage
of the moment and capitalize on my good
fortune. [Laughter]
Equally, too, can I thank you, sir, for in-
viting me to come to Washington on an
occasion and at a moment that is as propitious
as I believe this one to be. Because you today,
and, so far as I am concerned, yesterday, with
one of your senior Cabinet ministers, have
taken me into your confidence in a way that I
wouldn't have believed to have been possible.
And because of the trust and the confidence
that you have reposed in me and in my col-
leagues who have been with me, I have had
to confess again, as I have confessed on so
many other occasions that the relationships
between ourselves are based upon the soundest
of sound principles-that we trust one another,
and I believe that so far as our people are
concerned, whether they happen to be Amer-
ican or Australian, that they believe in the
cause that they think is right. They are pre-
pared each to make their contribution to that
cause, and I think that the friendship between
us is consequently one that will be enduring.
But what I would like to speak about, Mr.
President, tonight, is this, and I take as my
text a few familiar words: that there comes
a time in the life of men, in the flood of time
that, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.
And I believe that is abundantly true today
because I think now we have reached a crucial
period of history and a period of history when
leadership in terms of personalities might
change, but the leadership of the United States
will remain.
In the postwar period I believe your coun-
try, the United States, has stood between the
free countries of the world and despotism.
Had it not been for the greatness and the
magnanimity and the humanitarianism of the
United States and the people of the United
States, then I believe we could very easily
have succumbed to one or other kind of
dictatorship that we have known throughout
the world in these years.
But then came a period, I believe, when
other nations started to emerge. Soviet Russia
1075
