[222] July 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
course, concerns us. It is an issue, how-
ever, to which we have an answer. The
American involvement is being ended. It
will be ended certainly. The question is
only a matter of time and only a matter
of how. So consequently, it seems to me
that a group of editors, opinionmakers
like yourselves, should, and I think will,
appreciate the opportunity to look beyond
Vietnam.
For example, a year from now, what is
the world going to look like as Vietnam
moves from our vision, or at least recedes
from it, and what will America's role in
the world be at that time?
As I came into the room I noticed
Martin Hayden,² shook hands with him,
and I perhaps can put my remarks on the
world scene in context by pointing out
that he first came to see me when I was
a freshman Congressman. It was 24 years
ago. I was thinking how much had hap-
pened in those 24 years. Many of you, a
few of you, are old enough to remember
what America was 24 years ago.
We were number one in the world
militarily, with no one who even chal-
lenged us because we had a monopoly
on atomic weapons. We also at that point,
of course, were number one economi-
cally by all odds. In fact, the United States
of America was producing more than 50
percent of all the world's goods.
That was just 25 years ago. Now, 25
years having passed, let's look at the situ-
ation today and what it may be 5 years
from now or 10 years from now. I will
not try to limit myself to 5 or 10 years
except to say that in the next decade we
are going to see changes that may be even
greater than what have occurred in the
2 Martin S. Hayden, editor in chief, Detroit
News.
last 25 years, and very great ones have
occurred in that respect.
First, instead of just America being
number one in the world from an eco-
nomic standpoint, the preeminent world
power, and instead of there being just two
super powers, when we think in economic
terms and economic potentialities, there
are five great power centers in the world
today. Let's look at them very briefly.
There is, of course, the United States
of America. There is, second, Western
Europe-Western Europe with Britain in
the Common Market. That means 300
million of the most advanced people in
the world, with all the productivity and all
the capacity that those people will have
and, of course, with the clout that they
have when they will act together, as they
certainly will. That is a new factor in the
world scene that will come, and come
very soon, as we all know.
Then in the Pacific, looking also at free
world countries, we have a resurgent
Japan. I met with steel leaders this morn-
ing-leaders of industry and leaders of
unions. I pointed out what had happened
to Japan in terms of their business: Just
20 years ago Japan produced 5 million
tons of steel a year; this year they pro-
duced 100 million tons of steel; 2 years
from now Japan will produce more steel
than the United States of America.
That is what has happened. It has hap-
pened in the case of Japan, in the case
of Germany, our two major enemies in
3 The President met with union and man-
agement leaders of the steel industry to urge
a constructive wage settlement which would
help the industry become more competitive in
world markets. The transcript of a news brief-
ing on the meeting by George P. Shultz, Direc-
tor, Office of Management and Budget, was
released by the White House on July 6, 1971.
804
