Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 4 [43]
these sources lags some 40 to 50 percent
behind the growth rate for State and local
expenditures. This means that budget ex-
pansion at these levels must be financed
primarily through new taxes and through
frequent increases in existing tax rates.
As a result, the weight of State and local
taxes has constantly been getting heavier.
On a per capita basis, they have climbed
almost 50 percent in the last fourteen
years. Property tax receipts are six times
as great as they were a quarter century
ago. In the
In the past dozen years alone, States
have been forced to institute new taxes or
raise old ones on 450 separate occasions.
Consumer and service taxes have sprung
up in bewildering variety in many cities.
These rising State and local levies are
becoming an almost intolerable burden to
many of our taxpayers. Moreover, they
often fall hardest on those least able to
pay. Poor and middle income consumers,
for example, must pay the same sales taxes
as the wealthy. The elderly-who often
own their own homes-must pay the same
property taxes as younger people who are
earning a regular income. As further pres-
sures are placed on State and local taxes,
the impact is felt in every part of our so-
ciety. The hard-pressed taxpayer-quite
understandably-is calling for relief.
The result is a bitter dilemma for State
and local leaders. On the one hand, they
must cut services or raise taxes to avoid
bankruptcy. On the other hand, the prob-
lems they face and the public they serve
demand expanded programs and lower
costs. Competition between taxing juris-
dictions for industry and for residents adds
further pressure to keep services up and
taxes down.
While political pressures push State and
local leaders in one direction, financial
pressures drive them in another. The re-
sult has been a rapid and demoralizing
turnover in State and local officeholders.
The voters keep searching for men and
women who will make more effective
leaders. What the State and localities
really need are the resources to make
leaders more effective.
THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS
The growing fiscal crisis in our States
and communities is the result in large
measure of a fiscal mismatch; needs grow
fastest at one level while revenues grow
fastest at another. This fiscal mismatch is
accompanied, in turn, by an "efficiency
mismatch"; taxes are collected most effi-
ciently by the highly centralized Federal
tax system while public funds are often
spent most efficiently when decisions are
made by State and local authorities.
What is needed, then, is a program un-
der which we can enjoy the best of both
worlds, a program which will apply fast
growing Federal revenues to fast growing
State and local requirements, a program
that will combine the efficiencies of a cen-
tralized tax system with the efficiencies
of decentralized expenditure. What is
needed, in short, is a program for sharing
Federal tax revenues with State and local
governments.
A WORD ABOUT PRESENT GRANTS-IN-AID
There is a sense in which the Federal
Government already shares its revenues
with governments at the lower levels. In
fact, Federal aid to the States and locali-
ties has grown from less than one billion
dollars in 1946 to over 30 billion dollars
this year. Unfortunately, most of this as-
sistance comes in the form of highly re-
stricted programs of categorical grants-in-
115
