[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. It has been made
clear only since we began our withdrawal
program. You see, this is a new policy.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Pardon me, sir. I
meant in just a month ago, in December,
when the first announcement came out.
THE PRESIDENT. I made it clear not
just a month ago, but in November-you
may recall that on November 3, when I
made my speech on November 3,5 I
warned the North Vietnamese then that
if at a time we were withdrawing they
stepped up their infiltration and threat-
ened our remaining forces, that I would
retaliate.
I have said that on eight different occa-
sions on national television and national
radio. I have said it also in other messages
to them that have gotten to them very
loud and very clear. So there is no ques-
tion about the understanding, and that
was why we did this.
MR. SMITH. Sir, you talked about the
situation through May of '71. I hate to
ask a hypothetical question, but people
do ask them.
THE PRESIDENT. Everybody else does.
MR. SMITH. And one of your own mili-
tary advisers put it to me, not to get an
answer from me because I don't know, just
to tell me what was on his mind.
Suppose, say in 1972 our role is virtually
eliminated, we are passive, we have few
troops there, then the North Vietnamese
attack and begin to come into control of
the country. What is our policy then? Do
we stand aside?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Smith, our
Vietnamization policy has been very care-
fully drawn up, and we are withdrawing
in a measured way on the basis that the
South Vietnamese will be able to defend
Б
See 1969 volume, Item 425.
themselves as we withdraw, and it is work-
ing. For example, did you realize that—
I am sure you do because I think it was
reported on your network-all of our
naval forces now, combat forces, have
been removed?
The South Vietnamese Navy has taken
over. And so it will be in these other
areas. When the time comes in 1972 that
you speak of, it is possible, of course, that
at that time North Vietnam might launch
an attack, but I am convinced that at that
time, based on the training program of
the South Vietnamese, based on the water-
shed that occurred when they jelled and
became a fighting, confident unit after the
Cambodian intervention, I am convinced
that they will be able to hold their own
and defend themselves in 1972.
Now, that doesn't answer your
hypothetical question, but I am simply
not going to borrow trouble by saying that
I expect them to fail. I don't think they
will.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
[13.] MRS. DICKERSON. Mr. President,
I would like to ask you an overall ques-
tion about our relations with the Com-
munists. When you took office, you said
this was going to be an era of negotiation,
not confrontation. But in reality, haven't
we returned to something of a cold war
situation in regard to our relations with
the Soviets? And how were our relations
affected by their duplicity during the Mid-
dle East crisis when they helped rebuild
the missile sites?
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Dickerson, when
we talk about an era of negotiation rather
than confrontation, we must remember
that negotiation means exactly that. It
means that you have two parties that have
14
