Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 3 [284]
ample, and Asia, competition from the
nations of Europe which we helped to re-
build after World War II, competition
from the Soviet Union, and in the future
the potential competition of the most
populous and one of the most creative
peoples on the earth, 800 million Chinese.
That is the picture we have in front of
us. So the question that we confront in
America is: What do we, 200 million
Americans, do about this? How do
we meet the challenge of peaceful
competition?
There are two ways that it could be
met. One is to build a wall around our-
selves, a permanent wall, and to live
within ourselves and to let the rest of the
world pass us by. That is the philosophy
which some have. Some suggest that it
really doesn't make any difference whether
the United States continues to maintain
its position of world leadership economi-
cally, a position which is essential if we
are to be the world's leader-free world's
leader in the field of foreign policy.
But on the other hand, there is another
point of view, a point of view that I
strongly recommend to this great audience
of Americans from over 25 States all over
this Nation tonight, and it is this: At the
end of World War II the United States
was in the position where it was our duty
to help other nations get on their feet. It
was also in our interest. We have no
regrets about having succeeded and suc-
ceeding very well in that great gesture--
humanitarian, and also in our economic
self-interest as it turned out to be.
At that time one world statesman de-
scribed the situation like a poker game.
He said what happened was that at the
end of World War II the United States
had all the chips and no one else could
play, and so we had to pass out some of
the chips to the other nations so that they
could get into the game and we did
that.
Now they are in the game. They are
strong, vigorous competitors. We should
not resent that. As a matter of fact, we
should welcome it because the stronger
the competition, the better we do. That is
the American spirit.
But on the other hand, as I pointed out
in my speech to the Nation on August 15,
let the competition be fair. Let us see to it
that as far as the international monetary
situation is concerned that unfair advan-
tages of other nations be removed. Let us
see to it that as far as trade barriers are
concerned that it is a two-way street, that
markets abroad are open to the United
States as we open markets in the United
States to nations abroad.
There was a time when the United
States, 25 years ago, could afford to be
generous, not only in our aid but in our
trade policies. We still want to be gener-
ous where the situation requires it from a
humanitarian standpoint. But at this time,
when other nations in Europe and in Asia
are on their feet, where they are our com-
petitors, the time has come for the United
States to quit trying to compete with one
hand tied behind our back.
So the world that I see for America is
not one in which we build a wall around
ourselves, not one in which the United
States fails to meet the challenge of com-
petition, but one in which we set up fair
rules of competition and then proceed to
do everything that we can to do our best.
Now, let me relate all that to this great
audience here in the heartland of Amer-
ica, an audience from American agricul-
ture. A few months ago, the Census
929
