Richard Nixon, 1971
May 17 [169]
169 Special Message to the Congress Requesting Extension
of Negotiation Period in the Railway Labor Dispute.
May 17, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
After extended efforts at settlement the
Nation is once more confronted by an
emergency arising from an unresolved
labor dispute in the railroad industry. The
dispute involves disagreement over wages,
hours and working conditions between the
Brotherhood of Railway Signalmen repre-
senting approximately 10,000 employees
and the National Railway Labor Confer-
ence representing the Nation's railroads.
Throughout the course of negotiations,
the parties have had the assistance of the
Federal Government in their efforts to
resolve their differences. Now, all existing
governmental procedures for resolving this
dispute have been exhausted and the
union has called a nationwide work stop-
this morning, May 17, 1971.
page
A nationwide stoppage of rail service
would cause great hardship to all Amer-
icans and strike a serious blow at the Na-
tion's economy. It is essential that our rail-
roads continue to operate. I had hoped for
a voluntary negotiated settlement of this
dispute; however, this was not forthcom-
ing. I am, therefore, recommending that
Congress enact legislation which would
extend the present negotiations until
July 1, 1971. Such a recommendation is
not only consistent with the national in-
terest in continued rail service but pre-
serves the processes of free collective bar-
gaining. I have asked the Secretary of
Labor to follow closely the situation as it
develops, to continue assisting the parties
and, if no settlement has been reached, to
report to me and the Congress by June 21,
1971.
It is indeed regrettable that Congress
must act once again to forestall another
in a long line of crises occurring in the rail-
road industry. This situation reemphasizes
the chaotic nature of collective bargaining
in the transportation industry as it func-
tions under existing legislation. The time
has long since passed for active considera-
tion and action by the Congress on the
proposals which I have twice presented to
it to resolve emergencies such as this in
an equitable and conclusive manner and,
thus, to preclude the necessity of Congres-
sional action on each individual dispute. It
is inexcusable that the Nation should con-
tinue to pay the price of archaic
procedures for the resolution of labor-
management disputes in the transporta-
tion industry.
However, pending such action, I must
urge that Congress act immediately on the
proposal we are now presenting so that
a crippling stoppage can be averted and
the Nation can continue to have rail
service.
The White House
May 17, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On May 17, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11594, providing for use of
transportation priorities and allocations during
the current railroad strike.
On the same day, the White House released
the text of a proposed joint resolution providing
for a temporary prohibition of strikes or lock-
outs in the dispute and a list of categories of
essential items designated to receive transporta-
tion priorities.
On May 18, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Senator Robert
P. Griffin and Representative Gerald R. Ford
71-234-72-44
637
