[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
national negotiations on tariff
preferences.
Only the last was achieved in 1970. The
failure of the Administration's trade bill
and the near success of protectionist legis-
lation in the Congress were closely related
to the slow pace of the international ne-
gotiations on trade barriers. These devel-
opments make clear that other countries
can no longer proceed on the facile as-
sumption that no matter what policies
they pursue, liberal trade policies in the
U.S. can be taken for granted.
Thus, international cooperation is ab-
solutely essential if we are to maintain a
liberal trade policy in the United States.
Our full support for the European Com-
munity continues, but its policies-includ-
ing those related to the expansion of its
membership, which we also support-
must take full account of our legitimate
economic interests. We look to the Com-
munity, as the world's largest trading
entity, to assume an ever greater responsi-
bility for the maintenance of a liberal
world trading order by pursuing liberal
policies itself, and by playing a more active
leadership role in seeking ways to further
reduce the remaining barriers to trade.
Similarly, Japan should continue its rapid
reduction of the trade and investment re-
strictions which have long been inappro-
priate for the second largest national
economy in the non-Communist world. It
is essential that all other industrialized
countries cooperate in this effort as well.
In 1970, we took a number of concrete
steps on our own to further our trade pol-
icy objectives. Barriers against our exports
continued to fall, as tariff reductions pre-
viously agreed were placed in effect and
as we continued to press for the elimina-
tion, or at least reduction, of non-tariff
obstacles to trade. To keep open markets
for our agricultural exports, we vigorously
urged the European Community to re-
duce its grain prices and to avoid taking
any measures which might threaten our
sales of soybeans, tobacco, and citrus. We
sought modifications in the agricultural
policy changes proposed by the United
Kingdom. We invoked our rights in the
GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade) against the preferential trad-
ing arrangements and changes in citrus
and tobacco import policies recently initi-
ated by the European Community. We
will maintain and intensify these efforts
in the year ahead.
Meanwhile we moved to cushion the
adverse domestic impact of trade competi-
tion without resorting to legislated import
restrictions. We tightened our administra-
tion of the anti-dumping laws to protect
our industries against unfair pricing by
their foreign competitors. We patiently
sought a solution to our textile import
problem through negotiations with the
Japanese and other Far Eastern suppliers,
although in this unique case we also came
to support quota legislation in view of the
disappointing progress in the negotiations;
we maintained the voluntary restraint
programs on meat and steel exports to the
U.S.; and we negotiated new tariff quotas
on imports of stainless steel flatware from
Japan.
Pressures for legislated import restric-
tions have been fueled in past years by the
failure to use two more positive alterna-
tives available to us:
-the escape clause which provides for
temporary relief from import compe-
tition for entire industries in cases
where injury can be clearly demon-
strated.
—the adjustment assistance provisions
of our trade legislation, which pro-
302
