Appendix B
December
6 The President met with the first five women
generals in the military services, all of
whom were appointed to the rank of briga-
dier general during this Administration.
6 The President presented the "Most Coura-
geous Junior Olympian" Award to 17-year-
old Gary Washington of Colorado. Deaf
since birth, Gary has been active in track,
football, and basketball, and was selected
to receive the award at the National AAU
Junior Olympic Championships in San
Diego in August.
6 Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau of
Canada met with the President at the
White House for discussions of the general
international situation, particularly East-
West relations and the President's forth-
coming trips to Peking and Moscow. In
the evening, the Prime Minister was guest
of honor at a dinner hosted by the
President.
7 The President has received the 60-day re-
port on the labor dispute involving the
longshore industry on the Pacific Coast
by the Board of Inquiry.
8 The President spoke by telephone with
Ambassador George H. Bush, United States
Representative to the United Nations, with
regard to the U.N. General Assembly vote
on the India-Pakistan matter.
9 President Hubert Maga of Dahomey met
with the President at the White House.
President Maga was in the United States
for a 10-day private visit.
10 The report of the President's Commission
on Federal Statistics was presented to the
President by W. Allen Wallis, Chairman,
and Frederick Mosteller, Vice Chairman,
of the Commission.
16 The President met at his home in Key
Biscayne, Fla., with the wife and children
of Jose Villa, captain of the Panamanian
December
freighter Johnny Express which was seized
by Cuba on December 15. The President
expressed his very deep personal concern
for the Captain and indicated that we
would take every step we could to see that
he is released.
18 Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Deputy Prime Minis-
ter and Foreign Minister-designate of Paki-
stan, met with the President at the White
House.
18 After signing the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act, the President taped a mes-
sage of greetings to the Convention of the
Alaska Federation of Natives meeting in
Anchorage.
22 Members of the Commission on Financial
Structure and Regulation met with the
President at the White House to present
their report and recommendations.
23 Archbishop Luigi Raimondi, Apostolic Del-
egate to the United States, met with the
President at the White House to present
an advance copy of the Pope's annual mes-
sage for peace and his yearly report on
efforts to achieve peace in the world.
23 The President has received a report by the
Bureau of Product Safety on toy safety and
child protection. In a letter to Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare Elliot
L. Richardson, the President commended
the staff for progress made in that area.
30 The White House announced the report
of Ambassador F. Haydn Williams, the
President's Personal Representative for Mi-
cronesian Status Negotiations, on future
political status for the Trust Territory of
the Pacific Islands.
30 The White House announced the transfer
of 85 acres of Federal land in North Little
Rock, Ark., to the city of North Little Rock
for park and recreation use.
1268
