[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
the absence of agreed arms limita-
tions on both defensive and offensive
forces.
-Attacks might also be directed against
our national command authorities
and gravely endanger our capability
to respond appropriately to the na-
ture, scale, and source of the attack.
-We still face the disturbing possibil-
ity of accidents.
-Finally, before this decade is over,
the Chinese will have the capability
to threaten some of our major popu-
lation centers.
These developments persuade me of
the wisdom of our initial decisions to take
the necessary preliminary steps for Safe-
guard ABM deployments. I am convinced
that we must plan to continue our Safe-
guard program for the present.
At the same time, we have actively
discussed with the Soviet Union limita-
tions on defensive as well as offensive
strategic weapons. Some limits on ABM
systems are essential to any SALT agree-
ment. We have taken this into account in
our planning.
Last year Congress approved varying
levels of work on the four Safeguard sites
designed primarily to protect our Minute-
man missiles.
I will continue a Safeguard program
designed to provide maximum flexibility
in the conduct of the Strategic Arms
Limitation Talks. We are doing nothing
which precludes any possible agreement at
SALT. Our specific plans for the coming
year will be announced by the Secretary
of Defense.
At the same time, we have no explicit
statement from the USSR as to the rea-
sons for the leveling-off of the ICBM de-
ployments, nor any guarantee that the
apparent slow-down will continue. More-
over, the Soviet Union has been pursuing
qualitative improvements which could
threaten our retaliatory forces. With all
the will in the world, we may be unable
to secure limitations in the SALT dis-
cussions. In view of that possibility, I
deem it essential that we continue with the
minimum program of work on ABM.
Our strategic forces constitute the
foundation of our nation's security. We
maintain these forces, in sufficient size
and character, to achieve our objective
of deterrence. While we intend to main-
tain whatever forces are necessary to in-
sure our deterrent, we also intend to pur-
sue every reasonable avenue of negotia-
tion that might end the strategic arms
race—a race that contributes nothing to
the real security of either side.
GENERAL PURPOSE FORCES
The change in the strategic situation
in recent years profoundly enhances the
importance of our general purpose forces.
The Soviet Union's build-up alters the
character of the strategic threat. China
also is developing strategic forces, though
her current capabilities are still quite
limited.
With this shift in strategic realities, our
potential adversaries may be tempted by
the use or the threat of force below what
they consider the level of general nuclear
war. General purpose forces, therefore,
now play a larger role in deterring at-
tacks than at any time since the nuclear
era began.
In last year's report, I pointed out that
after intensive review I had decided to
maintain general purpose forces adequate
to deter or, if necessary defend against, a
major threat to the interests of the U.S.
and its allies in Europe or Asia; and si-
314
