Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [132]
works construction projects; and public
higher education.
FEDERAL GUARANTEES FOR METRO
REVENUE BONDS
Excavations for METRO's subway tun-
nels and stations already dot the District.
When it goes into operation at the begin-
ning of 1974 it will be the Nation's most
modern mass transit system. It should do
much to unify the metropolitan Wash-
ington community, to improve the quality
of life by reducing congestion and pollu-
tion in the area, and to stimulate the
metropolitan economy by the increased
labor mobility it will provide. I am con-
fident that disagreements over implemen-
tation of the 1968 and 1970 Highway
Acts-now tying up needed METRO
funds can be resolved, and I have urged
all of the parties involved to give priority
to meeting these legislative obligations.
To remove another major obstacle now
confronting METRO, I am today pro-
posing that the Federal Government
guarantee the revenue bonds of the Wash-
ington Metropolitan Area Transit Au-
thority so as to expedite their sale. Severe
inflation in the construction industry has
combined with unexpected delays in the
METRO development timetable to create
a $450 million gap in the financial plan
originally advanced by WMATA, and to
impair the marketability of the METRO
revenue bonds. By guaranteeing these se-
curities, we can help WMATA sell all its
originally planned bonds so that METRO
construction can go forward at once. The
bonds would become taxable as a condi-
tion of the guarantee, providing a revenue
flowback to the Treasury from the inter-
est paid on them. This flowback in turn
would permit the Federal Government to
cover 25 percent of the Authority's antici-
pated interest costs on the bonds, enabling
the issuance of $300 million in additional
bonds. Federal assistance would thus help
WMATA close two-thirds of its $450 mil-
lion revenue gap, in keeping with the two-
thirds Federal and one-third local cost
sharing arrangement that has prevailed
for METRO funding in general.
BONDING FOR CLEAR WATER AND
OTHER PUBLIC WORKS
Washington's efforts to improve its pub-
lic services and to enhance the urban en-
vironment are doubly deserving of Federal
support-not only for the sake of the city
and the people themselves, but for the
sake of the whole Nation as well. This ap-
plies to the city's hopes of showing the
Nation the way in urban mass transit,
and it applies equally to the ecological and
esthetic imperatives of purifying our
waters.
The Potomac, the great river that
George Washington loved and that was
the principal influence on his choice of a
site for the Federal District, must be re-
stored as an asset to the entire region.
The Congress last year indicated its strong
interest in this matter by ordering a thor-
ough study of the water resources and
waste treatment problems of the Washing-
ton metropolitan area. The Environ-
mental Protection Agency has completed
that study and it is now being reviewed
within the administration.
A vital factor in whatever strategy we
adopt will be the regional water pollution
control plant at Blue Plains. Work is now
underway to increase the capacity of this
plant in response to population growth
in the metropolitan area, and to upgrade
its treatment level so it can meet required
515
