Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
liance's collective deliberations. Our tech-
nical analysis is described in the Arms
Control chapter of this report.
The USSR has frequently proposed a
general Conference on European Secu-
rity. But such a conference, in the Soviet
formulation, would not address the main
security issues the German question,
Berlin, mutual force reductions-but only
very general themes. We and our allies
are prepared to negotiate with the East
in any forum. But we see little value in a
conference whose agenda would be un-
likely to yield progress on concrete issues,
but would only deflect our energies to
drafting statements and declarations the
interpretation of which would inevitably
be a continuing source of disagreements.
Once a political basis for improving rela-
tions is created through specific negotia-
tions already in process, a general con-
ference might build on it to discuss other
intra-European issues and forms of co-
operation.
Any lasting relaxation of tension in
Europe must include progress in resolving
the issues related to the division of
Germany.
The German national question is basi-
cally one for the German people. It is only
natural that the government of the Fed-
eral Republic should assign it high prior-
ity. But as Chancellor Brandt has em-
phasized, it is the strength of the Western
coalition and West Germany's secure
place in it that have enabled his govern-
ment to take initiatives which mark a
new stage in the evolution of the Ger-
man question. The reshaping of German
relations with the East inevitably affects
the interests of all European states, as
well as the relationship between the U.S.
and the Soviet Union.
Therefore, there has been full consulta-
tion within the Alliance during the evolu-
tion of the Federal Republic's new policies
and the negotiation of its new treaties with
the USSR and Poland. It is clearly estab-
lished that Allied responsibilities and
rights are not affected by the terms of
these treaties. I emphasized in my talks
with Chancellor Brandt in Washington
and in intensive Allied consultation in
1970 that we support West Germany's ob-
jective of normalizing relations with its
eastern neighbors, and that we view
its anguish at the unnatural division of
the German nation with profound
compassion.
New policies and their effects in Central
Europe will create new conditions and
raise new issues-but none that cannot
be dealt with in continuing close consulta-
tion with the Federal Republic and within
the Alliance.
With the encouragement of the Fed-
eral Republic, the U.S., UK and France
in August 1969 invited the USSR to dis-
cuss Berlin. Four Power ambassadorial
discussions started in March 1970. The
history of the postwar period demonstrates
the complexity and importance of this
issue.
The Western objectives are the assur-
ance of unhindered traffic to and from
Berlin, Soviet acknowledgment of the
existing and entirely legitimate ties be-
tween Berlin and Bonn, and improved
communications and travel in and around
Berlin. An effective Four Power agree-
ment on Berlin will have to encompass ar-
rangements worked out between East and
West Germany on technical details. We
recognize that new access procedures to
Berlin will not necessarily prevent admin-
istrative harassment; this will depend as
239
