[2] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Significantly, the legislation I am sign-
ing continues the important block grant
approach of providing Federal financial
assistance to hard-pressed State and local
governments so that they can accomplish
necessary improvements in their law en-
forcement and criminal justice activities.
Under this concept, each State, in coop-
eration with local governments, sets the
priorities and goals for law enforcement
improvements in the State. Each State
develops comprehensive plans and pro-
grams designed to attain their goals. This
year I requested, and the Congress appro-
priated, $480 million for the purpose of
sharing the costs of carrying out the pro-
grams and projects included in the State
plans.
This new legislation will not only per-
mit us to continue to provide financial
assistance to the States and cities for crime
control, but will also enable LEAA to per-
form better its other valuable functions.
Through a variety of changes in the law,
these amendments will increase LEAA's
ability to provide technical assistance to
the States, to evaluate new law enforce-
ment methods and techniques and dis-
seminate useful information concerning
them to those who can apply that knowl-
edge, to collect information concerning
the use to which LEAA funds have been
put, and to assess the overall effectiveness
of the LEAA program.
Our goal is the increased effectiveness
of our criminal justice system in order to
reverse the unacceptable trend of crime
in our Nation. From our efforts in the
Nation's Capital, we are already learning
that this trend can be reversed. By apply-
ing new techniques and adding resources,
we have been able to halt-and even to
reverse the spiraling crime rate in the
District of Columbia. LEAA has funded
two major programs in the District, one
to put more police on the streets, and the
other to take more heroin addicts off the
streets by a greatly expanded rehabilita-
tion program. Court reform and correc-
tions have also been strengthened through
the regular block grant allocation. The
District's experience strengthens our con-
viction that the resources and knowledge
provided under this act can help free us
from the crippling effects of crime.
While this law will assist our national
crime reduction effort in many respects, I
am particularly pleased with the emphasis
placed on improving correctional pro-
grams and facilities. Too frequently cor-
rectional systems in the United States
breed crime instead of returning rehabili-
tated men to society. Some four out of
every five felonies in the United States
are committed by persons who already
have had some contact with the criminal
justice system. An FBI study has shown
that two out of every three persons re-
leased from prison get into trouble with
the law again. These statistics reflect de-
ficiencies in our correctional system that
can no longer be tolerated.
In November 1969, I proposed a 13-
point program for improving correctional
systems.ยน I asked that special attention be
given to certain categories of offenders
such as juveniles, women, addicts, the
mentally ill, and hard-core criminals. The
new "Part E" of this act authorizes pro-
grams that can treat these categories of
offenders. It recognizes the essential task
of improving our entire correctional sys-
tem. It recognizes the need to provide
correctional programs in the community
as well as in the institution. It will permit
great improvements in our ability to
1
ยน See 1969 volume, Item 437.
2
