[153] Apr. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
of birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians,
and fish that frequent this valuable
ecosystem.
In reviewing roadless areas of 5,000
acres or more, the Secretary of the In-
terior has concluded that two areas which
he reviewed are not suitable for preserva-
tion as part of the National Wilderness
Preservation System. These are Chaco
Canyon National Monument, New Mex-
ico and Laguna Atascosa, Texas.
Enclosed are a letter and a report from
the Secretary in support of these two neg-
ative recommendations as well as of the
fourteen new wilderness proposals. I con-
154
cur with the recommendation of the Sec-
retary of the Interior on these sixteen
areas.
I urge the Congress to give early and
favorable consideration to this package of
significant conservation proposals.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Spiro T. Agnew,
President of the Senate, and the Honorable
Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
The national wilderness areas proposals were
introduced as H.R. 8626 and S. 2453.
The President's News Conference of
April 29, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. Would you be seated,
please.
QUESTIONS
EFFECT OF DISSENT ON INDOCHINA POLICY
[1] I think Miss Thomas [Helen
Thomas, United Press International] has
the first question tonight.
Q. Mr. President, have the antiwar
demonstrations or the growing Congres-
sional demand for a withdrawal dead-
line from Vietnam or Madame Binh's ยน
latest statements in Paris influenced in
way your Indochina policy?
any
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Thomas, I stated
the Indochina policy at considerable
length on April 7, as you will recall, and
I have considered all of the demonstra-
tions. I have considered also the argu-
ยน Nguyen Thi Binh, head of the National
Liberation Front delegation to the Paris peace
talks on Vietnam.
ments that have been made by others
after that statement, and I believe that the
position that I took then is the correct one.
I would not want to leave the impres-
sion that those who came to demonstrate
were not listened to. It is rather hard not
to hear them, as a matter of fact. I would
say, however, that demonstrators have
come to Washington previously about the
war. They came now. I was glad to note
that in this case most of the demonstra-
tors were peaceful. They indicated they
wanted the war to end now, that they
wanted peace. That, of course, is what I
want. It is what everybody in this room
wants. It is what everybody in this Nation
wants.
I realize, as a matter of fact, that in this
room there are many reporters who dis-
agree with my policy to bring the war to
an end in the way that I believe it should
be ended, and who probably agree with
the views of the demonstrators. I respect
592
