Richard Nixon, 1971
June 18 [204]
field, because that would take me another
25 minutes, and you, I know, are on a
rather tight schedule.
At the present time, the eyes of the
Nation primarily in the field of foreign
policy are riveted on Vietnam. I under-
stand that. My eyes are on Vietnam, and
I have a responsibility to end the Amer-
ican involvement there in a way that will
contribute to a lasting peace.
I will simply say to get that subject in
perspective, if all of the great issues in
foreign policy which come across my desk
were as certain of solution as Vietnam, I
would feel very sure about the future of
peace in the world for the last third of this
century. Because in Vietnam, either
through negotiation or through our proc-
ess of withdrawal and the replacement of
American forces by the South Vietnamese
for their own defense, the American in-
volvement is ending. American casualties
are going down.
It is on that record that we expect to be
judged. We are going to succeed. So what
we have to do, then, since we have here
a problem which, of course, blanks out
virtually everything else in the field of
foreign policy, is put it aside for the
moment, recognizing that further down
the road there are other problems that
will be with us after Vietnam leaves, as
it will most certainly leave.
Some of these problems you have, of
course, covered very, very well in the
media. I will touch upon them only briefly.
So that we don't have any false sense
of euphoria-and in this area I think I
would be the last to accept the charge of
being euphoric about our relations with
countries that have very different interests
from ours-but so that we don't have any
false sense of euphoria, let me set forth
our relations first with the Soviet Union,
then with Mainland China, and, finally,
in terms of our foreign policy generally.
With the Soviet Union, the leaders of
the two major countries are committed to
work toward an offensive-defensive lim-
itation of nuclear arms this year. That
doesn't mean we have got it. It doesn't
mean we can be sure. It does mean that
the chances are good that we will have
some kind of an agreement, because the
leaders at the top having made this pub-
lic commitment, we have an interest in
seeing that it be done.
This can, therefore, provide, and I be-
lieve will provide, a step toward moving
in other directions because if the two
super powers are able to agree in an area
that affects their vital interests-as, of
course, this whole matter of nuclear arms
does so greatly, then the two super
powers should be able to move in other
areas that are primarily peripheral. I do
not want to suggest, for example, that the
Caribbean is peripheral as far as we are
concerned. It may be as far as the Soviet
Union is concerned.
I do not want to suggest, for example,
that the Mideast is peripheral as far as
the Soviet Union is concerned. It may be.
But whatever the case may be, whether
it is the Mideast, whether it is the Carib-
bean, or where we get down to an area
that affects more directly the vital inter-
ests of both major powers-and I mean
Western Europe and Eastern Europe-a
movement toward some kind of an agree-
ment wtih regard to nuclear arms give us
some hope of progress in the other areas.
What I am saying to you today is not
that I predict a Mideastern settlement. I
do say that it is in the interests of both
major powers, the Soviet Union and the
United States, not to allow that very ex-
plosive part of the world to drive them
71-234-72-51
757
