Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 16 [104]
103 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Report of the National Science Foundation.
March 16, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress
the Twentieth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Science Foundation, covering the
fiscal year 1970.
The activities described in this report
underscore the importance of science as
a national resource and as an essential ele-
ment in our Nation's progress. The scien-
tific research supported by the Founda-
tion reflects our continuing concern for
the quality of life in the United States to-
day and in the future.
Science has entered an era of unprece-
dented fruitfulness. The investment we
have made in the last three decades offers
us an array of opportunities in the next.
This guarantees us no instant or easy an-
swers, but it does afford us the ability to
bring to bear on our national problems an
array of scientific talent and a heritage of
scientific achievement unprecedented in
human history.
New programs initiated by the Founda-
tion in fiscal year 1970 are designed to
promote and encourage the search for
solutions to problems of the natural
and social environment. Interdisciplinary
work by scientists from many specialties
shows promise of producing new knowl-
edge of the earth, the oceans, and the
atmosphere which will permit a better
understanding of the relationship be-
tween man and his surroundings.
The programs of the National Science
Foundation during fiscal year 1970 cov-
ered a broad range of activities. More
than $200 million was devoted to the pur-
suit of scientific research, including major
interdisciplinary efforts of national and
international significance. Another $120
million was allocated to support of science
education at all levels, and nearly $45 mil-
lion was invested in broad-based institu-
tional development in our colleges and
universities.
I believe it was a most productive year.
I commend this report to the attention of
the Congress.
The White House
March 16, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Sci-
ence Foundation Annual Report 1970" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 124 pp.).
104 St. Patrick's Day Statement.
March 16, 1971
ST. PATRICK'S DAY is a great day for
the Irish, to be sure, but it is also a great
day for all Americans. It is a time of cele-
bration not only for those of our citizens
whose ancestors were born on the Emer-
ald Isle, but also for countless others who
value those qualities of warmth and hu-
mor, pride and courage which are so
closely associated with the Irish people.
Americans of Irish descent have given
a great deal to this country, in fields rang-
ing from government and politics to busi-
ness and commerce, from science and
technology to art and music and litera-
435
