Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 16 [292]
291
Statement Announcing the Appointment of Richard
P. Nathan as Deputy Under Secretary for Welfare
Reform Planning, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. September 16, 1971
I AM pleased today to announce the ap-
pointment of Dr. Richard P. Nathan as
Deputy Under Secretary of HEW for
Welfare Reform Planning. While Dr.
Nathan, currently Assistant Director of
OMB, will be missed by his associates in
the Executive Office, he brings unique
qualifications and a needed continuity to
the greatest management challenge facing
the Federal Government: the implemen-
tation of welfare reform, which I have
strongly urged the Congress to enact this
year.
On an across-the-board basis, the Ad-
ministration has given high priority to
improving the management capacity of
government. Establishing the machinery
to carry out the workfare concepts of wel-
fare reform is a true test of this proposi-
tion. We must devote rigorous effort at
the highest levels of government to this
task now in order to be ready by the new
effective dates which I have proposed for
H.R. 1. This legislation represents the
largest and most complex domestic under-
taking in the history of the Federal Gov-
ernment. Preliminary
Preliminary planning has
already been carried out. The appoint-
ment of Dr. Nathan and the establishment
of a Domestic Council committee on wel-
fare reform planning represent an acceler-
ation of these efforts to assure fair, firm,
and efficient management of welfare
reform.
292 The President's News Conference of
September 16, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. We will go right to
your questions.
QUESTIONS
SENATE ACTION ON THE DRAFT EXTENSION
BILL
[1] Q. Mr. President, the Senate is
now in the process of deciding whether to
extend the draft bill or not. Mr. Ziegler
this morning reflected some of your
thoughts on the subject, but I wonder if
you could tell us if the draft bill is de-
feated, where that will place you in nego-
tiations with the Soviets on mutual troop
withdrawal from Europe, the SALT talks,
and any other negotiations that may
going on?
be
THE PRESIDENT. I don't like to specu-
late as to what would happen if the draft
bill is defeated, because I think this would
be one of the most irresponsible acts on
the part of the United States Senate that
I could possibly think of.
When we consider where the United
States is in the world today in terms of
world leadership and in terms of our
peace initiatives, what we have to recog-
nize is that if the draft fails to pass the
Congress, and if the United States then
must build its defenses without the draft,
that our peace initiatives around the
71-234-72-63
949
