[256] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
environmental impact of their major deci-
sions-along with alternatives to these
decisions and to make these assessments
public. This process has fostered a wide
range of basic reforms in the way Federal
agencies make their decisions. And while
some agencies still have considerable room
for improvement in the environmental
field, many are doing an excellent job of
responding to environmental concerns.
It is critically important that these new
environmental requirements not simply
produce more red tape, more paperwork
and more delay. Nor is there any reason
why this should happen. In fact, the effi-
ciency and responsiveness of Government
is enhanced when environmental consid-
erations are an integral part of decision-
making from the time when a project is
first considered and not merely added as
after-thoughts when most matters have
already been decided.
In some cases, of course, environmental
considerations will require the modifica-
tion or termination of a project. This is
why, for example, I ordered a halt to fur-
ther construction on the Cross Florida
Barge Canal, despite the fact that some
$50 million had already been spent on
this project. I concluded, after receiving
the advice of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, that the environmental
damage which would result from its com-
pletion would outweigh its potential eco-
nomic benefits.
In the final analysis, the foundation on
which environmental progress rests in our
society is a responsible and informed citi-
zenry. My confidence that our Nation will
meet its environmental problems in the
years ahead is based in large measure on
my faith in the continued vigilance of
American public opinion and in the con-
tinued vitality of citizen efforts to protect
and improve the environment.
The National Environmental Policy
Act has given a new dimension to citizen
participation and citizen rights—as is
evidenced by the numerous court actions
through which individuals and groups
have made their voices heard. Although
these court actions demonstrate citizen
interest and concern, they do not in them-
selves represent a complete strategy for
assuring compliance with the Act. We
must also work to make government more
responsive to public views at every stage
of the decision-making process. Full and
timely public disclosure of environmental
impact statements is an essential part of
this important effort.
3. THE
WORLD
COOPERATION
COMMUNITY-NEW
In transmitting my second annual
"Foreign Policy for the 1970's" message
to the Congress, I said: "We know that
we must act as one world in restoring the
world's environment, before pollution of
the seas and skies overwhelms every na-
tion." I continue to believe that this chal-
lenge presents a great opportunity for
United States leadership in international
affairs.
The environmental concern that has
been growing in this country has its coun-
terpart in other nations. We have been
encouraged to find that other govern-
ments are now acting to improve and ex-
pand their environmental activities and
we have moved to cooperate with such
activities whenever possible.
With Canada, for example, we are
working to clean up the Great Lakes-
and our joint efforts there may well be-
come a model for regional cooperation in
other areas of the world. With other na-
870
