[229] July 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
229 Statement About the Death of Edgar N.
Eisenhower. July 13, 1971
MRS. NIXON and I wish to express our
deep personal sorrow at the death of
Edgar Eisenhower. Mr. Eisenhower was
a warm friend. He not only was a distin-
guished member of an illustrious family
but was a man who throughout his life
was dedicated to principle.
NOTE: Mr. Eisenhower, 82, died of a stroke in
Tacoma, Wash., on July 12, 1971. He was an
elder brother of the late President Dwight D.
Eisenhower.
The statement was read by Press Secretary
Ronald L. Ziegler during a news briefing at
the Western White House, San Clemente,
Calif., on July 13, 1971.
230 Memorandums About the Combined Federal
Campaign. July 15, 1971
Memorandum for Heads of Executive De-
partments and Agencies:
I am pleased to announce that Honor-
able Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary of the
Interior, has agreed to serve as Chairman
of the Combined Federal Campaign for
the National Capital Area this fall.
As in the past, this year's campaign will
combine into a single drive the solicita-
tion efforts of the United Fund, the Amer-
ican Red Cross, the National Health
Agencies, and the International Service
Agencies. In this one drive we will be
seeking to do our share to meet the needs
of more than 150 local, national, and in-
ternational agencies in the diversified
fields of health, welfare, and social serv-
ice. These voluntary charitable organiza-
tions perform services that are vital to
our community, our nation and our world.
Through the Combined Federal Cam-
paign, Federal personnel are offered a
unique opportunity to help hundreds of
voluntary organizations by one gift once
a year, a pledge made particularly easy
by the availability of payroll deductions.
I know that Secretary Morton will have
your wholehearted support in this en-
deavor, and I hope you will commend the
campaign with its payroll deduction fea-
ture to Federal employees and military
personnel in your organization.
I request that you serve personally as
Chairman of the combined campaign in
your organization and appoint one of your
leading assistants as your Vice Chairman.
Secretary Morton should be advised of the
person you designate as your Vice
Chairman.
You have my every best wish for
another successful campaign.
RICHARD NIXON
Memorandum for All Federal Employees
and Military Personnel:
The 1971 Combined Federal Cam-
paign gives each of us the opportunity
to show our individual concern for those
in need of help. In this one campaign are
combined the annual fund-raising efforts
of the local United Fund, the American
Red Cross, the National Health Agencies,
and the International Service Agencies.
Through CFC federal employees and
military personnel provide support to vol-
untary agencies which are working to
make our community and nation a better
818
