Richard Nixon, 1971
May 5 [158]
the kind of farming that suits him best.
At the same time, we are continuing our
search for better methods of maximizing
the receipt of farm income from the
market.
After all, some 60 percent of farm in-
come comes from commodities that are
not price supported and have not been
supported in the past. Moreover, the
major supported commodities are now
selling well above loan levels. It seems to
me that the brightest future for agricul-
ture lies in actions that stimulate new
energy in the free market system.
As I think about the challenges that
confront American agriculture, it occurs
to me that farmers must, by nature, be
incurable optimists. Like everyone else
they are concerned about the great ques-
tions of war and peace, about the econ-
omy and education and crime and all the
other issues that face our society. But in
addition, the agricultural community also
has its own special problems to worry
about, including such uncertain factors as
the weather, the condition of volatile
markets, and even the direction of
gov-
ernment policies in this country and
abroad. Their vocation, moreover, re-
quires them not only to be good farmers
but also to be good scientists, skilled engi-
neers,
able businessmen. All of these chal-
lenges have been successfully met by
America's farmers.
In that process, they have achieved a
remarkable record of production, setting
a brisk pace for the rest of our economy.
And they have also provided a continuing
source of moral and spiritual strength for
America, giving shape and substance to
our national character from the very
heartland of America.
And so we approach Salute to Agricul-
ture Day in a spirit of gratitude with a
sense of obligation to the farmers of this
country. Though only a small group of
farm representatives will be able to be
with us at the White House next Friday
night, I feel that every farmer and rancher
in America, his wife, his family, will be
with us there in spirit.
What we will be saying on that occa-
sion is very simply this: Agriculture was
America's first industry. For most of our
history it was our largest industry. Today
it continues to hold an honored place in
our society, a keystone not only for our
economic strength but also for our entire
way of life.
NOTE: The President's address was recorded at
Palm Springs, Calif., for broadcast on nation-
wide radio at 12:06 p.m.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
158 Memorandum Announcing Recipients of the
Federal Civilian Service Awards.
May 5, 1971
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
It is a great pleasure for me to announce
that the President's Awards for Distin-
guished Federal Civilian Service are being
made to these members of the career
service:
SAMUEL M. COHN, Assistant Director for
Budget Review, Office of Management
and Budget.
617
