Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
What is the policy of your Administra-
tion as to the ultimate elimination of con-
trols and return to the sort of free market
economy we had prior to August 15, and
when do you think this
this may be
accomplished?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
Phase 2, it will be announced well before,
30 days before the elapsing of the 90-day
freeze.
Second, as I have indicated, it will be
effective. It will cover the whole economy.
It will have to concentrate primarily on
those areas of the economy, major indus-
tries for example, where there is the
greatest possibility of inflationary tend-
encies having effect on the balance of the
economy, but all of the economy will be
covered.
As far as the duration of Phase 2 is
concerned, we are not going to set a limit
on it because we believe that its duration
should depend upon how effectively it
deals with the problem. However, our
commitment is to return to the free mar-
ket forces as the most effective way to
move this economy forward. But until we
can deal with the problem of inflation,
deal with the problem of wages and prices
as they force up the cost of living for all
Americans, and deal with it effectively,
we believe that it is necessary to have
controls with teeth, backed up by
Government.
And in that respect, while it is going to
be also necessary to have voluntary coop-
eration from management, from labor,
and support from the American people,
which we presently have in very great
volume, it is also essential that there be
Government sanctions to back it up and
there will be.
But having said all these things, our
major commitment in the long run is to
return this economy-as soon as we have
cooled the fires of inflation-to return it
to those strong free forces that have
brought us so far in the period that we
have been a free economy.
AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY AND EMISSION
STANDARDS
[3] Q. Mr. President, this is a three-
part question. You might call it a typically
Detroit question. Do you think the auto-
mobile contribution is still a major part of
the pollution problem and are the further
required emission standards really worth
the cost to the consumer, and what cost
analysis is being made of automotive
safety and emission standards, and why
are such cost studies not made prior to
the issue of regulations?
THE PRESIDENT. I quit beating my wife
last week, too! [Laughter]
Mr. Boyd, the question is not only per-
tinent to Detroit, it is pertinent to
the whole country, because when we
look at the automobile industry, we
realize that it provides one out of six jobs
in this country. It also provides an enor-
mous driving force for an economy as we
are moving upward at this time.
Now, with regard to the emission stand-
ards, I understand that Mr. Ruckelshaus,
working with industry in the Detroit area,
will have an announcement in the next
few days with regard to a new engine that
in preliminary tests meets the very strict
standards of the Clean Air Act.
Whether that is an indication that we
will be able to go further along that line
remains to be seen, because the 50,000-
mile test has not yet been passed.
On the second point, it is vitally im-
portant that in this whole area of the en-
vironment, whether it is in the area of
967
