[241] July 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
effectively in concert with this plan. In
this respect, the Planned Variation pro-
gram offers us a chance to test another of
this Administration's reform proposals-
the new Planning and Management pro-
gram, announced in conjunction with the
urban community development special
revenue sharing proposal. This new pro-
gram would provide assistance on a gen-
eral basis for improving the management
capacity of State and local governments.
Second, the Department of Housing
and Urban Development will set aside
additional program funds for the first 16
of the 20 cities listed above so that their
plans can be carried out on a citywide
basis. These 16 cities will be able to use
their "supplemental" funds to address
priority needs which they themselves have
identified and which cannot be met
through other Federal, State, and local
funding sources.
Third, along with increased program
funding for these 16 cities will go greater
discretion in the use of the funds. In ad-
dition, there will be significantly less over-
sight and review of details for all 20 of the
Planned Variation cities. This is a logical
outgrowth of the basic principle of reve-
nue sharing. It also accords with the effort
to build up the planning and management
capacity of local chief executives, so that
they can more effectively use the discre-
tion which we are making available to
them under this new approach.
In sum, this new approach-a signifi-
cant variation in terms of intergovern-
mental relations-involves a combination
of assistance to provide increased man-
agerial capacity, increased funding, and
increased flexibility in the use of Federal
funds.
The Planned Variation program repre-
sents a major broadening of the scope and
nature of the Model Cities program. The
Administration also views Planned Varia-
tion as an important beginning step in the
process of returning authority to local
government. We will carefully evaluate
the results. It does not replace other Fed-
eral programs. Communities now partici-
pating in the Model Cities program, but
not selected to participate in Planned
Variation, will still continue under pres-
ent arrangements to receive Model Cities
funds.
Finally, I want to emphasize that the
cities selected to participate in Planned
Variation are not the only ones which will
eventually benefit from the program. For
it is a test of new approaches. I believe this
test of the basic revenue sharing idea will
demonstrate, in a way which words can-
not do, the validity of the principle that
when local governments are given the op-
portunity and the resources, they can and
will manage their affairs effectively and in
a way which is responsive to the needs of
all of their citizens.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on the
program by Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare; and George
W. Romney, Secretary, and Floyd H. Hyde,
Assistant Secretary for Community Develop-
ment, Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
832
