Richard Nixon, 1971
June 4 [195]
194 Remarks About a Special Message to the Congress
on Energy Resources. June 4, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am sending to the Congress today a
message on energy. This is the first time
that a message on energy of a compre-
hensive nature has been sent to the Con-
gress by a President of the United States.
The reason it is essential, and I con-
sider the program urgent, is that in all
great industrial societies we face two chal-
lenges: one, to find new sources of energy
to fuel the economy; and two, to find
sources of energy that will not pollute the
environment.
We have learned in our own country,
and in countries abroad as well-they
have the same experience-that usually
these two goals come in conflict; that
while new sources of energy may provide
what the needs of the economy are, that
inevitably there is the polluting of the
environment.
This message points the way for Amer-
ica-at considerable cost in money, but an
investment that is urgent and, therefore,
justified-points the way for finding new
sources of energy and, at the same time,
clean energy that will not pollute the air,
will not pollute the environment.
For that reason, we have a briefing team
that covers the various departments that
will be implementing this program, the
Secretary of the Interior, the Chairman of
AEC, and the President's Science Ad-
viser, Dr. David, who will brief you on the
elements of the message.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the pro-
posed energy resources program by Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary, and William T. Pecora,
Under Secretary, Department of the Interior;
Edward E. David, Jr., Director, Office of Sci-
ence and Technology; and Glenn T. Seaborg,
Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission.
195 Special Message to the Congress on
Energy Resources. June 4, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
For most of our history, a plentiful sup-
ply of energy is something the American
people have taken very much for granted.
In the past twenty years alone, we have
been able to double our consumption of
energy without exhausting the supply.
But the assumption that sufficient energy
will always be readily available has been
brought sharply into question within the
last year. The brownouts that have af-
fected some areas of our country, the pos-
sible shortages of fuel that were
threatened last fall, the sharp increases in
certain fuel prices and our growing aware-
ness of the environmental consequences
of energy production have all demon-
strated that we cannot take our energy
supply for granted any longer.
A sufficient supply of clean energy is
essential if we are to sustain healthy eco-
nomic growth and improve the quality of
our national life. I am therefore announc-
ing today a broad range of actions to en-
sure an adequate supply of clean energy
for the years ahead. Private industry, of
course, will still play the major role in
providing our energy, but government can
703
