[132] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
applying some of the lessons we have
learned about combatting crime in the
District is right in our neighboring
communities.
Looking to the future, we will continue
to press the combination of programs that
has proved so successful over the past two
years. In order to strengthen the D.C.
Narcotics Treatment Administration-
one of the keystones of the District's suc-
cess in crime reduction, and a national
leader in the fight against hard drug
abuse I have requested the Attorney
General to provide the program with a
total of $3 million in grant assistance dur-
ing calendar year 1971 from the Law
Enforcement Assistance Administration.
This will enable the program to reach
more of the city's addicts and to expand
the job counseling and other services it
offers them.
My 1972 budget requests, together with
those of the District government, provide
for:
-Full-year funding for Washington's
35 new U.S. Attorneys and 13 new
U.S. District judgeships, which were
approved by the Congress in a 1971
supplemental appropriation.
-Upgrading the efforts of the Execu-
tive Protective Service in protecting
the foreign embassies in the District.
-Maintenance of police strength at
5,100 men with additional training
to improve force effectiveness.
-Implementation of the new court re-
form legislation.
-Improved care and custody for the
growing institutional population, and
expansion of the community-based
correctional program.
I urge the Congress to contribute to
the momentum of our winning battle
against crime in the Nation's Capital by
approving these requests.
HELPING THE DISTRICT HELP ITSELF
Central to my proposals for revitaliz-
ing State and local government across this
country in the years ahead is the recogni-
tion that all the political authority a com-
munity may possess is only paper power
if it lacks the resources-the dollars-it
needs to deliver services and amenities to
its people. Our program for some $16 bil-
lion in general and special revenue shar-
ing the last portion of which I
transmitted to the Congress yesterday-
is essentially an effort to give the cities
and States the tools they need to do their
jobs.
-
"Revenue sharing" of a sort has been
a way of life in the District of Columbia
for many years, as it properly should be
in view of the Federal presence in the
District. My budget requests for fiscal year
1972 call for Federal payments of $153
million to the District government-an
increase of more than 20 percent over the
currently authorized level. And General
Revenue Sharing, when enacted, would
bring the city an additional $23 million
share during the first year. Welfare re-
form, besides extending new dignity and
tangible benefits to the District's welfare
recipients, would lead to further large
savings for the city government.
Beyond the fiscal relief which these na-
tional reform proposals would afford
Washington, there are several areas where
the Federal interest in the District war-
rants special financial support. These in-
clude the metropolitan rapid rail mass
transit system (METRO); improved
water quality facilities and other public
514
