[357] Nov. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
not thankless. We found a lot of support
from people and the thanks of a lot of
people in helping to make this program
come forward. Some people said it
couldn't be done. I believe it was Secre-
tary Connally who said it has to be done
and it will be done. I think the program
that did emerge is a program that is
sound and that the overall goal will be
achieved.
THE PRESIDENT. I would simply like to
say before turning the meeting over to
Secretary Connally, that to set wage-price
guidelines in a free economy is something
that is enormously difficult and that gen-
erally has had, shall we say, generally very
mild success, if at all.
We believe, however, that we have
found the pattern here that may succeed
and that will succeed as Judge Boldt puts
it. And it will succeed because it has been
so carefully worked out, not simply in
terms of setting goals that may sound
good at the moment but that are totally
unachievable, but in setting realizable
goals, goals that can be achieved, and
then making up our minds that we are
going to follow through and see that those
goals are achieved. That is what you have
done, and that is why we think we owe
you a very great debt of gratitude.
Mr. Secretary, would you like to
comment?
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY JOHN B.
CONNALLY. Mr. President, I think on be-
half of all the members of the Cost of
Living Council, we want to express our
deep appreciation to Judge Boldt and all
the members of his Pay Board and to
Dean and the members of his Price Com-
mission. We feel considerably relieved of
many responsibilities.
I think it is appropriate at this time to
thank all of the staff of the Office of
Emergency Preparedness, Dr. Paul Mc-
Cracken, who served as Chairman of the
Policy Subcommittee of the Cost of Liv-
ing Council, all of the others, Dr. [Arthur
F.] Burns, who has been of invaluable as-
sistance to this board, as an adviser to it
and now as Chairman of the Committee
on Interest and Dividends.
Mr. President, I must say again in be-
half of the entire Council that we think
the Phase 1, the wage-price freeze, period,
which has just expired, was a resounding
success.
It was fairly easy to administer in terms
of what Dean Grayson has and Judge
Boldt, because we tried to maintain a
freeze, with very few exceptions, very few
exemptions. But it was made possible
largely by the unstinting support and the
wholehearted cooperation of the Ameri-
can people.
I think that, Dean, you and Judge will
have that same type of support in the
administration of Phase 2, because people
obviously feel that something had to be
done.
The President was bold and forthright
in facing up to it, and the American peo-
ple applauded his action. And I think it
behooves us to try to execute the program
which he has laid out. I, frankly, am some-
what amazed at the remarks that are con-
stantly made from all sides about the
uncertainty. I think this is to be expected
any time a program of this magnitude is
undertaken. There has to be some uncer-
tainty about it. But it is not uncertain in
terms of its ultimate goals or its ultimate
objective.
The goals are very clear that you have
already stated. And as you said a mo-
ment ago, Dean, nothing is uncertain
about whether or not we are going to do
it. We have to do it. There is no accept-
ΙΙΙΟ
