[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Nixon Doctrine is that their primary task
is to shoulder their own. The emphasis is
no longer on their sharing the cost of
America's military commitment to Eu-
rope-although financial arrangements
may play a part-but on their providing
the national forces needed in conjunction
with ours in support of an effective com-
mon strategy.
Our allies have responded to this shift
in emphasis. We were gratified when at
the December NATO Council meeting
our European allies joined in a pledge
to strengthen their national forces and to
inaugurate a new joint program of mod-
ernizing NATO's common infrastructure.
The program announced in December
will accelerate construction of aircraft
shelters and an integrated communication
system. It represents a landmark in the
history of NATO-an effort undertaken,
organized, and financed entirely by our
European allies. As Secretary Laird has
pointed out, this common infrastructure-
the integrated network of permanent fa-
cilities supporting NATO forces in Eu-
rope is a particularly appropriate focus
of collective European effort. It is a col-
lective asset, badly in need of improve-
ment; our allies' effort here is of direct and
permanent benefit to their own defense.
U.S. Forces in Europe. The United
States faced pressures to withdraw our
forces from Western Europe for budgetary
reasons, and pressures to keep them there
for purely symbolic reasons. All these ar-
guments evaded the crucial question:
What defense function do and should our
forces in Europe perform?
I decided, despite these pressures, that
given a similar approach by our allies, the
United States would maintain and im-
prove its forces in Europe and not reduce
them without reciprocal action by our ad-
versaries. This decision, which I an-
nounced at the December NATO meet-
ing, flowed directly from the analysis we
had conducted in the NSC system and
reinforced in NATO consultation. It had
become clear to me that without undi-
minished American participation in Euro-
pean defense, neither the Alliance's
strategy, nor America's commitment, nor
Western cohesion would be credible.
No token presence could serve our pur-
pose. Our substantial contribution of
United States forces-about 25 percent of
NATO's peacetime capabilities in Central
Europe-insures the viability of the strat-
egy of flexible response. It enables us to
found Alliance defense on something
other than reliance on the threat of stra-
tegic nuclear war. It is the basis of our
allies' confidence in us. It links European
defense to a common strategy and to the
nuclear power of the United States.
America's presence in substantial force
is psychologically crucial as well. It pro-
vides the sense of security which encour-
ages our partners' efforts to unite and to
do more for themselves. Our direct and
large-scale involvement in Europe is the
essential ingredient of the cohesion of the
West which has set the stage for the effort
to negotiate a reduction of tension.
Accurately or inaccurately, our allies
would interpret a substantial withdrawal
of American forces as a substantial with-
drawal of America's commitment. Were
they to conclude this was happening, they
would not necessarily do more on their
own to compensate; they would more
likely lose confidence in the very pos-
sibility of Western defense, and reduce
their reliance on Western solidarity.
In maintaining and improving our
forces in Europe-and in the seas on Eu-
rope's flanks-we are doing what is nec-
236
