[256] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Further institutional improvement
-Establishment of an Environmental
Institute to conduct special studies
and recommend policy alternatives.
Toward a better world environment
-Expanded international cooperation.
-A World Heritage Trust to preserve
parks and areas of unique cultural
value throughout the world.
This program is designed both to rein-
force existing efforts and to attack newly
emerging problems such as noise pollution
and the dispersion of toxic substances.
One particularly important feature of this
package of proposals is that it is geared
to meet problems, such as ocean dumping,
before they reach crisis proportions. It also
seeks to supplement our present regula-
tory approaches by creating new economic
incentives for the reduction of pollution.
In addition, it emphasized strengthened
efforts by State government.
Some of these initiatives already have
been the subject of congressional hearings,
but none have yet been approved by the
Congress. I again urge the Congress to act
expeditiously and favorably on these im-
portant measures. The problems will not
wait and we dare not drag our feet as we
move to meet them.
Even while this administration has been
asking the Congress for strengthened en-
forcement authority, we have also been
taking a number of other actions to crack
down on pollution by using existing au-
thority. In the course of this effort, we
have moved against a wide range of pol-
luters, including cities and towns, com-
panies and individuals.
Operating under authority granted by
the Refuse Act, for example, I have in-
stituted a program requiring a permit for
all industrial discharges into the Nation's
waters. The issuance of such a permit is
conditioned upon assurance that water
quality standards will be achieved. I be-
lieve this mechanism represents an im-
portant new tool for achieving our na-
tional water quality objectives.
We are also requiring that Federal
agencies spend the necessary funds to
avoid pollution as a result of their own
activities and, where necessary, to pro-
vide abatement facilities. Some 250 mil-
lion dollars is included in my 1972 budget
request for this purpose.
I have also consistently urged a stronger
effort to encourage the better conserva-
tion and management of our natural re-
sources. As one step in this effort, we have
redirected Government procurement pol-
icies to encourage the increased use of
recycled paper. And we are actively con-
sidering other, similar changes in pro-
curement policy. Meanwhile, to help keep
the evidence of our history intact for
future generations, I have issued an Exec-
utive Order [11593] requiring the protec-
tion of historic properties by Federal
agencies.
5. A SENSE OF REALISM
All of these actions will help make our
country a better place to live. But we
should not expect environmental miracles.
Our efforts will be more effective if we
approach the challenge of the environ-
ment with a strong sense of realism. We
should not be surprised or disheartened,
for example, if some problems grow even
more acute in the immediate future.
We must recognize that the goal of a
cleaner environment will not be achieved
by rhetoric or moral dedication alone. It
will not be cheap or easy and the costs will
have to be borne by each citizen, consumer
and taxpayer. How clean is clean enough
can only be answered in terms of how
872
