[388] Dec. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
contributed substantially to the development of
important policies during a period of vital and
unusual significance to the United States. His
wise advice, exceptional judgment, and clarity
of vision have been acknowledged in the high-
est councils of our Government.
By his dedicated and distinguished service
during more than thirty-six years of devoted
duty, General Chapman has contributed greatly
to the success of the United States and friendly
forces engaged in the protection of citizens of
free nations, thereby upholding and contribut-
ing to the highest traditions of the Marine
Corps and the United States Naval Service.
RICHARD NIXON
The President then resumed speaking.]
I told you about the General's speech-
making ability. Now we will give him a
chance to respond.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
General Chapman's remarks are printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 7, p. 1637).
General Chapman served as Commandant
of the Marine Corps from January 1, 1968,
until his retirement on January 1, 1972.
389 Remarks on Signing the Revenue Act of 1971.
December 10, 1971
I WOULD like to say a word about this
bill. I have issued the usual formal state-
ment about it, but I want to say a word
that relates to the bill and also relates to
the Members of the House and Senate
who are here, both Republicans and
Democrats who worked on it.
I will just begin by saying this is the
kind of Christmas bill we like to get. It is
a bill which truly benefits virtually all
Americans. Through the increased ex-
emptions, virtually all Americans benefit.
In another sense, it is also vitally im-
portant to the future of this country. The
new economic program that was an-
nounced on August 15 had several parts.
The part that has received the most pub-
licity, of course, is that part directed
toward controlling inflation and the wage-
price freeze. The Phase 2 program has
been remarkably successful in stopping the
rise in the cost of living.
The other part of the program equally
important is that of creating jobs, and
that is what this bill is about, primarily,
because as a result of more purchasing
power, as a result of the provisions repeal-
ing the auto excise tax, which I under-
stand several Michigan people are
interested in, as well as the rest of the
country-just to give an example, over 3
million automobiles have been sold since
the announcement on August 15 was
made. That means that an average of
$200 per 3 million people will be rebated
as a result of the action of Congress. We
can see that approximately $600 million
going to those who purchased automo-
biles around this Christmas season will be
a good shot in the arm for the economy.
We trust that it will.
On the other side, too, we have the job
creation aspects, which you are all famil-
iar with; the job development credit,
which we believe will have the effect of
stimulating investment by American in-
dustry in new equipment which will also
have the added benefit of making
American industry more competitive with
industries abroad.
Now a word about how it all came
about. When I made the proposal when
1180
