[337] Oct. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
Because one of the vacancies is that left
by the retirement and death of Mr. Jus-
tice Black, who was a United States Sen-
ator before he was appointed, there has
been a strong support for the appoint-
ment of a Member of the Senate or
House, so that the point of view of the
Congress would be represented on the
Court. A great number of letters have
recommended the appointment of a
woman, since no woman has ever been
appointed to the Supreme Court of the
United States, and a number of others
have recommended the appointment of
representatives of religious, racial, and
nationality groups not presently repre-
sented on the Court.
I believe, as I am sure all Americans
do, that the Supreme Court should, in the
broadest sense, be representative of the
entire Nation. But with only nine seats to
fill, obviously every group in the country
cannot be represented on the Court.
These are the criteria I believe should
be applied in naming people to the Su-
preme Court:
First, the Supreme Court is the highest
judicial body in this country. Its members,
therefore, should, above all, be among the
very best lawyers in the Nation. Putting
it another way: In the legal profession,
the Supreme Court is the fastest track in
the Nation, and it is essential that the
Justices on that Court be able to keep up
with the very able lawyers who will ap-
pear before that Court arguing cases. The
two individuals I am nominating to the
Court meet that standard of excellence to
an exceptional degree.
The second consideration is the judicial
philosophy of those who are to serve on
the Court. Now, I emphasize the word
"judicial" because whether an individual
is a Democrat or a Republican cannot and
should not be a decisive factor in deter-
mining whether he should be on the
Court.
By "judicial philosophy" I do not mean
agreeing with the President on every issue.
It would be a total repudiation of our
constitutional system if judges on the Su-
preme Court, or any other Federal court
for that matter, were like puppets on a
string pulled by the President who ap-
pointed them.
When I appointed Chief Justice Bur-
ger, I told him that from the day he was
confirmed by the Senate, he could expect
that I would never talk to him about a
case that was before the Court.
In the case of both Chief Justice Burger
and Mr. Justice Blackmun, and in the
case of the two nominees that I shall be
sending to the Senate tomorrow, their sole
obligation is to the Constitution and to the
American people and not to the President
who appointed them to their positions.
As far as judicial philosophy is con-
cerned, it is my belief that it is the duty
of a judge to interpret the Constitution
and not to place himself above the Con-
stitution or outside the Constitution. He
should not twist or bend the Constitution
in order to perpetuate his personal polit-
ical and social views.
Now, this does not mean that judges
who adhere to this philosophy that I have
just described will find that they always
agree on their interpretation of the Con-
stitution. You seldom find two lawyers
who will agree on any close question.
We have an excellent example of this
in the record of the two judges whose
vacancies I now have the duty to fill-Mr.
Justice Black, Mr. Justice Harlan. When
they retired from the Court a month ago,
most observers labeled Mr. Justice Black
as a liberal and Mr. Justice Harlan as a
1054
