[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
initiative of the Congress in 1969 to pro-
vide a 2-year authorization for foreign as-
sistance, I request that the Corporation
be given a 3-year authorization. I recom-
mend an authorization of $1.5 billion of
directly appropriated funds. I propose
also that the IDC be provided with au-
thority to borrow, in the private capital
market or from the U.S. Treasury, up to
a total of $1 billion during its initial 3-year
period. This would help channel private
capital more directly into the development
process and bring private sector judg-
ments directly to bear on the performance
of the IDC. I recommend that it be au-
thorized to use repayments of capital and
interest on past U.S. development loans,
which are now running at about $250 mil-
lion annually.
A Corporation based on these principles
would enable us to reduce substantially
the number of U.S. government person-
nel involved in development lending
overseas. By responding primarily to
initiatives from the lower income coun-
tries, we would reduce the need for Amer-
icans to chart foreign programs and
priorities. By relying increasingly on the
international institutions for information
and analytical work, we would reduce our
own requirement for staff in both Wash-
ington and the field. By reducing the stat-
utory restrictions on the program, we
would be able to concentrate available
staff on effective program management.
I am confident that a U.S. Interna-
tional Development Corporation based on
these principles would regenerate our de-
velopment lending program. It would pro-
vide major support to the development
objectives of the lower income countries.
It would enable us to play our full role
effectively among the industrialized coun-
tries in promoting the development proc-
ess. It would thereby provide major
support for important U.S. national objec-
tives in the 1970s.
The U.S. International Development
Institute
The new IDI would administer a re-
formed bilateral technical assistance pro-
gram and enable us to focus U.S. scien-
tific, technological and managerial know-
how on the problems of development.
The Institute would engage in four ma-
jor types of activities:
-It would apply U.S. research com-
petence in the physical and social
sciences to the critical problems of
development, and help raise the re-
search competence of the lower in-
come countries themselves.
-It would help build institutions in the
lower income countries to improve
their own research capabilities and
to carry out a full range of develop-
mental functions on a self-sustain-
ing basis. I would expect it to place
particular emphasis on strengthen-
ing agricultural and educational
institutions.
-It would help train manpower in the
lower income countries to enable
them to carry out new activities on
their own.
-It would help lower income coun-
tries, particularly the least developed
among them, to finance advisers on
development problems.
Like the Corporation, the Institute
would finance projects in response to pro-
posals made by the lower income countries
themselves. It would not budget funds in
advance by country, since it could not
know in advance how many acceptable
572
