[206] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
and that is why I ask for your help and the
help of this organization. I realize that
you have engaged in many enterprises of
this type for which the Nation is in your
debt. I know that one outstanding volun-
tary effort, the AMA Volunteer Physicians
for Vietnam-and I have met several of
your members who have gone to Vietnam,
given of their time and their effort-for
the purpose of carrying out what is called
a project-Project Vietnam-and its
pur-
pose is to improve medical care in that
country for the people of that country. It
has had very great success.
Now, as our attention begins to center
again on domestic challenges, the AMA
can once again render outstanding service
at a point of critical need by helping to
develop what I would like to call Project
USA, a project which would marshal the
tremendous energy, the brains, the dyna-
mism, the leadership-the leadership-of
the doctors of this country in an all-out
battle against drug abuse; and against it
in terms of educating particularly the
young people of this country about it.
The best way to end drug abuse is to
prevent it, and America's doctors are the
indispensable frontline soldiers for suc-
cess in this all-important battle.
I began these remarks today by saying
that the doctors of America have done a
great deal for their country. But I also
noted that the greatest reward for doing
is the opportunity for doing more. There
is much to be done in this Nation-in the
fight against drugs, which I have covered,
and in other areas.
And once again, Americans are looking
to the doctors of their land for leadership.
We are looking to the doctors of this land
for leadership beyond the reform of our
health care system in which you will pro-
vide leadership—and you should, because
it affects you directly-beyond drug
abuse, which is so closely related to your
profession, where I am sure you will pro-
vide leadership.
America at this time needs leadership
from those in the medical profession, and
your wives, the AMA Auxiliary that I
know is meeting here in Atlantic City
with you all across this country, not
simply in the areas that affect you directly
but in the area of national problems.
I know that many of you are sorely
concerned whenever anybody suggests
that you get into politics, and I do not
speak in any partisan sense. I am not con-
cerned about whether you are in politics
in one party or the other. The main thing
is to be in. Oh, I have heard a doctor
say on occasion, "I am only interested in
my profession; I am not interested in
politics."
Let me tell you something: He had
better get interested in politics or he won't
have any profession to be interested in.
And I am not referring just to politics
to defend your profession. You should do
that. Defend what is best in it. Correct
what needs to be corrected. But I am re-
ferring to politics in the broader sense
of leadership.
Let me put it in historical perspective.
One hundred and ninety years ago Amer-
ica was one of the weakest countries in
the world, militarily, and one of the poor-
est countries in the world, economically.
But it was a country that was rich in spirit,
and thereby caught the imagination of
the world and has held it ever since.
Today America is the strongest nation in
the world, militarily, and the richest na-
tion by far, economically. The major prob-
lem we have to ask ourselves as Americans
is: At a time when we are rich in goods
and strong in arms, are we poor in spirit?
768
