Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 26 [77]
the Cabinet, including my new boss, Sec-
retary Rogers, distinguished Members of
Congress, including my two teachers,
Wilbur Mills and Johnny Byrnes, and
other distinguished guests:
This is indeed a great honor for me, of
course, and I recognize the heavy respon-
sibility of this job. One can't help but read
the President's statement of yesterday, the
comprehensive statement, on foreign
affairs, and not be brought face-to-face
with some of the tremendous problems
that will be facing me in this new role, and
our very competent staff at the U.S. Mis-
sion at the United Nations. But I can
think of no greater challenge today.
I am told, Mr. President, it will be a
very frustrating experience.
I have just returned from 2 weeks
visiting the international organizations
around the world. But I don't suppose that
anything worthwhile is not difficult, and
I don't suppose anything worthwhile will
not have its frustrations.
Yesterday I attended my first Four
Power meeting, sitting in with my very
able predecessor, Ambassador Charles
77 Remarks on Accepting the
White House Collection.
MRS. NIXON. Good afternoon. It is a
great pleasure for me to welcome all of
you here to the East Room. This is one of
the most important days in the history of
the White House, because we have two
life portraits of John Quincy Adams and
Louisa Catherine Johnson, his wife, and
they are to be presented today.
To show our appreciation and interest
in continuing to add to the White House
collection of important American paint-
ings, we have not only invited the Adams
Yost. I had a taste, I guess, of what will
be forthcoming.
But, I think, given the confidence of the
President and the Secretary in the United
Nations that the President has expressed
today and, I think, given the changing
directions in the world and the things that
are going on, I can think of nothing that
will be more exciting, on a day-to-day,
minute-to-minute, hour-to-hour basis,
than working for peace at the United
Nations.
Thank you, Mr. President, for this great
honor.
THE PRESIDENT. I know that you will
all want to congratulate the new Ambas-
sador and Mrs. Bush. Mrs. Nixon and I
will join them in the Grand Hall to re-
ceive you, for those who have the time to
do so.
I understand some early morning re-
freshments are available there.
The Ambassador will have to get used
to the later refreshments that he has later
in the day. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:07 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Adams Portraits for the
February 26, 1971
descendants but also members of the His-
torical Society of the White House, the
members of the present and previous
Committee on the Preservation of the
White House and Mrs. Kennedy's Paint-
ings Committee.
The President and I are most grateful
to all of you who take an interest in this
house and help us try to make it the best
one in America.
We have over a million and a half
visitors here every year. They come to see
347
