[292] Sept. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
world would be jeopardized: our peace
initiative in the Mideast, our peace initia-
tives in Europe with regard to mutual bal-
anced force reductions which you have
mentioned, our peace initiatives with the
Soviet Union which are in other areas,
and also our talks which will take place
later in Asia.
Now, I say this for the reason that all
of the talks that we have planned are
based on mutuality, and putting yourself
into the position of those on the other side
of the table, if they can get what they
want-in other words, a reduction of
America's ability to maintain its own de-
fenses-without negotiation, they are not
going to give anything.
So I would summarize by saying that a
vote against the draft, in my opinion,
would be a vote that seriously jeopardizes
peace initiatives of the United States
around the world, and without question
it is a vote that will make the United
States the second strongest nation in the
world, with all the implications that has
insofar as the ability of the United States
to keep the peace and to negotiate for
peace in this critical period.
CHINA AND THE UNITED NATIONS
[2] Q. Mr. President, on the subject
of the United Nations debate over China,
some critics of your new policy on the
U.N., and I refer specifically to Dr. Wal-
ter Judd¹ who made a statement yester-
day, are saying that the expulsion of the
Nationalist Government would not be
legal under the Charter without a vote of
the Security Council making such a rec-
ommendation to the General Assembly.
¹Dr. Walter H. Judd, chairman of the Com-
mittee of One Million Against the Admission
of Communist China to the United Nations.
Now, recognizing that we hope they
will not be expelled, can you address your-
self to the legalities of the question, what
the Administration's position is on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Bailey [Charles
W. Bailey 2d, Minneapolis Tribune and
Minneapolis Star], we spent many months
looking into the legality of the situation,
and in fairness to Dr. Judd, I should say
that there are different legal opinions that
you can get with regard to what action is
needed for purposes of expulsion and
whether Security Council action is re-
quired as well as the other.
We, however, have reached the con-
clusion that the position we presently take,
which has been stated by the Secretary
of State and by Ambassador Bush, is the
legally sustainable one.
To put, also, our policy in clear per-
spective, we favor the admission and will
vote for the admission of the People's
Republic to the United Nations and that
will mean, of course, obtaining a Security
Council seat.
We will vote against the expulsion of
the Republic of China, and we will work
as effectively as we can to accomplish that
goal.
Beyond that, I would have no further
comment at this point.
Q. May I follow up just with one point
on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. When you say you favor the obtain-
ing of a Security Council seat by the Peo-
ple's Republic, that implies that the Re-
public of China would be removed from
the Security Council.
THE PRESIDENT. Our analysis indi-
cates that this is really a moot question.
In the event that the People's Republic is
admitted to the United Nations, the seat
in the Security Council would go to the
950
