Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 4 [250]
employment than was the case in 1961,
1962, 1963, which were the last 3 peace-
time years before Vietnam when the un-
employment rate, as you recall, averaged
6 percent.
ECONOMIC POLICY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, in that connec-
tion, to continue that, does that mean
that you are still resolutely opposed to any
incomes policy or, specifically, wage-price
controls?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, Peter [Peter
Lisagor, Chicago Daily News], it is well
to identify incomes policies and wage-
price controls for what they are and what
they are not, because, as a matter of fact-
and this gives me an opportunity to set
the record straight with regard to some
greatly blown up differences that I am
supposed to have with my very good
friend Arthur Burns, and perhaps you
were too polite to ask that direct ques-
tion-
Q. Well, I will ask it. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I thought that would
be the followup, so I anticipated it. Let
me get at it this way:
Arthur Burns, in terms of monetary
policy and in terms of fiscal policy, has
followed a course that I think is the most
responsible and statesmanlike of any
Chairman of the Federal Reserve in my
memory. In other words, you have seen
an expansionary monetary policy, and
that is one of the reasons we have had an
expansionary economy in the first 6
months of this year.
He has also stood firmly with this Ad-
ministration in its responsible fiscal policy,
resisting, for example, spending above
what the economy would produce at full
capacity. He has strongly supported me in
those efforts.
That brings me to an area where he has
taken a very unfair shot. Within this Ad-
ministration, the Office of Budget and
Management, on a reorganization plan 2
months ago, recommended that the
Chairman of the Federal Reserve, because
he basically is our central banker, should
be raised to the same status as the central
bankers abroad. I enthusiastically ap-
proved the idea. However, when the mat-
ter was raised with Dr. Burns by my
associates, he indicated that neither he
nor any other individual in a high position
in Government should take a salary in-
crease at a time that the President was
going to have to take some strong meas-
ures, as I am going to take, to limit salary
increases in other areas of Government,
including, for example, blue-collar
workers.
So, consequently, while there is not any
question but that the Federal Reserve
position will eventually be raised to the
Level I position that was recommended,
Arthur Burns-and, incidentally, George
Shultz, who is also on this list as a rec-
ommendation of the Ash Council-
Arthur Burns and George Shultz, being
the responsible men that they were, asked
that there not be an example set by them
of a pay increase which would make it
very difficult for us to deal effectively and
responsibly with pay increases in other
sectors of the Government. So we find that
Burns agrees that I agree with Burns,
let's put it that
it that way.
I agree with Burns
very strongly on his monetary policy, on
his fiscal policy, the question that he has
raised with regard to an incomes policy.
But when we talk about an incomes
policy, let's see what he is not for. He is
855
