[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing signs of regional cooperation:
-The South Vietnamese, at Cam-
bodia's request, continued to sweep
the sanctuary areas, conduct ground
operations in support of Cambodian
forces, and provide air and logistic
support and training.
-Other Asian countries, such as Thai-
land, Japan, Australia, New Zealand,
and the Republic of China, supplied
various forms of assistance.
-Eleven Asian nations met on their
own initiative at Djakarta last spring
and sought through diplomatic
means to preserve Cambodia's neu-
trality and independence.
Cambodia is, in short, a concrete il-
lustration of Nixon Doctrine principles:
-assumption of primary responsibility
for its own defense.
-help from regional friends.
-our support through military and
economic assistance.
The objective of all our activities re-
lated to Cambodia remains constant: to
bar the reestablishment of secure Com-
munist base areas that could jeopardize
allied forces in Vietnam. Together with
the South Vietnamese, we are trying to
prevent the enemy from building up their
capabilities for major offensives. Our aim
is to destroy their supplies and disrupt
their planning for assaults on allied forces
in South Vietnam. Communist move-
ments may require fluctuations in the
level of our air activities as well as our
increased material assistance. They will
not deflect us from our overall course of
phased withdrawal from Indochina.
Laos
On March 6, 1970, I gave the first com-
prehensive accounting of our activities in
Laos that has ever been made to the
American people. I traced the pattern of
subversion and then invasion by North
Vietnam. I reviewed U.S. efforts under
previous administrations to help the legit-
imate government. When we took office,
there had already been a U.S. military as-
sistance program for six years and increas-
ing U.S. air operations for four.
Since early 1963 the North Vietnamese
have in effect conducted two wars in Laos.
In the north they have kept up constant
pressure against the neutralist government
established in 1962 at their own urging.
In the south they have occupied and for-
tified the Ho Chi Minh Trail area to
attack South Vietnam.
In the face of these continuing North
Vietnamese actions, we believed that the
U.S. role we inherited remained impor-
tant. Our material aid and air operations
in the north were needed to support the
Royal Lao Government and preserve the
1962 Geneva Agreements. In the south,
Vietnamization called for continued air
strikes against the enemy to protect allied
forces. Since 1965 at least 630,000 North
Vietnamese troops have streamed down
the Trail. They have brought with them
more than 400,000 weapons, over 100 mil-
lion pounds of ammunition, and at least
200 million pounds of food.
Our defensive and supportive policy
was outlined in the March 6 statement:
-no American ground combat forces.
-minimum American presence.
-military assistance for regular and
irregular Lao forces when requested
by the Lao government.
-reconnaissance flights and air oper-
ations to interdict North Vietnamese
troops and supplies on the Ho Chi
Minh Trail.
266
