[199] June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
in search of a decent home. Housing starts
are currently at the highest levels in 20
years. While our primary emphasis is on
stimulating private construction, the num-
ber of federally assisted low- and mod-
erate-income housing starts planned for
fiscal year 1972 will be more than four
times what it was as recently as fiscal
1968-an increase from some 150,000 to
some 650,000. The remaining needs are
still enormous. But this represents a giant
step toward fulfilling the goal set forth
in the Housing Act of 1949, of “a decent
home and a suitable living environment
for every American family."
The very fact that so much progress
is being made, however, has sharpened
the focus on what has come to be called
"fair housing❞—a term employed, but not
defined, in the Civil Rights Act of 1968,
and to which many persons and groups
have ascribed their own often widely
varied meanings.
In this statement, I shall set forth the
policies, as they have been developed in
this Administration, that will guide our
efforts to eliminate racial discrimination
in housing, to enlarge housing opportu-
nities for all Americans, and to assist in
stable and orderly community develop-
ment. It is important to understand the
laws that govern those policies, the limits
within which they operate, the complex-
ities they seek to address, and the goals
they seek to achieve.
My purpose is not to announce new
policies, but to define and explain the
policies we have-setting forth what we
will do and what we will not. The factors
determining patterns of housing and com-
munity development are immensely com-
plex and intricately balanced, many are
uniquely local in nature, and the Federal
Government operates in important but
limited ways and under limited author-
ities. Within those limits, we intend to
continue to move vigorously-not to re-
strict free choice, but to expand and
protect it.
Underlying our housing policies-and
embodied in our laws and our Constitu-
tion--are certain basic principles:
-Denial of equal housing opportunity
to a person because of race is wrong,
and will not be tolerated.
-Such denial will not be tolerated
whether practiced directly and
overtly, or under cover of subter-
fuges, or indirectly through such
practices as price and credit discrimi-
nation.
-To qualify for Federal assistance, the
law requires a local housing or com-
munity development project to be
part of a plan that expands the sup-
ply of low- and moderate-income
housing in a racially nondiscrimina-
tory way.
-In terms of site selection for a hous-
ing development, the Federal role is
one of agreeing or not agreeing to
provide Federal subsidies for proj-
ects proposed by local authorities or
other developers.
-A municipality that does not want
federally assisted housing should not
have it imposed from Washington by
bureaucratic fiat; this is not a proper
Federal role.
-Local communities should be encour-
aged in their own voluntary efforts
to make more housing more widely
available, and to reduce the extent of
racial concentration.
-Putting an end to racial discrimina-
tion, and building toward the goal of
free and open communities, is a re-
sponsibility shared by Federal, State,
722
