[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
can make choices in the marketplace that
will help discourage pollution. Young
people can undertake projects in their
schools and through other organizations
to help build a better environment for
their communities. Parents can work with
the schools to help develop sound environ-
mental teaching throughout our educa-
tion system. Every community in the
nation can encourage and promote con-
cerned and responsible citizen involve-
ment in environmental issues, an
involvement which should be broadly
representative of the life-styles and leader-
ship of the community. Each of us can
resolve to help keep his own neighborhood
clean and attractive and to avoid careless,
needless littering and polluting of his sur-
roundings. These are examples of effective
citizen participation; there are many
others.
The building of a better environment
will require in the long term a citizenry
that is both deeply concerned and fully
informed. Thus, I believe that our edu-
cational system, at all levels, has a critical
role to play.
As our nation comes to grips with our
environmental problems, we will find that
difficult choices have to be made, that
substantial costs have to be met, and that
sacrifices have to be made. Environmental
quality cannot be achieved cheaply or
easily. But, I believe the American people
are ready to do what is necessary.
This nation has met great challenges
before. I believe we shall meet this chal-
lenge. I call upon all Americans to dedi-
cate themselves during the decade of the
seventies to the goal of restoring the en-
vironment and reclaiming the earth for
ourselves and our posterity. And I invite
all peoples everywhere to join us in this
great endeavor. Together, we hold this
good earth in trust. We must-and to-
gether we can―-prove ourselves worthy
of that trust.
The White House
February 8, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the program by Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary of the Interior, Russell E.
Train, Chairman, Council on Environmental
Quality, and William D. Ruckelshaus, Ad-
ministrator, Environmental Protection Agency.
The White House also distributed releases
from the General Services Administration on
the President's announcement that five Fed-
eral properties had been made available for
public parks and recreation use.
49 Statement About the Special Message to the Congress
Proposing the 1971 Environmental Program.
February 8, 1971
IN HIS tragedy, "Murder in the Cathe-
dral," T. S. Eliot wrote, "Clear the air!
Clean the sky! Wash the wind!"
I have proposed to the Congress a
sweeping and comprehensive program to
do just that, and more-to end the
plunder of America's natural heritage.
A nation's history is written in the book
of its words, the book of its deeds, the book
of its art. A people's history is also written
in what they do with the natural beauty
providence bestowed upon them.
With your support, and with the help
of the Congress, we can reclaim and
142
