[147] Apr. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
may remember, on several occasions when
I served as Vice President of the United
States. But in checking the record, I find
that it has been 17 years since a President
of the United States-and it was then in
that year, 1954, a beloved American Presi-
dent, President Eisenhower-came across
the Ellipse to this splendid hall of yours to
pay his respects to the DAR. I felt it was
high time another President did so. That
is why I am here.
Now, as the man who proposed a new
American revolution, you will recall, in
the State of the Union, to the 92d United
States Congress earlier this year, I have
looked forward to talking with the 80th
DAR Congress since I know that you are
always receptive to the subject of Amer-
ica's revolutionary heritage. When I think
of the principles that the Daughters of the
American Revolution stand for, the fine
work you do, I like to recall-and all of
you will remember-Benjamin Franklin's
reply to a Philadelphia lady, who asked
him what kind of government the Con-
stitutional Convention had given America.
"A Republic, madam," he replied. And
then he added, "if you can keep it."
For more than three-quarters of a cen-
tury now, beginning with Benjamin Har-
rison, whose wife was your first president
general, 15 Presidents of the United States
have known that they could count on the
dedication of the DAR to this continuing
challenge of keeping the American Re-
public strong and free.
Government by the people depends on
education and responsible citizenship of
the people. And this is where the DAR has
made, in my view, its most important
contribution.
I think many Americans are not aware
of that contribution. You are. I would like
to remind the whole Nation in my re-
marks today of what you have done and
what you are doing.
I know about the fine grade schools, the
high schools, that you support across this
country, including schools for Indian chil-
dren and schools in Appalachia, which
you founded long before it became fash-
ionable to be concerned with the needs of
Indians and Appalachia.
And I know about the millions of citi-
zenship manuals that you have provided
to those immigrants who have come here
over the years seeking a share of the Amer-
ican dream. I know about the hundreds of
thousands of boys and girls who are bene-
fiting from the activities of your Junior
American Citizens Clubs.
For all of this, the Nation is in your
debt. Your constructive service in the pres-
ent does great credit to your patriot fore-
bears of the past.
The American Revolution of 1776 was
a permanent one. The Nation to which it
gave birth has been an enduring and
phenomenally successful vehicle for hu-
man happiness and progress. The Amer-
ican system has adjusted and grown in
pace with the changing times. It has given
more freedom, more prosperity, to more
people than any other system in the his-
tory of the world. And let's never forget
that.
And certainly, we have every right to
take very great pride in this permanent
American Revolution of which we are all
a part.
Then why call, as I have done, for a
new American revolution? Because the
work of keeping the Republic requires
more than just preserving the past. It also
calls for renewing in order to meet the
challenges of the future. As a patriotic
heritage society actively engaged in bring-
ing new generations and new citizens into
560
