[290] Sept. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
stimulating industrial and other economic
growth, and generally improving the
social environment.
The potential impact of our relocation
policies was dramatized recently when a
new Internal Revenue Service facility was
located in the low population density area
of Holtsville, New York. That single
facility will provide new jobs for some
2000 permanent, full-time employees and
for another 2000 temporary employees as
well. We expect that such examples will
multiply rapidly in the future .
All of the major departments and
agencies of the executive branch are now
giving priority consideration to locating
new facilities in areas of low population
density. The heads of these agencies are
committed to establishing a sound balance
between rural and urban America-a
commitment which they share with the
Congress. This report documents many of
the ways in which this commitment has
recently been carried out; it provides a
detailed tabulation of all new offices and
other facilities located during the last
seven months of Fiscal Year 1971 as well
as a summary of the highlights of that
tabulation.
Obviously, the social and economic im-
pact on the host community cannot be the
only consideration in placing Federal facil-
ities. Each facility has a specific job to do
and it should be located so that it can do
that job in an effective manner. But the
criterion of effective performance is
usually met by a variety of sites—urban
and rural--and it is essential that Govern-
ment officials appreciate the implications
of their siting decisions on the growth pat-
terns of our country.
Of course, rural communities are not
the only areas that can benefit from the
stimulus of new Government activities.
The location of Federal facilities can also
make a major difference in development
patterns within metropolitan areas-
revitalizing impoverished inner city neigh-
borhoods, for example, or stimulating the
growth of new communities or satellite
cities on the periphery of our urban cen-
ters. For example, a new Geological Sur-
vey facility recently located at Reston,
Virginia will provide some 2600 fulltime
jobs. Reston is a relatively new commu-
nity-but it is only 18 miles from Wash-
ington, D.C.
The philosophy of this administration
concerning the location of Federal facil-
ities was expressed in Executive Order
11512 in February of 1970:
"Consideration shall be given in the
selection of sites for Federal facilities to
the need for development and redevel-
opment of areas and the development
of new communities, and the impact a
selection will have on improving social
and economic conditions in that
area.
• •
99
We have since moved to carry out this
philosophy through a wide variety of ac-
tions. The Agricultural Act of 1970 is
serving as a further stimulus in this same
direction. I am confident that the result of
all of these efforts will be a balanced pat-
tern of national growth which will serve
the best interests of all Americans.
The White House
September 13, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 119-page report, entitled "The
First Annual Report on the Location of New
Federal Offices and Other Facilities," was pre-
pared within the executive departments and
agencies and compiled by the Office of Man-
agement and Budget for transmittal to the Con-
gress by the President.
948
