[53] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
stration of the effectiveness of the devices.
Secretary Stans' remarks were as follows:
Mr. President, before you are approximately
200 heads of major corporations of the United
States. Here is a very large part of the industrial
might of the country.
These gentlemen are members of the Coun-
cil and subcouncils of the National Industrial
Pollution Control Council. And they have been
working diligently since last June in studying
matters of pollution.
There are 30 subcouncils, each represent-
ing one industry that has problems of pollution.
They have produced a series of reports on a
number of individual pollution problems and
have made a number of commitments, have
completed a number of actions which I want to
report to you today.
First is a report of the Council as a whole on
its activities, with some recommendations to you
and some conclusions as to what might be done
in the field of industrial pollution.
Second is a series of 13 individual reports on
various subjects involved in pollution: sulfur
oxides, acid mine drainage, animal slaughter-
ing, animal wastes, exhaust emissions, glass
containers, a number of subjects which rep-
resent the work of the subcouncils and their
conclusions. And these I am delivering to you
as they will be delivered to the public today.
Next is a casebook. This is a report of 150
actions that have been taken voluntarily by
business corporations of the country in deal-
ing with problems of pollution in connection
with their activities.
Next, Mr. President, is a book entitled "Com-
mitments." This is a report of 160 corporate
commitments to proceed to clean up the en-
vironment in one essential respect or another.
Mr. President, as I said, these gentlemen
have been working very diligently. They have
attended more than 100 subcouncil meetings
since last June; several meetings of the entire
Council.
Bert Cross, as their Chairman, Al Rockwell,
as their Vice Chairman, have done a remark-
able job of whipping together a process of
action that I think is of great credit to the
industrial community. What they have done is
perfect evidence that business, on its own and
largely through voluntary action, can achieve
the objectives that you have set out for the
cleaning up of the air, the water, and the land
from the problems of pollution.
Gentlemen, the President of the United
States.
54 Statement on Releasing a Report on Selected
Independent Regulatory Agencies by the President's
Advisory Council on Executive Organization.
February 11, 1971
TODAY, I am releasing an extensive
study on the organization and structure of
seven major independent regulatory com-
missions. Prepared by my Advisory Coun-
cil on Executive Organization (the Ash
Council ยน), the study contains far-reach-
ing recommendations for change.
Of varying ages, the regulatory agen-
cies were established for a variety of
purposes.
1
Following the near collapse of the rail-
ยน Roy L. Ash was Chairman of the Council.
roads after the Civil War, and the ensuing
era of monopolistic and discriminatory
practices, the Interstate Commerce Com-
mission was established in 1887.
The desire to improve competitive mar-
kets and protect consumers and share-
holders from fraudulent practices were
the central goals of the Federal Trade
Commission, created in 1914, and the
Securities and Exchange Commission,
created in 1934.
On the other hand, the development
of Federal regulation of radio communi-
148
