[346] Nov. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
became the second super power. China started
to emerge as a great power, and alongside, too,
we had Japan and we had the European Com-
munity countries. And that meant there had
to be a reappraisal of the world balance of
power and I think the time for that reappraisal
has now come and I think the world is indeed
fortunate to find that not only has the time
come with the United States prepared to ac-
cept the leadership but also, sir, at the helm
and at the leadership of this great country
is yourself, abetted and aided by a very lovely
person who is sitting at my right-hand side
tonight.
And so you can understand why I am glad
to be here. But could I then move on just
to mention some of the events that have
occurred that have made me feel that this
is a watershed in history and one that, as I
have said before, providing we can exploit the
opportunities, we can bring an era of peace
and, consequently, the opportunities for prog-
ress that have not been present since the be-
ginning of World War II.
As I have said, there are these emerging
countries that have been giving a new balance,
but at the moment it is not a stable balance and
the necessary conditions for stability are not
there. It does need some element or some group
of elements that will make each one realize that
it is by some sort of cooperation, however much
our ideologies might differ, but by some form
of cooperation and by a realization that not
one nation can dominate the other and that
not one nation can hope to exploit all the
others for the benefit of the one.
But when that day of realization comes and
the leadership is found, then we can hope to
move on to the kind of prosperity that I have
mentioned.
The European Community is strengthening
and Britain is shortly about to become a mem-
ber in the agreement of the House of Com-
mons in a vote taken during the course of the
last few weeks. Japan is becoming increasingly
greater in terms of industrial power and politi-
cal potential in the western Pacific. And so,
too, I could go on in this way indicating the
kind of change that is occurring and, con-
sequently, the conditions, the atmosphere, in
which advantage can be taken of these changed
circumstances, not only to ensure an era of
peace but I believe to be able to bring the
better things of life and a better world to so
many of the underdeveloped people, as well as
giving something better to our own peoples as
well.
Now, sir, we have cooperated, and I think
we have done so magnificently over the course
of the postwar period and, for that matter, dur-
ing the whole of World War II. We have co-
operated in Korea. We have cooperated again
in South Vietnam. We have cooperated in other
places, particularly in the commercial world in
such matters as the GATT and the Kennedy
Round changes and commercial operations of
a similar kind.
And I am as certain as I can be that there
could be no two nations where there is a
greater degree of trust, where you can regard
one another as reliable friends, and I don't
think there is any greater quality that I can
imagine or think of when you cannot only have
common ideals, but when you are put to the
task you know that you can rely upon your
friends for the assistance and the kind of help
that you think is needed in the interests of
success.
Now, first of all, might I say something to you
about our common idealism, because I do be-
lieve that in many ways we are entitled to claim
that whilst we might have had a common
ancestry and have inherited ideals and the in-
stitutions to sustain those ideals from the British
people, nonetheless, if you look at our own
Constitution you will see that embedded in it,
written into it, and sustained there is the idea
that all men and women are born equal; we
believe in the inalienable right to freedom
and to independence; we want freedom of trade
and freedom of commerce; we want people to
be able to worship in their own way if they
wish to do so; and, above all, we want them to
be able to share the good things of life and
to be able to participate in the fruits of progress
that a technological age can bring to them.
So, here we are together sharing those ideals,
but we have gone even further than that, and
might I first of all mention your own case of the
magnificent part that you have played in the
past and, I believe, the part that you are about
to play in the future.
Now you, sir, are shortly to go to Peking, to
the People's Republic of China. A little later
on you will be going to Moscow, and there
you will be able—and I am certain you will
1076
