Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
CHINA VISIT
[15.] Q. Mr. President, is news of cur-
rent developments in Mainland China 5
likely to change any of your travel plans?
And the second part of the question is,
just what do you expect to realize from
your proposed visit to Mainland China?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not expect the
current developments to change our
travel plans, and those plans will be an-
nounced, incidentally, at an appropriate
time in due course.
With regard to what we intend to ac-
complish, I think it is important for us
to put it in the context of what we cannot
accomplish and do not expect. Some
rather naive observers have assumed that
because I was going to Mainland China,
that the differences between Mainland
China and its 800 million people and its
Government and that of the United
States—that those differences would evap-
orate. They will not.
There are very deep differences be-
tween the United States and the Govern-
ment of Mainland China-the People's
Republic of China. Premier Chou recog-
nized those in his public statements and in
more detail in his private meetings with
"During the previous 2 weeks, there had been
speculation surrounding the disappearance of
Lin Piao, who was Minister of National De-
fense, Vice Chairman of the Chinese Com-
munist Party, and Mao Tse-tung's designated
heir. His disappearance suggested a possible
internal crisis in China. Further news reports
of the crash in Mongolia 60 miles from the
Soviet border of a Chinese plane whose occu-
pants were believed to have been fleeing China,
the grounding of the Chinese Air Force, and
the virtual stoppage of all air traffic over the
mainland added to the possibility of internal
political strife.
Dr. Kissinger. Those differences, however,
now will be discussed.
They will be discussed by the President
of the United States and by the leader of
the People's Republic of China. There
have been no conditions on either side,
but we have agreed to talk about those
differences.
Now, let me tell you why I think that is
important. Ten, 15 years from now, there
will be between 900 million and a billion
people in Mainland China. Ten or 15
years from now, they will be a very sig-
nificant nuclear power.
For Mainland China and its 900 mil-
lion or a billion people at that time to be
out of the family of nations, isolated from
the rest of the world, would be a danger
to the rest of the world which any man
who is President of the United States at
this time should try to avert if he can.
What I am trying to do is simply to open
a dialogue, move toward more normal
relations, so that these differences which
will continue to exist between our two
countries--so that we will talk about them
and not fight about them, now or 15 years
from now.
INTERNATIONAL BURDEN SHARING AND
CAPITAL EXPORTS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, a two-part
question on the value of the dollar and
international problems: Why don't we
make Europe and Japan pay the cost of
their defense umbrella that we furnish
to them, and not, Mr. President, by the
purchase of our military equipment or our
treasury bonds, but in those good old U.S.
dollars that they say they have too many
of and don't want any more?
The second part of the question is, after
977
