Richard Nixon, 1971
May 1 [156]
SST, which would, of course, have
brought many, many jobs to this part of
the country-that California does not
have the additional jolt of losing Lock-
heed. That gives you an indication of
where I am leaning.
On the other hand, if the Secretary of
the Treasury comes in and gives me strong
arguments to the contrary, I will look in
the other direction.
STEEL NEGOTIATIONS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I assume you
think that the upcoming negotiations in
steel could have a significant impact on
the economy. What, if anything, are you
doing to see, first, whether a strike can be
averted, and secondly, whether a settle-
ment can be reached that you would
consider to be noninflationary?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Kaplow
[Herbert Kaplow, NBC News], to indicate
that the Government is going to move in
now to impose a steel settlement would
mean there would be no negotiation; the
parties would just quit negotiating. At this
time, the companies, the steel companies,
and the unions are negotiating. The Gov-
ernment stands ready to be of assistance
at any time in the negotiating process in
order to avoid a strike, if that can be done.
I will only say this with regard to the
stakes involved in this settlement: Let's
look at the U.S. steel industry. Twenty
years ago, when I first was a Senator from
California, the United States produced 50
percent of all steel in the world. Today we
produce 20 percent. Last year, for exam-
ple, steel's profits were 22 percent; that
is the lowest of any major industry, look-
ing at it from a competitive standpoint.
Japan 20 years ago produced 5 million
tons of steel, last year produced 100 mil-
lion tons of steel, and by 1974 will produce
more steel than the United States of
America.
What does this all mean to us? It means
that this settlement, a wage-price settle-
ment, must reflect the competitive realities
in the world, or we are going to find U.S.
steel-and I am speaking of all the com-
panies--we are going to find that the
United States steel industry which has
been the backbone of our economy, and
is the backbone of any strong industrial
economy, is going to be noncompetitive in
the world.
This gives an indication of how we feel
about it. But right at this time we must
wait to see what industry and labor will
eventually agree upon.
MARIHUANA LAWS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, many of us are
rather concerned that a large percentage
of our young people are breaking the law
constantly by smoking marihuana. As you
know, your own White House Conference
on Youth voted to legalize marihuana. I
know you have thought about this prob-
lem, and I wonder if you would give us
some of your thoughts on it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Pierpoint
[Robert C. Pierpoint, CBS News], as you
know, there is a commission 2 that is sup-
posed to make recommendations to me
about this subject. In this instance, how-
ever, I have such strong views that I will
express them. I am against legalizing mari-
2 Commission on Marihuana and Drug
Abuse. A White House announcement of the
Commission's membership was released on
January 30, 1971, and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 7,
p. 150).
611
