[182] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
up; there is argument-and this is fortu-
nately a good subject to have the argu-
ment on-on how fast it is moving up.
It is moving up. It will continue to
move up. The question is whether we can
have upward movement in the economy
and have it with two major factors that
are quite different from upward move-
ments in some periods of growth in the
past.
First, it will be an upward movement
without war and with a decreasing mili-
tary budget. I do not suggest that that will
happen now, but looking to the future, in
the event that some of these relationships
that I have indicated do come together,
that could be the prospect in the future.
But in any event, our goal is a peace-
time economy, an economy without war
and with the military commitment de-
pendent upon whether we are able to work
out concomitant arrangements with other
competing powers in the world for mutual
reduction of forces.
If that happens, on the one side we are
most gratified. Most Americans—all
Americans would rather have their en-
ergies and their creative ability devoted
to the works of peace rather than to weap-
ons of war. On the other hand, when you
consider the fact that since this Admin-
istration came into office, as a result of
the winding down of the war in Vietnam,
and the reduction of our forces in places
like Korea and Thailand and the Philip-
pines and in other parts of the world,
as well as in the continental United States,
2.1 million Americans have been added
to the labor force, let out of the Armed
Forces and let out of defense plants.
This has a traumatic effect-we be-
lieve temporary-but it is certainly very
difficult, particularly while it goes on in
the Pacific Northwest, southern Cali-
fornia, areas like that with which you are
familiar.
We will survive it. We will see
it through, but it means that we have got
to develop within this basic economy of
ours new activities that will take up that
lag that the military expenditure no
longer is filling.
Second, there is the problem that you
are all familiar with: How can we have
an increasing American economy, an up-
ward movement without reigniting the
fires of inflation? There are no easy an-
swers to that problem.
The easy one, of course, is wage and
price controls, governmentally imposed.
The difficulty is that the answer would
bring on, in the opinion of most of us, it
certainly could well bring on, much worse
problems than it was curing. It would
have some effect on unemployment.
I was just looking at the figures recently
and when the OPA [Office of Price Ad-
ministration] was finally discontinued in
1945, there were 57,000 Americans that
were working for OPA so we could get
at the unemployment to a certain extent
by moving to wage and price controls at
a national basis. That is not the most sig-
nificant point to mention if we do not
have other problems.
But turning to the problem, this means
that in two respects the United States
must face up to these problems. One, inso-
far as our Federal budget is concerned, it
must be responsible. By responsible we
believe that while the economy is not at
full capacity, the Federal Government has
a responsibility to spend more than it takes
in in order to take up that capacity; that
there must be a limitation on how far
that goes or otherwise you have, inevit-
ably, inflation.
That is why we say that under no cir-
670
