[265] Aug. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
problems unique to our era, whose con-
sequences we have only begun to under-
stand: air and water pollution, the
conservation of natural resources, and the
continued rapid growth of population.
As we face the challenges ahead, the
nations of the Americas can draw strength
and guidance from the principles of co-
operation and mutual respect, embodied
in the Charter of Punta del Este. On this
occasion of the 10th anniversary of the
Alliance for Progress, I reaffirm the com-
mitment of the United States to those
noble principles, and join with our hemi-
spheric partners in rededicating ourselves
to the achievement of a better life for our
peoples.
266 Statement About Rescission of Price Increases
by Automobile Manufacturers. August 17, 1971
IN announcing that their previously an-
nounced price increases for 1972 models
would be rescinded, the Nation's auto-
mobile manufacturers have acted with a
laudable respect for the national interest
and with a high sense of responsibility.
This action demonstrates dramatically
a spirit of voluntary cooperation in mak-
ing the wage-price freeze work. With this
spirit, and with all Americans pulling to-
gether, we can break the back of inflation
and set the Nation securely on the path of
a new prosperity.
267 Memorandum of Disapproval of Bill To Provide
Increased Retirement Benefits to Totally Disabled
District of Columbia Policemen and Firemen.
August 17, 1971
I AM TODAY withholding my approval
of H.R. 2600, which would increase the
retirement benefits of former members of
the District of Columbia Police and Fire
departments, the U.S. Park Police, the
Executive Protective Service and the U.S.
Secret Service who retired prior to Octo-
ber 1, 1956, with service-incurred disabili-
ties rated at 100 percent.
Bills with somewhat similar objectives
were vetoed by President Eisenhower in
1959 and by President Kennedy in 1961.
This particular bill has been opposed by
the D.C. Government in Senate hearings.
After reviewing the merits, I am vetoing
H.R. 2600 because I believe it is incon-
sistent with essential standards of fair-
ness and impartiality toward other
District Government employees.
H.R. 2600 would grant an unwarranted
benefit to a small, special group of retirees.
These former employees already receive
annuity increases substantially above those
of other District employees. Furthermore,
under their retirement system, retired
D.C. policemen and firemen automatically
obtain an increase in annuities propor-
tionate to any increases in the pay of
active-duty policemen and firemen. As a
result, some of the retirees who would
892
