Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [62]
But wherever American participation
to any extent is required, you can be sure
that that decision will be made here.
When you put it in terms of what would
happen in the event the South Viet-
namese went into North Vietnam, I am
not going to speculate on what they will
or will not do. I will only say that any
American participation has to be ap-
proved here.
If South Vietnam's decision with regard
to what they do would depend upon
American cooperation, then, of course, it
could not be undertaken without our
approval.
HELEN THOMAS (United Press Inter-
national). Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirteenth news con-
ference was held at 4:03 p.m. in the Oval Office
at the White House on Wednesday, Febru-
ary 17, 1971.
62 Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Emilio
Colombo of Italy. February 18, 1971
Mr. Prime Minister, and all of our distin-
guished guests today:
It is a very great honor, Mr. Prime
Minister, to welcome you, both as the
representative of a nation with which the
United States has such close and friendly
ties, but also to welcome you as a personal
friend.
And on this magnificent-I would de-
scribe it Roman-day, we think of those
ties that bind our two countries together.
There are nine million Americans who
proudly claim their Italian background.
In fact, Mr. Prime Minister, I under-
stand there are more Italians living in the
United States than there are in Rome.
And they have contributed enormously to
the vitality and the strength and the vision
of this country.
We think also of what your country
through the ages has contributed to all
nations and particularly to ours: the heri-
tage of law, of culture, the arts, of all the
areas with which we are familiar.
But on this day, we think of the present
and of what we can do in the future. We
think of the fact that Italy and the United
States are part of a great, peaceful part-
nership, a partnership which exists not
just for defense, but exists for the kind of
progress for our people, all of our people,
a better life, the people of Italy, the people
of the United States, the people of Eu-
rope, and, for that matter, the people of
the world.
This is a great goal. In our conversa-
tions that we had in your country just a
few months ago, we talked about that goal
and how our two countries could work
together to achieve it.
And I know that as we meet today with
you and with the other members of your
party, we will develop further programs
where Italy and the United States will
work together in the cause of peace and
friendship and progress for all the nations
of the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:47 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
Prime Minister Colombo was given a formal
welcome with full military honors.
See also Item 66.
The Prime Minister responded in Italian. A
translation of his remarks follows:
Mr. President:
I wish to express to you my very sincerest
thanks for the very kind and cordial way and
169
