Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 15 [333]
out the other team will be a hero the next
day, but he would be the first to say, “If it
hadn't been for those marvelous defensive
plays that were made by the shortstop and
the second baseman and the first base-
man, and that catch against the wall, and
if it hadn't been for the fact we also had
a pretty good hitting team, I couldn't
have been the hero." So the great pitcher
will
say: "It is because of the team that I
was able to do it."
In the times I have talked to Billy
Graham about his ministry and the enor-
mous success of his crusades in America
and around the world, how well organized
they are, he always gives the credit to the
team. So I pay tribute to Billy Graham's
team today.
First to his family team: Many in his
family I could mention, but two women
who are on this stage, particularly, I
think, have affected his life-his mother
and his wife. They are strong women. Let
me just say this: We all think of Billy
Graham as a strong man, but as I look at
the Graham family, if I am asked who are
the stronger, Billy Graham or the women
in his family, I will say the women every
time.
Speaking as Billy Graham might, I can
say
that the Bible tells us that when we
look at the strength of the two sexes, that
God made man out of the soft earth, but
he made women out of a hard rib. The
woman is the stronger of the two.
I think of Billy's mother. I had the
privilege of having a drink in her house-
iced tea―and she had the privilege of
having a drink in the house that we now
live in. I say we live in it. Those who are
in the Presidency come and go; the house
is always there. And we remember the oc-
casion that Mrs. Graham graced that
house for one of our worship services. We
were reminded what a wonderful back-
ground he had.
I think of his wife, Ruth, who has been
by his side, born in China of missionary
parents, lived there 300 miles from Shang-
hai for 17 years, and now giving him the
support, the strength that any man who is
in the arena needs, needs when he goes
home.
So I think he would want me to pay
tribute, and I do it now, to his family
team, and also to the Graham organiza-
tion team. You hear a great choir like this.
You think of the fact that the Graham
team goes into city after city, and they can
mobilize choirs like this, even bigger than
this. You think of the organization, hun-
dreds and hundreds of able people that he
has been able to inspire.
And so, Billy Graham, the minister, the
top evangelist, the top preacher in the
world, we honor today. We also honor his
team, his family team, his organization
team.
Now I would like to speak of what this
Nation owes to Billy Graham, and how
important his ministry at this time in our
history is to America and to the world. He
mentioned the fact that I shall be making
a journey to Mainland China. You also
have heard of the fact that I will be mak-
ing a journey to the Soviet Union. And as
these trips take place, and as we end the
longest and most difficult war in Amer-
ica's history, or in any nation's history for
that matter, hope springs up in America,
as it can, as it should, that we may be see-
ing an era in which we can have peace,
peace not just for a year, or 5 years, or 10
years, but maybe for a generation, maybe
longer than that. That is what we are
trying to build.
Hope springs up that peoples that have
been divided and have not known each
1047
