[151] Apr. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
thought of greatness. Thomas Jefferson
saying we act not just "for ourselves alone,
but for the whole human race"-what a
presumptuous thing to say, speaking from
a poor nation and a weak nation. But
whether it was poor and weak in terms
of economic power or military strength,
it had something else: It was strong in
spirit.
It was not our natural resources and
not happenstance and not some invisible
force of history that turned that nation
of just three million people into the leader
of the free world—the richest nation, yes;
the most powerful nation of the free
world, yes.
How did this happen? The one single
element that carried us through wars and
depression-and we have had both-
through dissension and strife, past all the
competition, was our faith in our ability—
in good times, but in bad times even more
importantly—to build a better life for
ourselves and for our children.
Faith in the American future has never
been misplaced. And I tell you it is not
misplaced today. In dealing with the
future of this country, if you want to be a
realist you have to be an optimist. Two
centuries of struggle have earned us a
right that is not in our Constitution, but a
right that permeates our national life: the
right to be confident in our own ability to
shape the future, the future of America,
and even to affect the future of the world.
Today, as in other periods in our past,
that right of confidence-confidence in
ourselves, confidence in our country-is
under attack. We are told that the Ameri-
can people have grown too weary of bear-
ing their share of responsibility for
keeping peace and supporting freedom
around the world. We are told that a sense
of despair is on the rise and that hope is
fading. We are told that the free enter-
prise system, which has made possible not
only our standard of living but our stand-
ard of giving should be dismantled and
replaced by a system of bureaucratic
controls.
This attack on our right to confidence
is a real one. It gains credence because
there are plenty of things wrong that need
to be righted in America. We all know
that much remains to be done to bring
more quality to our lives, more stability to
our prosperity.
But as we look at those things, let's
never forget this: We shall never make
the changes that are needed by throwing
out our principles, throwing away our
heritage, or throwing up our hands.
The only way this Nation can succeed is
for the men and women who believe in its
future, who are confident in themselves
and in their country, to stand up and be
counted for America.
Now, this is never easy to do. The men
who point out what is right about
America will be accused of being blind to
what is wrong about America. But the
confident American knows just as much
about what must be changed and im-
proved as does the fearful American. The
difference is this: The confident Ameri-
can will go out and do something con-
structive about it. In that spirit, let me
suggest today a few of the things I believe
you have, that we have, a right to be
confident about.
First, you have a right to be confident
that this Nation will reject the counsel of
the new isolationists. We are ending our
involvement in the war in Southeast
Asia-ending it in a way that will permit
us to stay involved in building a full
generation of peace throughout the world.
Just 2 years ago, when I addressed the
582
