Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
so by unilateral decisions, we seek to
obviate the need for costly, wasteful, and
dangerous cycles
cycles of strategic arms
deployment.
Defensive in its essence, the decision to
pursue a policy of strategic sufficiency
rather than strategic superiority does not
represent any lessening of our resolve not
to permit our interests to be infringed. The
doctrine of sufficiency represents, rather,
an explicit recognition of the changed
circumstances we face with regard to stra-
tegic forces. The United States and the
Soviet Union have now reached a point
where small numerical advantages in stra-
tegic forces have little military relevance.
The attempt to obtain large advantages
would spark an arms race which would,
in the end, prove pointless. For both
sides would almost surely commit the
necessary resources to maintain a balance.
We have deliberately chosen to tailor our
policy to fit these realities. But we are
also taking measures in other categories of
military power to prevent a gap from de-
veloping in our military posture.
We hope that the Soviet Union will
likewise recognize these realities, and that
its force buildups are ending. It should be
under no illusion that we will not respond
to major quantitative and qualitative im-
provements which threaten to upset the
strategic balance.
In pursuing our policy we have started
a number of studies within the NSC
framework to refine further our under-
standing of the strategic relationship and
the number and type of forces required
to maintain sufficiency. These continuing
studies are important because even with
numbers held constant, the relative stra-
tegic position can change through mod-
ernization and technological advances
and through differing concepts for em-
ployment. In the past year, we have
therefore, examined with particular care
three aspects of our strategic force which
are central to the concept of sufficiency—
the survivability, the flexibility, and the
mix of our existing forces.
The survivability of our forces. Our
strategic forces must be such that the
Soviet Union knows that even an all-out
surprise attack will involve unacceptable
costs. The survivability of our retaliatory
forces is therefore essential. Without it,
the Soviet Union, in some future crisis,
might be tempted to strike first, or to
use military or political pressure in the
belief that we were effectively deterred.
Survivability of our retaliatory forces.
can be assured in a number of different
ways:
-by increasing the number of offensive
forces to insure that a sufficient num-
ber will survive a surprise attack.
-by defending ICBM's and bombers
with air and missile defenses.
-by hardening our existing missile
silos.
-by increasing the mobile portion of
our strategic forces.
-by adding multiple independently
targetable warheads to missiles to al-
low each surviving missile to attack
more targets and hence not be de-
feated by a single ABM interceptor.
In seeking to improve the survivability
of our forces, we have deliberately
adopted measures designed to demon-
strate our defensive intent. For example,
because proliferating our offensive forces
risks an increase in Soviet forces and a
new phase in the arms race, we have not
increased the number of our missiles and
bombers. Instead, we have relied on al-
ternatives such as hardening missile silos
and deploying missile defenses. Our de-
311
