Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
report, "In an era when man possesses the
power to both explore the heavens and
desolate the earth, science and technology
must be marshalled and shared in the
cause of peaceful progress, whatever the
political differences among nations." It is
only through the broadest possible
exchange of information that the interests
of mankind can be assured, and over the
long run we stand to gain as much as any
nation through such exchanges. For we,
more than most, are able to absorb and
make use of new knowledge. Obviously,
there will be some areas where restric-
tions are essential. Our policy, however,
is to keep those areas as circumscribed as
possible, and to take the leadership in
encouraging the exchange of scientific
and technological information.
The Space Frontier. Space is the
clearest example of the necessity for
international scientific cooperation and
the benefits that accrue from it. The world
community has already determined and
agreed that space is open to all and can be
made the special province of none. Space
is the new frontier of man, both a physical
and an intellectual frontier.
Our leading role in space is not only a
reflection of our scientific and techno-
logical capacity. It is equally a measure
of an older American tradition, the com-
pulsion to cross the next mountain chain.
The pressurized space suit is, in a very
real sense, today's equivalent of the buck-
skin jacket and the buffalo robe. Apollo 14
is the latest packhorse, and its crew the
most recent of a long line of American
pioneers.
As mutual help and cooperation were
essential to life on the American frontier,
so it is on the frontier of space. It is with
that sense that we approach the sharing
of both the burdens and the fruits of our
space activity.
Space is already a matter of broad in-
ternational cooperation. We have some
250 agreements with 74 countries cover-
ing space cooperation.
And space has already been put to the
service of man in the new global com-
munications systems and in weather
monitoring systems. But this is only a be-
ginning. Space is the only area of which
it can literally be said that the potential
for cooperation is infinite.
We have opened virtually all of our
NASA space projects to international par-
ticipation. I have asked NASA to explore
in the most positive way the possibilities
for substantial participation by Western
Europe, Japan, Canada, and Australia in
our post-Apollo programs. The result is
uncertain, for there are very real difficul-
ties to be solved. We will continue our
efforts to meet these problems, for a suc-
cessful international program of space
exploration could set a precedent of pro-
found importance.
I have also directed NASA to make
every
effort to expand our space coopera-
tion with the Soviet Union. There has
been progress. Together with Soviet scien-
tists and engineers we have worked out a
procedure for the development of com-
patible docking systems.
In January we reached a preliminary
agreement with the Soviet Union which
could serve to bring much broader coop-
eration between us in the space field. I
have instructed NASA and the Depart-
ment of State to pursue this possibility
with the utmost seriousness.
A New Step in Nuclear Energy Coop-
eration. In the field of peaceful nuclear
energy, over the years there has developed
339
