[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Lower Mekong Basin. This proj-
ect has an almost immeasurable
potential for the well-being of the
countries of the Basin: Thailand,
Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam. Along
with a large number of other non-
Asian states, we continue to partici-
pate actively in this massive scheme
to harness the hydro-electric, irriga-
tion, and transportation potential of
one of Asia's greatest rivers. Its prom-
ise for transforming the life of the
area is at least equal to the impact
of TVA in our own country.
-The Asian countries have created,
and are now profiting from, separate
and active inter-governmental pro-
grams in education, agriculture,
transportation, communications, pub-
lic health, medicine, and engineering.
-The regional political associations are
also showing vitality. The Asian and
Pacific Council (ASPAC) is a forum
of increasing importance for the joint
consideration of Asia-wide problems,
for it includes most of the nations of
the area and stretches from Japan
and Korea in the north to Australia
and New Zealand in the south. The
Association of Southeast Asian Na-
tions (ASEAN) is a more tightly-knit
group including Indonesia, Malaysia,
the Philippines, Singapore, and Thai-
land. Significantly, the resumption
of diplomatic relations between the
Philippines and Malaysia, which had
been suspended over a territorial dis-
pute, was arranged under ASEAN
auspices and announced at an
ASEAN Ministerial meeting.
More important than the regional or-
ganizations themselves—and they are cer-
tainly important—is the new spirit which
impels Asian leaders to work in concert.
As in our own country, there is a new
generation in Asia, with a new attitude
of mind. Their leaders are impatient with
the divisions and enmities of the past, and
are not prepared to permit interference
with the cooperation needed in the
present.
Active regionalism, then, is one of the
new realities of Asia. Its vigor is one of
the guarantees of the influence of Asia's
smaller states in the future political struc-
ture of the region. The strength which
combination gives enables them to move
toward such a structure with confidence
in their stability and security.
JAPAN
Japan's economic growth is unprece-
dented. It has made her the third greatest
economic power on
power on earth. However,
Japanese living standards still rank below
those of many other developed countries,
and there is a strong feeling in Japan that
these standards must be raised-and
raised rapidly.
Japan's wealth gives her a tremendous
stake in the peace and stability of Asia,
and the dynamism of her economy in-
evitably has a major impact on the entire
region. In recognition of these facts, Japan
has taken a major role in the regional
activities of the area. As a permanent
method of meeting her interests and dis-
charging her responsibilities, however,
these regional activities may not prove
adequate. Moreover, Japan's position as a
major beneficiary of a liberal interna-
tional economic system is not consistent
with her slowness in removing the restric-
tions which limit the access of others to
her own vibrant domestic economy.
274
