Richard Nixon, 1971
May 1 [156]
TAX DEPRECIATION AUTHORITY
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Senator Muskie
of Maine has sent to the newspapers copies
of a memorandum to the White House of
last December by the Treasury Depart-
ment which raises strong doubt that you
have the authority to order some of the
changes in tax depreciation which were
announced when we were out here in
January.
Senator Muskie says the memorandum
by Deputy Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury Nolan shows that the Adminis-
tration was knowingly violating the law.
As
you know, this whole matter of this $3
billion tax depreciation change has be-
come rather controversial. I wonder if you
would tell us your thinking in ordering this
change, and whether, specifically, you ever
saw the Nolan memorandum or took any
notice of it in your consideration.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, so that we
may understand that in all these confer-
ences—and I have said this to other mem-
bers of the White House press corps, but I
want the members of the California press
corps to know the position that I follow-
I, of course, will never comment on any
political comments that are made in a
conference that I hold as President of the
United States. So a release that a presi-
dential candidate or a Senator sends to
I will not comment on that.
But I will comment on your question,
which goes to, as I understand, the whole
proposition of the order that I did issue
with regard to the depreciation. The an-
swer is that within the Government and
among lawyers there is and was a dif-
ference of opinion as to what authority the
President had to provide for depreciation
allowances.
the paper,
The Nolan memorandum and, as a mat-
ter of fact, memoranda from others were
also brought to my attention, indicating
what that authority was.
I, as President—and as I may say, too,
formerly one who practiced a good deal
of tax law-I consider that I had the re-
sponsibility then to decide what the law
is. And my view is that while they had
expressed a different view, that the correct
legal view and the right view from the
standpoint of the country was to order
the depreciation allowances.
Now, the reason that we ordered it is
this: The reason is that at this time it is
vitally important to move this economy
from a wartime to a peacetime basis. In
order to move it from a wartime to a
peacetime basis, we must provide incen-
tives for business to write off faster on a
depreciation basis those kinds of expenses
that appropriately can be written off, and
that means more jobs.
Now, any Senator or any critic who
wants to oppose a program that is going
to mean more jobs for Americans, peace-
time jobs rather than wartime jobs, has a
right to take that position.
I don't agree with him.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[4] Q. On the matter of jobs, House
Speaker Carl Albert has urged that
you call
call a national conference on
unemployment.
Are you considering doing that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I believe that
many of the critics of our economic policy
should listen to their top economist, Mr.
Paul Samuelson. You may recall Mr.
Samuelson, who is a very fine economist
and one who has been rather pessimistic
607
