[363] Nov. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
dent to find full employment without war
and full employment without inflation.
What was wrong with 1968 and 1967?
We had full employment, but at what
cost? Three hundred American dead
every week. That is too high. I don't think
that any American worker, that any
American, wants to have his job be based
on the sacrifices of Americans abroad if
we can avoid those sacrifices, and that
is what we are trying to do.
So with regard to our efforts in this
field, to win a lasting peace, let me say
that we are moving in the area of Viet-
nam. Oh, not the easy way-just get out
and let the Communists take over the
country-that would only plant the seeds
for another war and more aggression, be-
cause it would encourage it in the future;
but the right way, the honorable way in
which the people of South Vietnam have
a chance to determine what shall be the
future, at some time in the future, with-
out having that imposed upon them by the
Communists from the North.
Now, as a result of the success of our
programs in Vietnam, we have had some
aggravation of the problem of unemploy-
ment. Let me talk very directly about that,
because there is no one in this room who
feels more strongly about that problem
than I do, and I know how strongly you
feel. I grew up in the depression. I worked
in a little grocery store. I will never forget
the looks on the faces of men who came
into that store and could not pay the bills,
but even more, I could not forget the
looks of their kids, who realized that their
fathers were out of work and they did not
have the money to pay their bills.
So we want full employment. We want
good jobs. We want high wages. We want
it in times of peace. Let's see what our
success in Vietnam has done to that
objective.
Did you realize that there were 539,000
Americans in Vietnam when I took office?
By January of next year, we will have
brought home 400,000; but even more, as
a result of winding down the war in Viet-
nam, 2,200,000 Americans will have been
let out of defense plants and out of the
armed services over the past 3 years. Now,
if the war in Vietnam were going on at the
same level as it was going on when I came
into office, with 300 Americans dying
every week, we would have unemploy-
ment at less than 4 percent today. But
we can do better than that. We can build
a new prosperity. We can build it without
war.
That is why I so strongly favor the tax
measures that I have recommended to the
Congress. I know there is some disagree-
ment on that here in this audience, and I
respect your views there. But the repeal
of the automobile excise tax, the job de-
velopment credit which will allow Ameri-
can workers to have the new plant and the
new equipment that will enable them to
compete more effectively with workers
abroad and thereby increase the number
of jobs here, and, of course, the relief for
consumers which will get more purchas-
ing power into the hands of Americans
and thereby increase the demand and in-
crease the number of jobs, all of these
things are directed toward building that
new prosperity that all Americans want.
But having said that, in building that
new prosperity without war, there is
another side to it. Ending the war in Viet-
nam is being accomplished. We shall suc-
ceed, and we shall succeed with honor.
But America has ended wars before.
I noted, President Meany, that 2 days
I 120
