Richard Nixon, 1971
May 2 [157]
Galveston to Duluth, a new current of
energy has been felt along the trading
lanes of the world in the last few years.
Aspirations are rising, economies are
growing, purchasing power is increasing-
and our farmers have proved their ability
to capitalize on these new opportunities.
We know that American agriculture can
compete successfully-whenever it has
the chance. And we are determined to see
it has that chance.
The new market energy we see abroad
has also been felt in our own country.
For example, beef consumption per per-
son has gone up by one-third in the last
10 years. This means that for every 3
pounds of beef he consumed in 1960, the
average American is consuming 4 pounds
in 1971.
What these growing markets can mean,
of course, is growing farm income. As a
result, in part, of expanding markets, soy-
bean prices, for example, have been run-
ning a good half dollar a bushel above the
price support level. Grain prices and cot-
ton prices are also well above loan levels.
Cattle prices have recovered and stand
above their levels of a year ago. Hog
prices, of course, are still too low. To help
meet this situation, the Department of
Agriculture has already purchased over
145 million pounds of pork for its food dis-
tribution and school lunch programs in
this fiscal year. This is the highest level
of pork purchases since 1956. Our pur-
chase program is continuing, and we ex-
pect that hog prices will show substantial
improvement later this year.
All in all, it is clear that the total in-
come of American farmers will be higher
this year than ever before in our history.
But this brings me to another of the major
difficulties which confront our farmers:
the fact that increases in total income are
not always reflected in more net income.
Now the reason, of course, is the high cost
of farming. Over two-thirds of agricul-
ture's gross income goes right back out
again to pay for farm expenses.
That is why the farmer has such a tre-
mendous stake in the battle against infla-
tion. In a sense, he has a double stake, for
inflation hits farmers in two ways. It
drives up both the cost of farming and
the cost of living. I am particularly
pleased, therefore, to report that while
the battle is far from won, we are defi-
nitely making progress against inflation.
The rate of inflation in the first quarter of
1971 was the lowest in 4 years, only one-
half of what it was in 1970. We are
working very hard, then, to ease this pe-
rennially troublesome cost-price squeeze.
At the same time, we recognize that the
supply of farm credit is now extremely
tight, and we are working to expand it.
To begin with, I am recommending
that the level of farm operating loans be
increased in fiscal year 1972-just as soon
as the Congress enacts my proposal to
allow the Farmers Home Administra-
tion to insure loans for operating ex-
penses, as it can now do for ownership
purposes. In addition, I am directing the
FHA to increase the availability of its
insured ownership loans by almost three-
fourths--from $210 million in the current
fiscal year to $350 million next year.
It is my hope that these efforts to ex-
pand farm credit will be especially help-
ful to the farmers of the Southwest who
have been suffering so much from one
of the worst droughts in history.
And I hope, too, that expanded credit
will strengthen the position of younger
farmers, of the hundreds of thousands of
615
