Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 6 [129]
at least fourteen separate statutory
provisions into one flexible allocation
under which States can decide how
best to meet local education needs.
GREATER FLEXIBILITY
Under this proposal for Education
Revenue Sharing, States and local school
districts would be given far greater flexi-
bility than is presently the case in decid-
ing how funds should be spent in serving
the national priority areas. In addition to
the broader definition of national purpose,
States would have the authority to trans-
fer up to thirty percent of funds—except
those which are passed through directly
to local schools-from one purpose to
another. This would enhance flexibility
in the application of funds for education,
and permit the States to make substantial
adjustment in their educational plans as
their educational needs require.
OTHER FEATURES
As with my previous special revenue
sharing proposals, Education Revenue
Sharing would preserve all existing safe-
guards against infringements of civil rights
by assuring that these funds would be sub-
ject to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964.
Non-public schools bear a significant
share of the cost and effort of providing
education for our children today. Federal
aid to education should take this fully
into account. This proposal would do that
by considerably broadening the authority
for extending aid to students in non-
public schools. Non-public school students
would be counted in the reckoning of
population for purposes of allocation, and
all forms of educational services would be
available to them.
As an important precondition to the
receipt of Federal funds for education of
the disadvantaged, I propose a require-
ment for States to certify that services
provided in all schools within a given
school district from State and local funds
must be fully comparable. This is a con-
siderable improvement over the present
law. It would assure that Federal funds
for compensatory education programs
would actually be spent on services beyond
those provided for all children, and thus
for the first time would truly guarantee
that these funds would be used to help
equalize learning opportunity for the
disadvantaged.
THE FEDERAL ROLE IN EDUCATION
The proposal I am putting forward
today reflects what this administration
considers to be the appropriate Federal
role in elementary and secondary educa-
tion. This Federal role is three-fold: (1)
the allocation of financial resources on a
broad and continuing basis to help States
and local school districts meet their re-
sponsibilities, (2) the provision of national
leadership to help reform and renew our
schools to improve performance, and (3)
the concentration of resources to meet
urgent national problems during the pe-
riod when they are most intense.
Education Revenue Sharing would
strengthen the first by providing a new
and expanded system of Federal aid to our
schools. It should be noted in this connec-
tion that my proposals for general revenue
sharing and welfare reform would also
both provide and free additional fiscal
resources which States and localities could
505
