[43] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
enue sharing has been with us for some
time. But the separation of taxing and
spending authority does not diminish the
ability of local voters to hold local officials
responsible for their stewardship of all
public funds.
In short, revenue sharing will not shield
State and local officials from taxpayer
pressures. It will work in just the opposite
direction. Under revenue sharing, it will
be harder for State and local officials to
excuse their errors by pointing to empty
treasuries or to pass the buck by blaming
Federal bureaucrats for misdirected
spending. Only leaders who have the re-
sponsibility to decide and the means to
implement their decisions can really be
held accountable when they fail.
OTHER ADVANTAGES
The nation will realize a number of ad-
ditional advantages if revenue sharing is
put into effect. The need for heavier
property and sales taxes will be reduced.
New job opportunities will be created at
the State and local level. Competition
between domestic programs and defense
needs will be reduced as the State and
local share of domestic spending increases.
As the States and localities are renewed
and revitalized, we can expect that even
more energy and talent will be attracted
into government at this level. The best
way to develop greater responsibility
at the State and local level is to give
greater responsibility to State and local
government.
In the final analysis, the purpose of
General Revenue Sharing is to set our
States and localities free-free to set new
priorities, free to meet unmet needs, free
to make their own mistakes, yes, but also
free to score splendid successes which
otherwise would never be realized.
For State and local officials bring many
unique strengths to the challenges of pub-
lic leadership. Because they live day in and
day out with the results of their decisions,
they can often measure costs and benefits
with greater sensitivity and weigh them
against one another with greater precision.
Because they are closer to the people they
serve, State and local officials will often
have a fuller sense of appreciation of local
perspectives and values. Moreover, offi-
cials at these lower levels are often more
likely to remember what Washington too
often forgets: that the purpose of govern-
ment is not budgets and programs and
guidelines, but people.
This reform will also help produce bet-
ter government at the Federal level.
There is too much to be done in Amer-
ica today for the Federal Government to
try to do it all. When we divide up deci-
sion-making, then each decision can be
made at the place where it has the best
chance of being decided in the best way.
When we give more people the power to
decide, then each decision will receive
greater time and attention. This also
means that Federal officials will have a
greater opportunity to focus on those mat-
ters which ought to be handled at the
Federal level.
LABORATORIES FOR MODERN
GOVERNMENT
Strengthening the States and localities
will make our system more diversified and
more flexible. Once again these units will
be able to serve as they so often did in
the 19th century and during the Progres-
sive Era-as laboratories for modern gov-
ernment. Here ideas can be tested more
easily than they can on a national scale.
120
