Richard Nixon, 1971
May 21 [176]
176 Remarks on Presenting the National Medal of Science
Awards for 1970.
Ladies and gentlemen:
May 21, 1971
Mrs. Nixon and I are very happy to
welcome you, all of our distinguished re-
cipients of the Medal of Science and their
families and their friends, on this occasion.
All of you know that this medal is one
of the very highest that can be awarded
in the United States, and in the field of
science the very highest, and it is par-
ticularly significant that those who are
the recipients today cover such a wide
range of disciplines in the field of science.
A few moments will pass before Dr.
David will bring each of them up to re-
ceive the award, and on that occasion he
will read the citation, which will indicate
the various studies in which they have
been engaged and the breakthroughs and
other contributions they have made.
I have read them, and I want you to
know that I do not understand them;
but I want you to know, too, that because
I do not understand them, I realize how
enormously important their contributions
are to this Nation. That, to me, is the
nature of science to the unsophisticated
people.
It is why we, as a nation, must always
recognize the men of science and the
women of science, because of their ability
to explore the unknown and to go beyond
the limits of knowledge for the great ma-
jority of people, their ability to thereby
make it possible for a nation to have
progress in so many fields, and we hope,
in the years ahead particularly, and even-
tually exclusively, in the field of peaceful
pursuits. This is what, of course, has
brought this Nation where it is, and many
other nations where they are, from the
position that we occupied long before.
In that respect, incidentally, when I
speak in such awe of scientists, I do so
with a great deal of reason. I know that
sometimes those of us in the field of poli-
tics are called political scientists. Let
me tell you something: Politics is not a
science. It has been called many things.
Some think it is a racket; and others have
said that it is an art. But perhaps the best
description is that politics is a mystery,
a mystery because it deals with those great
problems of human relationships, and no
one, therefore, can sit down, as the scien-
tist does, and examine this proposition
and this fact and that fact and expect that
by putting it all together it will come out
just the way that his formula indicated it
would come out.
If that were the case, we would not have
to have elections in this country to deter-
mine whether one man was right or an-
other was right.
However, speaking as I do of the men
of science and the women of science that
we are honoring today, I also should point
out that we had an announcement yester-
day that, with justification, gives hope to
the people of the world, and the people of
this Nation particularly, that we are mov-
ing forward toward our goal, a goal that
all Americans share and that I believe all
people in the world share, of a more
peaceful world where arms may be limited
and where the men and women of science
can devote their great energies exclusively
to the works of peace and not the weapons
of war.
In this field we cannot promise any-
thing in terms of what will happen on a
certain day or a certain month; but we
can say that the hopes for peaceful prog-
649
