[147] Apr. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, all of those circumstances happen
to be from the "long train of abuses and
usurpations" which Jefferson listed in the
Declaration of Independence against the
King of England.
But all of them, when you stop to think
about it, also add up to a not very exag-
gerated description of the current condi-
tion of the Washington bureaucracy, the
Federal system, and the State and local
tax load here and now. And they convince
me that the time has come now for a new
American revolution, a peaceful revolu-
tion, to set things right, a peaceful revolu-
tion which will return power to the States,
to the local communities, and to the
people of America where it belongs.
Now, I hope you will agree, and that
each of you in your communities will help
us achieve this great goal; working to-
gether we can breathe new life into the
ideals of the Declaration of Independence
and the Constitution.
And now I would like to turn briefly
just for a moment to another subject,
which I know is of deep concern to this
Congress of Patriots: America's mission of
assistance to the country of South Viet-
nam. From the beginning, this Nation, as
all of you know, has had a keen sense of
worldwide responsibility.
Listen to Thomas Jefferson 196 years
ago: We act not "for ourselves alone, but
for the whole human race." We have al-
ways sought to set an example as a free
people. We have always felt a strong kin-
ship with other peoples struggling to be
free.
Four times in this 20th century, World
War I, World War II, Korea, now Viet-
nam,
Americans have gone to war far
away in defense of human liberty and
national self-determination for other
people. And this long and difficult and
agonizing conflict in Vietnam over the
past 10 years, a conflict in which the
American role is now rapidly ending, is
part of our national tradition of standing
shoulder-to-shoulder with free nations
menaced by outside aggression.
I say tonight-and I think it should be
said that we can be proud of the more
than 2 million brave and honorable Amer-
ican men who have fought in Vietnam.
War is always a terrible experience for a
nation, and particularly difficult for those
who participate in it; and particularly this
war, where a nation seems to be and has
been divided about it. But these men-
and I have seen them there-time after
time, by their humane conduct, their per-
sonal integrity, they have done credit to
America's highest principles.
We can be especially proud tonight of
another group of men-hundreds of
courageous soldiers and airmen missing in
action throughout Southeast Asia, who
are enduring years of brutal captivity in
enemy prison camps.
And we can pay special and admiring
tribute to the wives of those prisoners.
Mrs. Nixon and I have had the privilege
of meeting them on several occasions. I
recall particularly a year and a half ago
at Christmastime. What really extraor-
dinary women they are! When you talk to
them, when you realize what they have
sacrificed, their courage, each time it in-
spires me again to keep full faith with
American prisoners of war, and to end
America's involvement in this war, and
end it in a way that can best provide the
opportunity for a lasting and a just peace.
We hear it said very often these days
that ours is not an age of heroes, and yet
anyone who has talked with the POW
wives knows this is not so. America has a
long heritage of heroism, a deep-rooted
562
