[181] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
But let me say, Americans are united
in their devotion to peace; they are united
in wanting to build a stronger country, a
country in which all Americans can have
an equal opportunity for good education,
for good jobs, for good housing, all of these
things we are for.
And even more important is the spirit
of America which I have sensed in so
many of the people that I have shaken
hands with today. As I have walked along
the line many of them say, "Good luck,
Mr. President," showing a respect for the
office that we always find, as we travel
around the country, regardless of what the
partisanship may be, but many say—and
this to me is very, very moving-over and
over again, I hear the words, "God bless
you. We're praying for you.”
Let me say that not only the deep
patriotism of the people that I sense every
place I go here, but your religious faith,
your moral strength, the idealism that is
here, America needs it.
We thank you for the progress and the
strength and the vitality that I see in this
new-even though it is 100 years old-
great city of the world. And we thank you
particularly for that very strong inner
moral spiritual faith that will continue to
make America the great nation, a nation
that will lead the world to peace and
freedom.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:55 p.m. at
the Parliament House hotel.
George Seibels was mayor of Birmingham.
182 Remarks to Southern News Media Representatives
Attending a Briefing on Domestic Policy in
Birmingham, Alabama.
GENTLEMEN, I do know that from the
schedule that I have read that you have
been exposed to a great amount of mate-
rial already with regard to some of our
domestic programs. I know, too, that you
are aware of the fact that this is the first
of four regional briefings we are going to
have on domestic policy, just as we previ-
ously had four on foreign policy, and per-
haps we will be able to repeat these from
time to time in the future as various issues
develop.
Now when I read your schedule, I could
see that there was not much left for me
to talk about, because Governor Romney,
of course, covered various aspects of reve-
nue sharing; and Secretary Hodgson
covered other aspects of manpower train-
May 25, 1971
ing; Herb Stein knows all about the econ-
omy-I wish he would tell me, but he
knows all about it-and, of course, John
Ehrlichman, in terms of Government re-
organization and the other issues, has
talked to you and answered questions; and
I know that Herb Klein, too, has filled you
in on some aspects of it.
What I would like to do is to try to put
these domestic programs in this period of
the seventies in a broader perspective. In
order to do so, it will be necessary for me
to talk about foreign policy first, not in
precise details, as would be the case in a
foreign policy briefing, but in more gen-
eral terms, so that we can see why domestic
programs of the types you have been hear-
ing about today, programs that normally
664
