Richard Nixon, 1971
June 11 [199]
In addition, of course, HUD plays a
major role in providing mortgage insur-
ance and in facilitating the overall flow
of mortgage funds.
In each of these areas, the Federal pro-
gram role as the governing statutes make
clear-is essentially one of responding to
local or private initiatives, rather than
one of imposing its programs on State
and local governments.
In none of HUD's grant programs does
the Department act directly. The Depart-
ment builds no housing, develops no land
use plans, clears no slums, and constructs
no sewers. Instead, HUD provides, within
its statutory and regulatory framework,
financial assistance to local developers and
agencies, both public and private, who
build and manage housing, and engage
in planning and community development
activities.
The extent to which HUD program
activity is dependent on local initiative
and execution is frequently overlooked,
but is an important element in consid-
ering policy issues. Sites for HUD as-
sisted housing must be selected and
acquired by local sponsors-public or pri-
vate and housing developed on those
sites must conform to local zoning and
local building codes. Planning performed
with HUD assistance is done by State and
local governmental bodies. Community
development activities-urban renewal,
water and sewer, or open space projects,
for example—are initiated and executed
by local government.
In short, HUD's role in the location of
assisted housing is one not of site selec-
tion, but of ultimate site approval. It does
not initiate local housing projects. With
more applications than it can fund, it
must select those for funding which it
determines most fully satisfy the purposes
of the enabling legislation and in doing
so it says "yes" or "no" to local requests
for financial assistance for projects that
have been locally planned and will be
locally executed.
In responding to local and private ini-
tiatives, of course, the Department must
follow the
the statutory mandates. For
example:
-As noted earlier, HUD may not make
a grant under any of its programs if
the recipient will discriminate or
otherwise deny the benefits of the
assisted activity or project to persons
on account of race.
-Where the "workable program" re-
quirement-imposed on local com-
munities by the Housing Act of 1949,
as amended in 1954, in connection
with urban renewal and related pro-
grams-is a condition of eligibility,
HUD may not make a grant in the
absence of a HUD-certified work-
able program for community im-
provement. The program must make
reasonable provision for low- and
moderate-income housing, which
must of course be available on a non-
discriminatory basis.
-Where comprehensive planning is
supported by a Federal grant under
the 1954 Housing Act, as amended
in 1968, the plan must include a
"housing element" to insure that "the
housing needs of both the region and
the local communities studied in the
planning will be adequately covered
in terms of existing and prospective
in-migrant population growth." This
provision has broad application, since
such planning grants are often used
to prepare the areawide plans which
are a prerequisite for Federal finan-
cial assistance under the water and
727
