[196] June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
ward to a whole new era of growth and
development. And so, too, can Kansas,
which may one day have ports of its own
on the Arkansas, and Colorado, and all
of the other States of this heartland region
that will be sharing in the benefits of this
waterway.
At the same time, speaking as, and
representing all of the people of the
United States as President of the United
States, I can say that all the American
people join you in celebrating this achieve-
ment, because it belongs to all of us and
helps all the Nation. Because, you see, in
a very real sense, the progress and pros-
perity it will bring you mean added prog-
ress and prosperity to all of America.
We think, for instance, of the two-way
savings water transportation is already be-
ginning to bring the farm industry in this
region. Lower shipping costs coming in
mean that the farmer pays less for his
fertilizer, machinery, and other supplies,
and lower shipping costs going out mean
that the farmer can pocket more of the
market price of his crops and livestock.
In that way, farm income is boosted twice,
and the benefits extend across America
and around the world to everyone who de-
pends on the beef and the wheat, the cot-
ton, the soybeans, all the other products
of mid-America's agriculture.
I believe that what is good for the
farmer is good for his customers and good
for America, and this project proves it.
That is one big reason we are grateful to
see this waterway go into operation.
As we assess the significance, we think,
too, about the tremendously important oil
and natural gas resources that have meant
so much to the growth of Oklahoma and
the industrial development of this coun-
try. We think about the major coal fields
that will now become much more accessi-
ble along the Arkansas River in these two
States. I realize there is legitimate concern
about some of the serious environmental
and pollution problems surrounding the
production and use of coal and oil. But
we must also remember that the energy
they produce is indispensable to the eco-
nomic strength of the United States and
to the good life which the American peo-
ple enjoy.
As this new waterway encourages
growth and development, regional energy
needs will increase even faster than the
rapidly growing national needs. This will
mean new opportunities and new chal-
lenges for petroleum and for coal, which
are produced in this region. I can assure
you, as I indicated in the special message
on energy policy which I sent to the Con-
gress yesterday, that the Federal Govern-
ment will continue to recognize and sup-
port the vital role which these industries
play.
But beyond agriculture, beyond oil, we
are already seeing the first stages of a
broad-based economic boom in the Ar-
kansas River Basin. All sorts of new in-
dustries are on the way, bringing with
them new jobs, new income, new vitality
for communities throughout this region.
Private investment planned along the
waterway has passed the $800 million
mark and should soon exceed the $1.2
billion in public funds spent in construc-
tion of the project.
Here again the beneficial impact will
be felt not just in Tulsa, not just in the
States, Oklahoma, Arkansas, others in the
area, but it will be felt across America. For
this great region, so ready for develop-
ment, can provide part of the answer to
the increasingly acute growth of conges-
tion and uncontrolled growth in Amer-
ica's largest metropolitan areas. Let's look
716
