[222] July 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
management and calling upon them to be
responsive and responsible in their wage-
price decisions in seeing that they were
not inflationary, the United States, of
course, if it is going to have a healthy
economy, must move in those particular
areas, as well as in others.
Also, when we speak in terms of our
health, we must speak in terms of how
we accomplish some of these goals. Let me
now speak quite directly about a problem
that I know has been the subject of many
editorials, editorials of newspapers, and,
of course, on television and radio to the
extent that you are permitted to do so.
First, it has become rather common
practice to berate the American system.
Now, without being a bit jingoistic, and
being totally objective, let us examine this
system of ours, examine it in terms of the
problems that I have just mentioned.
Health: It would be very easy at the
time that we are looking at the problems
of the distribution of health care to throw
the baby out with the bath water and to
fail to recognize that at the present time,
while we have enormous problems which
need to be dealt with-of distributing
health care fairly so that everybody who
needs medical care can get it—we must
handle that problem without destroying
what we also enjoy: the best medical care
in the world in terms of quality. That is
why our medical program, and our health
program, is not one that throws out the
present medical care system. It builds on
it. It reforms it. It corrects it.
Let's look at the environment for a
moment. Here one is tempted, as he goes
into a place like Los Angeles-and I will
be there in a few hours-and you see the
smog, that yellow ugly smog hanging over
the city or when you go down the Potomac
and you see the filth in that river, to say:
Wouldn't it be great if we didn't have
automobiles? Wouldn't it be great if we
didn't have all these factories? Wouldn't
it be great if we could go back to the way
it was in the beginning?
The answer is: not at all. I have been,
and you have been, to countries that do
not have the problems of the environment
created by an industrial society. Those
countries and those peoples, of course,
would very much like to have those prob-
lems if that was the cost of raising their
standard of living.
That is why Mr. Ruckelshaus-and this
Administration-has emphasized, and
will continue to emphasize an attack on
the problem of the environment, but
recognizing that the genius that created
the industrial might of the United States,
that created the problems in the environ-
ment, can be put to the task of cleaning
it up.
This we will do, and this we believe
we can accomplish, consistent with main-
taining our system.
In terms of our economy, when we
talk about how we can change it and how
we can deal, for example, with problems
like the wage-price escalation, it, of course,
has not gone unnoticed that many at this
time tend to throw up their hands and
conclude that the only answer to the
problem is to go to wage and price con-
trols. Some nibble at it at the edges and
say, well, we ought to have a wage-price
board, or others go all the way and say,
why not wage and price controls. When
you talk to management, however, they
want wage controls. When you talk to
labor, they want price controls. When
you talk to Government, they recognize,
as we recognize, you cannot have wage
controls without price controls, and—any
of us, as I was-I was in the OPA for a
few months before I went into the serv-
808
