Richard Nixon, 1971
July 21 [233]
lized to gain the maximum possible cost
effectiveness.
S. 1797 is a strong bill which will fully
satisfy the public need for adequate pro-
tection against hazardous consumer prod-
ucts, and Secretary Richardson has acted
to ensure that his Department is fully
capable of implementing this needed au-
thority. I urge your Committee to report
S. 1797 favorably to the Senate.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Warren G. Magnuson, United
States Senate, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: A copy of the letter was sent to the Hon-
orable Norris Cotton, ranking minority member
of the Senate Committee on Commerce.
233 Letter Accepting the Resignation of Glenn T. Seaborg
as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.
July 21, 1971
Dear Glenn:
It is with special regret that I accept
your resignation as Chairman of the
Atomic Energy Commission effective, as
you have requested, upon a date to be
determined. However, I would hope that
you will continue as planned to head our
Delegations to the Soviet Union in Au-
gust and to Geneva and Vienna in Sep-
tember, even if your successor is confirmed
and sworn in before the date of these
trips. I would also hope that
you could
remain as a consultant for some time after
these meetings are completed to insure
the smoothest possible transition.
For ten years, three Presidents have had
the benefit of your wisdom and counsel
in making decisions which, increasingly,
affect the daily lives and well-being of our
fellow citizens. Thanks in large measure
to your outstanding leadership during this
time, the United States has maintained
its position of preeminence in the field of
atomic energy.
As a world famous chemist, scholar, and
administrator, you have contributed in a
unique and meaningful way to far greater
understanding and application of the
miracles of the atom. As you return to
academic life, I am confident that your
activities will bring new benefits to man-
kind while reflecting the highest credit
upon yourself and your country. You may
be certain that my warmest wishes and the
deep admiration of your colleagues go
with you.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Glenn T. Seaborg, Chairman,
Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D.C.
20545]
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased an announcement of intention to
nominate James R. Schlesinger as a member,
and to designate him Chairman, of the Com-
mission, and an announcement of intention to
nominate William O. Doub as a member of the
Commission. The two announcements are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 7, pp. 1069 and
1070).
Mr. Seaborg's letter of resignation, dated
July 19, 1971, and released with the President's
letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I am writing to request that you accept my
resignation as Chairman of the Atomic Energy
Commission. This is in accordance with our
71-234-72-55
821
