[370]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Nov. 23
all the spirit," but uh-uh, Allen is a per-
fectionist, as you fellows know. He insists
on talent. He believes that the fellows
should be paid for it-and they should be,
properly-but he also knows, and Henry
Jordan would be the first to admit, that it
just isn't talent, it isn't physical ability,
but that spirit makes a great difference in
whether you win or lose.
My little story involves General
Pershing. He was not-as many of you
who studied history know-was not one of
the great intellectuals among our mili-
tary leaders, but he did write an auto-
biography, and I read it, oh, a couple of
years ago, 3 or 4 years ago. In his auto-
biography, he was telling about the hard-
est decision he had during World War I.
Here came the new American army
over there, you know, and all these divi-
sions that came out of the National Guard
and the rest, and they were pretty pitiful
and pretty pitifully led, and Pershing said
the hardest thing he had to do was to go
in and change the commanders of divi-
sions, commanders who were his class-
mates, but who really couldn't hack it
when it came to leading a division on the
Western Front in that period of World
War I.
He said he went to see a man who had
been one of his best friends. The division
had taken a terrible beating over the past
3 or 4 weeks, and Pershing had ordered
an attack the next week. He met the com-
mander of that division, his old friend, in
a tent there at the division headquarters.
When he was talking to the commander,
the commander looked very, very de-
pressed, and he said, "General, I'm sorry,
my division can't carry out that order."
He said, "My men are tired. My men are
discouraged. Their morale is shot. They
simply can't go on the attack next week."
Pershing said to him, "General, your
men aren't tired. Their morale isn't shot.
They aren't discouraged. You're tired.
Your morale is shot. You're discouraged.
You go back to Paris and take a rest.’
He replaced him with another general.
That division, within 3 weeks, was one of
the best on the whole Western Front.
I just want to say this: that there is no
question as far as this group is concerned.
I could tell at the end of the game against
Dallas, and the one against Kansas City.
Oh, you might have been a bit tired, but
there was nothing wrong with your
morale, nothing wrong with your spirit.
And I am sure that George Allen, who
is somewhat like the general in this in-
stance, would be the first to say that there
is nothing wrong with his morale or his
spirit either.
I will just conclude it by telling you,
was mighty proud of you when you were
winning, and I am just as proud of you
when you have lost. I would like to have
a reservation for the playoffs.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER. Gee, if this
gets in the wind, think what it would do
to the Senators.3
THE PRESIDENT. The Senators? It
would not help. You know, it is an inter-
esting thing. In baseball-there is a very
great difference between the two; in foot-
ball, spirit, morale, is half the game-in
baseball it doesn't make all that much dif-
ference. It may make that difference with
an individual player, you know, like the
pitcher is either up or down. But in base-
ball, spirit and morale is important, but
not decisive. It is on an individual basis.
You don't get the baseball team all to-
gether and say, "Look, fellows, let's get
Washington Senators professional baseball
team.
1136
