Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 14 [395]
years, and is contributing to a strengthening
and a deepening of Franco-Portuguese friend-
ship, while at the same time being beneficial,
directly or indirectly, to the economy of both
countries.
In turning towards President Nixon, with
whom I had frank and searching talks early in
1970 and whom I saw again in sad circum-
stances in November of the same year, I would
like to say that it would be difficult to find a
better place for talks between the President of
the United States and the President of the
French Republic. The Azores were on the route
of the great liners, which seemed to be drawn
like a magnet to São Miguel; more recently
they have been an airline stop between Europe
and America; and so they are a link between the
two continents. It is not without significance
that we should be meeting here tonight, 26
years after the Second World War.
Our world today is, to be sure, one of uncer-
tainty. Deplorable conflicts, like the one which
is causing such tragedy between India and
Pakistan, are there to remind us that nothing
is ever settled once and for all, even if the fan-
tastic development of the means of destruction
produced by modern science has so far made
men shrink from the prospect of wars such as
those which Europe and, through Europe, the
world have known twice in the 20th century.
395
However, the stability of Europe, the economic
growth and prosperity of our societies, inter-
national exchanges, the universality that has
now been achieved in the United Nations-all
these are factors of encouragement. If we are
here tonight, it is no doubt because we want to
prevent the difficulties of the monetary system
of the West from upsetting a family of nations
whose prosperity is fundamental for world equi-
librium, but it is also because the United
States and France, along with other countries,
have deliberately and resolutely chosen to
strive for better understanding among peoples
and for the elimination of divisions based on
ideological opposition. This is no easy task. But
as representative of a country which today has
ties of friendship and cooperation with nearly
all states, I see in this gathering tonight an
alliance between the tradition of European
civilization, the dynamism of the New World,
and even the Latin genius-all of which is a
symbol of unity and hope.
I give you the toast: Admiral Américo
Thomaz, President of the Republic of Portugal;
our host, President Marcello Caetano; Mr.
Richard Nixon, President of the United States
of America; and the longstanding and longlast-
ing friendship between the people of Portugal,
the people of America, and the people
of France.
Remarks of the President and President Pompidou of
France Following Their Meetings in the Azores.
December 14, 1971
PRESIDENT Pompidou and I have
just concluded our very extensive discus-
sions. In those discussions, we have made
significant progress in the problem that I
know many have been concerned with on
the international monetary situation.
That progress will be indicated by the
joint statement which will be read to the
members of the press after the President
and I have addressed you briefly now.
However, in addition to that subject
which is covered by our joint statement,
the President and I discussed a wide range
of international issues, and we also dis-
cussed a wide range of bilateral issues.
I can only characterize the meetings by
saying that, as was the previous case when
I have met with the President, our discus-
sions were not only candid and frank but,
above all, they were constructive and, we
believe, contributed in this instance not
only to good relations between our two
1189
