Appendix B
September
24 Michael Naranjo, a blind Santa Clara
Pueblo Indian from New Mexico, met with
the President to present one of his works of
sculpture.
24 The President announced the transfer of
federally owned lands to local jurisdictions
for park and recreational use, as follows:
165 acres in Sandstone, Minn., to the State's
Department of Conservation; two parcels
in metropolitan Denver, Colo., to the city
of Aurora; and parcels totaling 130 acres,
to Brunswick, Maine; Flomaton, Ala.;
Richland, Wash.; South Plainfield, N.J.;
St. Louis, Mo.; and Old Field, N.Y.
28 President Moktar Ould Daddah of
Mauritania, head of the Organization of
African Unity, Dialo Telli, Secretary Gen-
eral of the OAU, and the Foreign Ministers
of Mauritania, Kenya, Mali, Zambia, and
Cameroon met with the President at the
White House.
29 Pierre-Paul Schweitzer, Managing Director
of the International Monetary Fund, met
with the President at the White House.
29 Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko of the
Soviet Union met with the President at the
White House.
30 Lt. Gen. Herman Nickerson, Jr., Admin-
istrator of the National Credit Union Ad-
ministration, and other members of the
National Credit Union Board met with
the President at the White House.
30 The President signed the National News-
paperboy Day Proclamation [4085] in a
White House ceremony attended by 11
boys and one girl who are newspaper
carriers.
30 The President received the recommenda-
tions of the Cost of Living Council for
Phase 2 of the new economic policy.
30 Prince Souvanna Phouma, Prime Minister
of Laos, met with the President at the
White House.
September
30 Sir Alec Douglas-Home, Secretary of State
for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs of
the United Kingdom, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
October
4 The White House announced the transfer
of Federal properties in Upton, N.Y., and
Oak Ridge, Tenn., to local authorities as
part of the President's "Legacy of Parks"
program.
5 Joseph Vicites, commander, Veterans of
Foreign Wars, called on the President at
the White House.
5 Prime Minister Tun Abdul Razak of
Malaysia met with the President at the
White House.
5 The President went to Greenville, Del., a
suburb of Wilmington, to attend a recep-
tion held for dinner chairmen and leaders
making arrangements for "Salute to the
President" Dinners on November 9. The
reception was held at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. John Rollins.
7 The President expressed sorrow in a state-
ment issued on the death of Representa-
tive James G. Fulton of Pennsylvania.
7 The President met with the bipartisan Con-
gressional leadership to discuss his sched-
uled address on the post-freeze economic
stabilization program.
8 The President breakfasted with Secretary
of the Treasury John B. Connally and
Chairman Russell B. Long of the Senate
Committee on Finance to discuss the tax
bill and the economy.
8 The President participated in a swearing-in
ceremony at the White House for Char-
lotte T. Reid as a member of the Federal
Communications Commission.
8 Nine members of the French National As-
sembly, accompanied by French Ambassa-
dor Charles Lucet, Representative Wayne
L. Hays of Ohio, and Representative
Sherman P. Lloyd of Utah, met with the
President at the White House.
1264
