[29] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT AMENDMENTS
Under the Defense Production Act, the
nation's industrial capacity is expanded
and critical materials are produced and
allocated in times of national emergency.
I now renew the administration's proposal
that this Act be extended for another two
years and needed changes be made. These
include:
-A new method of financing the pro-
duction expansion provisions.
—Elimination of the unnecessary and
undesirable restriction on guaranteed
transactions imposed last year.
-Authority for the President to make
adjustments in civilian
pay and per-
sonnel administration to assure the
effective functioning of government
agencies in a civil defense emergency.
presented for redemption. I now renew
the administration's proposal that the
Department of the Treasury be author-
ized to write off these Federal Reserve
bank notes and national bank notes, and
to remove the limitation of $200 million
on such write-offs. In anticipation of
favorable Congressional action, the Fiscal
Year 1972 budget reflects these write-offs
as a receipt of $228 million.
REFORM OF VETERANS' PROGRAMS
Three separate reforms can be made in
veterans' programs which would lift an
unwarranted burden from the general
taxpayer without in any way diminishing
the legitimate rights or privileges of
veterans. I am again asking the Congress
to enact them, along with a proposal to
facilitate sale of direct loans by the
Veterans Administration.
STOCKPILE DISPOSALS
Proposed legislation will be resubmitted
which would authorize GSA to sell off
from the government's stockpiles quan-
tities of sixteen commodities which we
now hold in excess of our needs for na-
tional security. The sales would bring sub-
stantial returns to the Treasury. In the
near future, new legislation will be sub-
mitted to the Congress for authority to
dispose of other commodities-authority
which I urge the Congress to grant as
consistent with both sound government
and a sound economic policy.
LOST CURRENCY WRITE-OFF
Millions of dollars in U.S. currency and
silver certificates issued since 1929 have
been lost or destroyed, or are held perma-
nently in collections—and will never be
BURIAL ALLOWANCE
The first deals with the veterans burial
allowance which runs to $250. This allow-
ance was established before the existence
of other Federal programs-such as social
security and railroad retirement-which
often provide similar or greater burial
benefits to the same eligible veterans. The
legislation proposed would eliminate
duplication by limiting the Veterans Ad-
ministration's burial payment to the
difference between $250 and the non-VA
burial payment.
TUBERCULOSIS DISABILITY COMPENSATION
Secondly, some veterans are still receiv-
ing disability compensation for tubercu-
losis long after the disease has reached a
70
