Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 20 [275]
everything that we can to help those veter-
ans who have served our country, who
have made sacrifices that we did not make
ourselves. And without regard to party, we
are proud to participate in an event
which we know is going to build America
rather than tear it down, and that is what
this event is doing.
In that spirit, could I add just a word
to the very eloquent remarks of Governor
Reagan? As one travels across this coun-
try, he thinks of numbers of things. But
one impression that indelibly is made, as
far as I am concerned, is this: As you go
from New York to Illinois, to Idaho, to
Wyoming, to Texas, and then out to Cali-
fornia, you realize this is a very big coun-
try. You realize it is a very diverse country.
But also, despite what may be said and
heard at times running America down,
realize America is a beautiful country.
You also realize that the American
people are a good people. They are a peo-
ple who have gone to war four times in
this century, but to our credit, never for
the purpose of destroying freedom, always
for the purpose of defending it; never for
the purpose of breaking the peace, only
for the purpose of keeping it.
you
pur-
America is the strongest nation in the
world today; but why? Not for the
pose of conquest, but only from that
position of strength can we help to negoti-
ate what we all want for ourselves and for
other nations in the world: a whole gen-
eration of peace-something we Ameri-
cans have not had in a century.
That is a great goal. Americans are for
it. Americans support it. And as we look
toward that goal, and particularly as we
see in this audience those who have given
so much to their country, I say let's be
worthy of them, worthy of the sacrifices of
war by building a peace, a real peace, so
that their sons and their children will not
have to fight in another war, if that can be
made possible. And second, to build a
nation and a period of peace that means
something more than simply the absence
of war, that means a nation that has con-
fidence in itself, a people that believe in
this country, a people who are willing to
make sacrifices for their country if they
realize that what they give up is going to
help all the country and all the people,
and a people, also, who, as was the case in
the beginning of this country, will recog-
nize that America has a role in the world,
and we are going to fulfill it.
You remember 195 years ago when
America was a poor nation, when it was a
weak nation, Thomas Jefferson said, we
act not just for ourselves, "but for the
whole human race." What a presump-
tuous statement it was to make then. But
it was true then, because he knew that
wealth and power was not what made a
people great; it was the spirit of the
people, and we had a great spirit, the
"Spirit of '76."
And today when we are the strongest
nation in the world, strong in arms and
rich in goods, let it not be said that
America was poor in spirit. I believe that
America is rich in spirit. I believe that out
across this Nation of ours, younger people,
older people, have faith in our country.
They want to build a generation of peace,
and they want America to maintain the
position of leadership in the world so that
we can build that kind of peace that will
mean something far more than the
absence of war, that will mean better
health, that will mean a cleaner and
71-234-72-61
917
