[387] Dec. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
The best way to insure this in this case is
the constitutional way-to provide a free
hand in the appointive process to the one
official accountable to, and answerable to,
the whole American people-the Presi-
dent of the United States, and to trust to
the Senate of the United States to exer-
cise its advise and consent function.
To compound the problem of accounta-
bility, Congress has further proposed that
during the crucial 90 day period-when
the Corporation is set into motion-its
governance is to rest exclusively in the
hands of designees of five private interest
groups. That proposal should be dropped.
It would be better to have no legal
services corporation than one so irrespon-
sibly structured. I urge the Congress to
rewrite this bill, to create a new National
Legal Services Corporation, truly inde-
pendent of political influences, containing
strict safeguards against the kind of
abuses certain to erode public support-a
legal services corporation which places the
needs of low-income clients first, before
the political concerns of either legal serv-
ice attorneys or elected officials.
But the most deeply flawed provision
of this legislation is Title V, "Child De-
velopment Programs."
Adopted as an amendment to the OEO
legislation, this program points far be-
yond what this administration envisioned
when it made a "national commitment to
providing all American children an oppor-
tunity for a healthful and stimulating de-
velopment during the first five years of
life."
Though Title V's stated purpose, "to
provide every child with a full and fair
opportunity to reach his full potential" is
certainly laudable, the intent of Title V
is overshadowed by the fiscal irrespon-
sibility, administrative unworkability, and
family-weakening implications of the
system it envisions. We owe our children
something more than good intentions.
We cannot and will not ignore the chal-
lenge to do more for America's children
in their all-important early years. But our
response to this challenge must be a meas-
ured, evolutionary, painstakingly consid-
ered one, consciously designed to cement
the family in its rightful position as the
keystone of our civilization.
Further, in returning this legislation to
the Congress, I do not for a moment over-
look the fact that there are some needs to
be served, and served now.
I
One of these needs is for day care, to
enable mothers, particularly those at the
lowest income levels, to take full-time jobs.
Federal support for State and local day
care services under Head Start and the
Social Security Act already totals more
than half a billion dollars a year-but this
is not enough. That is why our H.R. 1 wel-
fare reform proposals, which have been
before the Congress for the past 26
months, include a request for $750 million
annually in day care funds for welfare
recipients and the working poor, including
$50 million for construction of facilities.
And that is why we support the increased
tax deductions written into the Revenue
Act of 1971, which will provide a signifi-
cant Federal subsidy for day care in fam-
ilies where both parents are employed,
potentially benefitting 97 percent of all
such families in the country and offering
parents free choice of the child care
arrangements they deem best for their own
families. This approach reflects my con-
viction that the Federal Government's role
wherever possible should be one of assist-
ing parents to purchase needed day care
services in the private, open market, with
Federal involvement in direct provision
1176
