Richard Nixon, 1971
July 30 [243]
that it will be-peace for a whole genera-
tion, something we have not had in this
century.
We are ending a war in which we are
presently engaged, ending it in a way that
will contribute to a lasting peace. I am
making a journey to a country in which
one-fourth of the people in the world live,
making that journey not so much because
it will affect my generation, although it
may,
but because, as I look to the genera-
tions in the future, we cannot have peace
in this world and have one-fourth of the
people in the world isolated from the
world community. We must know them.
They must know us. And that is why that
journey for peace is being undertaken.
But having undertaken that journey,
and looking around the world, and with
the prediction, or at least the hope that
this prediction may come true, that we
are entering an era of peace for our gen-
eration and perhaps the next generation,
so that these young people, sons and
daughters of those in the Hall of Fame,
can enjoy that peace, let us recognize that
that does not mean that it is a time when
it is going to be easy for us, when we can
rest on our oars. Because what peace then
means is: What do we do with it?
In that connection, I would say that
while America is entering very possibly
a period of peace such as we haven't en-
joyed in this century, it will be a period
of enormous challenge, because all over
the world-800 million Chinese, 250 mil-
lion Russians, 300 million Europeans, 250
million in Latin America, 700 million in
South Asia, another 200 million on the
rim of Asia-there are people all over
the world who are becoming more
competitive.
I first came to Canton 22 years ago.
Frank Bow will remember that visit, and
others may remember it. I was a Con-
gressman at the time, and at that time
Americans could look at the world and
say, "We are number one," without any
question. We were number one from a
standpoint of military strength; we were
number one from the standpoint of our
economic power, and no one in the world
could possibly, at that time, challenge us.
At the present time the United States
is still the strongest nation in the world,
and we are still the richest nation in the
world. But we must remember that in
those past 21 years we have the nations
of Western Europe, completely recovered
from World War II, competing with us.
We have the potential competition of 800
million in China, and all of these other
nations that I have mentioned; the com-
petition from Japan, the competition from
the Soviet Union. This, however, should
not be considered by Americans to be
simply a problem that we wish would go
away.
What it reminds us, simply, is this fact:
It sometimes is said these days that it
doesn't make any difference whether you
are number one or not. Let me tell you,
it makes a great deal of difference, not
simply because we want to be number one
so that somebody else can be number two
in the world, but because unless you try
to do your best, unless you give everything
that you have to your life and in the serv-
ice of your country, then you have not
been the man or the woman that
you can
be. And for America at this time, when
we are still the first nation in the world,
to rest on our laurels and to let the other
nations that are competing with us pass
us by, this is something that we cannot let
happen and that we should not let
happen.
That brings me back to the game of
837
