[274] Aug. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, today I want to address my re-
marks to a subject that is usually not pre-
sented to an organization like a veterans
organization. It is one, however, which is
deeply related to our national defense, and
as you can see, I shall relate it to the prob-
lems with which you have been concerned
over this past week.
On Sunday evening, I outlined to the
Nation a bold economic policy which was
designed to build a new prosperity for
America, a prosperity in which we are
going to have full employment with free-
dom, with opportunity, without inflation,
without war. That is a great goal. It is one
that we can-it is one that we must-
achieve.
It is most appropriate that, as I traveled
across the country these past 3 days, that I
should end my travels, as far as speaking
is concerned, here in Dallas before this
organization, because here in your hearts,
in your minds, are the qualities that
America needs in the stirring days
ahead-the stirring days ahead in which
we have to meet the challenges of peace-
your patriotism, your self-sacrifice, your
courage, your proven ability to deliver
when the chips are down and serve this
country superbly in war. Now we come to
a time when we need the same patriotism,
the same self-sacrifice, and the same cour-
age as we meet the challenges of peace.
Now, how much does America need her
veterans? General Patton had an answer
for that. You may recall it. He said, "It
takes very little yeast to leaven a lump of
dough." And then he went on to say, “It
takes a very few veterans to leaven a
division of doughboys."
My answer is much the same. We need
the very best of your soldiers spirit, your
veterans spirit, to inspire the rest of the
Nation in the great battle for a lasting
peace and a new prosperity in America.
That is what we need.
Now, it isn't going to be easy. As a
matter of fact, nothing worthwhile in life
is easy. War is not easy. Building a lasting
peace is not easy. It won't be easy with
the distractions and temptations of the
coming years to make America remember
this truth: The strength that commands
respect is the only foundation on which
peace among nations can ever be built.
I am glad that Secretary Laird and
Senator Jackson and others who have
addressed you have emphasized the need
to maintain America's strength. I associ-
ate myself with their remarks here today.
The argument for weakness, weakness
whether it is military or economic or in
any other field, wears two masks. Let's
look at them for a moment, look right
through those masks.
There are those who attack the neces-
sity of strength with the claim that arma-
ments cause conflict; the very fact that a
nation is armed, that causes war. Well,
the reverse is true. It is conflicts of vital
interest which cause nations to build
armaments.
Nothing but patient, firm, hardheaded
negotiations such as we are now con-
ducting on several very important areas
in the world can adjust those funda-
mental differences, and so pave the way
for a safe reduction of armaments.
To those who attack the morality of
strength with claims that our defense
establishment is militarist and evil, we
must reply, "It is war that is evil, and the
vigilance and the strength which prevents
war is honorable and good." Let's say that
and let's stand for it.
Let's understand some propositions:
We should devote as large a proportion
of our natural resources as we can to the
910
