Appendix B
February
9 The White House announced that the
President had asked Vice President Agnew
to go to Los Angeles to meet with city,
county, and State officials concerning Fed-
eral assistance to California following an
earthquake in the Los Angeles area.
10 The President hosted the first of two break-
fasts for Democratic Members of the Senate
and House of Representatives at the White
House.
10 The President greeted members of the Busi-
ness Council at a reception at the White
House.
17 Foreign Minister Walter Scheel of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany met with the
President at the White House.
17 Gov. Daniel J. Evans of Washington met
with the President at the White House.
17 The President and the First Lady hosted
a reception for senior members of the
Armed Forces.
18 The President hosted the second of two
breakfasts for Democratic Members of the
Senate and House of Representatives at
the White House.
19 The President met at the White House
with a group of editors of Fortune maga-
zine to discuss the economy.
19 Lionel Hampton, whose jazz band is leav-
ing on a State Department sponsored tour
of Eastern Europe next month, called on
the President at the White House.
19 H. R. Rainwater, national commander of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, called on
the President at the White House.
19 The President hosted a reception in the
East Room at the White House for par-
ticipants in the National Young Republican
Leadership Training School.
22 Members of the Advisory Council for Mi-
nority Enterprise met with the President
at the White House.
February
22 Dr. Oswald Hoffmann, Lutheran Hour
speaker who visited United States troops in
South Vietnam in 1969 and again, with
Cardinal Cooke, in 1970, called on the
President at the White House.
23 Gov. John R. (Jack) Williams of Arizona
met with the President at the White House.
23 Members of the President's Science Ad-
visory Committee met with the President
at the White House.
23 The President participated in an executive
session of the National Governors' Confer-
ence at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
24 The President met with members of the
Federal Regional Councils and Chairmen
of the Federal Executive Boards who were
participating in a White House briefing.
25 The President attended the swearing in
of Thomas S. Kleppe as Administrator of
the Small Business Administration, in a
White House ceremony.
25 Felipe Herrera, President of the Inter-
American Development Bank, called on
the President at the White House.
26 Chairman Wilbur D. Mills and ranking mi-
nority member John W. Byrnes of the
House Committee on Ways and Means
breakfasted with the President at the White
House.
26 Adm. Sir Nigel Henderson of the United
Kingdom Royal Navy called on the Presi-
dent at the White House. He will be com-
pleting his term as Chairman of the NATO
Military Committee in April.
26 Winners of the Federal Woman's Award
for 1971 met with the President at the
White House.
26 Members of Undergraduates for a Stable
America (USA), a student organization
at Princeton University, called on the
President at the White House.
1249
