[394] Dec. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
our fair share of the burdens which are
involved in world leadership.
I have spoken of what the New World
owes to the Old World, and particularly
what the Americans owe to Portugal and
to France. What can the New World do,
and particularly what can America do to
repay that debt?
We can be responsible partners in the
world community. And in this Christmas.
season, with these Christmas flowers, and
on this island with the Christmas name,
Jesus Christ, we can think of a world
which we hope will be a peaceful world.
France, Portugal, the United States may
have some differences in trade, in other
areas, but we are totally united in our de-
votion to peace and in building a world in
which all nations may enjoy the blessings
of peace.
It is my sincere hope, as the President
of France and the President of the United
States meet here as guests of the Prime
Minister of Portugal, on Portuguese soil,
that our meetings will not only contribute
to the solution of our temporary economic
differences, but that in the great tradition
of our two countries, our meetings will
contribute to the cause of peace and free-
dom in the world. There would be no
better Christmas present for the world
than to have a meeting such as this, be-
tween the heads of state and heads of
government of two great nations, make
progress toward the goal of a more peace-
ful world.
It is in that spirit, in the true spirit of
Christmas, that I offer a toast to the Prime
Minister of Portugal, to the President of
Portugal, and to the President of the
French Republic.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. in
the Governor's Palace at Angra do Heroísmo on
Terceira Island, in response to toasts proposed
by Prime Minister Caetano and President
Pompidou.
In his opening remarks, President Nixon was
referring to the fact that Prime Minister
Caetano's official title was President of the
Council of Ministers of Portugal.
The Prime Minister's remarks follow:
It is to me a singular privilege to welcome
to Portuguese territory the heads of state of
two friendly nations.
In these days, so full of the worries that reflect
the birth pangs of a new world, it is good that,
from time to time, the people's leaders should
look for a small island. Small islands have about
them a mythical charm. They are a haven-
not for oblivion, but for meditation. Man needs
to know his own limits if his actions are to be
realistic and fertile, and an island is, by defini-
tion, a piece of land limited on all sides.
This island where we stand is one of the many
discovered by those Portuguese who ventured
across unknown seas aboard their frail vessels
during the 14th and the 15th centuries. These
islands were desert. The Portuguese navigators
revealed their existence, gave them names, and
added to them a human dimension.
They had to possess a lot of courage, those
fellow countrymen of mine of five centuries ago.
But they needed a good deal of imagination,
too, for the places they christened are number-
less, be it over the oceans or on the continents,
in Africa, in America, in Asia, in Oceania——
there where today the presence of Portugal is,
in many cases, still alive.
Sometimes the beauty of the new land excited
such wonder that the native lyrical talent of
the Portuguese soul would flow free, and then
the islands received names like Flores, Graciosa,
or Formosa.
At other times, his sense of the real would
lead the sailor or geographer to pick out one of
the physical traits of the place in order to name
it. But when no other way remained, Heaven
came to the rescue, and, thus, the whole calen-
dar of saints has been scattered around the
earth by the devotion of the Portuguese.
Here in this archipelago, called Azores be-
cause it was so rich in that particular species
of bird, the first island to be discovered was
piously dedicated to Saint Mary. The second
one was placed under the protection of Saint
1186
