[48] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
-A World Heritage Trust to preserve
parks and areas of unique cultural
value throughout the world
1970-A YEAR OF PROGRESS
The course of events in 1970 has in-
tensified awareness of and concern about
environmental problems. The news of
more widespread mercury pollution, late
summer smog alerts over much of the
East Coast, repeated episodes of ocean
dumping and oil spills, and unresolved
controversy about important land use
questions have dramatized with disturb-
ing regularity the reality and extent of
these problems. No part of the United
States has been free from them, and all
levels of government-Federal, State and
local-have joined in the search for solu-
tions. Indeed, there is a growing trend
in other countries to view the severity and
complexity of environmental problems
much as we do.
There can be no doubt about our grow-
ing national commitment to find solu-
tions. Last November voters approved
several billion dollars in State and local
bond issues for environmental purposes,
and Federal funds for these purposes are
at an all time high.
The program I am proposing today will
require some adjustments by governments
at all levels, by our industrial and business
community, and by the public in order
to meet this national commitment. But
as we strive to expand our national effort,
we must also keep in mind the greater
cost of not pressing ahead. The battle
for a better environment can be won, and
we are winning it. With the program I
am outlining in this message we can ob-
tain new victories and prevent problems
from reaching the crisis stage.
During 1970, two new organizations
were established to provide Federal lead-
ership for the Nation's campaign to im-
prove the environment. The Council on
Environmental Quality in the Executive
Office of the President has provided es-
sential policy analysis and advice on a
broad range of environmental problems,
developing many of our environmental
initiatives and furnishing guidance in car-
rying out the National Environmental
Policy Act, which requires all Federal
agencies to devote specific attention to
the environmental impact of their actions
and proposals. Federal pollution control
programs have been consolidated in the
new Environmental Protection Agency.
This new agency is already taking strong
action to combat pollution in air and
water and on land.
-I have requested in my 1972 budget
$2.45 billion for the programs of the
Environmental Protection Agency-
nearly double the funds appropriated
for these programs in 1971. These
funds will provide for the expansion
of air and water pollution, solid
waste, radiation and pesticide con-
trol programs and for carrying out
new programs.
In my special message on the Environ-
ment last February, I set forth a compre-
hensive program to improve existing laws
on air and water pollution, to encourage
recycling of materials and to provide
greater recreational opportunities for our
people. We have been able to institute
some of these measures by executive
branch action. While unfortunately there
was no action on my water quality pro-
posals, we moved ahead to make effective
use of existing authorities through the
Refuse Act water quality permit program
announced in December. New air pollu-
126
