[89] Mar. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
fourths of our population growth in the
last ten years came in metropolitan areas,
especially in the suburbs which grew by
more than 25 percent.
of population
This concentration
growth in already crowded areas is not a
trend that we wish to perpetuate. This
administration would prefer a more bal-
anced growth pattern-and we are tak-
ing a number of steps to encourage more
development and settlement in the less
densely populated areas of our country.
But this does not mean that we will avoid
or slight the challenge of the cities and
the suburbs. This is a highly metropolitan
nation. It must have an effective strategy
for meeting metropolitan problems.
As those problems have mounted in re-
cent years we have often responded by
creating more programs and by spending
more money. Since 1949, we have com-
mitted more than $10 billion to those
urban development programs which I
would consolidate into this Special Rev-
enue Sharing Program. We will commit
almost three times as much money to these
programs this year as we did six years ago.
While a number of good things have been
accomplished with this money, the re-
turns have still fallen far short of even the
most reasonable expectations.
On every hand we see the results of this
failure: a sorely inadequate supply of
housing and community facilities, vast
wastelands of vacant and decaying build-
ings, acre upon acre of valuable urban
renewal land lying empty and fallow, and
an estimated 24 million Americans still
living in substandard housing. Many of
our central cities—once symbols of vitality
and opportunity-have now become
places of disillusion and decay. As many
suburban neighborhoods have grown
older, they, too, have begun to deteriorate
and to take on the problems of the central
cities. Even some of the newest suburban
"subdivisions," planned and developed in
a shortsighted, haphazard manner, are
not prepared to provide essential public
services to their growing populations.
They are already on their way to becom-
ing the slums of tomorrow.
It is a sad and ironic fact that even as
America has become a more highly
urbanized nation, its cities have become
less attractive and their governments less
able to deal with their problems. Federal
assistance has failed to reverse these trends
and frequently it has compounded them.
PROBLEMS WITH THE PRESENT
SYSTEM
Just what is it that is wrong with our
present system of Federal aid? There are
two basic problems. First, Federal as-
sistance is excessively fragmented—it is
channeled through many separate and
independent grant programs. Second,
spending under each of these programs is
excessively controlled at the Federal level.
1. Fragmentation. The present system
of categorical grants-in-aid has grown up
over the years by bits and by pieces. As
each new goal or concern was articulated,
new categorical programs were set up.
Conventional urban renewal was begun
in 1949 to help acquire and clear land in
deteriorating areas and plan for its devel-
opment. Other specialized urban renewal
programs followed which focused on the
demolition of unsafe structures, on making
interim repairs in neighborhoods which
were scheduled for renewal, and on help-
ing localities enforce their own housing
codes. In 1968 a new Neighborhood De-
velopment Program was established for
funding urban renewal projects on a year-
396
