[26] Jan. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
the people themselves. And by so doing,
we can open wide the doors of human
fulfillment for millions of people here in
America now and in the years to come.
In the next few weeks I will spell out
in greater detail the way I propose that
we achieve these six great goals. I ask this
Congress to be responsive. If it is, then the
92d Congress, your Congress, our Con-
gress, at the end of its term, will be able
to look back on a record more splendid
than any in our history.
This can be the Congress that helped
us end the longest war in the Nation's
history, and end it in a way that will
give us at last a genuine chance to enjoy
what we have not had in this century:
a full generation of peace.
This can be the Congress that helped
achieve an expanding economy, with full
employment and without inflation-and
without the deadly stimulus of war.
This can be the Congress that reformed
a welfare system that has robbed recipi-
ents of their dignity and robbed States
and cities of their resources.
This can be the Congress that pressed
forward the rescue of our environment,
and established for the next generation
an enduring legacy of parks for the people.
This can be the Congress that launched
a new era in American medicine, in which
the quality of medical care was enhanced
while the costs were made
burdensome.
less
But above all, what this Congress can
be remembered for is opening the way to a
new American revolution-a peaceful
revolution in which power was turned
back to the people-in which govern-
ment at all levels was refreshed and re-
newed and made truly responsive. This
can be a revolution as profound, as far-
reaching, as exciting as that first revolu-
tion almost 200 years ago and it can
mean that just 5 years from now America
will enter its third century as a young na-
tion new in spirit, with all the vigor and
the freshness with which it began its first
century.
My colleagues in the Congress, these
are great goals. They can make the ses-
sions of this Congress a great moment for
America. So let us pledge together to go
forward together-by achieving these
goals to give America the foundation to-
day for a new greatness tomorrow and in
all the years to come, and in so doing to
make this the greatest Congress in the
history of this great and good country.
NOTE: The President delivered his address at
9 p.m. in the House Chamber at the Capitol
before a joint session of the Congress. He was
introduced by Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives Carl Albert of Oklahoma. The ad-
dress was broadcast live on radio and television.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
The White House also released the trans-
cripts of three news briefings on the President's
State of the Union proposals: the first, on Janu-
ary 25, 1971, by Senator Hugh Scott and
Representative Gerald R. Ford following a Re-
publican Congressional leadership meeting
with the President; the second, on January 27,
by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Domestic Affairs; and the third, on
February 2, by Secretary of Commerce Maurice
H. Stans, Secretary of Labor James D. Hodg-
son, and Secretary of Agriculture Clifford M.
Hardin following a meeting of the Cabinet.
58
