[195] June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
1972 budget to permit the Environmental
Protection Agency to devote an additional
$15 million to this area, more than dou-
bling the level of our previous efforts. This
expansion means that a total of six dif-
ferent techniques can be demonstrated in
partnership with industry during the next
three or four years.
b. Nuclear Breeder Reactor
Our best hope today for meeting the
Nation's growing demand for economical
clean energy lies with the fast breeder re-
actor. Because of its highly efficient use
of nuclear fuel, the breeder reactor could
extend the life of our natural uranium fuel
supply from decades to centuries, with far
less impact on the environment than the
power plants which are operating today.
For several years, the Atomic Energy
Commission has placed the highest pri-
ority on developing the liquid metal fast
breeder. Now this project is ready to move
out of the laboratory and into the demon-
stration phase with a commercial size
plant. But there still are major technical
and financial obstacles to the construction
of a demonstration plant of some 300 to
500 megawatts. I am therefore requesting
an additional $27 million in Fiscal Year
1972 for the Atomic Energy Commission's
liquid metal fast breeder reactor pro-
gram-and for related technological and
safety programs-so that the necessary
engineering groundwork for demonstra-
tion plants can soon be laid.
What about the environmental impact
of such plants? It is reassuring to know
that the releases of radioactivity from cur-
rent nuclear reactors are well within the
national safety standards. Nevertheless,
we will make every effort to see that these
new breeder reactors emit even less radio-
activity to the environment than the com-
mercial light water reactors which are
now in use.
I am therefore directing the Atomic
Energy Commission to ensure that the
new breeder plants be designed in a way
which inherently prevents discharge to
the environment from the plant's radio-
active effluent systems. The Atomic En-
ergy Commission should also take advan-
tage of the increased efficiency of these
breeder plants, designing them to mini-
mize waste heat discharges. Thermal pol-
lution from nuclear power plants can be
materially reduced in the more efficient
breeder reactors.
We have very high hopes that the
breeder reactor will soon become a key
element in the national fight against air
and water pollution. In order further to
inform the interested agencies and the
public about the opportunities in this
area, I have requested the early prepara-
tion and review by all appropriate agen-
cies of a draft environmental impact
statement for the breeder demonstration
plant in accordance with Section 102 of
the National Environmental Policy Act.
This procedure will ensure compliance
with all environmental quality standards
before plant construction begins.
In a related area, it is also pertinent to
observe that the safety record of civilian
power reactors in this country is extraor-
dinary in the history of technological ad-
vances. For more than a quarter cen-
tury-since the first nuclear chain reac-
tion took place-no member of the public
has been injured by the failure of a reac-
tor or by an accidental release of radioac-
tivity. I am confident that this record can
be maintained. The Atomic Energy Com-
mission is giving top priority to safety
considerations in the basic design of the
breeder reactor and this design will also
706
