[72] Feb. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
examine problems and solutions at the
State as well as the Federal level; and
(5) draw on the experience of other
nations in improving consumer remedies.
The purpose of this study will be to
gather those facts needed to determine the
means of gaining the greatest benefit to
consumers with the least cost to produc-
tion processes and to the country. I urge
Federal, State, local, and private bodies to
cooperate in this effort. I also ask that
recommendations to the President, the
Congress, the courts and the general pub-
lic be made within the shortest practicable
time.
FOOD AND DRUG PROGRAMS
Events in the past year have recon-
firmed the need for urgent action to insure
thorough and effective quality control
through the Food and Drug Administra-
tion over the food Americans consume
and the drugs they take.
In my message of October 30, 1969, I
called for stronger efforts in the field of
food and drug safety.
At that time I announced that the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare
had initiated a thorough study of the
Food and Drug Administration. As a re-
sult of that study, a number of manage-
ment reforms have contributed to a more
effective functioning of the FDA.
Food. During the past two years consumer
concern about the quality of certain foods
in this nation has become acute. I have
instructed the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration to develop new and better methods
for inspecting foods-domestic and im-
ported to insure that they are entirely
free from all natural or artificial con-
tamination. In addition, a major study is
under way reviewing the safety of all food
additives. Finally, because too many
Americans have no understanding of the
most basic nutritional principles, the Food
and Drug Administration has developed
programs of nutritional guidelines and
nutritional labeling. Different approaches
to labeling are presently being tested for
method and effectiveness.
Drugs. In the past year the Food and
Drug Administration has been engaged in
an extensive program to insure the effec-
tiveness of the drugs Americans use. De-
cisions have been made on some 3,000
drugs marketed between 1938 and 1962
and representing 80% of the most com-
monly prescribed drugs.
In addition, the Food and Drug Admin-
istration will expand its research efforts
aimed at insuring that all drugs available
on the market are capable of producing
the therapeutic effects claimed for them.
I have resubmitted legislation requiring
the identification coding of drug tablets
and capsules to prevent those poisonings
which result from the use of drug products
of unknown or mistaken composition.
A CONSUMER PRODUCT TEST METHODS ACT
Consumers are properly concerned with
the reliability of the information fur-
nished them about the goods they buy,
and I believe they have a right to such
information.
Accordingly, I again propose legisla-
tion aimed at stimulating product testing
in the private sector. Under this legisla-
tion, the Secretary of Commerce, through
the National Bureau of Standards, in con-
sultation with my Special Assistant for
Consumer Affairs, would identify prod-
ucts that should be tested. Competent
210
