Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 17 [61]
going to use ground forces in Laos. We
are not going to use advisers in Laos with
the South Vietnamese forces. We are not
going to use ground forces in Cambodia or
advisers in Cambodia as we have previ-
ously indicated, and we have no intention,
of course, of using ground forces in North
Vietnam. Those are limitations.
Q. I had reference to our use of
airpower.
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to
place any limitation upon the use of air-
power except, of course, to rule out a
rather ridiculous suggestion that is made
from time to time-I think the latest by
Hans Morgenthau¹that our airpower
might include the use of tactical nuclear
weapons.
As you know, Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisa-
gor, Chicago Daily News], this has been
speculated on for a period of 5 years, and
I have said for a period of 5 years that this
is not an area where the use of nuclear
weapons, in any form, is either needed or
would be wise.
As far as our airpower is concerned, it
will be directed against-and I ought to
be as precise as I was on December 10—
against those military activities which I
determine are directed against, and there-
by threaten, our remaining forces in South
Vietnam.
INCURSION INTO LAOS
[2.] Q. Can you tell us, sir-the idea
of an incursion into Laos has been under
consideration in Saigon on the military
level for some years. Why did you decide
that now is the time to do it? And second,
¹ Hans J. Morgenthau, educator and author
in the field of political science.
can you give us some kind of a status
report on how it is going and what the
prognosis is in terms of the possible enemy
resistance, what is it the intelligence
suggests?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. In looking at this
situation, I recall, as probably some of you
who were there, in 1965, that some of our
military people, and civilians for that mat-
ter, were then saying that the way to stop
the North Vietnamese infiltration into
South Vietnam was to cut the Ho Chi
Minh Trail.
It was not undertaken during the previ-
ous Administration, as I underestand,
and I can speak for this Administra-
tion-was not undertaken until now for a
reason that the South Vietnamese and, for
that matter, the United States had enough
on our plate in South Vietnam.
Laos would not have been possible had
it not been for Cambodia. Cambodia cut-
ting off one vital supply line and thereby
practically bringing enemy activity in the
southern half of South Vietnam to an
end released the South Vietnamese
forces-who, by this time, had not only
gained confidence in Cambodia but also
had additional strength-released them
for undertaking what they could not have
undertaken even 8 months ago: an incur-
sion on their own into Laos with only U.S.
air support.
The decision to do it now or, I think,
perhaps, put it this way, the decision not
to do it before, is that, one, neither the
United States nor the South Vietnamese
felt that they apparently had the capabil-
ity to do it; the second, the decision to
do it now was that based on the fact that
the South Vietnamese, because of the con-
fidence, the training they gained as a re-
sult of their actions in Cambodia, the
159
