[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
U.S. is committed by treaty, by spe-
cial political ties, or by essential U.S.
interests;
-help to reduce the need for, and like-
lihood of, U.S. military involvement
overseas;
-foster increased local initiative and
self-sufficiency;
-promote constructive political rela-
tions with foreign governments;
-support U.N. peacekeeping opera-
tions;
-reduce potential frictions by lowering
the U.S. profile abroad.
I am also requesting in the Interna-
tional Security Assistance Act authority
for $100 million for the President's For-
eign Assistance Contingency Fund for FY
1972. This would permit the administra-
tion, with due notification to the Con-
gress, to meet worldwide contingencies—
in the security, development and humani-
tarian areas in ways compatible with our
national interests. It is particularly im-
portant to have available uncommitted
funds which can be used on short notice,
when sudden crises in the international
community require us to act promptly
and decisively.
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
The United States continues to have
special national interests in particular
lower income countries. We continue to
have special capabilities in particular
functional areas. We continue to need an
effective bilateral development assistance
program.
In order to advance such a program, I
therefore propose legislation which would
authorize the creation of two new devel-
opment assistance institutions. Together
with the two created by the last Congress,
they would replace the Agency for Inter-
national Development and enable us to
develop a new approach based on the
principles outlined above.
The two I now propose to create are:
-An International Development Cor-
poration (IDC) to provide loans to
finance development projects and
programs in the lower income
countries.
-An International Development In-
stitute (IDI) to seek research break-
throughs on the key problems of
development and to administer our
technical assistance programs.
These would join two created by the
last Congress:
-The Overseas Private Investment
Corporation (OPIC) to promote the
role of private investment in the
development process.
-The Inter-American Social Develop-
ment Institute (ISDI) to provide
special attention to the social devel-
opment needs of Latin America.
The U.S. International Development
Corporation
The new IDC would administer our
bilateral lending program. The authori-
ties which I seek for it, and the operating
style which I would direct it to pursue,
would mark a major change in the U.S.
approach to development assistance.
The IDC would make loans in response
to initiatives from the lower income coun-
tries, rather than develop projects or pro-
grams on its own. It would have flexibility
to tailor its loan terms to the needs of
particular lower income countries, requir-
ing harder terms from the more advanced
and extending easier terms to the less
advanced. Today's program has limited
flexibility in this regard. Its lending
570
