Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 19 [18]
The Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs
The Executive Director of the Domestic
Council
The Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations
This memorandum establishes a Coun-
cil on International Economic Policy. I
will serve as Chairman with the addressees
as Members. In my absence, the Secretary
of State will chair meetings of the Council.
The purposes of the Council are these:
1. Achieve consistency between domestic
and foreign economic policy.
2. Provide a clear top level focus for
the full range of international economic
policy issues; deal with international eco-
nomic policies-including trade, invest-
ment, balance of payments, finance—as a
coherent whole; and consider the inter-
national economic aspects of essentially
foreign policy issues, such as foreign aid
and defense, under the general policy
guidance of the National Security Council.
3. Maintain close coordination with
basic foreign policy objectives.
An Executive Director will be desig-
nated to help the Council in its operations.
He will organize the general secretariat of
the Council and be responsible for the
staff work. He will have ready access to the
President and will initiate projects and
call upon staff resources from throughout
the Government to augment his own small
staff. In collaboration with the members
of the Council or designated individuals
at the senior political appointee level and
pursuant to the directions of the President,
his responsibilities will include:
-Develop the agenda and supporting
materials for Council meetings and
review all papers going to the
Council.
-Help develop a sense of direction,
strategy and relationship of the parts
to the whole of this problem area.
-Establish a work program, including
topics, timing and identification of
individual assignments and set up
task groups on special topics.
An Operations Group will be estab-
lished, similar to the present Under Sec-
retaries Group but replacing the work of
that Group insofar as international eco-
nomic policy is concerned. Its responsibil-
ities will include:
-Follow up on decisions reached.
-Coordination of actions of the Gov-
ernment where that is necessary.
-Review of operating problems aris-
ing out of actions of other Govern-
ments or outstanding international
economic developments.
The State Department will chair the
Operations Group. Standing or special
subcommittees may be added from time
to time. To the extent practical the Coun-
cil shall bring within its structure those
existing committees or groups presently
dealing within the scope of the Council's
work as set forth above.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was dated Janu-
ary 18, 1971, and released January 19.
41
