[245] July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
conclusion that because we have problems
in our cities, because we have problems in
crime, because we have problems some-
times with young people, and the rest,
that, first, these things are new, but sec-
ond, that this makes America an ugly
country.
Don't you
believe it. If you fly over this
country as we did today and look down on
the beauty of this land, if you look at a
great audience of Americans of both
political parties, see them sitting here as
you are, listening to the President of the
United States so attentively as you have,
then you would say, as I say: This is a
beautiful country, and we have the great
privilege of having the opportunity to
make it even more beautiful for the gen-
erations to come.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:20 p.m.
An advance text of his remarks was re-
leased on the same day.
246 Statement About Senate Approval of the Emergency
August 2, 1971
Loan Guarantee Act.
THE Senate's decision to approve a Gov-
ernment guarantee for a $250 million
private bank loan to the Lockheed Cor-
poration is in the best interests of all the
American people. I greet this vote—as I
greeted the vote in the House of Repre-
sentatives last week-with gratitude and
deep satisfaction.
This action will save tens of thousands
of jobs that would otherwise have been
eliminated. It will have a major impact
on the economy of California, and will
contribute greatly to the economic
strength of the country as a whole. It will
help ensure that the Nation's largest de-
fense contractor, and its largest airframe
manufacturer, will continue serving the
Nation's needs. It will also help ensure
that this country will continue to play a
leading role in the development of aero-
space technology.
The bill which the Senate has approved
is the same measure I recommended to
the Congress several weeks ago. I would
emphasize again that it provides no Fed-
eral dollars to the Lockheed Corporation;
it merely provides a Government guar-
antee for a loan which will be made en-
tirely through private institutions.
Both Houses of the Congress have
deliberated carefully upon this matter,
and they have acted in a prudent and far-
sighted manner. I appreciate what they
have done, and I congratulate them for
their decision.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (H.R. 8432) was
approved by the President on August 9, 1971,
and is Public Law 92-70 (85 Stat. 178).
846
