Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 26 [151]
ment of the United States sent millions
of dollars to help those who were suffer-
ing from the flood.
"I want to do something to help
people."
Let's look at the facts. Here is the simple
truth: There is no government agency
and no philanthropy, no foundation, no
voluntary organization that has done as
much to help people as the private enter-
prise system of the United States of
America.
Now it doesn't get the credit, of course.
There is no message stamped on every
welfare check that reads, "This comes to
you from the taxes raised from the private
enterprise system." Because a government
is the distributor of wealth, many recipi-
ents make the mistake of thinking that
government is the producer of wealth, and
nothing could be further from the truth.
What we need today is to take a lot
more pride in the system that makes it
possible for us to be the most generous and
the most compassionate nation, not only
to our own people but to other people on
the face of the world.
The system that has delivered more
self-respect to more human beings than
any other system devised by man deserves
to be treated with more respect itself. And
that is why I have throughout my public
life-and I shall continue to do all that I
can in my present office to preserve the
economic freedom that built this Nation,
because that economic freedom enables
us to do good things. That is what we must
remember.
And finally today, I want to tell this
great organization and all of your millions
of members out across, through the main
streets of America, you can be confident
of this: The dignity of work, which is
so much a part of the character of the
American people, is not about to be re-
placed by the indignity of welfare in the
United States.
As I told President Shumway before we
came in, I realize some differences of
opinion have been expressed by the
Chamber with regard to the welfare re-
form proposal that I have submitted to
the Congress. But just so you understand
what the principles are that underlie that
proposal, what I am trying to accomplish
through its adoption, let me set forth
those principles, what I believe we should
try to achieve in our government
programs.
First, I believe that human welfare is
too important to be left to the Welfare
Staters. This is a nation with a con-
science--I believe that; you all believe
it-and that conscience demands that we
see to it that the handicapped, the de-
pendent, those in need, those who cannot
help themselves, are given what they need
as generously as possible to lead lives of de-
cency and self-respect.
Because I believe in human dignity, I
am fighting for a total overhaul of the
demeaning welfare system, to provide a
floor of income under every dependent
family with children in the United States.
And for that very same reason-because
I believe in human dignity-I am against
a guaranteed annual wage. I am against
any scheme that makes it more profitable
for an able-bodied person not to work
than to work.
You do no favor to a person when you
help him when he could help himself, be-
cause you deny him the opportunity to de-
velop the capacity to help himself. When
you
make it possible for able-bodied men
and women to get welfare, you make it
impossible for those people to get ahead
in life. If we were to underwrite every-
585
