[208] June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
beautiful country. We have the great
privilege of making it even more beautiful.
And I conclude also by saying thank
you very much for reminding me of why
my mother loved this land so much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:45 p.m. at
the Jennings County Courthouse, Vernon, Ind.
The dedication ceremony was sponsored by the
Jennings County High School Chapter of the
Junior Historical Society.
Charles Hurley was principal of the Jen-
nings County High School.
209 Remarks at a Dinner Honoring Dr. Frederick L.
Hovde on His Retirement as President of
Purdue University. June 24, 1971
Mr. Toastmaster, Governor Whitcomb,
Secretary Hardin, Secretary Richardson,
Mayor Lugar, all of the distinguished
guests here at the head table, and all of
the guests and friends of Purdue and of
Fred Hovde:
I was just thinking as I heard that num-
ber how nice it would sound in the Rose
Bowl some time.ยน
I understand that my remarks are going
to delay your dinner, so I will make them
brief. But I appreciated the opportunity
that was extended to me to attend this
dinner to pay my respects, speaking for
all of the people of the United States, to
a great university and to one of our truly
great educational leaders in America. I
do speak for all the people of the United
States in this capacity, and I do so with
great feeling and a certain amount of
experience with regard to the role of this
university in America, and the role of this
man for his country in many capacities,
and also with this university.
You know, when you speak about a
man, you learn a lot of things about him
you
didn't know. I knew before that Fred
Hovde, back in 1928, played with Bronko
Nagurski, and that he was so good that he
ยน The President was referring to "Hail Pur-
due," played at his request by the Purdue Cere-
monial Band just prior to his remarks.
scored more points even than Nagurski.
He was the leading scorer in the Big Ten.
Unfortunately, he was playing for Minne-
sota, rather than Purdue, that year.
Nevertheless, he was an All-American,
so that impressed me a great deal, never
having made the team myself-at Whit-
tier. [Laughter]
I knew, too, that he had been a Rhodes
Scholar, and anyone who could be an All-
American and then go on and be a Rhodes
Scholar has to have a wonderful combina-
tion of brains and physical ability.
I knew, too, of his service in World
War II in the most secret projects against
the Nazis, service that perhaps could not
even now be talked of in declassified terms
because it was of such a highly important
nature, and service that only a man with
his background was able to perform. Only
a very few were chosen, and because of
what they did, the war was made shorter
and victory came sooner, and he was one
who helped.
I know, too, that he has done many
other things. I have served on a board
with him of one of the great mutual funds.
And I know his business experience and
the value of his counsel and the wisdom
that I saw in those years that I served with
him on that board.
These are personal recollections that I
774
