[130] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
land, and that the corporation which
manages these assets shall be entirely
Native controlled. The Federation of
course retains its freedom to advocate still
further positions before the Congress.
I congratulate Secretary Morton on
this new bill, and I am particularly
pleased at the success of the consultative
process which also involved Mr. Don
Wright, the president of the Alaska Fed-
eration of Natives, the Vice President,
and Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska.
NOTE: The bill was introduced as H.R. 7432
and S. 1571.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the pro-
posed legislation by Senator Ted Stevens of
Alaska, Secretary of the Interior Rogers C. B.
Morton, and Donald R. Wright, president,
Alaska Federation of Natives.
131 Toasts of the President and Ambassador Guillermo
Sevilla-Sacasa of Nicaragua at a Dinner Honoring the
Chiefs of Mission of the Americas. April 6, 1971
Mr. Secretary of State, Ambassador
Sevilla-Sacasa, Your Excellencies:
This is a very special dinner tonight in
the State Dining Room, special because
of those who attended and special because
of the relationship we have.
Speaking of a special relationship, I
know that you, as members of the diplo-
matic corps, watch every word and every
phrase that whoever is President may
utter. And you notice that from time to
time we refer to the special relationship
that the United States has with Great
Britain. It is a special relationship because
of common situations with regard to lan-
guage, the common law, our system of
debate in Parliament, and so forth.
Tonight, I do not refer to a special
relationship. I refer to something that is
more meaningful, a personal relationship,
a very personal relationship with so many
of
you here personally, to all of the people
of your countries, and to the American
family of which we are all members.
We are glad that we speak tonight, not
just of Latin America but of Canada and
the Caribbean, the whole American
family, la familia americana.
And in speaking of that personal rela-
tionship, I know that there must be times
when you must wonder, as representatives
of your country, about the interest the
United States seems to have-as we must
have, because our interests must be in the
areas where the problems seem to be the
greatest at the moment-the interests we
have in the Mideast, in Europe, in Asia,
in Africa, and that perhaps we do not seem
to express often enough the interest we
have and the feeling that we have in our
hearts for our closest friends, our closest
neighbors.
I want to try to express that feeling
tonight, express it in very personal terms,
not about each of you personally here-
the time would not permit that—but
about our own experience.
As the Ambassador from Mexico knows,
and as many of you know, my wife and I
spent 2 weeks in Mexico on our wedding
trip. We went back there 25 years later
with our two daughters.
And as a Californian, we have a very
personal and special feeling about the
common tradition that we in California
share with our neighbors to the south, in
Mexico and all the other countries.
Some of you may not know that in 1941,
508
