[384] Dec. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
pointed out when I first made this pro-
posal, "the control of these funds is shared
by employers, unions, banks, insurance
companies, and many others." Most of
these funds are honestly and effectively
managed. But on occasion, some are not.
By requiring administrators to manage
such funds exclusively in the interest of
the employee beneficiaries, the proposed
law would provide a Federal remedy
against carelessness, conflict of interest,
and a range of corrupt practices.
The proposed law would also broaden
reporting and disclosure requirements and
strengthen investigatory and enforcement
powers. There would be no interference,
however, with State laws which now regu-
late the insurance, banking and securities
fields.
It was 21 months ago that I asked the
Congress "to give urgent priority to the
Employee Benefits Protection Act." I
described it then as an action which "fur-
ther expands my program to protect the
American worker as he works, when he
is out of work, and after his working
career is over." I now renew my request
for action in this field--and am resubmit-
ting this legislation in slightly revised form
so that it will be even more effective. I
urge that the Congress act promptly.
There is no excuse for further
procrastination.
5. I have directed the Departments of
Labor and the Treasury to undertake a
one-year study to determine the extent of
benefit losses under pension plans which
are terminated.
When a pension plan is terminated, an
employee participating in it can lose all or
a part of the benefits which he has long
been relying on, even if his plan is fully
vested. The extent to which terminations
occur, the number of workers who are
affected, and the degree to which they are
harmed are questions about which we now
have insufficient information. This infor-
mation is needed in order to determine
what Federal policy should be on questions
such as funding, the nature of the
employer's liability, and
and termination
insurance.
Even the best data now available in
this field is itself incomplete and question-
able. It was gathered for the period from
1955 to 1965 and it indicates that less than
one-tenth of one percent of all workers
then covered by pension plans were af-
fected by terminations in any given year.
It should also be noted that some workers
who are affected by terminations may not
actually lose their benefits. The wrong
solution to the terminations problem could
do more harm than good by raising unduly
the cost of pension plans for the many
workers who are not adversely affected by
terminations.
Nevertheless, even one worker whose
retirement security is destroyed by the
termination of a plan is one too many. It is
important, therefore, that the nature and
scope of this problem be carefully and
thoroughly investigated. I have directed
the Departments of Labor and the Treas-
ury to complete their study within one
year.
The proposals which I offer today
would enhance substantially the retire-
ment security of America's work force.
Those who are not members of group pen-
sion plans and those who have only limited
coverage would be encouraged to obtain
individual coverage on their own. The
self-employed would have an incentive to
1172
