Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 24 [339]
eted empire nor sought to rule any peo-
ple. From the beginning, to live in peace
has been one of the most fervently held
goals of the American people.
But, while we have sought peace, we
have also understood that where peace
cannot be kept with liberty, it cannot be
kept at all. As Pericles himself noted, hap-
piness depends on being free, and free-
dom depends on being courageous.
When freedom was challenged, Amer-
icans fought. They fought to preserve for
other generations a land of liberty and
justice for all, and they preserved it with
the old dream of peace.
As we look back on our history, we see
that there have been thinkers and builders,
poets and prophets, statesmen and philos-
ophers-men and women with tomorrow
on their minds. All helped to create Amer-
ica. But none have been more important
than those who defended our Nation-
nor are any more important today. It is
to our veterans that we owe the final
debt for America's greatness, and we in-
tend to pay that debt.
Many veterans of World War II and
Korea were educated under the GI bill.
Today we continue to bear part of the
cost of educating our returning veterans,
and already more than 22 million young
Vietnam-era veterans have taken ad-
vantage of this benefit.
The coming of peace and the con-
version from a wartime to a peacetime
economy have contributed to the problem
of unemployment by already eliminating
more than 2 million defense-oriented jobs.
As we complete the transition to a peace-
time economy, let us all, as Americans,
join in this commitment: to do all that
we can do to insure that those who have
borne the burdens of war are not made,
because of their sacrifice, to bear dispro-
portionately the burdens of the peace they
are winning.
To help prevent this, I directed Sec-
retary Hodgson on June 11 to institute
a special six-point program to provide in-
creased employment and training oppor-
tunities for veterans. I am happy to report
that during July and August alone, more
than 121,000 Vietnam-era veterans were
placed in jobs or in training for jobs. Be-
yond these programs, each of us in his
own community must also hold out a
helping hand to those who have served
America.
In addition to jobs and education, we
have taken comprehensive steps to pro-
vide the best medical care possible, in-
cluding treatment for drug users. Other
benefits have also been increased; the
budget for veterans and dependents in
1972 is nearly $11 billion.
But the most appropriate tribute to
America's veterans would be to accom-
plish the secure and lasting peace for
which they fought, and for which their
comrades died. On this Veterans Day,
1971, we have a greater opportunity to
build a lasting peace than at any time in
this century. We have before us the best
chance in this century to make the present
generation of American war veterans the
last generation of American war veterans.
In the past 22 years we have made
positive steps toward that goal:
We have ratified a treaty to halt the
further proliferation of nuclear weapons.
We have signed a treaty barring the
use of the seabeds for implanting nuclear
weapons.
We have renounced the use of biologi-
cal and toxin weapons.
We have had significant progress and
1063
