Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 1 [81]
a table model radio that you can buy in
any store in America that is made in the
United States of America. Reason: The
industry, insofar as that particular type of
production is concerned, is no longer
competitive.
Now, that doesn't mean that America
is ready to become a second-class country
economically, from the standpoint of busi-
ness or in any other way. It simply means
that in the world in which we live, as the
other great industrial nations-the great
industrial nations of Europe, and Japan
in Asia-as they have recovered from the
ravages of World War II, as they have de-
veloped their own economies, that they
have become highly competitive in a num-
ber of ways.
There is one area, however, where the
United States is far ahead, where we have
an advantage over every other nation of
the world, and it is in the area of
agriculture.
you
It was interesting to note-and I think,
George [Secretary Romney], that and
Maury [Secretary Stans] and Cliff Hardin
were all as impressed as I was with the
fact that a group of businessmen who were
on the productivity commission and the
productivity council made the point that
American agriculture, in terms of growths
and increases in productivity, had the best
record of any segment of the American.
economy.
Now, what does that mean? First, it
means that American agriculture is highly
competitive in the world. Proof: Last
year, one-fifth of everything produced and
grown in America was exported. This
year, one-fourth of everything grown in
America was exported.
Another indication of proof is that at a
time when we are having problems with
our balance of payments, with keeping our
export balances up as compared with the
imports that come in, we exported last
year $7.2 billion worth of agricultural
commodities.
We were able to export them because
agriculture is highly competitive and
highly efficient in the United States of
America.
And, of course, the best proof in terms
of the housewife in America is this: We
hear a lot about the costs of food, and, of
course, the farmer is concerned as he
might well be concerned about the decline
in farm income.
Parenthetically, we are glad to note that
at least while farm income isn't as high
as farmers naturally would want it to be,
and while it cannot be said that farmers
share adequately in America's increasing
growth in productivity, at least farm in-
come, according to Cliff Hardin, at least
the situation is better now than it was 2
or 3 months ago.
And we trust that that trend will
continue.
But let's look at it in terms of the
American housewife. We all know that we
are the best fed people in the world. We
also know that as far as the American
housewife is concerned, she spends a
smaller percentage of her budget on food
than any other housewife in any major
country of the world, or for that matter,
in any other country in the world, I think
I could safely say.
Therefore, these facts which need to be
brought home to the American people,
not just a group of sophisticated farm
experts, as you are all experts, but need
to be brought home to people in the cities
as well as on the farms, as to what we
owe to the strong, vibrant, highly produc-
tive farm economy, indicate what our
stake is to keep it productive. One, it is
363
