[301] Sept. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
parts of the country, in Oregon.
On this particular occasion, with Gov-
ernor McCall here, and Senator Pack-
wood, Senator Hatfield, Congressman
Wyatt, Congressman Dellenback, I think
it is well for me to mention just briefly,
because there are so many young people,
the purpose of the trip that I am taking
to Alaska tomorrow.
This will be a very historic event. It is
the first time that the Emperor of Japan
has ever left his country. It will be the first
time in history that a President of the
United States has ever met with the
Emperor of Japan.
Now, as I mention that particular
thing, I think that has significance to all of
us who are concerned about the future
of the Pacific, in which Oregon and Wash-
ington and California have such a great
interest, and the future of peace in the
world.
Just today I have signed into law, and
the statement is being issued in Portland—
I think it is quite significant that it is is-
sued here, because it had very strong
support from Senator Hatfield, Senator
Packwood, and the Members of the Con-
gress that I have mentioned, and also by
Tom McCall, your Governor-I have
signed the bill passed by the Congress,
with the support of the Administration,
which abolished the detention camps
which concerned many people.
Let me tell you that those camps were
used only in the period when the Japanese
were at war with the United States. It
was not a period of the United States that
we were particularly proud of, even
though that was a very difficult period for
us. But let me say this: When we think of
the fact that now the President of the
United States is meeting with the Em-
peror of Japan for the first time in his-
tory, let all the young people here
particularly think what that means.
Do you realize that since World War II
has ended, over half the people in this
world have been born? Putting it another
way, 60 percent of everybody living in the
world today was born since World War II.
Now, what does that mean?
It means that we have great opportuni-
ties for peace in the world today. It means
that we can build a new world, a new
world with a new generation that did not
know that war, and it is for that reason
that the meeting between the President of
the United States and the Emperor of
Japan will underline these facts: It will
underline the fact, first, that these two
great peoples are going to be competitors
in the world, and we are; but it also under-
lines another fact, that it is indispensable
that we be friends.
I would only hope that the meeting of
the Emperor of Japan and the President
of the United States will mean for future
generations that Japan and the United
States will always be friends and never
enemies in the future, and that means
peace in the Pacific.
Now, let me put this in a larger con-
text. We are ending now the war, the
longest, most difficult war in the Nation's
history. Now the question is: What about
the future for these young people? Are
they going to have to go through what
every generation in this century has gone
through? Did you realize there has not
been a generation in this century that
hasn't known a war-World War I,
World War II, Korea, and then Viet-
nam?
That is why we are working for, and
we are working here-perhaps sometimes
we take different roads, but we all have
the same goal, the Senators from this
984
