[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
victims is characterized in the future by
high efficiency as well as great generosity.
PROTECTION OF ENDANGERED SPECIES
It is hardly tolerable that mankind
should permit, much less cause, the ex-
tinction of fish and wildlife species. Yet,
for a number of species, that is the stark
prospect. For two reasons, international
cooperation is required to prevent it. First,
these creatures move without respect to
national boundaries and cannot, there-
fore, be completely protected through
national action. Second, the economic
demand in other countries for wildlife
species, both living animals and their
products, has often nullified the protective
efforts of individual nations of origin.
Our Endangered Species Conservation
Act of 1969 was a singular step forward
in this field. To be fully effective, however,
there must be similar controls in other
countries. In the next year, therefore, the
United States will propose and seek
broad adherence to an international con-
vention on conservation of endangered
species.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Science and technology are central to
the problems of national defense, to the
vigor of our own and the world economy,
and to the improvement of the quality of
life on this planet. They are basic tools in
the effort to narrow the gap between the
richer and the poorer nations.
Basic research is the source of the knowl-
edge from which scientific and techno-
logical benefits flow to mankind. Research
is one of mankind's great adventures. Its
rules are as unequivocal and uncompro-
mising as the laws of nature. Research is
a unique and universally understood
medium of discourse among those who
practice it.
It is settled U.S. policy to encourage in-
ternational cooperation in basic science.
I have requested additional funds for our
basic science agency, the National Science
Foundation, to enable it to intensify its
international activities. The Foundation
already administers several bilateral pro-
grams of scientific cooperation (with
Australia, Japan, Italy, and the Republic
of China). Others are beginning. Among
these are our programs of cooperation
with Romania and Yugoslavia, which are
important fruits of the revitalized political
relationship we now enjoy with those two
countries.
Closely allied to basic research is our
national policy on technology exchange.
The United States' preeminence in both
fields faces us with a policy question as to
how far we should share the fruits of our
research and technology. There
There are
obvious security implications in many
technological developments, for example
in the nuclear and space fields.
One approach for serving this security
interest is the "Maginot Line" concept
which attempts to restrict the transfer of
expertise to other nations. It is based on
the view that technological preeminence
is a national asset to be guarded jealously
from others. Another approach is to view
our preeminence as an asset to be invested
in building effective partnerships with
other nations to create a world pattern
of open sharing of scientific and techno-
logical knowledge.
Only the latter is a viable policy. For
human knowledge is not truly subject to
being hoarded. As I said in last year's
338
