Richard Nixon, 1971
June 17 [203]
sults. This evaluation would be tied to
the planning process so that knowledge
about success/failure results could guide
the selection of future plans and priorities.
In addition to the inter-agency agree-
ment and Program Plan approach de-
scribed above, the Office would have
direct authority to let grants or make con-
tracts with industrial, commercial, or non-
profit organizations. This authority would
be used in specific instances where there
is no appropriate Federal agency prepared
to undertake a program, or where for
some other reason it would be faster,
cheaper, or more effective to grant or
contract directly.
Within the broad mission of the Spe-
cial Action Office, the Director would set
specific objectives for accomplishment
during the first three years of Office activ-
ity. These objectives would target such
areas as reduction in the overall national
rate of drug addiction, reduction in drug-
related deaths, reduction of drug use in
schools, impact on the number of men
rejected for military duty because of drug
abuse, and so forth. A primary objective
of the Office would be the development of
a reliable set of social indicators which
accurately show the nature, extent, and
trends in the drug abuse problem.
These specific targets for accomplish-
ment would act to focus the efforts of the
drug abuse prevention program, not on
intermediate achievements such as num-
bers of treatments given or educational
programs conducted, but rather on ulti-
mate "payoff" accomplishments in the
reduction of the human and social costs
of drug abuse. Our programs cannot be
judged on the fulfillment of quotas and
other bureaucratic indexes of accomplish-
ment. They must be judged by the number
of human beings who are brought out of
the hell of addiction, and by the number
of human beings who are dissuaded from
entering that hell.
I urge the Congress to give this proposal
the highest priority, and I trust it will do
so. Nevertheless, due to the need for im-
mediate action, I am issuing today, June
17, an Executive Order [11599] estab-
lishing within the Executive Office of
the President a Special Action Office for
Drug Abuse Prevention. Until the Con-
gress passes the legislation giving full au-
thority to this Office, a Special Consultant
to the President for Narcotics and Dan-
gerous Drugs will institute to the extent
legally possible the functions of the Spe-
cial Action Office.
REHABILITATION: A NEW PRIORITY
When traffic in narcotics is no longer
profitable, then that traffic will cease. In-
creased enforcement and vigorous appli-
cation of the fullest penalties provided by
law are two of the steps in rendering
narcotics trade unprofitable. But as long
as there is a demand, there will be those
willing to take the risks of meeting the
demand. So we must also act to destroy
the market for drugs, and this means the
prevention of new addicts, and the re-
habilitation of those who are addicted.
To do this, I am asking the Congress
for a total of $105 million in addition to
funds already contained in my 1972
budget to be used solely for the treatment
and rehabilitation of drug-addicted
individuals.
I will also ask the Congress to provide
an additional $10 million in funds to in-
crease and improve education and train-
ing in the field of dangerous drugs. This
743
