Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 4 [349]
Let us raise our glasses to the Prime
Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:01 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Prime Minister Gandhi responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished
guests:
This room is indeed full of history, as in-
deed is this house in which we are today. This
house has been the home of many great men
whose ideas and actions have influenced
events far beyond the boundaries of the United
States.
I remember how thrilled I felt when I was
a small girl, when my father first introduced
me to the stirring words of Lincoln and Jef-
ferson. Much has happened in the world since
those days, many ups and many downs. But
certain ideas and certain ideals have helped
people get together.
I think, although there is so much dif-
ference between your country and mine-many
miles of land and oceans separate us-but there
is also much in common between our two peo-
ples. We are both large societies, composed of
diverse ethnic elements, proud of our regional
diversity, resentful of imposed uniformity. Our
peoples are friendly and generous, wanting to
be liked, quick to give expression to their feel-
ings, and equally ready to forgive.
Naturally, there have been differences of
assessment and emphasis. And since our peo-
ple and our legislatures live by speaking out,
there have been moments of awkward candor.
But let us also remember that in both our so-
cieties the most forthright critics are within
ourselves.
I think that a functioning democracy con-
verts this weakness into strength. During our
fifth general elections last March, to which
you referred so generously, Mr. President, our
people demonstrated the ability of the demo-
cratic process to find answers to national prob-
lems. They gave the nation a clear and
coherent sense of direction, a renewed self-
confidence in and a fresh impetus to our long
struggle against poverty.
The instability of the 1960's which had
enervated our growth was overcome. Our
plans of development have benefited by the
long-range capital assistance and food aid so
generously given by your country. Foreign aid
is important because of its direct economic
contribution and also as a symbol of the in-
volvement of advanced nations and, most espe-
cially, of the United States in the developing
world.
But the effort towards progress in our coun-
try is overwhelmingly and increasingly that of
the labor and sacrifice of our own people.
Today we are self-sufficient in food grain.
Net foreign credits constitute a small but useful
part of our resources. All this was achieved not
easily, and though we smiled through these
years, you know, Mr. President, how very
difficult they were for India.
There was the drought during which many
people thought we just would not survive. But
it was that very time that we used to intro-
duce our new agricultural strategy which today
has made us self-sufficient.
You spoke of our elections. They were not
easily won. I was telling Mrs. Nixon just now
that in 43 days-we had a very short time at
our disposal because we decided to hold them
I year, or more than a year, a year and a
quarter earlier than we need have because
we were just tired of people telling us, "You
are the minority government. You have no
right to do this, you have no right to do that."
We said, "All right, let's have elections."
In 43 days I traveled 36,000 miles. I had
375 meetings, all over 100,000 people, some
200,000 or 250,000. This was one person's effort
but it also naturally needed the efforts of
thousands-hundreds and thousands-of other
people. Why we won the elections was not
merely because of our effort, but because we
were able to convince the people who are in a
majority-the poor people, the smaller busi-
nessman, the smaller farmer, those who had
been underprivileged, the minorities, and,
above all, the young people of all classes--that
we had something to offer which others did
not.
So, the campaign became not a campaign
of a political party, but a campaign of the peo-
ple. And some of our workers, as perhaps I
don't know what happens in the States--but
not all our workers were equally enthusiastic
about all our candidates.
THE PRESIDENT. It is the same. [Laughter]
THE PRIME MINISTER. So, in many places,
although in some places naturally we thought
1083
