[297] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
of Economic Advisers, one of the archi-
tects of the new economic policy, Dr. Paul
McCracken.¹
And third, from the Congress of the
United States, first the Republican Leader
of the House, Congressman Gerald Ford
from Michigan, a man who has been of
enormous assistance to this Administra-
tion in some of the very close and tough
fights we have had on some legislation
that seems to have been of great interest
to the Nation as well as to the people of
Michigan.
Then, on the other side of the Capitol,
the man who has served as the whip, the
second ranking Republican of the United
States Senate on the Republican side,
Senator Bob Griffin.
Since this is the motor capital of the
world with some interest in what is going
to happen to the excise tax on automo-
biles, I want this audience to know that
of all of the people in the House and the
Senate who talked to me about that—and
some did quite often-he was the most
influential of all. We give him the major
credit.
Now I would also, of course, on this
occasion point out that it would be hard
to find from any State of the Union four
men who have made a greater contri-
bution to this Administration than those
that I have just named from the State of
Michigan.
We appreciate what the State of Mich-
¹ On November 24, 1971, the White House
released the transcript of remarks by Press
Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler, Dr. McCracken,
and Dr. Herbert Stein, member, Council of
Economic Advisers, announcing the resignation
of Dr. McCracken and the designation of Dr.
Stein as the new Chairman of the Council. The
remarks are printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p.
1561).
igan has done for this Administration and
the Nation in the personage of these four
men.
I also tonight would like to be able to
thank the State of Michigan for sending
us Alex Karras.2 [Laughter] George
Allen, incidentally, the coach of the Red-
skins and an old friend of mine from Los
Angeles days, asked me to give him his
regards; I didn't realize this was going to
be a mixed audience, so I can't pass them
on at this point.
But I do know this: that I noted with
interest that before the game with St.
Louis last Sunday, that Alex Karras
pointed out that he didn't want to go to a
team that was a noncontender and didn't
have a passer. After what Washington
did to St. Louis I can only say this: We
have lost the Senators, but watch out for
the Redskins!
Now, with that we will go to the
questions.
QUESTIONS
POLICY ON WAGE-PRICE CONTROL
[2.] And I turn first to the right, to
Mr. Aymond.
Q. Mr. President, this is the first ques-
tion: It has been reported that you will
announce the Administration position on
Phase 2 of wage-price controls by mid-
October. It does not seem appropriate to
inquire into the nature of those controls
at this time, but this question is concerned
with longer term considerations.
2 Alex Karras, defensive tackle for the Detroit
Lions professional football team, had 2 years
remaining on a no-cut contract when he was
dropped from the playing squad. George Allen
offered him a chance to play with the Wash-
ington Redskins professional football team, but
Karras declined the offer.
966
