Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
how do we get more jobs in America, how
does our system really work?
Now, first with regard to our freeze,
when you control prices and costs there is
automatically some control on profits.
Second, when there is control of prices
and costs, the only way that there can be
more profits is for the industry involved
to expand-and that means more jobs
and we think that is good.
Now, the second point that should be
borne in mind is who are those who get
the profits, who benefits from profits?
Well, first the Government is the major
beneficiary. One dollar of every two in
corporate profits goes to the Government.
We would not have the money, for ex-
ample, for education, to help the poor,
the poverty programs, all the rest, unless
it were the fact that we had profits of
which 50 percent go to the Federal Gov-
ernment for its taxes.
Then there are 100 million Americans
who share in profits, either as stockhold-
ers, as members of mutual funds, or who
are beneficiaries of profits in one way or
another. And beyond that, the major rea-
son that profits are essential to a strong
growing economy is this: Where are jobs
going to come from? How is it going to
be possible for the American worker who
receives and we hope this will always be
the case the highest wage in the world,
real wage, approximately twice as much
as his next competitor in the world, how
is it going to be possible for him to com-
pete with other workers in the world?
Only if he has the equipment and the
machinery, the organization that gives
him a competitive advantage over those
from abroad.
Where do we get that? It is only
through profits that industry can buy the
new plant, the new equipment that will
make our workers more productive and
therefore more competitive in the world.
And so putting it quite bluntly, let me
say I am for profits because I believe that
more profits means more jobs. And at this
particular time we need more jobs.
It is very easy to say let's control profits,
let's limit profits, let's have an excess
profits tax, and, of course, the argument
for saying that is that you are taking care
of the big man and helping the little man.
But when you really look at what makes
this economy work, when you really look
at what produces jobs, it comes from
profits being plowed back into industry
and making American workers thereby
more competitive, and thereby producing
more jobs.
And I am for that, and I think every
American would be for it if he understood
it that way.
PROFIT LIMITATION
[5] I will turn to Mr. Younglove.
Q. Mr. President, I was told we could
interrupt.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. I would just like to say this: I am
sure that the labor movement and the
leaders of the labor movement want to see
companies and corporations make good
profits, but we are concerned about the
corporations that make fantastic profits
such as-let's take the finance industry. I
don't know what productivity the finance
industry gives to the American people ex-
cept huge profits to themselves. And also
take the drug industry. Again, here is an
industry that makes fantastic profits, and
I could go on with many other ones.
It just seems to me that this is where
we are talking about-the labor move-
ment feels that if there was going to be a
969
