[61] Feb. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. My action in case
that happened and I do not believe it
will happen-but my action will be guided
by the same principles that I have laid
down before. I would use the power of
the United States, and particularly its
power in the air, to the extent that I con-
sider it necessary to protect our remaining
forces in South Vietnam.
We have a considerable number of
forces, as you know, on the DMZ. The
blocking forces along Route 9, before you
get to the border of Laos, are primarily
American. I will not allow those forces
to be endangered by a massive North
Vietnamese incursion, if one should be
undertaken. I think the very fact that
the North Vietnamese know that I intend
to take strong action to deal with that in-
cursion means that they are not going to
take it. If they do, I can assure you that—
I don't want to assure you, I simply want
to have the record clear that I would not
be bound, of course, by any so-called un-
derstandings, which they have already
violated, at the time of the bombing halt.
THE PRESIDENT. In the one case, the
laws on the books deal, as they properly
should, with human rights, the rights of
an individual to buy a house or an apart-
ment, or rent a house or an apartment and
not be barred because of his racial or
religious or other background.
In the other case, what we are talking
about is an economic consideration hav-
ing to do primarily with the zoning.
Now, where this is involved, it seems to
me a clear distinction. The law does not
require, and if it does not require, in my
opinion, does not allow the Federal Gov-
ernment to use its monetary and other
power, coercive power, for the purpose of
changing the economic pattern of a
neighborhood.
I think what the law does require is that
there be open neighborhoods. The law
does not require that the Federal Govern-
ment step in and provide in a neighbor-
hood the type of housing that an indi-
vidual could afford to move into. That is
the difference, as I see it.
INTEGRATION POLICY
[13] Q. Mr. President, a few minutes
ago in response to Mr. O'Rourke's
[Lawrence M. O'Rourke, Philadelphia
Bulletin] question, you referred to your
views on forced integration, a word which
you said you have used before.
I am a little puzzled by the distinction
between forced integration and enforce-
ment of the laws which are on the books
which you, as you properly said, were
pledged to enforce, those laws against
discrimination.
Where does this line come between
those two concepts in your mind?
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DISCUSSIONS
[14] Q. Mr. President, when Secre-
tary Hodgson went back down to Florida,
did he carry any message from you, harsh,
gentle, or otherwise?
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Hodgson
had a long discussion with me and with
other leaders in the Administration prior
to his going down. We developed a plan
and we also gave him several options
which he could discuss with the leaders of
the labor unions. He is a very persuasive
man.
I am not going to concede that he struck
out until he tells me so himself. But if he
has, then we will be up to bat.
166
