[326] Oct. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
of America, they do not vote Democrat or
Republican or partisan; they vote Amer-
ican, and that is what we need in this
country. So I pay my respects to two mem-
bers of the Democratic Party who have
served this State and served this Nation
well in their service. One is the Whip of
the Senate; one is the longtime leader of
the Senate-Bob Byrd and Jennings
Randolph.
Now, to my friend Harley Staggers, I
know what this festival must mean to him
on this day: to think last year his daughter
was the queen, on other occasions two of
his daughters have been princesses, and
his fourth daughter was the vice president
of the student body of the University of
West Virginia, and the university, the
Mountaineers, as you know, furnished
our fine ROTC color guard today. I look
at Harley Staggers. Here in his family, he
has a queen, he has two princesses, he has
a vice president, and he is just a
Congressman.
Now, I think that the man of the family
should have the top rank. I cannot suggest
that he be the President-I have that
job—but I think that today we ought to
make Harley Staggers king, king for today
at least, so that he can rank in his own
family.
you
Now I have perhaps one other surprise
for you. It might have been covered in the
papers, but many of have been read-
ing about a long journey that I will be
taking in the near future which will take
me to Mainland China-the first time that
a President of the United States has visited
that country in which a fourth of all the
people of the world live.
Since I have been President, I have
traveled to 50 States. As a matter of fact,
I have traveled a quarter of a million
miles and never had a bad landing. Also,
I have traveled to 24 countries. In about
2 weeks the man who has flown me to
these 50 States, who has flown those
250,000 miles, a quarter of a million miles,
will be taking Dr. Kissinger and the ad-
vance party to Peking to prepare for my
trip, and then will fly back and later will
take me.
Wouldn't you know it? When I checked
his background, he was a tailback for
Morgantown High School when they used
to play Elkins many, many years ago. So,
a man who has a distinguished record of
defending his country in war and who
now flies the President on missions of
peace: I think you would like to see
Colonel Ralph Albertazzie, the President's
pilot.
He had better not make a bad landing
in Peking.
I would not want this splendid occa-
sion, this beautiful day, this joyful cere-
mony, to end on a note that was too seri-
ous, but it seems to me only appropriate,
having spoken of these wonderful young
people who are members of this court, this
ROTC guard-thinking back, as all of us
do, with sadness, to that Marshall Univer-
sity football team,¹ thinking of our young
people and their future, wanting them to
grow up in a world of peace-let me just
that as I look to the future today, and
as I speak to this great audience of Ameri-
cans here in these beautiful hills of West
Virginia, I think that you can look to the
future with confidence, more confidence
than you could have had any time since
the end of World War II, that we can
build a world of peace, a safer world, a
say
1 The President was referring to the plane
crash near Tri-State Airport, Huntington,
W. Va., on November 14, 1970, which took the
lives of 43 members of the Marshall University
football team.
1028
