[161] May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
to agriculture? I say this not just for you,
but I want to say it for all of the American
people, those who may be listening on
radio or may see an excerpt on television.
When we think of the problems of this
country, we often hear listed among those
problems the problem of agriculture. I
visited 67 countries in the world and, be-
lieve me, most of them would like to have
our problem when it comes to agriculture:
the problem of surplus, the problem of
productivity, the problem of having the
ability to produce more than we need.
No nation in the world has that capacity.
And America's farmers, therefore, have
made a contribution to America that is
tremendously significant.
Let me put it in terms of programs that,
as President of the United States, I have
been able to recommend to the Congress
and that the Congress has been able to
adopt, knowing that we could implement
those programs that could otherwise not
have been recommended and not adopted
had it not been for the productivity of
American agriculture.
There is the problem of hunger in the
world. There is also a problem of hunger
in America. And in this Administration
we have moved forward, as you know,
on a program to eradicate hunger in this
country to the extent that we could.
The number of people in America who
today receive food stamps has now passed
10 million. It was 3 million when we be-
gan this program just 2 years ago.
Now, how did that happen? It wasn't
just as easy as asking the Congress to pass
a law and then the Administration to
print the stamps. Many nations could do
that. It was the fact that in America we
produced enough, that we had the food
which we could distribute, and because
we had that luxury-that problem, some
call it—of surplus, we were able to move
in a very dramatic way, as no nation in
the world has been able to move, to pro-
vide for those who cannot provide for
themselves.
The movement of 3 million to 10 mil-
lion people who are receiving aid in terms
of food stamps could not have taken place
except for the productivity of those who
live on America's farms.
Then I think of America's competitive
position in the world. We have many
problems there. This morning, for exam-
ple, I was looking at some statistics with
regard to radio-and I know that this
address is being carried on radio. Did
you know that over go percent of the
radios in America today are not made in
the United States of America? They are
made abroad.
You have been hearing about the prob-
lems of America's steel industry, still a
very strong and a powerful industry, and
it must always be strong and powerful be-
cause you cannot have a strong industrial
economy without having a strong steel
industry. Let's look at what has happened
to the competitive position of America's
steel industry in the last 20 years.
Twenty years ago in the United States
of America we produced 50 percent of all
the steel in the world. Today we produce
20 percent of all the steel in the world.
Twenty years ago the Japanese, for ex-
ample, strong competitors, and we do not
complain about competition, but the Jap-
anese produced only 5 million tons of
steel. Today they produce 100 million tons
of steel; within 2 years in Japan they will
produce more steel than is produced in the
United States of America.
The problem? The problem has to do,
of course, with national priorities; it also
has to do with productivity and the com-
624
