Richard Nixon, 1971
[82]
Mar. I
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. in the
Fort Des Moines Hotel.
Earlier the same day, the President met with
the Governors and representatives of four Mid-
western States to discuss rural development.
The White House released the transcripts of
two news briefings on the meeting: the first, by
Secretary of Agriculture Clifford M. Hardin;
and the second, by Gov. Robert D. Ray of
Iowa, Gov. Warren E. Hearnes of Missouri,
Gov. Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois, Gov.
Patrick J. Lucey of Wisconsin, and Senator
Jack Miller of Iowa.
82 Remarks on Presenting the NASA Distinguished Service
Medal to the Apollo 14 Astronauts.
ONE of the greatest privileges that Mrs.
Nixon and I have had is to entertain astro-
nauts on the occasions of their returns to
earth.
Each time we try to make it a different
kind of dinner or reception, as the case
might be.
Some of you will remember the time
in Los Angeles when the first landing on
the moon occurred when we had the as-
tronaut dinner; and others, of course, will
remember some of the smaller, more inti-
mate dinners that we have had on other
occasions.
Tonight, this is the first time that we
have had not only the astronauts here in
this East Room, rather than the State
Dining Room-the East Room is larger, it
allows more of their friends to be here
and ours and those who support the space
program, but beyond everything else, it
particularly allows something that we
have never had before at an astronaut
dinner: It allows the members of their
families to be here.
Now, I mean by that not only their
wives-and as I think of our astronauts
and how brave they are, I think their
wives are very brave, too; you have seen
all of them on television so often I am not
going to introduce them now--but also
when we think of them, we think of their
March 1, 1971
television
parents. They are here tonight. And they
also have received some
coverage.
But one thing that is quite special to-
night that has never before occurred at a
dinner in honor of the astronauts is that
we have their children here. Not only
those who are old enough to attend, or at
least supposed to be old enough to attend,
a state function at the White House, but
those who are of all ages. And, of course,
everyone of all ages watches what hap-
in the field of space.
pens
I think the children of the astronauts
ought to stand up, and let's give them a
hand. There they are.
You just think, they will be going to one
of the moons of Jupiter or someplace else
in the future, or who knows what won-
derful experiences are ahead for those
who are so young with all this wonderful
background that they have.
Also tonight, we have a very distin-
guished group here from another stand-
point. Normally, we have, as we have to-
night, Members of the House and Senate
who support the space program. And we
are honored to have those Members of the
House and Senate who have supported
this space program through the years.
We also have members of the Cabinet
and other people in Government who have
367
