[7] Jan. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
governmental reform and innovation in
the arena of social policy, with a multi-
plicity of Administration initiatives before
it, the 91st Congress had the opportunity
to write one of the most productive and
memorable chapters in the history of
American Government. That opportunity
was lost. The Nation was the loser.
In the final month and weeks of 1970,
especially in the Senate of the United
States, the Nation was presented with the
spectacle of a legislative body that had
seemingly lost the capacity to decide and
the will to act. When the path was finally
cleared, vital days had been lost, and
major failures insured.
In probably no month in recent memory
did the reputation of the whole Congress
suffer more in the eyes of the American
people, than in the month of December
1970. In these times when the need to
build confidence in government is so
transparent, that was good neither for
the Congress nor the country. Let us hope
that it never takes place again.
Even a partial listing of the vital legis-
lation rejected, or left unenacted, by the
departing 91st Congress provides a yard-
stick of just how far this Congress fell
short of the mark of becoming the Great
Congress-that might have been. Left un-
enacted were:
-our proposal to consolidate the com-
plex and complicated grant-in-aid
system, jerry-built over the years of
the Federal Government
-the historic proposal, endorsed by
both party platforms in 1968, to
share Federal revenues on an annual
basis with the revenue-starved States,
counties, and cities
-the family assistance plan, the most
far-reaching social reform in four
decades, to overhaul America's
chaotic and costly welfare system by
providing a floor of dignity under
every family and the incentives for
Americans to begin to move off wel-
fare rolls.
Rejection of these reforms is nothing
short of tragic at a time when the burden
of welfare bears down with increasing
severity upon States and municipalities
confronted, all, with a mounting fiscal
crisis.
But there were other excellent pro-
posals, excellent ideas, that died of neglect
in the 91st Congress:
--the emergency school aid proposal to
assist those school districts bearing
the special burdens of the rapid de-
segregation now underway
-the proposal for establishment of a
National Institute of Education
-the Higher Education Opportunity
Act itself, a long overdue reform
-pay increases for enlisted men in the
armed services, a first step toward
realization of our goal of zero draft
calls and an army composed entirely
of volunteers
-added reforms to make selective
service more equitable and just for
young Americans
-half a dozen separate measures deal-
ing with control of pollution and
threats to the environment
-four separate bills designed to
help protect the consumer from
victimization
-vitally needed Administration legisla-
tion for helping the Nation deal with
national emergency strikes, a recur-
ring and dangerous phenomenon
-the proposed increase in social
security benefits that died in the very
last days of this Congress
-the proposed cost-of-living escalator
24
