[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
yes. But I should point out that if a major-
ity of the Congress, Mr. Smith, disap-
proved of what the President was doing
in Cambodia or in Laos, the majority of
the Congress can act, and it can act by
cutting off the funds. The majority of the
Congress has not done that.
You may recall that the supplemental
appropriation bill of $1 billion at the end
of last year was passed by both Houses of
Congress. Those votes will be close. There
is great debate in the Congress. I respect
the Congress. I would like to be able to
carry the Congress perhaps better than
we have. I would like better understand-
ing in the Congress.
But, on the other hand, it is the re-
sponsibility of the President of the United
States, particularly when as Commander
in Chief he has responsibility for the lives
of American men, to make those decisions
that are going to save those lives. And
Cambodia saved the lives of American
men.
And may I say, too, that the thousands
of North Vietnamese who were casualties
in North Vietnam [Cambodia and Laos],
the hundreds, the millions of rounds of
ammunition that were destroyed there,
the time that was bought there, all of
these things-that means that the risk to
American lives is substantially reduced,
and that is why the support of that oper-
ation was worthwhile, in my opinion.
MR. SMITH. Now, Members of Congress
obviously feel left out, feel they don't have
much control, and a subsidiary complaint
made by Senator Fulbright is that Con-
gress has no access to White House aides
who have played an ever larger role in
advising on foreign affairs. The New
York Times said the other day a coup
d'etat could hardly deprive the people's
elected representatives more completely
of their constitutional powers than this
gradual process of the White House, with-
out accounting, taking over foreign
affairs.
Is there something to that?
THE PRESIDENT. It is an old argument,
Mr. Smith. As you know, from having
studied many Presidents before this one,
it has been raised with regard to virtually
every Presidential adviser, and there is
nothing to it.
advisers-Dr.
I have Presidential
Kissinger; I have my prime foreign policy
adviser, the Secretary of State, with whom
I just talked before coming on this pro-
gram, and the Secretary of Defense on
national security policy, with whom I just
talked before coming on this program.
Both of them, incidentally, have been
testifying this past week before the Con-
gress; some in public and some in private
session.
And as far as a Presidential adviser is
concerned, however, he cannot be hauled
down before the Congress. Then you are
going to have two Secretaries of State.
You cannot have that; there can only be
one.
MR. SMITH. Aside from the fact that
you have the responsibility, wouldn't it
be simply politically prudent if you invited
the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee
here every month and had a talk with
them and listened to their suggestions and
explained your point of view to them
informally and gave them a sense of
participation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would have to
go really further than that. I would have
to take the Foreign Affairs Committee
and the Armed Services Committee and
the Appropriations Committees, all of
which, of course, have some significant
control over these policies.
458
