Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 5 [89]
will continue to be funded until the new
program comes into effect. This includes
our Model Cities and Community Action
commitments. As soon as the starting date
for Special Revenue Sharing is established
by the Congress, this administration will
work out transition arrangements, so that
there will be neither a funding gap nor a
period of double funding.
WHAT THIS PROGRAM WILL-AND WILL
NOT-Do
Special Revenue Sharing for Urban
Community Development offers a precise
and direct solution to the problems which
now afflict our system of urban aid. Unlike
fragmented and rigid categorical grants,
this new plan would allow local leaders to
marshal Federal and local dollars accord-
ing to a simple, comprehensive plan which
could be rationally formulated and then
intelligently adjusted as conditions
change. And unlike the present system
of Federal approval for local project
grants-Special Revenue Sharing would
give the responsibility for making local
decisions back to local officials who can
make them best. It is this feature which
distinguishes Special Revenue Sharing
from the so-called "block grant" which
also consolidates categorical grants into a
single fund but which retains the Federal
approval process and the concomitant dis-
advantages of excessive Federal control.
Instead of spending their time trying to
please Federal officials in Washington-
so that money will continue to flow-
local leaders would be able to concentrate
on pleasing the people who live in their
city-so that the money would do more
good. A great deal of red tape would be
eliminated at both the local and the Fed-
eral level-and with it a great deal of
waste and delay.
The merger of several categorical pro-
grams into a single development fund
would enhance the authority and capacity
of local officials. It would also serve as a
means to dramatize the overall share of
national resources which are allocated to
this process. The concern of Federal of-
ficials and the Congress would no longer
be with the details of local projects but
with the general place of urban develop-
ment among our national priorities.
For a variety of reasons, local govern-
ments would find that they are better off
financially under Special Revenue Shar-
ing than they were before. In the first
place, the new plan would provide cities
with a level of urban development fund-
ing which is at least comparable to that
which they have now. In addition, it
would contain some extra money which
would allow many communities to im-
prove their position. In future years, the
overall program could reasonably be ex-
pected to grow.
General Revenue Sharing, of course,
would provide still more new dollars for
these local governments. In addition, cities
would get back their discretionary power
over the money they were previously
spending on matching funds. Because they
would not have to prepare and follow up
on immense applications and detailed re-
ports for Washington, local governments
would save a considerable administrative
expense. And, to the degree that they
used their new freedom to make wiser
spending decisions, they would find that
their new Special Revenue Sharing dol-
lars would go further than did their old
grants-in-aid.
One point that should be very clearly
403
