Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 30 [343]
world.
international monetary situation, and nomic and monetary situation in the
others. In the course of the visit, problems
of environment and international meas-
ures for the control of illicit narcotics
traffic were also discussed.
The two Presidents devoted particular
attention to the importance of guarantee-
ing peace and stability by the peaceful
settlement of disputes and by adherence
to the principles of independence, mutual
respect and the full equality of sovereign
states, regardless of divergence or sim-
ilarity in their social, political and eco-
nomic systems, in full accordance with
the spirit and principles of the United
Nations Charter.
They welcomed the continuing growth
of cooperation throughout the world and
increased reliance on participation in
negotiations to reconcile the interests of
all nations, large and small, in a world
of indivisible peace and interdependence.
It was emphasized in this regard that
Yugoslavia's policy of nonalignment has
been a significant factor in international
relations. Countries following such a pol-
icy, together with the rest of the world,
can make an active contribution to the
resolution of world problems and to the
more favorable evolution of international
relations.
Presidents Tito and Nixon stressed that
meaningful disarmament and arms con-
trol measures, as well as productive eco-
nomic and social development, are
inter-related factors of peace, stability,
and progress in the world. The two Pres-
idents reviewed the problems and needs
of the developing countries and the ef-
forts these countries are making in order
to improve their position, as well as the
possibilities and interest of the interna-
tional community to assist them in this,
particularly in view of the present eco-
Presidents Tito and Nixon agreed that,
since their last meeting, measurable prog-
ress has been made in the search for last-
ing peace and security in Europe. They
believe that it is possible to take further
significant steps along these lines which
would serve the interests not only of the
countries of Europe and the Mediter-
ranean basin, but of world peace gen-
erally. They expressed their strong view
that a firm peace and true security are
indivisible and can be attained only in
Europe as a whole, and not in only one
or another part of it. They are convinced
that each of the European and other in-
terested states has an indispensable role
in the construction of a Europe in which
reconciliation, peace, and security are
fully assured to all its peoples.
Both sides expressed the belief that
general improvement in the international
atmosphere and the broadening of the
area of negotiations and cooperation must
be supported by urgent efforts to achieve
peaceful settlements of the more critical
and dangerous conflicts, particularly those
in the Middle East and South Asia. Each
side stated its view on Southeast Asia.
President Tito conveyed to President
Nixon his impressions from his recent
meetings with the leaders of various
countries. He acquainted President Nixon
with the activities of Yugoslavia in the
international field, and also with certain
domestic questions concerning the Con-
stitutional amendments and the economic
development of the country. President
Nixon reaffirmed the interest of the
United States in the independence and
nonaligned position and policy of
Yugoslavia.
President Nixon advised President Tito
1071
