Richard Nixon, 1971
June 4 [195]
out its responsibility to ensure that our
enrichment capacity expands at a rate
consistent with expected demands.
There is currently no shortage of en-
riched uranium or enriching capacity. In
fact, the Atomic Energy Commission has
substantial stocks of enriched uranium
which have already been produced for
later use. However, plant expansions are
required so that we can meet the grow-
ing demands for nuclear fuel in the late
1970s-both in the United States and in
other nations for which this country is
now the principal supplier.
The most economical means presently
available for expanding our capacity in
this field appears to be the modernization
of existing gaseous diffusion plants at Oak
Ridge, Tennessee; Portsmouth, Ohio;
and Paducah, Kentucky-through a Cas-
cade Improvement Program. This pro-
gram will take a number of years to
complete and we therefore believe that it
is prudent to initiate the program at this
time rather than run the risk of shortages
at a later date. I am therefore releasing
$16 million to start the Cascade Improve-
ment Program in Fiscal Year 1972. The
pace of the improvement program will be
tailored to fit the demands for enriched
uranium in the United States and in other
countries.
6. USING OUR ENERGY MORE WISELY
We need new sources of energy in this
country, but we also need to use exist-
ing energy as efficiently as possible. I be-
lieve we can achieve the ends we desire-
homes warm in winter and cool in sum-
mer, rapid transportation, plentiful
energy for industrial production and home
appliances-and still place less of a strain
on our overtaxed resources.
Historically, we have converted fuels
into electricity and have used other
sources of energy with ever increasing
efficiency. Recent data suggest, however,
that this trend may be reversing-thus
adding to the drain on available resources.
We must get back on the road of increas-
ing efficiency-both at the point of pro-
duction and at the point of consumption,
where the consumer himself can do a
great deal to achieve considerable savings
in his energy bills.
We believe that part of the answer lies
in pricing energy on the basis of its full
costs to society. One reason we use energy
so lavishly today is that the price of energy
does not include all of the social costs
of producing it. The costs incurred in
protecting the environment and the health
and safety of workers, for example, are
part of the real cost of producing energy-
but they are not now all included in the
price of the product. If they were added
to that price, we could expect that some
of the waste in the use of energy would
be eliminated. At the same time, by ex-
panding clean fuel supplies, we will be
working to keep the overall cost of energy
as low as possible.
It is also important that the individual
consumer be fully aware of what his en-
ergy will cost if he buys a particular home
or appliance. The efficiency of home heat-
ing or cooling systems and of other energy
intensive equipment are determined by
builders and manufacturers who may be
concerned more with the initial cost of
the equipment than with the operating
costs which will come afterward. For ex-
ample, better thermal insulation in a
home or office building may save the con-
sumer large sums in the long run-and
conserve energy as well-but for the
builder it merely represents an added
expense.
711
