[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
provide equal opportunity in areas such as
education, employment and voting, so we
must now work to expand the opportunity
for all citizens to obtain a decent stand-
ard of medical care. We must do all we
can to remove any racial, economic, social
or geographic barriers which now prevent
any of our citizens from obtaining ade-
quate health protection. For without good
health, no man can fully utilize his other
opportunities.
2. Balancing Supply and Demand. It
does little good, however, to increase the
demand for care unless we also increase
the supply. Helping more people pay for
more care does little good unless more care
is available. This axiom was ignored when
Medicaid and Medicare were created-
and the nation paid a high price for that
error. The expectations of many benefici-
aries were not met and a severe inflation
in medical costs was compounded.
Rising demand should not be a source
of anxiety in our country. It is, after all, a
sign of our success in achieving equal op-
portunity, a measure of our effectiveness
in reducing the barriers to care. But since
the Federal Government is helping to re-
move those barriers, it also has a responsi-
bility for what happens after they are
reduced. We must see to it that our ap-
proach to health problems is a balanced
approach. We must be sure that our health
care system is ready and able to welcome
its new clients.
3. Organizing for Efficiency. As we
move toward these goals, we must recog-
nize that we cannot simply buy our way to
better medicine. We have already been
trying that too long. We have been per-
suaded, too often, that the plan that costs
the most will help the most-and too often
we have been disappointed.
We cannot be accused of having under-
financed our medical system-not by a
long shot. We have, however, spent this
money poorly-re-enforcing inequities
and rewarding inefficiencies and placing
the burden of greater new demands on the
same old system which could not meet the
old ones.
The toughest question we face then is
not how much we should spend but how
we should spend it. It must be our goal
not merely to finance a more expensive
medical system but to organize a more
efficient one.
There are two particularly useful ways
of doing this:
A. Emphasizing Health Maintenance.
In most cases our present medical system
operates episodically-people come to it
in moments of distress-when they re-
quire its most expensive services. Yet both
the system, and those it serves would be
better off if less expensive services could
be delivered on a more regular basis.
If more of our resources were invested
in preventing sickness and accidents, fewer
would have to be spent on costly cures.
If we gave more attention to treating
illness in its early stages, then we would be
less troubled by acute disease. In short,
we should build a true "health" system-
and not a "sickness" system alone. We
should work to maintain health and not
merely to restore it.
B. Preserving Cost Consciousness. As
we determine just who should bear the
various costs of health care, we should re-
member that only as people are aware of
those costs will they be motivated to re-
duce them. When consumers pay virtually
nothing for services and when, at the same
time, those who provide services know
that all their costs will also be met, then
172
