[316] Sept. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
316 Remarks to Officials of the International Monetary
Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development. September 29, 1971
Mr. Secretary and ladies and gentlemen:
I hope you will not allow these micro-
phones to frighten you into thinking that
after all the speeches you have been hear-
ing, you are going to hear a long one as
you are standing here in the East Room
of the White House.
But I did want this opportunity to wel-
come you officially as those who have
come to this historic meeting, before hav-
ing the chance to greet each of you per-
sonally on this occasion.
I have just been reading some notes
with regard to meetings of the Fund that
have taken place over the years. It is
always, perhaps, difficult to try to com-
pare one year with another. I think, how-
ever, that in terms of the great issues that
are involved, it might well be said that
this meeting, in terms of what follows, in
terms of what is built for the future, could
well prove to be the most important meet-
ing that has occurred since over 25 years
ago, or approximately 25 years ago.
The reasons for that, I think, are quite
obvious to all of you as world statesmen:
the fact that the world has changed so
much in the past 25 years. I was just
thinking, for example, when I was greet-
ing the Emperor of Japan in Anchorage
the other day, that over half of the world's
people, approximately 60 percent, had
been born since World War II. Half of all
the people in the world now living were
born since World War II. Over half of
the nations in existence in the world today
have come into being since World War II.
I think we should also, perhaps, agree,
that as we look at the situation now, com-
pared to what it was then and even 10, 15
years ago, that today the dangers of war
on a world scale are significantly less than
they have been. The challenges of peace,
therefore, have significantly increased.
They have increased in ways that we
should all be very happy about, in many
ways at least: the fact that nations that
were devastated by war now are strong
and vigorous competitors of other nations
in the world; the fact that new nations are
beginning to develop economic strength
with cooperation and assistance from
older ones.
All of this means that the situation that
the world confronts today is totally differ-
ent than the one it was confronted with
25 years ago when the United States had
over half of the world's production, with
only 7 percent of the world's people.
Now, turning to the role of the United
States today, and without just indulging
in the glittering generalities that you ex-
pect on such occasions, let me simply say
with all of the sincerity at my command,
that as one who came to Congress 25 years
ago, who supported the Marshall Plan,
who has supported reciprocal trade, who
believes in the world role of the United
States, who has traveled to more countries
in the world than anyone who has ever
served in this office, that I believe that the
United States, for its own interest as well
as for the world interest, must play a forth-
coming and constructive role in interna-
tional affairs.
I would be less than candid if I were
1014
