[77] Feb. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
a student of history in the spare hours that
I have, one or two a week. And as a stu-
dent of history I was fascinated, as I am
sure all of you were, by the remarks of
John Quincy Adams and also of Dr.
Oliver.
The difficulty is that after hearing their
remarks there is so very little that I can
add because, as I was running mentally
through my own mind what I planned to
say, they ticked off virtually everything
that John Quincy Adams had done dur-
ing his life.
But not quite everything, because it
would be impossible in the brief space of
time that each of them had for the life of
this very remarkable man to be described.
Let me begin at the end, then go to
the beginning, and then perhaps put it in
the perspective of the times in which we
live.
When John Quincy Adams died, as Dr.
Oliver pointed out, he had a stroke on
the floor of the House of Representatives,
and among those who were there and saw
him on that day was Abraham Lincoln,
serving in his first and only term as a
Member of the House.
After he had the stroke, he was moved
to the Speaker's room and 2 days later
there he died. I do not recall exactly what
his last words were, but I think I can para-
phrase them. It was something like this:
My life on earth is finished, but I am
content.
And well he could be content, not
simply because his life had been a long
one but because, of perhaps all of the men
who have served as President of the
United States, it was the most complete
life in terms of the areas of service:
United States Senator, Congressman, dip-
lomat for 37 years, President of the United
States, and the whole history of America
from the time of its beginning until the
time of his death.
He was born 7 years before the Revolu-
tion, but at 14 years of age-and let all
young Americans note this before he
finished Harvard he was Secretary to the
American delegation which negotiated the
treaty ending the Revolutionary War,
which began a long diplomatic career of
very great success.
Here was a man who was in Moscow at
the time that Napoleon's armies came
through Russia and finally were turned
back not so much by the Russian armies,
but by the weather.
Here was a man who later was in Paris
and saw Napoleon when he came back
from Elba.
A man who negotiated many treaties--
as Dr. Oliver has pointed out, the one end-
ing the war in 1812-and one, and this
little historical note should be added, who
served as Secretary of State in President
Monroe's Administration, and in that
capacity, at least according to an author-
ity as respected as Carl Sandburg, prob-
ably had more to do with the concept and
the execution of the Monroe Doctrine
than President Monroe himself.
And then who, after serving as Presi-
dent of the United States, did not quit,
but went back and served in the House,
and even there rendered a service that
probably would not have been rendered
had he not been there.
There was a gag rule then in the House
of Representatives. For 8 years he fought
it. The first time the vote overwhelmingly
was against him. But he was a persistent
man, and after 8 years the gag rule was
abolished.
So he could well say at the end of that
life, looking back over the history of his
country and the history of his service,
352
