[106] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
God, and every man and woman in this
country now, we trust, is equal before the
law.
But to have true equality, it is not just
what the law requires, but what we indi-
vidually can do, because that respect
which can only come from the heart of
one person to another, a respect for his
dignity, for his individuality, for his im-
mortality, that is something that must
come from each of us.
And so today Whitney Young's message
to America---the country that he loved
with all of its faults, loved it because he
realized that this was a country in which
we had the power to change what was
wrong and change it peacefully-Whitney
Young's message is this: "What can I do?
What can I do to make this a better
country? What can I do through helping
others, through recognizing their equality,
their dignity, their individuality, to realize
the American dream?"
His dream, if I may paraphrase, was
one Nation, under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice and opportunity for
all. To fulfill his dream is the responsi-
bility of each of us. It is the commitment
that each of us makes in his heart on this
day.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. at
Greenwood Cemetery. The eulogy was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
On March 24, 1971, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by Sec-
retary of Labor James D. Hodgson, Gov. Louie
B. Nunn of Kentucky, and Whitney M. Young,
Sr., on the establishment of the Whitney M.
Young, Jr., Skill Center memorial in Shelby-
ville, Ky.
107 Statement on Signing Bill Increasing Social
Security Benefits. March 17, 1971
I HAVE SIGNED H.R. 4690, which in
addition to raising the ceiling on the na-
tional debt, also increases social security
benefits by 10 percent. This measure pro-
vides some of the relief which the 26
million social security recipients have ur-
gently needed for a long time. I have felt
keenly that it is intolerable that millions
of these men and women, who did so
much to build the Nation's productivity
and to provide our youth with the abun-
dance and the many opportunities they
enjoy, are not sharing equitably in that
abundance. Too many are poor-too
many are left out-too many suffer from
inadequate health care. This measure will
help. In addition, my proposals for an
income floor for the elderly, as provided in
the Welfare Reform Act, and revisions to
Medicare, as proposed in my health legis-
lation, will be of further assistance. Yet I
am well aware that even when all of these
proposed benefits become fact, serious
problems will remain to be solved for
many of our older Americans, and I shall
continue to seek solutions and propose
legislation that will reflect my deep
concern.
Unfortunately, however, the measure
does not include the vital cost-of-living
escalator. I have repeatedly asked the
Congress to provide for automatic in-
creases in social security benefits as the
cost of living increased. Only if such a
provision is included can we overcome the
rigidity of the social security benefit sys-
438
