Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 1 [37]
the unemployment rate. We are now in
a position to do that, while the progress
against inflation continues. The restraint
of 1969 and the slowdown of 1970 have
set in motion strenuous efforts at cost
reduction. These actions, as the pace of
the economy quickens, will bear fruit in
better productivity and costs. Prices have
begun to rise less rapidly. There are the
first faint signs of a retardation in wage
increases in some sectors. Much of the
anti-inflationary effect of the 1970 slow-
down still has to be felt. And if the ex-
pansion is properly controlled in 1971 the
conditions for further slackening of the
inflation rate will remain. The expecta-
tion of continued rapid inflation has been
weakened by the firm policies of the past
2 years and we must strengthen this grow-
ing confidence in the future value of
money.
Forces now present in the economy,
partly resulting from policies of 1970,
make economic expansion in 1971
probable.
-The greater supply and lower cost of
mortgage money has stimulated a 40-
percent increase in the rate at which
construction of new houses is started.
-Improved financial conditions are
leading to a strong increase of State
and local spending.
-Interest rates have dropped; the
prime rate is down sharply from its
peak of 82 percent.
-Consumers' after-tax incomes have
increased and their saving has been
high.
-In the early part of 1971 the economy
will get a boost as the production lost
during last year's auto strike is made
up.
--Exports have been strong, and in
1970 were 14 percent above those of
a year earlier.
These are powerful upward pressures,
but existing and foreseeable expansionary
forces in the economy are not strong
enough to assure that output will rise as
much as is desired and feasible. These
forces must, therefore, be supplemented
by expansive fiscal and monetary policies.
The full employment budget that I
have submitted will do its full share in
stimulating a solid expansion. Outlays
will rise by $162 billion, or about 7/2
percent, between the current fiscal year
and the next-appropriate for orderly ex-
pansion, but far short of the inflationary
15 percent average annual increases from
1965 to 1968. In addition, receipts have
been reduced $2.7 billion by the deprecia-
tion reform which I have initiated to
stimulate investment, jobs, and growth.
In fiscal 1971, the Federal Government
will spend $212.8 billion, which is equiv-
alent to the revenues the economy would
be generating at full capacity. The actual
deficit is expected to be $182 billion. In
fiscal 1972, also, the planned expenditures
are equivalent to the revenues we would
get at full employment. How big the ac-
tual deficit will be next year, in fiscal 1972,
will depend on economic conditions. If
the economy follows the expected path of
a vigorous noninflationary expansion, the
deficit will decline to $112 billion. This
combination of deficits is appropriate to
the situation through which the economy
has been passing. The budget moved into
deficit during calendar 1970 as the econ-
omy lagged below its potential. Accepting
this deficit helped to keep the decline in
the economy moderate. It was a policy of
not subjecting individuals and businesses
to higher tax rates, and of not cutting
99
