[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
mented and scattered.
A healthy Federal system is one in
which we neither disperse power for the
sake of dispersing it nor concentrate
power for the sake of concentrating it.
Instead, a sound Federal system requires
us to focus power at that place where it
can be used to the greatest public advan-
tage. This means that each level of gov-
ernment must be assigned those tasks
which it can do best and must be given
the means for carrying out
assignments.
THE CENTRAL QUESTION
those
Ever since the first settlers stepped upon
our shores more than three centuries ago,
a central question of the American experi-
ence has been: How do we best organize
our government to meet the needs of the
people? That was the central question as
the colonists set up new governments in
a new world. It was the central question
when they broke from their mother coun-
try and made a new nation. It was the
central question as they wrote a new Con-
stitution in 1787 and, at each critical
turning point since that time, it has re-
mained a dominant issue in our national
experience.
In the last forty years, as the Federal
Government has grown in scope and com-
plexity, the question of how it should be
organized has been asked with even
greater intensity and relevance. During
this time, we have moved to formulate
responsive answers to this question in an
increasingly systematic manner. Searching
studies of Government management and
organization have been made under vir-
tually every national administration since
the 1930s and many needed reforms have
resulted.
What is now required, however, is a
truly comprehensive restructuring of
executive organization, one that is com-
mensurate with the growth of the Nation
and the expansion of the government. In
the last twenty years alone our population
has increased by one-third and the Fed-
eral budget has quintupled. In the last
two decades, the number of Federal
civilian employees has risen by almost 30
percent and the domestic programs they
administer have multiplied tenfold. Three
executive departments and fourteen in-
dependent agencies have been tacked on
to the Federal organization chart during
that brief span.
Yet it still is the same basic organiza-
tion chart that has set the framework of
governmental action for decades. While
there have been piecemeal changes, there
has been no fundamental overhaul. Any
business that grew and changed so much
and yet was so patient with old organiza-
tional forms would soon go bankrupt.
The same truth holds in the public realm.
Public officials cannot be patient with
outmoded forms when the people have
grown so impatient with government.
Thomas Jefferson once put it this way:
"I am certainly not an advocate for fre-
quent and untried changes in laws and
constitutions," he wrote, "but . . . laws
and institutions must go hand in hand
with the progress of the human mind. As
that becomes more developed, more en-
lightened, as new discoveries are made,
new truths disclosed, and manners and
opinions change with the change of cir-
488
