[220] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
been more generous than she has been;
or is more deserving of the praise of her
people than America."
We are going through a period when
it is not always easy to keep a clear per-
spective about ourselves, our country, and
our future. Day after day voices are raised
to tell us what is wrong about America.
We should, and will, correct what is
wrong, but let us never allow what is
wrong [to] blind us to what is right about
America. The time has come to answer
the false charge that this is an ugly
country.
Let us love America. Let us love her not
because she is strong and not because she
is rich, but because America is a good
country, and we can make her better.
One hundred and twelve years ago, in
one of the most tragic events in America's
history, John Brown, after the bloody raid
on Harper's Ferry, was tried, convicted,
and sentenced to hang.
On his way to the gallows he rode in
a wagon with his own coffin right beside
him. As he rode through the Virginia
countryside that day, speaking to no one
in particular, he said, "This is a beautiful
country."
If John Brown, with his own death im-
minent, just before the tragic War Be-
tween the States, could say that, then
even more we today can truly say: Amer-
ica is a beautiful country, and we are priv-
ileged to be the generation that has the
magnificent opportunity to make America
more beautiful for the generations to
come.
NOTE: The ceremony began at 10:30 p.m. in
the Exhibition Hall at the National Archives.
Sponsored by the American Revolution Bicen-
tennial Commission, it was broadcast live on
radio and television.
22I
Remarks at a Ceremony Marking the Certification
of the 26th Amendment to the Constitution.
July 5, 1971
IT IS a great privilege to welcome this
very exciting group to the White House
on the day that we celebrate our national
Independence Day. It seems to me that
it is particularly appropriate that on this
same day we are certifying the 26th
Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
That Amendment, as you know, pro-
vides for the right to vote of all of our
young people between 18 and 21-11
million new voters as a result of this
amendment that you now will see certi-
fied by the GSA Administrator.
Now, the custom on certification of an
amendment has varied through the his-
tory of this country. Always, of course, the
certification is provided, but as far as wit-
nesses are concerned, sometimes the Presi-
dent witnesses it—usually he has in recent
years--but I understand a President has a
prerogative to ask for additional witnesses
if he likes.
On this occasion, therefore, I am going
to ask that three of the representatives of
this group who are 18 years of age or
older and I understand you range from
15 to 20, so we picked three 18-year-olds.
We have worked this out so that you know
it is absolutely fair, by lot, through check-
ing with Mr. Ramsey, your choir director.
They cover all parts of the country. If
798
