[91] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
stress on the problems of transportation,
or the other areas. But it does mean that
this is an area that is behind. This is an
area in which we need to catch up and
that is why we are putting more money, a
greater portion of money, into rural Amer-
ica than we have previously.
And in signing this particular message,
we certainly hope that we will have the
backing of the agricultural community in
getting its passage by the Congress of the
United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 a.m. in the
Roosevelt Room at the White House.
92 Special Message to the Congress on Special Revenue
Sharing for Rural Community Development.
March 10, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today proposing a new program
of Rural Community Development
through revenue sharing-the fourth of
my six Special Revenue Sharing pro-
posals. I have spoken of revenue sharing
as a new partnership between the Federal
Government and the State and local gov-
ernments within our Federal system. The
proposal I am advancing today would use
that essential government partnership to
strengthen an equally essential social and
economic partnership between rural
America, where the farms that feed us and
the great open spaces that renew our spirit
are found, and urban America, where the
majority of our people and the greater
share of our wealth are concentrated.
Rural Americans deserve a full share in
the Nation's prosperity and growth, just as
urban Americans deserve cities that are
livable and alive. Both objectives are at-
tainable and rural development revenue
sharing, linked to urban development
revenue sharing by the comprehensive
planning proposal also put forward in
this message, could be a giant step toward
them.
RURAL AMERICA IN TRANSITION
Rural America begins with farm
America. Agriculture was America's first
industry, and it remains one of the key-
stones of our national economy today. It
has made Americans the best-fed people
in history, and now exports the produce
of one-fourth of its acreage to help feed
the world. American farmers have led all
sectors of the economy in annual increases
in productivity for most of the years in
this century. This Nation's farms are
among our most efficient producers, and
they are of central importance to a strong
future for rural America.
Yet, there is sharp irony in this success.
Ever more fruitful, American agriculture
has required fewer people every year to
produce food and fibers for our people,
and to supply the expanding export mar-
ket for our commodities abroad.
Hence the departure of people from the
farms began to swell as farming grew
more mechanized, efficient, and large-
scale. Americans living on farms num-
bered more than 30,000,000 in 1940; to-
day that figure is only about 10,000,000.
408
