[33] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
RESTORING CONFIDENCE IN
GOVERNMENT
In seeking ways to reform the federal
system, I have paid particular attention
to the ability of the executive branch of
the Federal Government to produce the
results intended by the Congress and the
President.
In 1971, the Federal Government will
employ almost 2,900,000 civilians, operate
thousands of separate programs, and
spend $212.8 billion. Through its tax laws,
credit activities, grant programs, and in
other ways, the Government affects mil-
lions of people and influences the disposi-
tion of many more billions of dollars than
it controls directly.
Toward the end of the sixties, there was
mounting evidence that our Government
was so complex, clumsy, and unresponsive,
that it was becoming unable to meet the
needs and priorities of the people or to use
efficiently the funds entrusted to it.
This must not be permitted in America.
We have already taken actions to im-
prove the organization and management
of the Federal Government and, thereby,
make it more efficient and responsive.
But we must do more. The Federal
Government is not organized properly to
deal with the Nation's most significant
problems in the domestic area. Programs
that should be joined together to achieve
common goals are fragmented among dif-
ferent departments and agencies, impair-
ing the capacity of government to respond
effectively to urgent national needs. Mod-
ernization of that structure will restore
vigor to our federal system, permitting a
constructive partnership among Federal,
State, and local governments.
In the next few months, I shall propose
sweeping legislation to help achieve these
goals by merging seven existing depart-
ments and several independent agencies
into four departments:
-a Department of Natural Resources,
-a Department of Human Resources,
-a Department of Community Devel-
opment, and
-a Department of Economic Devel-
opment.
These new departments will match the
domestic programs of the Federal Gov-
ernment with the objectives each is in-
tended to fulfill:
-the balanced and constructive use
and conservation of the land and
other natural resources of the Nation;
-the development and well-being of
individuals and families;
-the quality of urban and rural com-
munities as places for people to work
and live; and
-the maintenance and strengthening
of the American economy.
To continue the modernization of the
Federal Government, I will also ask an
extension of the President's reorganization
authority. We must seek to expand cur-
rent efforts to shift operating responsi-
bility for Federal programs out of
Washington and closer to the people these
programs are designed to serve.
To fulfill its responsibilities, the Federal
Government must attract, develop, and
retain capable career executives. We must
have a more effective manpower planning
and utilization system. I shall propose leg-
islation to establish a Federal Executive
Service which will permit:
-more effective career executive
search;
-flexibility in the allocation and as-
signment of available talent; and
-strengthened executive development
programs and policies.
86
