Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 3 [284]
tional balance of payments. But let's look
at what agriculture does for us in this field.
We find that our agriculture exports have
reached a record high. Without our agri-
culture exports, which we trust will con-
tinue to grow as we open up the markets
abroad, without those exports we would
be in a crucial position in this field of bal-
ance of payments.
America today is number one in the
world in productivity in agriculture, and
I say, let us stay number one by seeing
that our farmers get their fair share of
America's increasing prosperity.
way
Now, I will be preaching somewhat to
the choir as I talk about the dairy indus-
try. The dairy industry has helped to lead
the in achieving this remarkable rate
of progress. The amount of milk produced
per man year has increased fourfold in
the last 20 years, even better than the
average for agriculture generally. No in-
dustry in America, no major industry, can
match this increase in productivity of the
dairy industry.
Within the industry this organization
has been one of the strongest forces in blaz-
ing new economic trails. This is America's
largest dairy cooperative. You have moved
effectively to help improve the quality,
expand the variety, increase the volume of
American dairy products.
Let me share with you a personal rec-
ollection when I speak of the quality of
American dairy products. I mentioned
the end of World War II. I recall as I
returned after spending 14 months in the
Pacific what I really wanted most in terms
of the food on the table. Out there it
wasn't bad but, of course, everybody gripes
about the food when he is in the service.
You know what it was? Not a steak or
none of the other things that you usually
think of—just a glass of good, fresh milk,
something we never had abroad. You
don't have to go back that far. I remem-
ber a trip of 70 days I took as Vice Presi-
dent in the year 1953 to Asian nations,
and in country after country abroad, just
getting a glass of good, fresh milk was al-
most impossible. It is improving around
the world, but let me tell you, we in
America should be thankful that we can
get good, fresh, healthy milk any time we
want it on our tables in the United States.
You have pioneered in developing a
"total marketing concept," a concept
which many other producers, I think,
would do well to consider. All of this you
have done on your own. You haven't
whimpered helplessly about uncontrol-
lable economic forces nor waited passively
for Government to bail you out.
For its part, the Government has been
working to create a climate in which such
initiatives will receive their just reward.
We are encouraged to see that cash
receipts for dairy farmers have risen some
5 percent this year. That is not as much as
we would like; it is, however, a significant
gain. We look for even greater progress
in the future.
Even as we have been working to in-
crease farm income, we have also been
working to reduce farm costs. A moment
ago I pointed out the challenges that we
face as we move from war to peace. One
of those challenges is that war always
leaves a legacy of inflation.
On August 15, I decided that a time had
come for us to crack down on inflation
because when we consider it, inflation is
the cruel economic culprit that relentlessly
whipsaws every family in America and
every farm family in particular. You know
the truth of this statement that I will now
931
