[92] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
ning process; but in no case could rural
development revenue sharing money be
diverted from rural needs.
URBAN-RURAL PARTNERSHIP
More money, plus more freedom to
spend it, plus better planning in doing
so, add up to better living for rural
Americans and brighter futures for rural
communities. Mutual benefits of the
urban-rural partnership would be mani-
fest as cities enjoyed the fruits of a healthy
agricultural economy and the relief of
more evenly distributed population
growth, while rural areas felt the effect of
new social and economic advantages.
Rural and urban communities would no
longer siphon off one another's strengths
and resources nor shunt problems and
burdens from one to the other. They
would progress together in a dynamic
balance, as partners in the best sense.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
March 10, 1971
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by
Clifford M. Hardin, Secretary of Agriculture,
Maurice H. Stans, Secretary of Commerce,
George W. Romney, Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, and John R. Price, Jr.,
Special Assistant to the President, and two fact
sheets on the program.
On April 6, 1971, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Edwin L.
Harper, Special Assistant to the President, on
the hold harmless base line figures for States
and localities under special revenue sharing,
and a fact sheet on the figures for rural com-
munity development special revenue sharing.
93 Remarks at the Opening Session of the National
Conference on the Judiciary in Williamsburg,
Virginia. March 11, 1971
Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Clark, Mr.
Attorney General, Governor Holton,
Senator Hruska, Senator Byrd, Senator
Spong, all of the distinguished guests here
on the platform, and all of the distin-
guished people in this audience:
As the various celebrities were being
introduced by the Governor, I remarked
to Mr. Justice Clark¹ that I was getting
more exercise than I have had in a week
standing up and down. That is an indi-
cation of the importance of this audience,
the fact that so many times with very great
appropriateness we have stood to honor
1
¹ Thomas C. Clark, Associate Justice of the
United States Supreme Court 1949-67.
the top people in the field of law enforce-
ment and also in the field of the admin-
istration of justice.
I want you to know, too, that I have, as
I am sure everybody here who is not from
Virginia, a deep sense of the history of
this moment. I was glad that Governor
Holton reminded us of what Virginia has
done for America.
We think, of course, of Washington and
Jefferson and Madison and Monroe, and
then in this century, Wilson. But some-
times we forget Marshall. And when we
think of the contribution that Virginia
has made, certainly in terms of the Execu-
tive, in terms of the judiciary, no State in
the Union has contributed more to
416
