[373] Nov. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
uted to the sum of this Nation's blessings.
None have contributed more to Amer-
ica than our servicemen. All of us have
enjoyed freedom, but you have stood
ready to fight for it—you have protected
it. And so, in this special time when we
give thanks to God, we give thanks to you
as well for helping to preserve what God
has given us.
Mrs. Nixon and I extend our warmest
wishes to each of you on this Thanksgiving
Day and throughout the year.
NOTE: The message was released at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
374 Remarks at the Dedication of the Eisenhower
Memorial Hospital, Eisenhower Medical Center, Palm
Desert, California. November 27, 1971
Mrs. Eisenhower, Vice President and Mrs.
Agnew, Governor and Mrs. Reagan, Pres-
ident and Mr. Hope [laughter],¹ all of the
very distinguished guests who are here on
the platform and who are here in the
audience:
When one studies the history of civili-
zations, he finds that one of the most
difficult problems every society has is to
find an appropriate way to honor their
great men. Sometimes a statue is built.
Sometimes a building is named, a street,
many appropriate ways have been found.
In the case of President Eisenhower, so
many ways would have been appropriate.
Here was a man who in the whole history
of war led the greatest armies to the great-
est victory and so he could have been a
man on horseback-a military statue, that
could have been his memorial.
But, as the Vice President has so elo-
quently said, this is the most appropriate
way to honor this man. It is what he
would have wanted.
I recall, as Mrs. Eisenhower will, those
last days in Walter Reed. And while
physcially he became weaker and weaker,
1
¹ Mrs. Bob Hope was president of the board
of trustees of the Eisenhower Medical Center.
mentally and spiritually he was stronger
and stronger. I remember right to the last,
where he wanted to go more than any-
place else in the world was back to Palm
Springs. Oh, he loved Burning Tree and
he loved Augusta and all the other places
where he played golf, but his heart was
here, here because of this place, the people
that he knew.
And so from a personal standpoint, the
man honored by this building, this insti-
tution, would have wanted it right here
in this place, the place he loved so much.
But then, as we look at it in other terms,
we find that President Eisenhower was a
unique history figure, unique in the sense
that he was a great leader in war-con-
sidering the size of wars, the greatest
in history because of the armies that he led
to victory-but also he had the oppor-
tunity, and met that challenge so well, to
lead in peace. As President of the United
States, he ended a war and kept America
out of war for 8 years, and that is a great
legacy for a man.
So this magnificent building behind us,
the first of a number that eventually,
probably, will be built here, memorializes
this man who was a victor in war, but this
man whose greatest contribution was to
1140
