Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 5 [251]
tell from reading the reports, are in de-
fensive positions. We are frankly just de-
fending the areas in which we have re-
sponsibility, and there are less of them.
Consequently, our casualties go down for
that reason.
Second, however, they are down for
another reason. The enemy doesn't have
the punch that it had because the other
point to look at is that South Vietnamese
casualties are also substantially down from
what they were. What has happened is
that the two operations, Cambodia and
Laos, so very severely disrupted the ene-
my's ability to wage offensive actions that
for both Americans and South Viet-
namese the level of fighting is down.
There again will be aberrations
up and
down, I would assume. Nobody can pre-
dict that. But the war is being wound
down and, as far as Americans are con-
cerned, we trust it will continue to go
down.
HELEN THOMAS (United Press Inter-
national). Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President's eighteenth news con-
ference was held at 11:36 a.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House on Wednesday,
August 4, 1971.
251 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Report on the International Educational and
Cultural Exchange Program.
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith the annual report
on the international educational and
cultural exchange program conducted
during Fiscal Year 1970 by the Depart-
ment of State under the Mutual Educa-
tional and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961
(Public Law 87-256, the Fulbright-Hays
Act). In the 1970 Fiscal Year, this pro-
gram provided 4,638 outstanding scholars
and leaders in the professions, the arts and
public life with intensive exchange experi-
ences which linked the United States with
123 other countries and territories.
The major part of this report is devoted
to a review of a little known but increas-
ingly important aspect of this program,
the complex of activities designed to pro-
vide foreign students with broader op-
portunities to participate in the life of
this country. Such activities mean that
students who seek training in the United
States are afforded not only the best pos-
August 5, 1971
sible educational experience but also a
better chance to become acquainted with
our people, our customs and our institu-
tions. These efforts are directed to foreign
students who come here without Govern-
ment sponsorship, as well as to that
group-about 5% of the total-who re-
ceive United States financial support.
In common with many other countries,
the United States now has a large number
of students who come from foreign coun-
tries-well over 135,000-although they
constitute a far smaller percentage of the
total student population than they do in
major European universities.
These students present the United
States with an exceptional opportunity.
Not only do they enrich the international
dimension of education for American
students, but they also provide outstand-
ing talent for our research and teaching
programs. Moreover, many among them
will become tomorrow's leaders in many
71-234-72-58
861
