Richard Nixon, 1971
July 30 [242]
242 Remarks on Arrival at Canton, Ohio.
July 30, 1971
I JUST WANTED to take this opportu-
nity to express my very grateful apprecia-
tion to all of you from the Canton and the
Akron area for this wonderfully warm
welcome.
And to all of us who are here, as you
see, I have a wonderfully distinguished
welcoming committee: the mayors of both
Canton and Akron,¹ the Governor of the
State, Governor Gilligan, Senator Saxbe,
and Congressman Bow from Canton
Let's give them a hand.
I thought you would be interested to
know that I have a rather special feeling
in my heart for Ohio generally, because,
of course, as you know, my father was
born here.
Also, it happens that the most indispen-
sable
person on any man's staff, including
the President of the United States, is his
secretary. And my secretary comes from
Sebring, Ohio. So, thank you for Rose
Mary Woods. I am telling you, if all the
girls in Ohio have her ability and her
loyalty, this is going to certainly be a place
where everything is going to come up
roses-I suppose Rose Bowl, I should say.
The other thing I would like to say is
that we have brought with us on the Presi-
dential plane today a native of Canton,
Ohio, John Scali. You may remember, he
was the commentator with ABC, and now
on the White House Staff.
He told me an interesting thing as we
came in, as the plane came in. I am sort of
a football fan. That is one of the reasons
I wanted to come out here to the Hall of
¹ Stanley A. Cmich of Canton and John S.
Ballard of Akron.
Fame. Consequently, he said that he had
gone to high school, to the Canton-
McKinley High School. Then he went on
to tell me that when he was at Canton-
McKinley they used to beat Massillon.
Then I asked Congressman Bow whether
I should mention that. He said, "Oh, no,
Massillon is only 8 miles away so they
might be here, too."
Oh, here is John Scali; here is Canton's
own who is now on the White House Staff.
Just let me say one final word before
we have to go downtown for a visit to the
Hall of Fame and then to the dinner to
pay our tribute to the very great stars who
are being initiated into the Hall of Fame,
including, of course, the man who is per-
haps best known in this century in Ameri-
can football, Vince Lombardi, who is
being put in the Hall of Fame
posthumously.
I would like to say that at this very
moment there are three very brave, cour-
ageous Americans on the moon. Before we
left Washington, I got the report. Some
of you may have come to the airport be-
fore you got it. They landed safely. It was
a perfect landing. Tomorrow you, of
course, will be able to see them on tele-
vision. Since Ohio-and Ohio seems to be
doing everything-produced, of course,
many
in this field of astronauts, I thought
that report was one that you would want.
Let me say this thing with regard to
what they see as they look down. I am sure
as they see the earth it will look like a very
peaceful and a very quiet place. As I come
to Ohio again, and I have been here many,
many times—perhaps to this State more
than any other except my own State of
833
