Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 3 [247]
247 Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives
Urging Congressional Approval of Funds for
Declassification of World War II Documents.
August 3, 1971
Dear Mr. Speaker:
I am asking the Congress today to ap-
prove a supplemental appropriation for
fiscal year 1972 of $636,000 for the Gen-
eral Services Administration, so that we
can begin an immediate and systematic
effort to declassify the documents of
World War II.
These documents are more than 25
years old, and after careful consideration,
I believe that we must now undertake a
massive declassification if the United
States is to retain its traditional leadership
in providing accessibility to historical pa-
pers, and if we are to preserve respect for
those sensitive materials which should
properly remain classified.
For the past several months represent-
atives of the National Archives and Rec-
ords Service of the General Services
Administration held discussions with the
Departments of State and Defense on the
problems of declassification of those docu-
ments. They have agreed that approxi-
mately 90-95 percent of the classified
documents of the 1940-1945 period can
now be declassified if the necessary fund-
ing can be obtained.
The task ahead is mammoth, as it in-
volves nearly 160 million pages of classi-
fied documents contained in 49,000 cubic
feet of paper records and over 18,500
rolls of microfilm held by the National
Archives alone. Wherever feasible "bulk
declassification" techniques will be used;
but to protect the 5 to 10 percent of the
materials that still possess some degree of
sensitivity, a substantial amount of page
by page screening will be necessary. The
General Services Administration estimates
that the project may require as many as
five
years to complete. If the Government
is to allow scholars and the general public
the access to the material which they de-
serve, it is important that we begin now.
Since January of this year, a high-level,
interagency study has been underway
within the Government to review general
procedures for classifying and declassify-
ing sensitive materials.ยน While my request
today does not spring directly from that
effort, it does reflect the same priority
which this administration places upon the
open conduct of public affairs. In this age
of uncertainty, it is clear that our security
depends as much upon public trust and
understanding as upon the protection of
legitimate State secrets.
With this proposal today, I am trans-
mitting a letter from the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget setting
forth his views on this appropriation. I
ask the Congress to give swift considera-
tion to this request.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: On August 12, 1971, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing by
John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the Presi-
1
ยน An interagency group, chaired by William
H. Rehnquist, Assistant Attorney General, Of-
fice of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice,
was set up at the President's request on Jan-
uary 15, 1971, to conduct the study.
847
