[247] Aug. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
dent for Domestic Affairs, and John W. Dean
III, Counsel to the President, on classification
and declassification procedures in the Federal
Government.
The letter from George P. Shultz, Director,
Office of Management and Budget, which was
transmitted with the President's letter, is
printed in House Document 92-151.
248 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Locarno
Agreement Establishing an International
Classification for Industrial Designs.
August 3, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a certified copy of the
Locarno Agreement Establishing an In-
ternational Classification for Industrial
Designs, signed October 8, 1968. I trans-
mit also, for the information of the Sen-
ate, the report of the Secretary of State
with respect to the Agreement.
The countries which are parties to the
Agreement constitute a Special Union.
The principal purpose of that organiza-
tion, which will consist of an Assembly of
all contracting parties, and a Committee
of Experts, is to establish an international
classification for industrial designs. Such
a classification system will be of great as-
sistance in researching the existence of ex-
clusive rights respecting a specified design
or any variants thereof. This arrangement
will be generally similar to that set forth
in the Nice Agreement Concerning Inter-
national Classification of Goods and Serv-
ices to which Trademarks are Applied as
revised at Stockholm July 14, 1967.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to this
Agreement.
The White House
August 3, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the agreement and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive I (92d Cong., 1st sess.).
249 Statement About the Busing of Schoolchildren.
August 3, 1971
THE Justice Department is today an-
nouncing the Government's decision to
take an appeal on limited constitutional
grounds in the case of the United States v.
Austin Independent School District, in-
volving school desegregation.
The Attorney General advises me that
he must appeal the District Court's deci-
sion that the school board's plan to bus
children periodically for interracial ex-
periences eliminates the dual school sys-
tem, because that decision is inconsistent
with recent rulings of the United States
Supreme Court. The Justice Department
is not appealing to impose the HEW plan.
In the process of the appeal, the Justice
Department will disavow that plan on be-
half of the Government.
848
