Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 3 [41]
allow a partial strike or lockout with-
out endangering the national health
or safety. It could not extend beyond
180 days.
-He could invoke a "final offer selec-
tion" alternative. Under this proce-
dure, the final offers of each party
would be submitted to a neutral
panel. This panel would select, with-
out alteration, the most reasonable of
these offers as the final and binding
contract to settle the dispute. Unlike
arbitration, which too often merely
splits the difference between the
parties, and thereby encourages them
to persist in unreasonable positions,
this procedure would reward reason-
ableness and thereby facilitate nego-
tiation and settlement.
Third, the bill would establish a Na-
tional Special Industries Commission to
conduct a two-year study of labor rela-
tions in industries which are particularly
vulnerable to national emergency disputes.
Fourth, the bill would amend the Rail-
way Labor Act to conform the manage-
ment of labor relations under that Act to
the practices prevalent in most other in-
dustries, including the encouragement of
voluntary settlement of grievances by over-
hauling the existing grievance procedures.
The urgency of this matter should re-
quire no new emphasis by anyone; the
critical nature of it should be clear to all.
But if emphasis is necessary, we need only
remember that barely two months ago
the
nation was brought to the brink of a crip-
pling railroad shutdown, the strike being
averted only by legislation passed after a
walkout had actually begun. That legisla-
tion, we should also remember, settled
little; it merely postponed the strike dead-
line. A few weeks from now another rail-
road strike over the same issues which
precipitated the last one is a distinct
possibility.
I believe we must face up to this prob-
lem, and face up to it now, before events
overtake us and while reasoned considera-
tion is still possible.
Time and again, as the nation has suf-
fered major disruptions from a transpor-
tation shutdown, voices have been raised
on all sides declaring emphatically that
this must not happen again—that better
laws are needed to protect the public in-
terest, and that the time to enact those
laws is before, not after, the next crippling
emergency. But with the same regularity,
as each emergency in turn has passed the
voices have subsided-until the next time.
So nothing has been done, and emergency
has followed emergency, at incalculable
cost to millions of innocent bystanders
and to the nation itself.
The legislation I propose today would
establish a framework for settling emer-
gency transportation disputes in a reason-
able and orderly fashion, fair to the parties
and without the shattering impact on the
public of a transportation shutdown. I
urge that this time we not wait for the next
emergency, but rather join together in act-
ing upon it now.
The White House
February 3, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The proposed emergency public interest
protection act was introduced as H.R. 3596 and
S. 560.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the pro-
posed legislation by Secretary of Labor James
D. Hodgson.
109
