Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 20 [366]
366 Remarks Welcoming Members of the Senior Class of
Wyoming High School of Cincinnati, Ohio, to the
White House. November 20, 1971
I WANT you to know that I am delighted
to welcome you here to the White House
and to tell you how this all happened.
Last night I attended, along with Mrs.
Nixon and my daughter Julie and David
Eisenhower-I think they are going to
come out and say hello in a minute, too—
anyway, I attended an affair down at the
Kennedy Center, at the Opera House, the
ballet dancers from Cambodia. And as I
was leaving, a big, tall fellow-where is
he? Does he always do that? He is a future
President. Anyway, this big, tall fellow
came up, and he said, "Look, could you
come down and have your picture taken
with the Wyoming High School class that
is here?" I said, "Well, you have come
from a long way." "No," he said, “just
from Cincinnati.”
So, I learned that there is a Wyoming
High School in Cincinnati. Of course, I
should have known it because you were
champions in 1969, and tied last year.
There are, of course, more important
things than being champions in football,
but I know that out in Cincinnati and
Ohio that is football country, so I do men-
tion that.
I want you to know, though, that when
I realized that I was going to meet you
and have my picture taken with you,
which is a great privilege for me, that I
realized that it was exactly 41 years ago
that I was graduated from high school.
I was a member of the Class of 1930 of
Whittier High School.
I thought of my being your age and
what a wonderful time it was then-I
thought. I was 17, 18. Most of you are
17, 18 years of age; right?
At that time, 1930, we had just begun
and moved into the great depression
which, of course, you read about now and
hear about. At that time the United States
was at peace. I remember that one of the
subjects for debate in our high school class
was how we were to keep the peace in the
world, although many could see what
might happen in the future.
Then I thought of what happened to
that generation, the Class of 1930. We
had such high hopes. Despite the fact that
we had moved into the depression, we
thought it would soon be over. You know,
young people, one of the great things
about them--I was this
I know you
are this way-is that you are upbeat, you
are hopeful, you are confident. If things
are wrong, you are going to make them
better. You are going to do something
about it. And I remember we felt that
way.
way,
If we had thought then that that de-
pression was going to last for over 8 years,
that we were not going to get out of it
until we got into World War II, we would
have been pretty depressed. If we had
thought then that our generation, the
generation that graduated in the Class of
'30, was going to go through three wars
more-World War II, Korea, and now
Vietnam-we would have been very, very
depressed.
So, now we look at this class, the Class
of '71. I just want you to know that you
can look to the future with confidence. I
1129
