Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 9 [352]
And so we enter a period in which the
dangers of war may be less in the world,
but a period in which, also, the challenges
of peace, ironically, become much greater.
Let me evaluate those challenges for you
tonight and put them in the perspective
of what some of the other speakers have
already referred to.
First, we must recognize that if we are
to have peace, and if we are to keep it, we
must keep America strong. We are, it is
true, engaged in talks which we believe
may lead to an agreement on limitation
of arms. But until we have such a mutual
agreement between the United States
and the Soviet Union, it is essential that
the United States maintain an adequate
national defense. By maintaining that de-
fense, we, of course, make it more pos-
sible for us to reach the kind of agree-
ment that we need to reach, and, also, by
maintaining that defense, it means doing
what Senator Percy has already referred
to: not only keeping America strong at
home but supporting a program of mutual
assistance abroad in which we help others
to help themselves, rather than send
Americans always to do the fighting all
over the world.
Now, when I refer to the burden of de-
fense at a time that we see a period of
peace possibly arriving in the world, I
know that many Americans may say,
"Haven't we carried this burden long
enough?" There is a tendency now, be-
cause of the long and difficult war
through which we have been passing, and
which is now coming to an end, for many
Americans to want to lay down the bur-
den of world leadership, the burden of
national defense, and to turn to our prob-
lems at home. I understand that tendency.
But I think all of us must realize that
we cannot afford the luxury of laying
down the burden of world leadership. The
reason is that there is no other free world
nation that has the capacity, that has the
strength, to give the leadership in the
world if the United States does not as-
sume that responsibility. We did not ask
for it, and I realize that most Americans
probably did not want it. But because of
the great historic developments that took
place during and since World War II, to-
day, unless the United States, as the leader
of the free world, assumes the responsi-
bilities of free world leadership, no one
else in the free world is there to do it, and
we cannot run the risk of leaving that
vacuum in world leadership.
Let me put it in the context of a very
difficult decision that I had to make over
this past weekend. I had to make a deci-
sion with regard to testing a defensive
weapon. It was a controversial weapon
to begin with. It was, in my view, a neces-
sary one due to the fact that another na-
tion in the world had already tested a
similar type of weapon. Under the cir-
cumstances, I considered that the na-
tional defense required that we go for-
ward with our own test, pending the time
that we could reach a limitation with that
other nation limiting that kind of weapon,
as well as offensive weapons.3
When it was learned that the test was
to go forward, there were objections
raised. I understood those objections.
They were raised by people who were
concerned about our environment, con-
cerned about the possibility that this test
might injure our environment.
3 The President was referring to the under-
ground detonation of a nuclear warhead for
the Spartan antiballistic missile on Amchitka
Island, the Aleutians, on November 6, 1971.
1093
