Richard Nixon, 1971
June 24 [208]
building up levels of opportunity for our
most valued asset-our children.
H.R. I also heralds a new day for older
Americans. Reforming both social se-
curity and welfare programs, it strikes a
blow against poverty for the elderly. Social
security benefits will rise automatically in
the future to protect against inflation, and
recipients will be entitled to make and
keep greater earnings without loss of bene-
fits. Income assistance to the needy aged
will be increased to $150 per month over a
3-year period and will be administered by
the Social Security Administration on an
efficient and equitable basis throughout
the Nation.
It is my deeply felt hope that the Senate
will move with dispatch now that welfare
reform has passed the House. We cannot
afford to delay any longer in our efforts
to remedy the failures of the Nation's
welfare programs and establish in their
place an equitable and uniform system de-
signed to build people up, rather than pull
them down.
208 Remarks at the Dedication of a Plaque
Commemorating the Birthplace of the President's
Mother, Hannah Milhous Nixon. June 24, 1971
Governor Whitcomb, Secretary Hardin,
Mr. Hurley, all of the distinguished guests
who are here today, and this wonderful
audience that has welcomed me to this
part of Indiana, which has so many
memories:
I want all of you to know that this day
does mean a great deal to me. I have
traveled to much larger cities in America
and in the world, but none where I felt
that I was more welcome than right here
in Indiana.
Winston Churchill came to the United
States as Prime Minister for the first time
to address the United States Congress in
the early days of World War II. Those
who were present on that occasion-this
was before I came to the Congress-but
those that were present on that occasion
remembered particularly the way that he
opened his speech. He said, "I cannot say
that this is my fatherland, but I proudly
say that this is my mother's land," be-
cause, of course, his mother was an Amer-
ican. And so I say today: I am very proud
to be in my mother's land here in the
heart of Indiana.
As Janet¹ has already told you, my
mother left Indiana when she was 12 years
old, but I can tell you, Indiana never left
her. From the time that I knew her until
she died—and she was 82 years old-my
mother always spoke with great affection
and love about back home in Indiana.
What she remembered about Indiana,
of course, were numbers of things. She
loved the farm. She always wanted to go
back to a farm. After my mother and
father could no longer run the grocery
store in which we had grown up, they did
buy a farm. She loved, too, the seasons.
You know, my native State of California
does not really have seasons. I remember
that I was not in snow to feel it until
I was 15 years old. My mother used to
miss the change in the seasons, the fall,
1
Janet Lee Wissel, president of the Jennings
County High School Chapter of the Junior
Historical Society of Indiana, introduced the
President.
771
