[94] Mar. II
Public Papers of the Presidents
Government of Japan, imports of
manmade fiber textile products have
greatly increased, and in January
1971 they entered this country at a
recordbreaking level. Moreover, the
program magnifies the potential
growth of the sensitive categories by
including in the base exports of cot-
ton products which are already lim-
ited by agreement and which have
been declining.
The deficiencies in the Japanese indus-
try program make it clear that it will
not result in an acceptable solution. It
is well known that I would prefer a nego-
tiated agreement to solve this problem.
The maneuver of the Japanese industry,
now apparently ratified by the Govern-
ment of Japan, has effectively precluded
further meaningful government to govern-
ment negotiations, the resumption of
which this country would welcome.
Consequently, I will strongly support
the textile quota provisions of the legisla-
tion now pending before the Congress,
H.R. 20, a bill passed by the House of
Representatives last year and reintroduced
this year by Chairman Mills and Con-
gressman Byrnes of the Ways and Means
Committee.
At the same time I am directing the
Secretary of Commerce to monitor im-
ports of wool and manmade fiber textile
products from Japan on a monthly basis. I
am instructing that this monitoring begin
immediately, with the results, including an
analysis of any differences from what
would have been the results under the
terms we presented, to be made available
to the entire Congress.
Under the circumstances and in order
to provide the relief necessary for United
States textile workers and businesses this
Government must now give the fullest
consideration to the other alternative
solutions to the textile problem.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on
textile imports by Representative John W.
Byrnes of Wisconsin and Peter M. Flanigan,
Assistant to the President.
95
Statement on the Death of Whitney M. Young, Jr.
March 11, 1971
WITH Whitney Young's tragic death
today in Nigeria, I have lost a friend-
black America has lost a gifted and com-
manding champion of its just cause-and
this Nation has lost one of the most com-
passionate and principled leaders it has
had in all the long centuries since whites
from Europe and blacks from Africa be-
gan building together toward the Amer-
ican dream.
Whitney Young died in the full bloom
of life—and at the very height of his con-
tribution to American society. His life is
over but his life's work continues.
Of the many hours I have spent with
him, the most recent and the most mem-
orable were just last December 22,¹ when
he and several of his Urban League col-
1 The White House later stated that Mr.
Young had also been one of a group of black
leaders with whom the President spent a few
minutes on February 24, 1971, when the group
was attending a briefing on the Administra-
tion's domestic programs at the White House.
424
