Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 7 [382]
The consultations with nations of Europe,
with Japan, with Canada last night, and
now with Brazil-Brazil, the largest coun-
try in South America-are part of that
consultative process.
The fact that you could be here now in
our country will provide the opportunity
that I have looked forward to, to discuss
with you these visits that I will be making
and, also, to have other discussions of im-
portance to our two countries. I look
forward to getting your views on hemis-
pheric relations because, as the eyes of
the world inevitably are on various trouble
spots around the world far away, and on
the trips, for example, that I shall be tak-
ing to other parts of the world, we in the
United States of America know that our
closest friends and our closest neighbors
are in this hemisphere, and we welcome
you as a close friend and a close neighbor
for so many years from Brazil.
you
Mr. President, finally, I look forward to
our talks because of the enormous success
that have had during your term of
office in building the economy of Brazil, in
the progress that has occurred during that
period. Those who have written about it
have called it "the Brazilian miracle." We
congratulate you, and we want you to
know that all of the people of this country,
as we look to our great neighbor to the
south, extend our very best wishes to all
the people of your great country.
Thank you for coming at this time so
that we could meet.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:54 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House. A formal
welcome with full military honors had been
scheduled to be held on the South Lawn, but
because of rain, President and Mrs. Nixon
greeted President and Mrs. Médici on the North
Portico and proceeded to the East Room for
the welcoming ceremony.
President Médici spoke in Portuguese. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President:
It was with great joy and emotion that I
accepted your invitation to visit the United
States of America. This appeared to be, to me,
a most propitious opportunity, not only to
reaffirm our long and steadfast friendship but
also to discover the basis for a new dialogue—
brotherly, frank, and objective-between the
United States of America and the Federative
Republic of Brazil.
At this important moment of the national
history of both our countries, they find them-
selves desirous to establish, through us, a new
point of departure for a closer cooperation in
the future.
Both the problems of the present and the
prospects for the future make this a meeting
of transcendental importance for our peoples.
Our peaceful relations have remained un-
changed, and our friendship has been
strengthened in extremely difficult moments for
both our countries through effective coopera-
tion and exemplary fellowship and mutual
respect.
Now is the time to build upon such a friend-
ship, and it is for this purpose, which I am
sure you share, that I take advantage of the
welcome and hospitality of this great country.
Our relations in the years ahead cannot fail
to reflect the promises and the uncertainties
that gather over the international scene.
Neither can they fail to adapt themselves to
the new realities of the world and to the stage
of historical evolution of each of our countries.
Drawing inspiration from the past, the cooper-
ation between Brazil and the United States
must now seek, with imagination, new means
and instruments which reflect such realities.
Our position cannot be the same vis-a-vis
every international problem, nor is this ex-
pected from our frank and loyal friendship.
Let us, nevertheless, endeavor to make our
policies converge without requiring that they
coincide in every case.
The Brazil of today, in full process of de-
velopment, accepts the challenge of history
which places on its shoulders an increasing
share of responsibility in the concert of nations.
1165
