Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 25 [303]
years, said, "Well, Mr. President, you
might say you were encouraged and then
be disappointed."
But he then did say, as did Mr. Flynn,
that they would meet again with a new
sense of urgency and that they would set
as a goal reaching a settlement by the end
of next week. I can only say that I believe
that my meeting with them in Portland
could well help to get it off dead center.
One can never be sure, because of the
differences that are involved.
Q. How long would the strike have to
go on before you would invoke Taft-
Hartley?
THE PRESIDENT. I am somewhat
knowledgeable in this field, because you
may remember I was a member of the
labor committee of the House when we
wrote Taft-Hartley. I am, therefore,
familiar with all of the legal limitations,
as well as the possibilities, in applying the
act.
The problem, of course, is whether or
not it has national implications in terms
of health and safety. At this point a case
could be made, on a narrow basis, that
Taft-Hartley might be applied, but at this
point, also, I would have to say that most
of the legal experts in the field believe that
there would be a very good chance that a
court would not uphold the use of Taft-
Hartley.
Having said that, let us suppose that,
as some have indicated, that we will be
confronted very soon with an Eastern
longshore strike. If you have an Eastern
longshore strike and a Western longshore
strike still continuing, Taft-Hartley auto-
matically is going to be applied, because
then the damage is very great.
Second, if this strike goes on for a period
of time and I determine that the parties
simply aren't going to get together, then
we have to step in and use Taft-Hartley
and take the risk that the courts may not
uphold it.
I emphasize again, though, that your
question points up the weakness in the
present law. The railway legislation is
obsolete in this country. We found that
out in trying to negotiate a labor
settlement.
Taft-Hartley, in terms of its ability to
handle a dispute of this type, which affects
great numbers of people far beyond the
number of workers involved in the dis-
pute-Taft-Hartley is simply not ade-
quate, and that is why we, almost 2 years
ago, recommended to the Congress new
legislation covering the whole field of
transportation. And I think that one
thing this strike has done-together with
the railroad strike and the possibility of a
strike of the longshoremen on the east
coast is to give added urgency to the
need for Congressional action.
The Congress has not even held a hear-
ing on that matter yet. I understand the
Interstate and Foreign Commerce Com-
mittee of the House may now begin to
hold some hearings.
THE PRESIDENT'S ITINERARY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, we heard that
there is some criticism from the Seattle-
Puget Sound area that you are not stop-
ping there in the State of Washington.
Can you give us any explanation of how
you happened to pick Hanford as the
place to visit?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I would say
that it is very difficult to make all the
stops we would like to make in any one
of the States. When Senator Mansfield
71-234-72—66
989
