[59] Feb. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
that, I want to say to the members of the
American Legion, to those representing,
as you do, the leadership of this great
organization throughout the country, that
when we come into a period when, we
trust, America will be at peace with all
nations in the world, at peace not just for
the next few years but perhaps for a
whole generation, this is a time when it
will be vitally important for the Ameri-
can Legion to continue to stand for the
strong national defense for which it has
always stood.
Let's look at the record: There are a
few here who are veterans of World War I.
All of you will remember that after
World War I the United States became
too weak and, as a result, the United
States was unable to play the role, the
peace-keeping role, which it could and
should have played in that period between
the two great wars.
We remember that after World War II
the same thing happened, and the United
States was unable to have the strength that
it should have had at the time that the
Korean war began.
And now we come to another period, a
period when we will end a war, when we
will be at peace with the rest of the world,
and when the decision will have to be
made by the American people as to
whether we maintain the adequate na-
tional defense that we need.
I will simply say this: That until the
United States obtains an arms control lim-
itation between the two great super
powers, one that we can rely upon and
that they can rely upon, it is essential
that the United States maintain an ade-
quate armed force. We maintain that
[applause]————
And we must maintain that force not
because we want war, but because in the
truest sense of the word in peacetime the
Armed Forces of the United States all over
this world are truly peace forces.
Let us remember: Whether it was
World War I, whether it was World War
II, whether it was Korea, or whether it
was Vietnam, the United States has not
started a war anyplace.
The United States has fought in de-
fense of freedom, and we must maintain
those defense and free forces.
So, Commander Chamie, all of our
distinguished guests this evening, I simply
want you to know that having received
this award as President of the United
States, as a member of the American
Legion and proud of that membership, I
urge you to continue to support whoever
is the President of the United States,
whatever his party, in the cause of the
United States maintaining the strength
that we must maintain to play the role
that must be played by the strongest free
world nation if we are to have peace for
the balance of this century. I believe we
can do it and with your help we will do it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:52 p.m. at
the American Legion National Commander's
dinner honoring the Congress of the United
States in the Sheraton Park Hotel.
60 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the Foreign Assistance Program. February 17, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Since my March 1970 Report on For-
eign Assistance, I have proposed to the
Congress a major transformation in the
156
