[297] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal Reserve move in with the power
that they have, particularly at the con-
sumer level, on interest rates in Phase 2.
THE WELFARE SYSTEM
[11] Mr. Winkelman.
Q. Mr. President, as you know, the
cities of our country have many critical
problems, one of which is an antiquated
welfare system that is very bad from
everyone's point of view-the recipient,
the caseworker, and the public. What
could we look to as your role, and what
action can we expect in resolving this
problem in the frame of reference of your
new economic program?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, Mr.
Winkelman, one of the major initiatives of
this Administration, one that we have had
before the Congress now for over a year—
almost a year and a half-has been a
massive welfare reform.
The present welfare system is a national
disgrace because it is a system which
makes it more profitable for a man to go
on welfare than to go to work. That is
why the key to our welfare reform pro-
posal is to provide for the working poor
an opportunity for individuals to move
off welfare, even to lower paid jobs.
Rather than to have a disincentive to
work, we want to remove the incentives to
stay on welfare; we want to increase the
incentives to get off welfare and to work.
We want to get away, too, from the
present system-and that is what our
family assistance program is also directed
to-the present system, which I think is
unconscionable, of having welfare snoop-
ers going around to enforce what I think
are the unenforceable provisions of the
present welfare system.
Now, with regard to that welfare pro-
gram, as far as the President is concerned,
and the Administration, we have laid it
before the Congress. I have emphasized
it in every speech. I emphasized it again
when I spoke to the Congress on Septem-
ber 9. It has passed the House. It is now
before the Senate. I believe that before the
Congress goes home for Christmas this
year, they ought to move on the welfare
program and do something about it.
INEQUITIES OF WAGE FREEZE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, it is estimated
that Phase I of the freeze cost American
working people more than $500 million
just in wage increases that already were
agreed upon through the collective bar-
gaining process. Because of this freeze,
this huge amount of money was retained
by the companies. Also, many thousands
of individuals have had their wages frozen
at a time when they were already behind
other wage earners, and many in the same
industry. How will these inequities be
resolved?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Younglove, one of
the inevitable consequences of a freeze
is that there are inequities, as you well
recognize. Those inequities must be
equally shared-equally shared during the
period of the freeze.
One of the reasons that a freeze cannot
be extended beyond 90 days-oh, possibly
it could go for 120 days-is that those
inequities will eventually blow it
up. The
massive public support for the freeze-
and it runs about 70 percent, including
over 60 percent among union members, as
you know that massive public support
would tend to erode if the inequities such
as the ones you have referred to, and
teachers' salaries are another example, if
they were allowed to sit there and fester.
974
