Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [258]
open, in which all peoples of the world
will have a chance to know other peoples
of the world. We are working toward that.
I pledge to you as I return to New
Hampshire after seeing you on February 2,
1968, that we have made great progress
toward that goal by winding down the
war we are in, by opening new negotia-
tions with those who might be involved
in conflict in the future. I believe that in
the end, that you, as Americans, as Demo-
crats or Republicans, will look at this
policy, and I hope that you will be able to
say it was a policy that we supported and
that we can applaud, because it did not
look just simply at what we are going to
do today, tomorrow, or next year, but it
thought of our children, and of building a
better world for them than we have had.
My friends, we can have a peaceful
world. We can have it for a generation,
and we can have these young people with
jobs that are based not on the lives and
deaths of our boys abroad, but on their
working for peace at home.
That is what we want, and that is what
I believe in.
Thank you very much for coming out.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. at
Grenier Field.
258 Remarks in Nashua, New Hampshire.
August 6, 1971
Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen:
I want to tell you how much Mrs.
Nixon and I appreciate this very warm
welcome that you have given to us in
Nashua on this beautiful day.
I was just telling the mayor that despite
my many visits to New Hampshire, most
of which have been political in the past—
this, of course, is nonpolitical, as you
know-in any event, on previous visits I
have come to Nashua perhaps four or five
times.
This is the first time I have ever seen
the city in the daytime. I want to tell you
what I told the mayor: It is a beautiful
city. The streets are clean. The people are
up-beat. I like Nashua, and I know you
like Nashua, and I am glad to be here
with you all.
Incidentally, when I saw this crowd I
thought there was a little mistake. I
thought you were expecting Greg Landry,
or somebody like that.
But we do want you to know that we
have so many pleasant memories of our
visits to New Hampshire through the
years. Most of all, whether you happen to
be Republican or Democrat or Independ-
ent, I can assure you that for the Presi-
dent of the United States to come to one
of the great States of the Union, to come
to this beautiful city, with all of the
American flags flying-and I saw them
along the road-it makes you realize that
this is truly a very great country, with
people who differ on many things, but
who have respect for this country, respect
for the office of the Presidency, and who
are going to make it a more beautiful
country in the years ahead.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke shortly after 3 p.m.
at the city hall.
Dennis Sullivan was mayor of Nashua.
877
