[370] Nov. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
370 Remarks to Members of the Washington Redskins
Professional Football Team During a Practice
Session at Redskins Park.
I KNOW you fellows probably wonder
why I came out here today. I told George,
who used to coach at Whittier, my alma
mater, years after I left there, and was
one of the great small college coaches in
the country--that's how the Bears finally
discovered him-I said, "You know, I
won't be coming to a game till you need
me."
When I have talked to George, and
sometimes after games I have called him,
he said, "When are you coming out?" I
said, "Well, I will be out there one day."
Well, I just wanted all of you to know
that after you lost that game, which I did
see on television Sunday, I thought I
would just come out to the practice. It is
my own idea. George didn't invite me.
But I came out to tell you a couple of
things that, to a lot of old pros, probably
don't need to be said. But I am sort of an
old pro, too, in my business. In the first
place, I just want you to know this whole
city is very proud of you.
I, speaking as one who heard a few of
those boos-and I have heard a few my-
self in my lifetime-but I heard a few, the
great majority of the people of this town
are back of this team. You have been good
for this city. The city needed to have a
team that was winning.
I want you to know that as far as I am
concerned and I think this is true of
most of us; you find this hard to believe
sometimes because you always think,
"Well, they are only with us when we are
up, and they are not with us when we are
down"--but as far as I am concerned, as
I told George after you lost that Kansas
November
November 23, 1971
City game, and I say the same thing after
this game with Dallas, I am just as proud
of what you did and what you are when
you have lost as when you have won.
Now, I would not say that except for
something that has really impressed me
about the team, something I really watch
for, and all you guys will understand this.
I
guess I can introduce this best by telling
you a rather amusing incident that oc-
curred when I went out to Bart Starr
night. They gave him an evening, George,
out at Green Bay a couple of years ago.ยน
COACH GEORGE ALLEN. We played the
Packers that day.
THE PRESIDENT. Right. That is right,
you played them. You were in the
audience.
On that occasion, I was talking to big
Henry Jordan,2 who is, you know, quite
good, or at least was a great defensive fel-
low, and also good with the words. And I
said, "Henry, what makes the pros play?"
He said, "Money."
"But," I said, "you fellows wouldn't go
out there and give everything like that just
because of money." He said, "Well, that
counts a lot."
But then the thing that impressed me
was this of course, doing well, getting
into the playoffs, making some money, I
know that all means a lot. This is your
1 Bart Starr, who was quarterback for the
Green Bay Packers professional football team,
was honored at a testimonial reception in Green
Bay, Wis., on October 17, 1970. See 1970 vol-
ume, Item 359.
2 Former defensive tackle for the Green Bay
Packers.
1134
