Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 12 [356]
356 The President's News Conference of
November 12, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. Won't you be seated,
ladies and gentlemen.
TROOP WITHDRAWALS FROM VIETNAM
[1] Ladies and gentlemen, I have an
announcement of a substantially increased
troop withdrawal from Vietnam.
When I entered office on January 20,
1969, there were 540,000 Americans in
Vietnam, and our casualties were running
as high as 300 a week. Over the past 3
years, we have made progress on both
fronts. Our casualties, for example, for
the past 5 weeks have been less than 10,
instead of 300, a week, and with regard
to withdrawals, 80 percent of those who
were there have come home—365,000.
I have now had an opportunity to ap-
praise the situation as it is today. I have
consulted with my senior advisers, and I
have had an up-to-date report from Sec-
retary Laird.
Based on those consultations and con-
sultations with the Government of South
Vietnam, I am now able to make this an-
nouncement. Over the next 2 months we
will withdraw 45,000 Americans. I will
make another announcement before the
first of February. As far as that second.
announcement is concerned, before the
first of February, the number to be with-
drawn-the rate, that is—as well as the
duration of the announcement, will be de-
termined by three factors:
First, by the level of enemy activity and
particularly by the infiltration route and
its rate, because if the level of enemy ac-
tivity and infiltration substantially in-
creased, it could be very dangerous to
our sharply decreased forces in South
Vietnam.
Second, the progress of our training
program, our Vietnamization program in
South Vietnam.
And third, any progress that may have
been made with regard to two major ob-
jectives that we have-obtaining the re-
lease of all of our POW's wherever they
are in Southeast Asia and obtaining a
cease-fire for all of Southeast Asia.
Those three criteria will determine the
next announcement, both its duration and
its rate.
Now, I will be glad to take questions on
this announcement or any other subject,
domestic or foreign, that you would like
to cover.
QUESTIONS
CEASE-FIRE IN LAOS AND CAMBODIA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, to be clear on
the cease-fire, would that include Laos
and Cambodia as well as South Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. That is our goal, Mr.
Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily
News], yes. As you know, we have offered
that in my talk of last year in October.
We have been continuing to offer it. We
would, of course, believe that attaining
that goal would bring peace to the whole
area, which is what we want, and, of
course, would greatly reduce the need for
a very heavy American aid program
that presently we have for, particularly,
Cambodia.
PRISONERS OF WAR
[3.] Q. Mr. President, do you have
any reason for encouragement on the re-
lease of prisoners of war from any source?
ΙΙΟΙ
