Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 22 [26]
and wage earners a chance to escape from
ever-higher property taxes and sales taxes.
Let us share our resources for two other
reasons as well.
The first of these reasons has to do with
government itself, and the second has to
do with each of us, with the individual.
Let's face it. Most Americans today are
simply fed up with government at all
levels. They will not-and they should
not-continue to tolerate the gap between
promise and performance in government.
The fact is that we have made the Fed-
eral Government so strong it grows
musclebound and the States and localities
so weak they approach impotence.
If we put more power in more places,
we can make government more creative in
more places. That way we multiply the
number of people with the ability to make
things happen—and we can open the
way to a new burst of creative energy
throughout America.
The final reason I urge this historic
shift is much more personal, for each and
for every one of us.
As everything seems to have grown
bigger and more complex in America, as
the forces that shape our lives seem to
have grown more distant and more im-
personal, a great feeling of frustration has
crept across this land.
Whether it is the workingman who feels
neglected, the black man who feels op-
pressed, or the mother concerned about
her children, there has been a growing
feeling that “Things are in the saddle, and
ride mankind."
Millions of frustrated young Americans
today are crying out-asking not what
will government do for me, but what can
I do, how can I contribute, how can I
matter?
And so let us answer them. Let us say
to them and let us say to all Americans,
"We hear you. We will give you a chance.
We are going to give you a new chance to
have more to say about the decisions that
affect your future—a chance to partici-
pate in government-because we are
going to provide more centers of power
where what you do can make a difference
that you can see and feel in your own life
and the life of your whole community."
The further away government is from
people, the stronger government becomes
and the weaker people become. And a
nation with a strong government and a
weak people is an empty shell.
I reject the patronizing idea that gov-
ernment in Washington, D.C., is inevi-
tably more wise, more honest, and more
efficient than government at the local or
State level. The honesty and efficiency of
government depends on people. Govern-
ment at all levels has good people and bad
people. And the way to get more good
people into government is to give them
more opportunity to do good things.
The idea that a bureaucratic elite in
Washington knows best what is best for
people everywhere and that you can-
not trust local governments is really a con-
tention that you cannot trust people to
govern themselves. This notion is com-
pletely foreign to the American experi-
ence. Local government is the govern-
ment closest to the people, it is most re-
sponsive to the individual person. It is
people's government in a far more inti-
mate way than the Government in Wash-
ington can ever be.
People came to America because they
wanted to determine their own future
rather than to live in a country where
others determined their future for them.
55
