[384] Dec. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Taxes would also be deferred on the earn-
ings from these investments.
This provision would be especially
helpful to older workers who are most
interested in retirement. The limitation I
propose would direct benefits primarily to
employees with low and moderate in-
comes, while preserving an incentive to
establish employer-financed plans. The
limit is nevertheless sufficiently high to
permit older employees to finance a sub-
stantial retirement income. For example,
a person whose plan begins at age 40, with
contributions of $1,500 a year, could still
retire at age 65 with an annual pension
of $7,500, in addition to social security
benefits.
This proposed deduction would be
available to those already covered by
employer-financed plans, but in this case
the upper limit of $1,500 would be
reduced to reflect pension plan contribu-
tions made by the employer. An appro-
priate adjustment would also be made in
the case of individuals who do not con-
tribute to the Social Security system or the
Railroad Retirement System.
2. Self-employed persons who invest in
pension plans for themselves and their
employees should be given a more gen-
erous tax deduction than they now receive.
Under present law, self-employed per-
sons may establish pension plans covering
themselves and their employees. However,
deductible contributions are limited an-
nually to $2,500 or 10 percent of earned
income, whichever is less. There are no
such limits to contributions made by cor-
porations on behalf of their employees.
This distinction in treatment is not
based on any difference in reality, since
self-employed persons and corporate em-
ployees often engage in substantially the
same economic activities. One result of
this distinction has been to create an arti-
ficial incentive for the self-employed to
incorporate; another result has been to
deny benefits to the employees of those
self-employed persons who do not wish to
incorporate which are comparable to
those of corporate employees.
To achieve greater equity, I propose
that the annual limit for deductible con-
tributions by the self-employed be raised
to $7,500 or 15 percent of income, which-
ever is less. This provision would encour-
age and enable the self-employed to
provide more adequate benefits for them-
selves and for their workers.
3. A minimum standard should be es-
tablished in law for the vesting of pen-
sions-i.e., for preserving pension rights
of employees even though they leave their
jobs before retirement.
A basic problem in our present pension
system is the situation of the worker who
loses his pension when he is discharged,
laid off, resigns or moves to another job.
A person who is discharged just before
retirement, for example, sometimes finds
that the retirement income on which he
has been relying-and which has been
accumulating for many years-simply is
no longer due him.
Preservation of the pension rights of
employees who leave their jobs-vesting—
is essential to a growing and healthy pri-
vate pension system. A pension is fully
vested when an employee is entitled to
receive all benefits accumulated up to a
certain date regardless of what happens
in the period between that date and his
retirement. Despite encouraging increases
in the degree of vesting, the pensions of
more than two-thirds of all current par-
ticipants in private pension plans are not
now vested. Even among older employees,
whose need for vesting is most acute, many
1170
