[284] Sept. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
make. Inflation hits the farmer coming
and going-it raises both the cost of living
and the cost of farming. The result is a
brutal cost-price squeeze.
The figures are striking. The prices
farmers pay for all items have gone up 52
percent in the last 20 years while the prices
they receive have gone up only 8 percent
in the same time. Like a great invisible
vise, inflation has been crushing our farm
families and farm communities for many
years now and this can be said about fam-
ily after family in other walks of life as
well. It is time that they got some relief.
Our new policies offer that relief. More
than that, these policies promise, for the
first time in many years, to achieve a new
prosperity for farmers, for all Americans—
prosperity without inflation and without
war. This is a goal to which all Americans,
I am sure, will subscribe.
I have spoken to this convention to-
night about the contribution you have
made, you in agriculture generally, to
America's competitive position. I have
spoken about the enormous contribution
that your productivity makes to America
in this critical time.
Let me now refer to another area in
which this great audience, coming from
the heartland of America--and the heart-
land of America is all over America-par-
ticularly centered in this area, of course.
Let me indicate another area where your
contribution has been and can continue to
be decisive. That is in developing the spirit
that America needs if we are going to
maintain our competitive position in the
world.
As we speak of that spirit, let me say
that as I have traveled over the country I
am convinced that it is strong. I am con-
vinced that the people of this country are
ready to respond to a challenge to com-
pete. But I think it is important for us
to remind ourselves at this time that if
America is not to fall behind in this period
of greater competition with our friends
abroad, that it is going to be necessary
for us to strengthen our spirit in several
areas.
First, with Labor Day approaching, let
us recognize in this country the dignity
of work. By "the dignity of work" I should
like to point out what was to me a rather
disturbing report I read a few weeks ago
with regard to some individuals on wel-
fare in one of our cities who refused to
take jobs because they considered those
jobs to be menial.
Ladies and gentlemen, when I was
growing up, my father at various times
was a carpenter, he was a streetcar motor-
man, he was a farmer, he worked in a
filling station, and he worked in the oil
fields. I suppose you could call that
menial, but I say that any job which pro-
vides self-support, self-reliance, self-
respect, and human dignity is not menial
in America.
So on this Labor Day let us recognize
the dignity of men and women who work,
whatever that field may be-the farmer,
the worker, the laborer, 80 million of
them. That is what made America what
it is, and by recognizing that dignity, we
can continue to be productive.
Then, second, it is necessary for us to
recognize that in this Nation there are
times when it is necessary for us to make
some sacrifices. I do not speak of the
sacrifice of life; I speak of sacrifices that
do not even approach that ultimate
sacrifice.
932
