[193] June 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
as the hope of the world, despite all of
our problems, despite the ones that we
hear and see night after night on televi-
sion, read about in the newspapers.
It is your challenge not only to help
keep America strong, and not only to help
keep it prosperous, but to keep the charac-
ter of this Nation, its idealism: to make it
a nation where there is true opportunity
for every American; to make it a nation
where character really does count; to
make it a nation, too, where, in spite of
all of the temptations to turn to those
particular activities that would weaken
our national strength, you maintain those
great traditions that you have learned in
scouting and that you are continuing in
your role in this great organization, the
Explorers.
I would simply conclude with this final
thought: Sometimes, I know, you may
get the impression from what you may
hear or see on television or read in the
newspapers, or perhaps what you hear in
the classrooms, that this is rather a bad
time to be alive. You tend to be a bit pes-
simistic about it.
Here we are: We have a war. We have
problems of strife within the country, and
wouldn't it have been better to live at
another time or maybe in another nation?
Don't you believe it. If I had my life to
live over again, and if I had at this time to
pick a nation, of all the nations in the
world, in which I wanted to live, and a
time in which to live, I would pick the
United States of America.
This is a great country, and you can
be proud of the fact that your country will
play and is playing a role for real peace
in the world. We don't threaten any other
country's peace or freedom. You can be
proud of the fact that the challenge you
face is that what America does not just
our military and economic strength, but
more, the strength of our character-will
determine whether the billions of people
on this earth are going to enjoy peace,
and more of them are going to have an
opportunity for freedom in the years
ahead.
I simply want to say to you: Don't lose
faith in your country. I know that you
have it; otherwise, you would not be in
this great organization. Keep your faith
in America. There are things wrong with
it, but in changing what is wrong, let's not
destroy what is right. What we want to
do is to build America, to build it up
rather than tear it down; to stand up for
America, to stand up for it when it is
under attack; to correct those things that
are wrong; and to make it the good and
great country that we know it is.
So with that, let me say I hope you en-
joy every minute of your stay in Washing-
ton. I am glad that the rain that was
predicted this afternoon did not come,
and I hope that all of you enjoy your tour
through the White House.
Incidentally, you will find a lot of things
lying around. Usually I say to guests,
"You can pick up anything that isn't
nailed down." As far as you are concerned,
I know that you will enjoy this visit, and
as you go through those rooms, think of
the history of the country, think of the
heritage which is yours, and I hope all of
you will come out with just a little more
pride in being an American and having
the opportunity to lead America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:22 p.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where he
greeted some 2,000 young men and women at-
tending the Congress sponsored by the Ex-
ploring Division of the Boy Scouts of America.
Participants included presidents or officers of
Explorer posts in nearly every State.
702
