[349] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
we had the best candidate, in some places we
sometimes didn't, for various reasons, but there
were many places where we thought we would
not win because there was not cooperation be-
tween the two of them-the candidate and
those who were supposed to make him win.
But this is where the people came to the fore,
and they said, "Well, if this is a candidate be-
longing to Mrs. Gandhi's party, we will make
him win, whether the party wants him or any-
body else wants him." This is how we won
these elections.
But we had met in the new parliament for
only a week and, like all politicians, we were
still busy patting each other on the back and
congratulating one another when suddenly our
entire world changed and what seemed to be a
path full of sunlight, just waiting for us to go
ahead and solve the problems which remained,
was covered with a very large shadow, a dark
shadow. And without warning, a major crisis
erupted across our frontiers and well nigh en-
gulfed us, seriously threatening our hard-
earned stability.
What has happened is now part of contem-
porary history. I shall not dwell on it, but
may I recall the sheer magnitude of the prob-
lem? Can you think of the entire population
of Michigan State suddenly converging onto
New York State? Imagine the strain on space,
on the administration, on the services such as
health and communications, on resources such
as food and money-and this not in conditions
of affluence, but in a country already battling
with problems of poverty and population.
We are paying the price of our traditions of
an open society. Of all peoples, surely those of
the United States should understand this. Has
not your own society been built of people who
have fled from social and economic injustices?
Have not your doors always been open?
Every nation must bear its own cross. Our
people have faced this challenge with exem-
plary unity, self-reliance, and self-restraint.
But from neighbors far and near and from
others who value and uphold democratic prin-
ciples, we expect understanding and, may I
add, a certain measure of support.
None of our friends, and especially not those
who share common ideals, would expect us to
abandon our long-cherished democratic prin-
ciples. If today we are beset with economic un-
certainty and faced with a grave threat to our
stability and security, it is because our demo-
cratic code and geographical proximity have
made us the inevitable refuge of millions of
helpless victims of a medieval tyranny.
The circumstances did not allow an analysis
of the consequences to our own economy and
our society. Our administration, already
strained to meet the rising demands of our vast
population, is stretched to the limit in looking
after 9 million refugees, all citizens of another
country. Food stocks built against drought are
being used up. Limited resources scraped
together for sorely needed development works
are being depleted.
The occasion is too serious for the scoring
of propaganda points. Our people cannot
understand how it is that we who are the
victims, we who are bearing the brunt and
have restrained ourselves with such fortitude,
should be equated with those whose action has
caused the tragedy.
There is no foretelling how far-reaching will
be its consequences. It is for the international
community to try to remove the root cause
of the trouble. India will not be found wanting
in generous responses.
In the meantime, I cannot avoid the re-
sponsibility or my duty to safeguard the future
of my people.
Mr. President, we are with you in your faith
in freedom and democracy. The size of my
country and the complex situations which con-
front us have led to many prophecies of des-
pair. But India, like the United States, has the
great resilience which is born of a free society,
and out of the very crises emerge solutions and
new resources of energy.
Mr. President, you have evoked admiration
all over the world for the imaginative manner
in which you have taken bold decisions. I am
sure that having a First Lady of such grace and
charm is a source of strength to you.
This morning you spoke of sunshine, and
indeed it was a very beautiful day. I don't
know whether you were responsible for it or
whether I was, because in India I do have the
reputation of bringing the weather the people
want. Usually, of course, it is rain, it is not
sunshine at all, because our crops need rain,
and even in the driest of the drought days,
when I went somewhere it always rained-not
enough to make any difference to anybody, but
just two or three drops to say, "Well, I was
1084
