[414] Dec. 28 Public Papers of the Presidents
Under a second amendment being
signed into law, Medicaid benefits would
be extended to cover services provided by
Intermediate Care Facilities, the so-called
ICF's. The purpose of this amendment:
to provide a less costly alternative for the
medically indigent, who do not need the
institutional or intensive care provided in
hospitals and skilled nursing homes.
A third worthwhile provision of H.R.
10604 will guarantee that some 600,000
Americans, needy, aged, blind, and dis-
abled, now on public assistance, will con-
tinue to enjoy some benefits from the
social security increases enacted in 1969.
Were it not for this provision, these
600,000 would no longer be protected
against a reduction of up to $4 monthly
in their welfare checks.
The fourth provision represents a sig-
nificant step in the direction of welfare
reform.
Although they present some technical
difficulties, the amendments the Congress
voted to the Work Incentive program
(WIN) would, in effect, essentially en-
act the workfare provisions I have pro-
posed as a part of a complete reform of
the welfare system.
Under these amendments, all able-
bodied welfare recipients-rightly except-
ing the aged, children under 16 or
attending school, those who are caring for
ill or incapacitated persons, and mothers
of small children-will be required to reg-
ister for jobs or job training. The Federal
Government will also assume 90 percent
of the cost of child care and supportive
services. The Federal matching rate for
manpower services will rise from 80 per-
cent to 90 percent. A new public service
program will be established to replace
some ineffective existing special work
projects. Separate units of the Federal
Work Incentive program will be estab-
lished at all State agencies. Also added
is a requirement that at least one-third
of total WIN expenditures be used for
on-the-job training and public service em-
ployment-reflecting a clear preference
for real jobs, as opposed to long-term class-
room training.
These amendments parallel my work-
fare recommendations embodied in
H.R. 1. In my judgment, they reflect the
national interest.
The United States today faces
changed world from the postwar world
to which we had become accustomed. In
the place of exhausted and dependent
allies and defeated enemies, we today find
ourselves with strong and independent
friends and powerful adversaries compet-
ing for a new place in the sun.
No nation enjoys the unique advantages
America possesses in that competition.
But if we are to remain the most competi-
tive, most productive society on earth, we
must not forget how we got there. It is
the sweat and labor of generations past
and present that have brought us where
we are today, that have piled high the
wealth that enables us to be among the
most generous nations in history with our
own people, and with the world. The
affluent society did not come into being
by accident.
To those who deride the "work ethic,"
Americans must respond that any job for
an able-bodied man is preferable to life
on the public dole. No task, no labor, no
work, is without dignity or meaning that
enables an individual to feed and clothe
and shelter himself, and provide for his
family. We are a nation that pays tribute
to the workingman and rightly scorns the
freeloader who voluntarily opts to be a
ward of the state. For over the last four
1212
