Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
larger. For the ongoing SALT nego-
tiations we stayed in close touch with
our allies not only because of their
interest but also for their ideas.
-In the Western Hemisphere we have
shifted from paternalism to a more
balanced partnership. We sought the
ideas and initiatives of our neighbors
and together strengthened the mech-
anisms for sharing responsibilities in
hemispheric development and di-
plomacy.
-Our foreign assistance program en-
abled us to help countries who were
helping themselves. Congressional
passage of a $1 billion supplemental
appropriation at year's end was en-
couraging recognition that the Nixon
Doctrine requires substantial Ameri-
can assistance.
-In our proposals for a new approach
to foreign aid we emphasized multi-
lateral institutions and collaboration.
We will work more with, and ask
more of, others in the development
process.
In 1970 there were also examples of
policies which belied oversimplified inter-
pretations of the Nixon Doctrine as a
formula for heedless withdrawal:
-The Cambodian sanctuary opera-
tions were not inconsistent with the
plan for American disengagement.
Rather they furthered the strategic
purpose of insuring the Vietnamiza-
tion and withdrawal programs.
-Maintaining the present level of U.S.
forces in Europe does not contradict
the principle of self-help and burden
sharing in Asia. Rather it is the best
means of eliciting greater partnership
in the European theater, while recog-
nizing the reality of the security
problem.
-The discreet projection of American
presence in the Mediterranean dur-
ing the Jordanian crisis did not
increase the chances of outside in-
tervention. Rather it served as a
reminder that outside intervention
carried great risks.
The Nixon Doctrine applies most di-
rectly to our dealings with allies and
friends. But it animates all areas of our
new foreign policy:
-In our economic posture. We look
towards increased U.S. economic and
military assistance in certain areas to
help our friends make full use of their
resources and move on to greater
self-reliance. International trade
and monetary policies will demand
mutual accommodations and adjust-
ment.
-In our defense posture. We will pro-
vide the nuclear shield of the Nixon
Doctrine. Our general purpose forces
are more and more keyed to our part-
ners' capabilities, to provide truly
flexible response when our commit-
ments are involved. And our security
assistance program will provide in-
dispensable support to our friends,
especially where there are reductions
in U.S. manpower.
-In our negotiating posture. When we
conduct bilateral negotiations with
the USSR, as in SALT, partnership
involves close consultations with our
allies both to protect their interests
and solicit their views. In turn part-
nership requires our allies, in their
negotiations, to pursue their course
within a framework of common ob-
227
