[264] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
achieving our goal of full employment.
The second indispensable element of
the new prosperity is to stop the rise in the
cost of living.
One of the cruelest legacies of the
artificial prosperity produced by war is in-
flation. Inflation robs every American,
every one of you. The 20 million who are
retired and living on fixed incomes-they
are particularly hard hit. Homemakers
find it harder than ever to balance the
family budget. And 80 million American
wage earners have been on a treadmill.
For example, in the 4 war years between
1965 and 1969, your wage increases were
completely eaten up by price increases.
Your paychecks were higher, but you were
no better off.
We have made progress against the rise
in the cost of living. From the high point
of 6 percent a year in 1969, the rise in con-
sumer prices has been cut to 4 percent in
the first half of 1971. But just as is the
case in our fight against unemployment,
we can and we must do better than that.
The time has come for decisive action-
action that will break the vicious circle
of spiraling prices and costs.
I am today ordering a freeze on all
prices and wages throughout the United
States for a period of 90 days.¹ In addi-
tion, I call upon corporations to extend
the wage-price freeze to all dividends.
I have today appointed a Cost of Liv-
ing Council within the Government.¹ I
have directed this Council to work with
leaders of labor and business to set up the
proper mechanism for achieving con-
tinued price and wage stability after the
90-day freeze is over.
Let me emphasize two characteristics of
this action: First, it is temporary. To put
1
¹ Executive Order 11615.
the strong, vigorous American economy
into a permanent straitjacket would lock
in unfairness; it would stifle the expan-
sion of our free enterprise system. And
second, while the wage-price freeze will
be backed by Government sanctions, if
necessary, it will not be accompanied by
the establishment of a huge price con-
trol bureaucracy. I am relying on the
voluntary cooperation of all Americans—
each one of you: workers, employers, con-
sumers to make this freeze work.
Working together, we will break the
back of inflation, and we will do it with-
out the mandatory wage and price con-
trols that crush economic and personal
freedom.
The third indispensable element in
building the new prosperity is closely re-
lated to creating new jobs and halting
inflation. We must protect the position of
the American dollar as a pillar of mone-
tary stability around the world.
In the past 7 years, there has been an
average of one international monetary
crisis every year. Now who gains from
these crises? Not the workingman; not
the investor; not the real producers of
wealth. The gainers are the international
money speculators. Because they thrive
on crises, they help to create them.
In recent weeks, the speculators have
been waging an all-out war on the Ameri-
can dollar. The strength of a nation's
currency is based on the strength of that
nation's economy-and the American
economy is by far the strongest in the
world. Accordingly, I have directed the
Secretary of the Treasury to take the
action necessary to defend the dollar
against the speculators.
I have directed Secretary Connally to
suspend temporarily the convertibility of
the dollar into gold or other reserve assets,
888
