[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
casualties were cut in half. They are one-
half as great after Cambodia as before.
And the withdrawal rate, as a matter of
fact, slightly increased after Cambodia
because of its success.
Now, what does this prove? It doesn't
prove that the press was trying deliber-
ately to make America look bad. That
wasn't the point. But, naturally, they were
seeing it from one vantage point. I had
to see it from another.
Now, let me say this: Everything that
I have done since I have been President
has had, as far as South Vietnam is con-
cerned, and North Vietnam and Cam-
bodia and Laos, one purpose, and that is
to end America's involvement, but to end
it in a way that South Vietnam will con-
tinue to survive as an independent coun-
try, have a chance to survive. We can't
guarantee their survival.
Now, let me say why the second part of
that equation is important. Anybody
could end the war in Vietnam by just
withdrawing, "bugging out" as it has been
called, and there are those now in the
House and Senate who say, well, let's end
it by the end of this year without regard
to the consequences.
But, Mr. Smith, the reason I can't do
that, even though politically there is great
temptation to do it, is that I think I know
what would happen. I have been to Asia
a number of times, and I think what
would happen is that if after all of this
sacrifice and all of this effort the United
States, right at the time that we are wind-
ing down the war and bringing our men
home, at a time when the South Viet-
namese are achieving the capability of
hacking it, of taking care of their own
defense-if the United States now were
to throw in the towel and come home, and
the Communists took over South Viet-
nam, then all over Southeast Asia, all over
the Pacific, in the Mideast, in Europe, in
the world, the United States would suffer
a blow, and peace, because we are the
great peace-keeping nation in the world
today because of our power, would suffer
a blow from which it might not recover.
That is why I am doing this.
I am doing these things, everything I
am doing, not for the purpose of expand-
ing a war but ending it, and ending a war
in a way that we can win a peace. That is
something we haven't done for a long time
in this country.
TROOP WITHDRAWALS
[8.] MR. SMITH. Sir, some of your crit-
ics do say the way to get out is to get
out immediately. But most of those in
Congress, most of your critics say you
should set a definite deadline in order to
give the American people the view of
the light at the end of the tunnel.
What is the objection to setting a defi-
nite deadline for withdrawal in order to
do that and also to deprive your critics
of a complaint?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, you
have really given me a nice way to get
at the question.
Since it is so easy to do, why don't I do
it? And the reason is, it wouldn't be in the
interest of the United States. It wouldn't
be in the interest of the kind of a peace
we are trying to get.
First, it would torpedo any chances for
a negotiated settlement which might-
there is still some chance; I agree not
much, but still some-the moment that
we tell the enemy that we are going to get
out as of a date certain, then any negotiat-
ing stroke we have with regard to acceler-
ating or some way getting our prisoners
454
