Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 11 [354]
hower came to Arlington to bury Un-
knowns from the Second World War and
Korea. By that time, America knew that
the idea of a war to end all wars was in
vain. It was clear that what we really need
is a peace to end all wars. Such a peace
would require as much power and as
much perseverance and as much patience
and as much courage as any war. We have
such power and such courage. We hope
that we shall have such a peace.
Soon, another Unknown may come to
rest on this hallowed hill. We pray he will
be the last. But we will be mindful of what
St. Augustine is reputed to have said: "I
shall work as if everything depended on
me. I shall pray as if everything depended
on God."
This Nation intends to do both.
NOTE: The President went to Arlington Na-
tional Cemetery at 11 a.m. on November 11,
1971, to lay a wreath on the Tomb.
354 Remarks Announcing the Resignation of Clifford M.
Hardin and Intention To
Secretary of Agriculture.
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have come here today for the purpose
of announcing a change in the Cabinet.
Three months ago, Secretary Hardin
came to see me and told me of an excep-
tionally attractive offer he had received
in private business. As one who has spent
his entire life in public service, either in
education or in government, he felt this
was an offer that he had to accept in the
interest of his family and of their future.
I urged him to delay his decision and to at
least delay it until we were able to find
someone that he felt and that we felt
would be an adequate successor.
That decision now has been made, and
regretfully-regretfully certainly as far as
I am concerned-the Secretary will be
resigning as the Secretary of Agriculture
and will go into his private assignment
which he, of course, will describe when he
meets the ladies and gentlemen of the
press, I understand, tomorrow.
I would like to say a word about the
Secretary of Agriculture. I remember a
conversation I had with Secretary Hardin
Nominate Earl L. Butz as
November 11, 1971
in New York City before he took this posi-
tion, and I was quite honest and blunt
with him. I said nobody could be a popu-
lar Secretary of Agriculture. I told him
what had happened to his predecessors in
this position-the Benson years, the Free-
man years.ยน It didn't make any difference
whether he was a Republican or a Demo-
crat, it is very difficult to be popular in
this position.
I said, however, we needed a man who
would speak for American agriculture
within the Cabinet and one who could
speak to the Nation about the role that
agriculture played and one who took not
simply a national view but a world view
of the great opportunities that agriculture
has in the world.
Secretary Hardin has met every expec-
tation that I had when I appointed him.
As a man who said he knew nothing about
politics, he really produced a political
miracle by getting both parties and all the
1 Secretaries of Agriculture Ezra Taft Ben-
son, 1953-61, and Orville L. Freeman, 1961-
69.
1097
