Richard Nixon, 1971
June 25 [210]
We have got to stop the rise of property
taxes in this country, and revenue sharing
is the best way that we can do it. That is
why we ask your support of that proposal.
Now, I come to something that I think
is particularly close to the hearts of this
organization, because all of those who
represent this organization have spoken
to this problem when we have met in the
White House, and I want to speak to it
now, to you and all of the older people in
America.
We have got to stop discriminating in
this country against older people who
want to work. The time has come to raise
the ceiling on how much a person can
earn while receiving social security. The
time has come to increase the amount of
social security he can keep when his earn-
ings exceed that ceiling.
You know what the problem is today.
If
you receive social security and if you
are able to and want to work, the amount
that you can earn is limited, or it cuts
into your social security. When people
are able to work, when people want to
work, there is no excuse for government
programs which give them a strong in-
centive not to work. That is why I believe
we need to move in this field.
Discrimination that is based on age-
what some people call age-ism-can be as
wrong as discrimination based on race
or religion or any other irrelevant test.
For in all of these cases the individual is
judged by his position in some arbitrary
category rather than by his value as a
unique human being.
Old age should not be a time of endings;
it should be a time of new beginnings; not
a time for stopping, but a time for new
starts.
For many, of course, retirement comes
as a long-awaited reward at the end of a
full career. I am sure that many of you
read, as I did, with very great interest, the
press conference that that great lady of
the American stage, Helen Hayes, had
when she retired after 65 years of acting.
She was happy, she said, that she would
not have to face the pressures of a live
performance again. But then, I noticed
at the conclusion of her interview what
she said. Listen to this: "Yes, other pres-
sures will come along," she acknowledged.
"That's life, isn't it? And I'm not about
to retire from living."
So, that is the key to the matter. What
we must build in this country-among all
of our people-is a new attitude toward
old age, an attitude which insists that
there can be no retirement from living, no
retirement from responsibility, no retire-
ment from citizenship.
There are countless ways in which the
experience and the energy of retired per-
sons can continue to be tapped. I received
a letter the other day from an 80-year-old
man who knew me as a small boy when
he delivered milk to my father's grocery
store. For the last year-he now lives in
southern California still-he has gone
each day to work at a hospital as a Foster
Grandfather. This is what he wrote:
"This has been a tremendous experience
for me, not only in being able to supple-
ment my social security but in the thrill
of helping mentally retarded children."
He cares. He brings to that position some-
thing that money won't buy: commitment
and caring.
Where older people are willing to do
that, where they want to do that, we
have got to give them a chance. The coun-
try needs them. His testimony is echoed
by thousands of other Americans, older
people who find that their work in hospi-
tals and schools, in churches and parks
779
