[367] Nov. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am enclosing the report of the Sec-
retary of State, describing the provisions
of the Convention in detail.
The Vienna Convention can be an im-
portant tool in the development of inter-
national law. I am pleased to note that
it has been endorsed by the House of
Delegates of the American Bar Associa-
tion and I urge the Senate to give its
advice and consent to ratification.
The White House
November 22, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive L (92d Cong., 1st sess.).
368 Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on
Armed Services About United States Troops in
Europe. November 23, 1971
Dear John:
This week the Senate will once again
consider a proposal to make a substantial
unilateral reduction in United States
Armed Forces maintained in Europe for
the common defense. I believe passage of
such a measure would be a great mistake.
The manifest Congressional concern for
a more equitable sharing of defense bur-
dens in Europe and elsewhere has been a
significant factor in the formulation of our
national policy. We are currently in the
final stages of talks to establish improved
arrangements for the sharing of the de-
fense burden in Europe, including an
agreement with West Germany to offset
nearly two billion dollars of United States
costs, and the second phase of the Euro-
pean Defense Improvement Program, to
be finalized at the NATO meeting begin-
ning December 8.
In the area of East-West relations, we
expect that Mr. Brosio will be received in
Moscow next week to begin discussions on
basic issues in Mutual Balanced Force Re-
ductions. At the same time, the Berlin
negotiations have entered the final and
most difficult stage. As you know, we are
also making significant progress in the
SALT negotiations.
Passage of the proposed troop cut
would, with one stroke, diminish Western
military capability in Europe and signal to
friend and adversary alike a disarray and
weakness of purpose in the American
Government.
We are now preparing to undertake
vitally important new initiatives for peace
in two great capitals of the world. If these
initiatives are to gain positive results in
the months and years ahead, I must be
able to rely on the firm support and the
substantial and creative contribution of a
bipartisan Congress. I believe that this ill-
timed measure should be rejected, and
that our efforts should be directed toward
the positive tasks and the great oppor-
tunities for achieving a real peace that lie
before us.
With best wishes,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable John C. Stennis, United States Sen-
ate, Washingon, D.C. 20510]
1132
