Appendix B
July
29 The President met with Representatives
Olin E. Teague and Charles M. Teague of
the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs
and Donald E. Johnson, Administrator of
Veterans Affairs, for a discussion of veterans
affairs and legislation.
29 The President met at the White House with
representatives of the high school and junior
collegiate divisions of the Distributive Edu-
cation Clubs of America.
31 During his overnight stay in Akron, Ohio,
the President met with newspaper publisher
John Knight.
August
2 The President has designated eight Federal
departments and agencies to be represented
on an interdepartmental council to coordi-
all Federal juvenile delinquency
programs.
4 The President and Mrs. Nixon went to New
York City to have dinner with their son-in-
law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Cox, and to attend a performance of the
Broadway musical "No, No, Nanette."
5 The 1971 Epilepsy Poster Child, 6-year-old
Zachery Williams of Jackson, Miss., visited
the President at the White House.
5 Senator James L. Buckley of New York met
with the President at the White House.
5 The President today announced the transfer
of two parcels of federally owned land in
De Kalb County, Ga., to the county. The
first tract totaling 207 acres is being trans-
ferred to the county for use as parks and
recreational facilities. The second tract
totaling 362 acres is being conveyed to
Georgia State University, the De Kalb
County Hospital Authority, and the De
Kalb County School System.
5 The President met at the White House with
editors and publishers of farm publications.
August
5 Members of the newly formed National
Business Council for Consumer Affairs met
with the President at the White House.
6 Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of Rep
resentatives, breakfasted with the President
at the White House and discussed matters
pending before the Congress and the
Speaker's forthcoming trip to the Far East.
9 The President greeted members of Cycle-
mates II as they arrived at the White House
after bicycling from Mercer Island near
Seattle, Wash. Frances Call, teacher at
North Mercer Junior High School, chose
the 15 participants from her students and
former students, and conducted the 60-day,
3,600-mile trip.
9 The President met with representatives of
the Republican National Committee to re-
ceive a brief report on their recent conven-
tion in Denver.
9 The President met with six recent Presi-
dential appointees at the White House.
9
Ambassador Ellsworth P. Bunker, United
States Ambassador to Vietnam, met with
the President at the White House.
10 The Prime Minister Delegate of the Khmer
Republic, the acting Prime Minister of the
Khmer Republic, Lt. Gen. Sisowath Sirik
Matak, called on the President at the White
House during his private visit to the United
States.
10 Aldo F. DiChiara, national commander,
and Cresenzi W. Castaldo, national ad-
jutant general, of the Catholic War Vet-
erans met with the President to present him
with the organization's Humanitarian and
Peace Award.
12 The President met with Dr. Harold C.
Passer, Assistant Secretary of Commerce
for Economic Affairs, to express his appre-
ciation for Dr. Passer's decision to remain
in his job beyond the time when he had
planned to return to private life.
1261
