Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 12 [137]
ing effort to improve services to returning
veterans and to encourage fuller use of
them by those eligible, a new program is
being launched today to acquaint dis-
advantaged veterans with the educational
and job training benefits available and to
encourage them to participate. I welcome
the public-spirited cooperation of the
many groups and individuals that are
making this imaginative new venture pos-
sible and urge all concerned to help make
it a success.
This is the latest in a series of moves
that have been made to provide more
help to veterans. For example:
-The GI bill allowance for education
has been increased by 35 percent.
-Veterans have been permitted to
draw these benefits concurrently with
other Federal benefits.
-I have proposed new legislation to
reduce the financial hardship borne
in the early months of school enroll-
ment by making advance payments
of GI bill benefits.
In October 1970, I created the Jobs for
Veterans Program under Mr. James F.
Oates, Jr. This group has sought the ac-
tive help and cooperation of employers,
labor unions, voluntary organizations, and
State and local governments in opening
job and training opportunities to return-
ing veterans.
As a result of these and other Admin-
istration efforts, we can point with pride
to greatly increased participation in GI
bill benefits. More than 1 million veterans
are now receiving benefits. This is an in-
crease of 36 percent over last year, 70
percent over the level 2 years ago, and 240
percent over 1966. By the end of 1972, we
expect to be providing these benefits to 1.8
million people.
We have also provided substantial im-
provements in other important benefits
for veterans, including:
-a 10 percent average increase in com-
pensation for death or disablement
from military service;
-a 10 percent average increase in pen-
sion benefits for needy veterans (or
their survivors and dependents) of
wartime service;
-higher quality medical care by pro-
viding staffing increases of almost
4,000-raising the staff-to-patient
ratio from 1.51:1 to 1.8:1 for gen-
eral medical patients, and higher for
surgical patients-and adding some
170 specialized medical units in such
areas as spinal cord injury treatment,
rehabilitation of the blind, drug abuse
clinics, and many others.
The venture being announced today-
involving the Office of Economic Oppor-
tunity and the Nation's communities to-
gether in a joint effort to reach out to the
veteran and help him obtain needed train-
ing benefits—is but one of a number of
new measures being developed by the
Administration to assist the returning
veterans.
As a nation, we bear a profound and
very special responsibility to those who
have been called upon to serve. All of us
share in that obligation-and each vet-
eran, by his service, has earned assistance
in assuming his rightful place in the civil-
ian community. The Federal Government
must do its full share in meeting that ob-
ligation, and I also urge all others who can
help to do so.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on
the program by Frank C. Carlucci, Director,
Office of Economic Opportunity; Donald E.
529
