[274] Aug. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
petition is what has made this country.
But let it not be said of this generation
of Americans that we were the ones that,
when America was the strongest nation in
the world, when America was the most
productive nation in the world, and the
richest nation in the world-that we were
the ones that said it really didn't matter,
and we became inefficient, we lost our
willingness to sacrifice, to drive, to work
hard, to continue to maintain that posi-
tion of leadership in the world.
That is what is on the line today, and
that is what America needs to hear from
those who are its veterans, who have
risked their lives to see that America lived,
and who now must live their lives in such
a way that we can set an example. You
can set an example for other Americans,
so that this Nation will have a new birth,
as I am sure it can and will have, a new
birth of vitality, a new birth of faith in
itself, a new desire to be just as good, to be
just as efficient, to be just as strong as we
need to be and as we can be.
President de Gaulle once said, toward
the end of his life, that France was "her
true self only when she was engaged in a
great enterprise." That is true of America.
Americans are engaged in a great enter-
prise, to build-and without us it cannot
be done but to build a generation of
peace, something that Americans have not
enjoyed in this century. That is a great
goal and a great enterprise.
In order to build that, it means that
Americans must continue to be competi-
tive in the world and to have the strong
economy without which we cannot have
the strong national defense which is essen-
tial if we are to build that peace.
And so, to the Veterans of Foreign
Wars I leave this challenge today: Here
we are, 25 years after World War II-we
have been through Korea; we are finish-
ing Vietnam; we are looking toward the
time when we will have peace.
The question for America is far more
serious than the challenge that we con-
fronted even in the dark days of Pearl
Harbor. The question is our spirit. Do we
have the spirit? Do we still have the
drive? Do we still have the competitive
urge to try to make this the best country
in the world, to keep it the best country
in the world?
I think we have, and I think you are
going out and tell the world that.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:28 p.m. in
the Memorial Auditorium at the Dallas Con-
vention Center.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
275 Remarks at Loma Linda University, Loma Linda,
California. August 20, 1971
Governor Reagan, Congressman Pettis,
Congressman Veysey, Mr. Mayor, Mr.
Veterans Administrator, all of the distin-
guished guests on the platform, and all
of the distinguished guests in this very
great audience:
I have had a rare privilege in the past
3 days, one that comes to a President of
the United States on occasions when he
can leave Washington and get out into
the country. In those 3 days I have visited
New York City and then on to Illinois, at
the Illinois State Fair in Springfield, and
then Idaho Falls in Idaho, the Grand
914
