[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our total economic aid, bilateral and
multilateral, has now been restored to a
level nearly equivalent to that of the early
1960's. This is a firm foundation for
undertaking the effort that is required.
TRADE
Changed world conditions have
prompted a new foreign policy and new
approaches to the other areas of inter-
national economic policy. They require a
fresh look at our trade policy as well.
The central issue is, simply, whether
the U.S. should continue to pursue a
liberal trade policy. Leadership for freer
trade has been a cornerstone of our for-
eign policy through six administrations
and 19 Congresses. For 37 years we have
considered a liberal trade policy to be in
the U.S. national interest. But events in
1970, particularly the failure of the Con-
gress to enact the modest but liberal trade
bill proposed by the Administration and
the near passage of protectionist trade leg-
islation instead, demonstrated graphically
the challenge to this traditional course.
Whether we continue a liberal trade
policy in the 1970's or not will have a
profound impact at home and abroad.
This Administration is committed to the
principles of free trade. We recognize that
our preponderant size in the world
economy gives us an international respon-
sibility to continue on this path just as
we have an international responsibility to
manage our domestic economy well. I am
convinced that liberal trade is in both our
domestic economic interest and our for-
eign policy interest.
Trade benefits our economy in numer-
ous ways. Imports broaden the range of
products which is available to our con-
sumers. They help maintain the competi-
tive incentive for our own industries to
achieve maximum efficiency and produc-
tivity. This plays an important role in our
effort to restore price stability as we move
toward full employment.
In addition, export earnings are crucial
to many sectors of the U.S. economy, par-
ticularly our agricultural community
which sells one-fourth of its harvested
acreage abroad and many of our highly
productive industries. Our firms, workers,
and farmers can maximize their prosper-
ity only in a world in which their products
can be sold as freely in other nations as
they can within our own borders. We
would hobble their efforts to do so
if we were to impose import restrictions,
because these would surely spark counter-
restrictions on our own exports as well as
impair the overall competitiveness of the
U.S. economy.
The domestic benefits of liberal trade
are reinforced by the pervasive impact
of our trade policy overseas.
Because of the world's commercial in-
terdependence, restrictions in one nation
adversely affect the economic and social
welfare of many others. Political repercus-
sions within those countries inevitably fol-
low, and the resulting cycle of recrimina-
tion and retaliation poisons political as
well as economic relations:
-Liberal trade policies are funda-
mental to our relations with the in-
dustrialized countries of Europe,
Japan, and Canada, our major trad-
ing partners. We rely on one an-
other's markets for billions of dollars
of sales annually. Our economic rela-
tions with these countries are insepa-
rable from our political and military
relations; they are a crucial element
in our partnership.
---Trade policy deeply affects our rela-
300
