[377] Dec. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
377 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Report on the Trade Agreements Program for 1970.
December 1, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 402 (a) of
the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, I trans-
mit herewith the Fifteenth Annual Report
of the President on the Trade Agreements
Program. This report covers the year 1970.
World trade in 1970 maintained a high
rate of growth for the third successive
year, reaching over $279 billion. In the
case of the United States, exports rose by
approximately 14 percent while imports
were up 11 percent. While this perform-
ance yielded a merchandise trade surplus
of over $2 billion as compared with $624
million and $660 million in 1968 and
1969, respectively, the improvement fell
far short of the level required for the
United States to restore a sound balance of
payments position.
Throughout the year U.S. representa-
tives actively sought the cooperation of our
major trading partners in the reduction of
barriers to U.S. exports and in other meas-
ures that would enable our products to
compete with those of other countries in
both the U.S. and the world market. Some
progress was made, but certain very sig-
nificant problems remained unsolved.
Domestically, monetary and fiscal policies
contributed to a deceleration in price in-
creases, but in some of our major product
lines U.S. producers were not able to re-
tain their share of the market at home or
internationally.
At the close of 1970, the outlook for
U.S. trade involved a number of uncer-
tainties. Domestically, the most basic ele-
ment was our ability to make further
progress toward price stability. Abroad,
the prospects were not clear with regard to
levels of economic activity and rates of
inflation in a number of industrialized
countries. One of the most basic unknowns
was the extent to which our major trading
partners would recognize the seriousness
and urgency of greater international coop-
eration on monetary reforms and other
measures to facilitate balance of payments
adjustment.
While we had hoped that these uncer-
tainties could be favorably resolved with-
out unilateral action, this was not the case
and by mid-1971 the United States, for
the first time in this century, faced the
prospect of a deficit in its balance of
merchandise trade. To deal with this situ-
ation and to achieve interrelated domestic
goals, the New Economic Program was
launched on August 15. With the coopera-
tion of other major economic powers, I
am confident that the deterioration in our
merchandise trade balance, which was
threatening at the end of 1970 and which
reached intolerable proportions in the
spring of 1971, will be sufficiently im-
proved that the present U.S. surcharge on
imports can be removed.
This Administration remains firmly
committed to the goal of expanding world
trade through the further reduction of
national barriers to imports, the develop-
ment of more equitable rules to govern
export competition in international mar-
kets, and the elimination of discrimina-
tory measures by trade blocs. The Pro-
gram instituted in August will contribute
to our basic trade policy objective by pro-
viding essential interim support to the
1144
