Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 19 [273]
Idaho. That is the kind of people that de-
veloped the West, and that is the kind of
spirit that America needs today and that
you are going to help give America, I am
sure.
Particularly to our young people who
are here today, and for all of your fathers
and mothers, I want to say this: We are
working in Washington for something
that is a great goal that Americans want,
a great goal we think we can achieve.
That goal is to bring what we have not
had in this century for Americans: a
whole generation of peace.
We are ending the war in which we
are engaged. I will be going on a journey
to Peking, and the purpose of that jour-
ney is to look far beyond the next 1, 5
years, but to look beyond to the period
15, 20 years from now, so that the world
may be a safer world, and we will have a
chance to have a generation of peace.
We also are trying to build in that gen-
eration of peace a new kind of prosperity,
a prosperity in which we can have jobs,
in which we can have a high standard of
living, but without war. I think we can do
it, but I want to tell you what it is going
to take.
It can't be just done by Government.
Let us remember: This is a great country
and this is a good country, but America
became the strongest and the biggest and
the richest country in the world not by
what Government did for people, but by
what people did for themselves and for
their country. That is why we came where
we are.
So in this period, as the Government,
we are taking the actions that we think
are necessary to stop the rise in the cost
of living, the actions that are necessary to
stimulate the creation of new jobs. But if
America is going to remain competitive
in the world, if America is going to con-
tinue to grow and continue to be number
one in the world-which we must be
economically if we are going to keep the
peace in the world—then you, the people
of America, all of us together, have got to
build this great country.
I can just tell you that a day like this-I
would say this and I am sure that anyone
who was traveling with me, be he Demo-
crat or Republican, would say it as he
travels from New York to Illinois to
Idaho at the finish of a day like this
would say: The heart of America is good,
the faith of the American people is strong,
and this great people, as we enter a new
era of competition with other nations of
the world, we are going to meet the test.
We are going to make America strong.
We are going to make it grow. And we
are going to meet the responsibilities that
will bring peace for ourselves and help to
keep peace and freedom for the people
of the world.
Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:25 p.m. at
Fanning Field.
273 Statement About the "Legacy of Parks”
Program. August 19, 1971
LIKE SO many of our national parks,
Grand Teton impresses its visitors at once
with both the power and the serenity of
nature. The jagged peaks and the out-
croppings of the Teton Range cause us to
stand in awe of the forces which have
905
