Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [73]
Over the past 2 years, in some fields
the Soviet Union and the United States
have moved ahead together. We have
taken the first step toward cooperation in
outer space. We have both ratified the
treaty limiting the spread of nuclear weap-
ons. Just 2 weeks ago, we signed a treaty
to prohibit nuclear weapons from the
seabeds.
These are hopeful signs, but certain
other Soviet actions are reason for con-
cern. There is need for much more co-
operation in reducing tensions in the
Middle East and in ending harassment of
Berlin. We must also discourage the temp-
tation to raise new challenges in sensitive
areas such as the Caribbean.
In the long run, the most significant re-
sult of negotiations between the super
powers in the past year could be in the
field of arms control.
The strategic arms limitation talks with
the Soviet Union have produced the most
searching examination of the nature of
strategic competition ever conducted be-
tween our two nations. Each side has had
the chance to explain at length the con-
cerns caused by the posture of the other
side. The talks have been conducted in a
serious way without the old lapses into
propaganda.
If both sides continue in this way, there
is reason to hope that specific agreements
will be reached to curb the arms race.
Taking a first step in limiting the ca-
pacity of mankind to destroy itself would
mark a turning point in the history of the
postwar world; it would add to the se-
curity of both the Soviet Union and the
United States, and it would add to the
world's peace of mind.
In all our relations with the Soviets, we
shall make the most progress by recogniz-
ing that in many cases our national inter-
ests are not the same. It serves no purpose
to pretend they are; our differences are
not matters of mood, they are matters of
substance. But in many other cases, our
separate national interests can best be pur-
sued by a sober consideration of the
world interest.
The United States will deal, as it must,
from strength: We will not reduce our
defenses below the level I consider essen-
tial to our national security.
A strong America is essential to the
cause of peace today. Until we have the
kind of agreements we can rely on, we
shall remain strong.
But America's power will always be
used for building a peace, never for break-
ing it-only for defending freedom, never
for destroying it.
America's strength will be, as it must
be, second to none; but the strength that
this Nation is proudest of is the strength of
our determination to create a peaceful
world.
We all know how every town or city
develops a sense of community when its
citizens come together to meet a common
need.
The common needs of the world today,
about which there can be no disagreement
or conflict of national interest, are plain
to see.
We know that we must act as one world
in restoring the world's environment, be-
fore pollution of the seas and skies over-
whelms every nation. We know we must
stop the flow of narcotics; we must coun-
ter the outbreaks of hijacking and kid-
naping; we must share the great
discoveries about the oceans and outer
space.
The United States is justly proud of the
217
