Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 24 [72]
Upon her recommendation, I am ask-
ing the FTC to explore with State and
local consumer law enforcement officials
an effective mechanism for such an
exchange.
CONSUMER EDUCATION
Legislative remedies and improved en-
forcement procedures are powerful weap-
ons in the fight for consumer justice. But
as important as these are, they are only as
effective as an aware and an informed
public make them. Consumer education
is an integral part of consumer protection.
It is vital if the consumer is to be able to
make wise judgments in the marketplace.
To enable him or her to do this will re-
quire a true educational process begin-
ning in childhood and continuing on.
The Office of the Special Assistant for
Consumer Affairs has established guide-
lines for consumer education suggested for
use at the elementary and high school
level. Those guidelines have been sent to
every school system in the country, and
their reception has been encouraging. I
believe they mark an effective step toward
developing an informed consumer. The
Office has also begun the development of
suggested guidelines for adult and con-
tinuing education with particular empha-
sis on special socio-economic groups and
senior citizens.
Now, in order to expand and lend as-
sistance to Consumer Education activities
across the nation, I am asking the Secre-
tary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
in coordination with my Special Assistant
for Consumer Affairs, to work with the
nation's education system to (1) promote
the establishment of consumer education
as a national educational concern; (2)
provide technical assistance in the devel-
opment of programs; (3) encourage
teacher training in consumer education;
and (4) solicit the use of all school and
public libraries as consumer information
centers.
I am also asking the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, in coor-
dination with my Special Assistant for
Consumer Affairs, to develop and design
programs for the most effective dissemina-
tion of consumer information, and par-
ticularly to explore the use of the mass
media, including the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting.
ADDITIONAL PROPOSALS
CONSUMER REMEDIES
As we move to shape new consumer leg-
islation, I believe we must also review all
consumer remedies. Although this is pri-
marily a matter of State and local re-
sponsibility, I believe that the problem is
also of national concern. Accordingly, I
am asking the Chairman of the Adminis-
trative Conference of the United States
to join with other interested citizens repre-
senting a broad spectrum of society to
undertake a thorough study of the ade-
quacy of existing procedures for resolv-
ing disputes arising out of consumer
transactions.
The study would (1) focus particularly
on the means of handling small claims
and explore methods for making small
claims courts more responsive to the needs
of consumers; (2) examine existing and
potential voluntary settlement procedures,
including arbitration, and potential means
of creating incentives to voluntary, fair
settlements of consumer disputes; (3) ad-
dress the difficult and troublesome ques-
tions presented by mass litigation; (4)
209
