[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
have gone to the young people of Amer-
ica were picked up. That was why those
taps were carried on.
Now let's talk about the other area
which I think Mr. Risher and the people
are more concerned about. They say what
about the taps that are not made by court
order but that are made for the national
security? I checked that, too. The high,
insofar as those taps are concerned, were
in the years 1961, 1962, and 1963. In
those years, the number of taps was be-
tween 90 and 100. Now, in the 2 years
that we have been in office-now get this
number-the total number of taps for
national security purposes by the FBI, and
I know because I look not at the informa-
tion but at the decisions that are made-
the total number of taps is less, has been
less, than 50 a year, a cut of 50 percent
from what it was in 1961, '62, and '63. As
far as Army surveillance is concerned,
once we saw what had happened to the
Democratic National Convention, that
had even been carried to the surveillance
of Adlai Stevenson, who later became a
Senator, we stopped them.
I simply want to put this all in perspec-
tive by saying this: I believe the Nation's
press has a responsibility to watch Govern-
ment, to see that "Big Brother" isn't
watching.
I don't want to see a police state. I
argued the right of privacy case in the
Supreme Court, and I feel strongly about
the right of privacy. But let's also remem-
• Senator Adlai E. Stevenson III of Illinois.
ber that the President of the United
States has a responsibility for the security
of this country and a responsibility to pro-
tect the innocent from those who might
engage in crime or who would be dan-
gerous to the people of this country.
In carrying out that responsibility, I
defend the FBI in this very limited exer-
cise of tapping.
One final point: You talk about police
state. Let me tell you what happens when
you go to what is really a police state:
You can't talk in your bedroom. You
can't talk in your sitting room. You don't
talk on the telephone. You don't talk in
the bathroom. As a matter of fact, you
hear about going out and talking in the
garden. Yes, I have walked many times
through gardens in various places where I
had to talk about something confidential,
and you can't even talk in front of a shrub.
That is the way it works.
What I am simply saying is this, my
friends: There are police states. We don't
want that to happen to America. But
America is not a police state, and as long
as I am in this office, we are going to be
sure that not the FBI or any other or-
ganization engages in any activity except
where the national interests or the pro-
tection of innocent people requires it, and
then it will be as limited as it possibly can
be. That is what we are going to do.
MR. DICKINSON. Thank you very
much, Mr. President.
NOTE: The interview began at 9 p.m. in the
Regency Ballroom at the Shoreham Hotel. It
was broadcast live on radio.
550
