Appendix B
June
II The President announced that a 28-acre
tract which had been part of the Veterans
Administration hospital reservation
Cheyenne, Wyo., is being transferred to the
city for park and recreation uses.
II Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky
met with the President to report on his
April visit to Vienna, Stuttgart, Bonn, and
Brussels.
II Representative Samuel L. Devine of Ohio
called on the President at the White House.
II Robert C. Hill, United States Ambassador
to Spain, met with the President at the
White House.
11 Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare Elliot L. Richardson and Dr. Roger O.
Egeberg, Special Consultant to the Presi-
dent on Health Affairs and Assistant to the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare for Health Policy, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
II The President and the First Lady attended
the wedding rehearsal dinner for their
daughter and her fiance at Blair House.
12 The President gave his daughter Tricia in
marriage to Edward Finch Cox in the Rose
Garden at the White House.
14 The President met with the United States
Ambassadors to Thailand, Mexico, France,
Luxembourg, Turkey, the Republic of Viet-
nam, and the United Nations, and officials
from the Department of State and other
interested departments to discuss interna-
tional aspects of the drug problem.
14 The President participated in the swearing-
in ceremony for Jayne Baker Spain as a
member and Vice Chairman of the United
States Civil Service Commission.
14 The President met with railway union
leaders to discuss problems facing the
industry.
14 Kenneth Rush, United States Ambassador
to the Federal Republic of Germany, met
with the President at the White House.
June
15 The President met with officers of the
National Association of Real Estate Boards
at the White House.
15 Chancellor Willy Brandt of the Federal
Republic of Germany met with the Presi-
dent at the White House and was honored
at a dinner hosted by the President. Chan-
cellor Brandt, who had received an hon-
orary doctorate from Yale University on
June 14, paid an unofficial visit to Wash-
ington on June 15 and 16.
15 The President met, in separate meetings,
with Arthur K. Watson, United States Am-
bassador to France, and Kenneth B.
Keating, United States Ambassador to
India.
16 The President met, in separate meetings,
with Ellsworth Bunker, United States Am-
bassador to Vietnam, and E. Ross Adair,
United States Ambassador to Ethiopia.
16 Participants in the Teenage Republican
Leadership Conference being held
Mount Vernon Junior College
College were
greeted by the President during their tour
of the White House.
16 The President met with representatives of
the White House News Photographers
Association to mark the 50th anniversary of
the Association.
16 The President greeted participants in a
rural electric youth conference who were
touring the White House. The group in-
cluded winners of an essay contest spon-
sored by rural electric cooperatives in 25
States.
16 Foreign Minister Swaran Singh of India
met with the President at the White House
to discuss the situation in South Asia.
17 The President met with the bipartisan Con-
gressional leadership to discuss his initia-
tives to prevent drug addiction and drug
abuse.
17 Donald M. Kendall met with the President
to report on his recent tour of the Near
East.
1258
