[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
and stimulated international financial in-
stitutions to consider solutions, such as
rescheduling of interest payments.
While helping our friends increase
their earnings of foreign exchange, there
are many kinds of development assistance
that we and other industrial nations
should provide directly. The United
States has supplied a substantial share of
the external resources for development
financing in the hemisphere. In addition
to our major contributions to the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and UN devel-
opment activities, we gave in FY 1970:
-$422 million in bilateral AID loans
and grants.
-$506 million to the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), the prin-
cipal regional entity for development
lending.
-$153 million in our Food for Peace
Program.
In April we joined in a major replen-
ishment of the resources of the IDB,
which will permit it to increase its lend-
ing in the hemisphere by 50 percent in
the next three to four years. Congress has
authorized part of the $1.8 billion that I
requested as the U.S. share, and I have
strongly urged that the remainder be au-
thorized early in 1971.
In the IA-ECOSOC discussions we
agreed to direct a growing portion of our
assistance toward regional economic
groups, development of capital markets,
and expansion of regional scientific and
technological programs.
At year's end, the Congress authorized
a contribution to completion of the last
unfinished link of the Pan American
Highway, the Darien Gap in Panama
and Colombia. This project holds great
promise for regional economic expansion.
It will facilitate the movement of goods
and people from one end of the conti-
nent to the other and promote trade and
economic integration.
A COMMUNITY OF DIVERSITY
The year was marked by continuing in-
ternal changes, sometimes with radical
overtones. We maintained contact with
governments spanning a wide political
spectrum.
The United States has a strong polit-
ical interest in maintaining cooperation
with our neighbors regardless of their
domestic viewpoints. We have a clear
preference for free and democratic proc-
esses. We hope that governments will
evolve toward constitutional procedures.
But it is not our mission to try to pro-
vide except by example-the answers to
such questions for other sovereign na-
tions. We deal with governments as they
are. Our relations depend not on their
internal structures or social systems, but
on actions which affect us and the inter-
American system.
The new Government in Chile is a
clear case in point. The 1970 election of
a Socialist President may have profound
implications not only for its people but
for the inter-American system as well.
The government's legitimacy is not in
question, but its ideology is likely to in-
fluence its actions. Chile's decision to es-
tablish ties with Communist Cuba, con-
trary to the collective policy of the OAS,
was a challenge to the inter-American
system. We and our partners in the OAS
will therefore observe closely the evolu-
tion of Chilean foreign policy.
Our bilateral policy is to keep open
lines of communication. We will not be
the ones to upset traditional relations.
246
