Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [132]
Tonight, you feast your very good friends of
Latin America by offering this splendid dinner
that has given us the opportunity to share with
Your Excellency and the First Lady the bread
and wine of friendship that is so gratifying to
us all.
Friendship, Mr. President, is a sacred word,
a marvelous and noble sentiment that is like
a rare essence that perfumes our life.
Friendship, Mr. President, that is the main
tie that united the men who live in America,
the continent of peace and hope.
We come from peoples who are friends of
your people, Mr. President, friendly peoples
who respect and esteem the North American
nation, the glorious nation that is the bulwark
of peace and liberty.
We represent peoples who have for Your
Excellency great respect and affection, Mr.
President, and for your distinguished wife, Mrs.
Nixon, immense admiration and esteem be-
cause of her noble nature and her personal
charms.
We all know that you harbor in your hearts
affectionate feelings for our nations and that
132
Special Message to the
District of Columbia.
To the Congress of the United States:
Too often in the time since President
Washington met with Pierre L'Enfant in
Georgetown to review plans for the new
District of Columbia-180 years ago last
month-the Federal responsibility to the
Federal District has not been honored as
it should be. Too often Presidents and
Congresses have overlooked the oppor-
tunity to validate their designs for the
Nation by realizing them here in the Dis-
trict of Columbia. But in recent years we
have begun to write a new record, one
in which the Federal Government can
take pride, one which is lifting the city
of Washington from the status of a step-
child into the ranks of the firstborn among
America's great cities.
you wish to contribute in solving our problems
and preoccupations.
Very close to us, the cherry blossoms per-
fume the air. Here with you at the White House
on this beautiful night in April, very close to
the celebration of the Pan American Day, a
date which is for all of us a source of inspira-
tion, we can again say that there is a rare
essence that perfumes the atmosphere, the
sacred friendship of our people with yours, the
friendship of our nations with you, and our
friendship with Your Excellency, Mr. Presi-
dent, and with the worthy companion of your
life, Mrs. Nixon.
Thank you for your very nice words about
myself. As you know, Mr. President, one of my
greatest honors of my life is to be dean here
in your great country. To be dean certainly is
my official title. But I have many other titles.
One of my best is considered loyalty for you and
your nation.
Thank you again for your kind attention,
which gratified and honored us.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Congress About the
April 7, 1971
The single unifying motive behind all
of the diverse proposals and initiatives I
am putting forward in this message today
is to give Washingtonians, as American
citizens, and Washington, as the Nation's
capital, the very best in the performance
of the responsibilities of government--as
they deserve. Let the New American Rev-
olution which we seek for all Americans
begin here, in the Nation's Capital-and
now, in 1971.
TOWARD SELF-GOVERNMENT AND
FULL CITIZENSHIP
If we are to bring the New American
Revolution to the people of Washington,
we must start by securing for them the
511
