Richard Nixon, 1971
July 6 [222]
either ought to look at our foreign policy
and put that as priority number one-in
other words, the security of America must
come first-or we must put our priority
on domestic problems, and turn away
from our problems in the world.
Of course, the answer is to that: We
must do both. Because it would not make
any sense to have the best environment
with clean air and clean water and good
jobs and all the rest if we were not around
to enjoy it. On the other side of the coin,
we are not going to be able to play an
effective role in the world unless we have
a healthy environment, economically and
in every other way.
So what I would like to do is to, for a
few moments, discuss the world position
that we find ourselves in today, and then
indicate why I believe these domestic
pro-
grams—a program of reform which
goes
far beyond any program of reform that
has been submitted to the American peo-
ple in over 50 years, or 40 years I should
say--why that program is so essential at
this particular time; why it is that America
now cannot be satisfied domestically, we
can't rest on our laurels; why we have to
make a critical examination of everything
we are doing in this country to see whether
we are doing it with the most efficiency
possible.
Now, in terms of our world situation,
the tendency is and this has been the
case for the last 5 to 6 years-for us to
obscure our vision, almost totally, of the
world because of Vietnam. That is under-
standable. We are always concerned about
the war in which we are currently in-
volved. That was true at the time of
Korea; it is now true of Vietnam.
The difficulty is that as we obscure our
vision with Vietnam, we do not see very
significant changes that have occurred in
the world over the past 25 years, the
period since World War II, and changes
that have occurred even more dramat-
ically, perhaps, over the past 5 to 10 years,
and ones that may be in the offing. So I
would like to take Vietnam very briefly.
I have nothing new to say on Vietnam.
It seems to me, however, that since so
much has been written and said in recent
weeks about how we got in, it might be
well to reiterate what we are doing to
get out.
On Vietnam, what we find is that 300,-
ooo Americans have left Vietnam since
this Administration came in. A division
a month are coming home each month at
this time. As far as casualties are con-
cerned, it is interesting to note that the
casualties in the month of June were less
on a monthly basis than the weekly casual-
ties we were having a year ago. When we
came into office, they were 15 times as
great per month or per week or per day,
take the index, whatever it is. One is too
many, but that does indicate the winding
down of the war.
As far as the ending of the war is con-
cerned, as far as American involvement,
we find that we are proceeding on two
tracks. We are actively pursuing the nego-
tiating channel. We also, regardless of
what happens on the negotiating front, are
pursuing our program of Vietnamization
in which all Americans will be withdrawn
from Vietnam consistent with two objec-
tives: first, of course, the release of our
prisoners of war; and second, in a way
that will contribute to a permanent and
lasting peace, we hope, in Southeast Asia
and in the Pacific rather than in a way
that might increase the danger of another
war.
I will simply conclude this section by
saying this: Vietnam is an issue which, of
803
