[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
much on Communist willingness to re-
move Berlin as a cause of friction as on
the specific terms of agreement.
Thus what began essentially as a dis-
cussion of practical improvements to as-
sure Berlin's viability has assumed greater
significance in East-West relations. To the
West German Government, the eastern
treaties and a Berlin settlement are parts
of the whole complex of Germany's
future, and therefore it has conditioned
the ratification of the treaties upon a sat-
isfactory conclusion of the Berlin talks.
To the Western allies, progress on Berlin
will be an indicator of the possibilities
of moving toward fruitful talks on broader
issues of European security.
Eastern and Central Europe. The
breakdown of the postwar monolithic
Stalinist bloc in Europe is a fact of life.
This creates new conditions, aspirations,
and expectations in both Western and
Eastern Europe. Just as peace and its
fruits are indivisible for the West, so they
must be for Eastern Europe.
While the countries of that region are
in close proximity to the USSR, they also
have historic ties to Western Europe and
to the United States. We will not exploit
these ties to undermine the security of the
Soviet Union. We would not pretend that
the facts of history and geography do not
create special circumstances in Eastern
Europe. We recognize a divergence in so-
cial, political, and economic systems be-
tween East and West.
But, in our view, every nation in Eu-
rope has the sovereign right to conduct
independent policies, and to be our friend
without being anyone else's enemy or
being treated as such.
There are difficulties, which we recog-
nize, attending close political relations be-
tween Eastern European nations and the
United States. But within these limits
there are opportunities for economic,
scientific, and technological contact which
we are prepared to broaden on the basis
of mutual benefit.
In 1969 I visited Romania-a Warsaw
Pact country-the first visit by an Amer-
ican President to a Communist country
in 24 years. President Ceausescu visited
Washington in 1970. Romania takes posi-
tions on many major issues quite different
from our own, but we both recognize the
right of every nation to develop its own
policies in light of its own interests. There-
fore our differences do not preclude con-
sultation or practical cooperation.
Our trade with Romania doubled in
1970. We extended credits for the pur-
chase of agricultural commodities and
liberalized certain export controls for her
benefit. We expanded educational and
cultural exchanges and responded with
immediate relief in medical supplies, food-
stuffs, and other emergency needs when
Romania suffered a disastrous flood in
1970.
In 1970, on President Tito's invitation,
I paid the first visit by an American
President to non-aligned Yugoslavia. We
exchanged ideas on major international
issues, especially on the Middle East. We
broadened our ties of cooperation on the
basis of mutual interest and a mature
respect for our acknowledged differences.
President Tito has now accepted my in-
vitation to pay a return visit to the United
States.
Our trade with Yugoslavia increased by
over one-third in 1970. The U.S. Export-
Import Bank reached agreement with
Yugoslavia to increase credit, and ex-
tended a loan for Yugoslav purchase of
commercial jet aircraft in this country.
Romania and Yugoslavia both welcome
240
