[42] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
42 Remarks at the Annual Scientific Session of the
American College of Cardiology. February 4, 1971
Dr. Sodeman, all of the distinguished
guests on the platform, and those attend-
ing this scientific conference, both from the
United States and from abroad:
I have a very great privilege in address-
ing you this morning, in welcoming you to
Washington and to wish you well on the
occasion of this meeting, your 20th meet-
ing of this type. And in doing so, I would
like to emphasize briefly, if I might, from a
personal vantage point, three subjects that
I think are quite relevant to your
proceedings.
I think of what the general public at-
titude has been over the years with regard
to what we call heart attacks or heart dis-
ease. I had that brought very forcefully to
my attention in 1955 when President
Eisenhower suffered a heart attack and
when the heart of all of America stopped
for a moment, and for that matter, the
heart of the world.
At that time, I think the people of
America and perhaps people in the world
learned more about what heart attacks
were, and what they were not, than they
ever learned before as they watched the
patient recover and then also watched
what he did afterwards.
Before that time, I think the general
opinion was that a heart attack was either
fatal in a completely physical way or, if
the individual recovered, that he would
have to live afterwards in a very slowed
down way,
somewhat like a vegetable, but
not an active life.
And, of course, President Eisenhower
disproved that by serving 6 years more in
the most demanding task in the world, or
at least one that is considered to be that.
And then, after that, President Johnson,
who suffered a heart attack-and I recall
going out to visit him when he was
Majority Leader when I was Vice Presi-
dent in 1956-went on to be elected Vice
President and then President of the
United States and worked day and night
in both capacities serving his country.
And then just 2 days ago, I presented
the national heart award to the new
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and in 1966 Carl Albert, a Congressman
that I came to the Congress with just 24
years ago, suffered a heart attack. He was
elected Speaker by his colleagues, the
highest honor that anybody can receive
in the House of Representatives.
And I can assure you that the Speaker,
perhaps even more than the President,
has a very, very long day and a very de-
manding one.
And so, we think of all of those incidents
and what they mean, what they mean in
giving hope to individuals who may suf-
fer from heart disease, hope that they may
go on to live an active life.
Also, we think of what it means in terms
of what you have contributed, all of you
in this great profession. At a time when
the medical profession is under assault
from various quarters due to the inability
to spread medical care as adequately as
some think it should be spread, it is
well to pay tribute to the fact that there
are hundreds of thousands of dedicated
people in the medical profession who,
working in the most effective way they
can, are making such enormous progress
against the great diseases that either kill
or cripple men and women and have
killed and crippled them through the
years.
IIO
