[21] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
be followed by a series of legislative pro-
posals, again, that I think will be unpre-
cedented in certainly the modern history
of the Congress of the United States. But
without you we couldn't have done it.
I wanted the members of the press to
hear this. I believe it very strongly. It is
a devoted staff, an intelligent staff, with a
very high IQ and with a much higher, if
that is possible, DQ, a dedication quotient.
And the IQ sometimes can come out of a
university or a college or out of your own
background, unless you believe in the be-
havioristic analysis of how people become
as bright as all of you have become. But,
on the other hand, that dedication quo-
tient can only come from your hearts,
from the fact that you really believe in
this country, you believe in what this Ad-
ministration is trying to do for this coun-
try, and you are willing to give that extra
hour or hours of devotion so that we can
get it done. I just hope we don't let you
down as we make the presentation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:42 a.m. in the
Family Theater at the White House.
A summary of additional remarks made by
the President to the staff was read by Press
Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler during his regular
news briefing at the White House on January
20, 1971, as follows:
The President, in his discussion with the
staff, expressed what his feelings were about
the country and what he feels has to be done
to deal with problems effectively. He expressed
his faith in people.
He talked about the various programs which
had been presented to the staff, and I think he
referred to those in the previous material which
you have been given. He talked about the bold-
ness of the new program and so forth.
He said that the new domestic program has
a lot of innovations, and he told the staff that
some of the new programs which will be put
forth will be opposed by those who do not
want to change. But he went on to say we must
keep in mind that anything worthwhile doing
will be opposed by some.
He then went on to say to the staff that we
must not be discouraged because what we are
doing and what we are going to do is right
and needs to be done and needs to be done
now.
Then in the context of discussing revenue
sharing and expressing his feelings about the
role of government and the other programs,
he said that the idea that a small group at the
top is the only group fit to govern, and a small
group at the top-just a very few, he said-are
the ones that should make all of the decisions,
is foreign to America and foreign to the prin-
ciples of America. He said, "Because what
America really was in the beginning and what
I think it is about is that we do have confidence
in people."
Going on in a discussion of revenue sharing
and other programs, he said-referring spe-
cifically to revenue sharing-that if we are
really going to get the job done that needs to
be done in America, "We need many centers
of power," so that "more people have a chance
to have a part of the action out across the
country.'
Then he went on to make the point so that
more will have a real chance to contribute and
realize what they do does matter, and realize
that they can participate and that their partic-
ipation can be productive and meaningful.
Then he goes on to follow up on that point
by saying that: "To me one of the reasons
revenue sharing is so important"—and here
he went specifically to talking about revenue
sharing "is because it is going to make a dif-
ference for people. It is going to mean that the
people at the local level who are not in gov-
ernment are going to feel that they do count."
He then went on to talk about his goals,
achieving peace for a generation, having Amer-
ica at peace throughout the world, dealing
with the economy, to have something we have
not had since 1957-prosperity in peacetime-
the environment, crime, equal opportunity, and
noting the progress we have made on these and,
referring to the proposals he intends to put forth
in the State of the Union, he said, "It is time
to seize this moment and present the American
people a new approach to government, one that
is relevant to our times."
Then he went back over the reference to the
goals and dealing with the problems, basically
the way I outlined them to you, and said: If
46
