Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 28 [313]
reforms of the draft, making it as
fair and equitable as possible as we
progress toward the volunteer force.
I am most hopeful that this is the last
time a President must sign an extension
of draft induction authority. Although it
will remain necessary to retain a standby
draft system in the interest of national
security, this Administration is committed
to achieving the reforms in military life as
well as the public support for our Armed
Forces which will make possible an end
to peacetime conscription. The more
equitable pay scales provided by this act
are essential to achieving this goal.
Much of the money authorized by this
bill will be used to raise the pay of first-
term recruits, whose pay scales have been
unconscionably low. A married man with-
out children who has just completed basic
training and lives off the military base
now receives only $255 a month, includ-
ing his allowances. Under this new law,
he will receive $450 a month. A single
man living on base who now receives $149
will receive $299 under this new law.
By law the pay increases provided in
this act are subject to the 90-day wage-
price freeze. I should further point out
that under a plan I have previously sub-
mitted to the Congress the annual com-
parability pay adjustment for the military,
like the Federal civilian employees pay
adjustment, will take effect July 1, 1972,
rather than on January 1, 1972. However,
these short deferrals will not materially
impair our ability to achieve an all-volun-
teer force.
I thank the Congress for its coopera-
tion in enacting this legislation. In par-
ticular, I want to express my own grati-
tude and that of the Nation for the fine
leadership of Senators John Stennis and
Margaret Chase Smith and Congressmen
F. Edward Hébert and Leslie C. Arends,
who conducted the most penetrating hear-
ings on the draft since 1948, and skillfully
guided this legislation to final passage.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6531 is Public Law
92-129 (85 Stat. 348).
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement outlining the provisions of
the bill.
313 Remarks to the National League of Families of
American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia.
September 28, 1971
Mrs. North, Mr. Secretary, and all of the
distinguished guests who are at the head
table, and all of those who are in this
audience:
I have spoken in this room many times
over the past, believe it or not, 24 years,
starting as a Congressman. I can assure all
of you that this brief remark that I will
now address to you is spoken more from
the heart, I think, than anything I have
ever said before.
The Secretary of Defense-and I have
had an opportunity to read his remarks
and endorse them—will address you later.
He will tell you what we have been doing,
what we are doing, what we hope to do
with regard to the great objective in which
all of you and all of us are interested-
and that is obtaining the release of all of
our POW's and missing in action where-
ever they may be in Southeast Asia.
But I wish to underline what the Sec-
1009
