Richard Nixon, 1971
[399]
Dec. 17
If a renewed stoppage does occur, an
emergency could develop while the Con-
gress is in recess. I remind the Congress,
therefore, to consider fully the implica-
tions of the absence of any statutory means
to deal with any further emergencies.
399
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by
Laurence H. Silberman, Under Secretary of
Labor, on the west coast dock dispute and the
emergency strike legislation pending before
the Congress.
Statement on Signing Bill To Protect Wild Horses
and Burros. December 17, 1971
"WE NEED the tonic of wildness." Dur-
ing the past several months, many thou-
sands of Americans, particularly children,
have concurred in Thoreau's plea with
an outpouring of concern for the preser-
vation of wild horses and burros on our
Western ranges. The 11-year-old son of
one Congressman felt deeply enough on
the issue to himself testify before the House
of Representatives,¹ and countless per-
sonal letters-many from young people—
have come to the Congress, to the Federal
land management agencies, and in my
own mail. I take special pleasure today,
therefore, in signing strong new legisla-
tion to protect these noble animals.
Horses and burros were unknown to
the people of the Americas in pre-
Columbian times. It was the early Span-
ish expeditions which brought the first of
these animals to the vast wild lands that
later became our Western States. The de-
scendants of these animals were joined
over the centuries by other bloodlines, in-
cluding horses and burros turned loose for
economic reasons or abandoned with the
advent of mechanized farming, until they
numbered about 2 million by the turn of
the 20th century.
In the past 70 years, however, civiliza-
¹ Gregory Gude, son of Representative Gil-
bert Gude of Maryland.
tion and economics have brought them to
99 percent extinction-so that on the pub-
lic lands today there remain only about
9,500 unbranded and unclaimed horses
and 11,000 free-roaming burros. The de-
mands of the market for their processed
products, competition for forage used by
domestic livestock, construction of new
roads and urban areas, and expansion of
agricultural areas have reduced their
numbers and sharply decreased the areas
where they are free to roam. Overpopula-
tion in other of their habitats has also
resulted in disease and death for many
of them. With the depletion continuing
apace, immediate and effective measures
are clearly needed to prevent the com-
plete extermination of the wild breeds-
and with it the death of part of the
frontier spirit.
I believe that S. 1116, which I am ap-
proving today, prepares us to take just
such measures. Embodying the best judg-
ment of both the Congress and the execu-
tive branch, it should do much to insure
a continuing safe habitat for wild horses
and burros on the public lands of the
United States. It declares that all such
animals shall be managed and protected
by either the Secretary of the Interior or
the Secretary of Agriculture, according to
which department administers the lands
where they are found. It permits the estab-
1193
