[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
consolidate the major activities of the
Government. The programmatic jumble
has already reached the point where it is
virtually impossible to obtain an accu-
rate count of just how many Federal
grant programs exist. Some estimates go
as high as 1,500. Despite impressive at-
tempts by individual legislators and by
the Office of Economic Opportunity, there
is still no agreement on a comprehensive
list. Again and again I hear of local of-
ficials who are unable to determine how
many Federal programs serve their areas
or how much Federal money is coming
into their communities. One reason is
that the assistance comes from such wide
variety of Federal sources.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF SCATTERED
RESPONSIBILITY
What are the consequences of this scat-
tering of Federal responsibility? There
are many.
In the first place, the diffusion of re-
sponsibility makes it extremely difficult
to launch a coordinated attack on com-
plex problems. It is as if the various units
of an attacking army were operating un-
der a variety of highly independent com-
mands. When one part of the answer to
a problem lies in one department and
other parts lie in other departments, it
is often impossible to bring the various
parts together in a unified campaign to
achieve a common goal.
Even our basic analysis of public needs
often suffers from a piecemeal approach.
Problems are defined so that they will fit
within established jurisdictions and bu-
reaucratic conventions. And the results
of government action are typically meas-
ured by the degree of activity within
each program rather than by the overall
impact of related activities on the out-
side world.
The role of a given department in the
policy making process can be funda-
mentally compromised by the way its
mission is defined. The narrower the mis-
sion, the more likely it is that the de-
partment will see itself as an advocate
within the administration for a special
point of view. When any department or
agency begins to represent a parochial in-
terest, then its advice and support inevit-
ably become less useful to the man who
must serve all of the people as their
President.
Even when departments make a con-
certed effort to broaden their perspec-
tives, they often find it impossible to
develop a comprehensive strategy for
meeting public needs. Not even the best
planners can set intelligent spending pri-
orities, for example, unless they have an
opportunity to consider the full array
of alternative expenditures. But if one
part of the problem is studied in one de-
partment and another part of the prob-
lem is studied elsewhere, who decides
which element is more important? If one
office considers one set of solutions and a
separate agency investigates another set
of solutions, who can compare the results?
Too often, no official below the very high-
est levels of the Government has access
to enough information to make such com-
parisons wisely. The result is that the
Government often fails to make a rational
distribution of its resources among a num-
ber of program alternatives.
Divided responsibility can also mean
that some problems slip between the
cracks and disappear from the Govern-
ment's view. Everybody's business be-
comes nobody's business and embarrass-
ing gaps appear which no agency at-
476
