[173] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
humanitarian concern transcends any
differences that may be the cause of a
war.
And you, in your handling of this issue
of POW's and missing in action through-
out Southeast Asia, have acted in the
great tradition of the Red Cross, I am
most grateful for what you have done.
Then I think of those other areas where
the American Red Cross has been called
upon and has come through in case after
case, and the fact that I mention those
that have been most newsworthy, the big
news events, doesn't mean that those hun-
dreds of other instances in community
after community, State after State, are
not also just as important in their way.
But I think of a hurricane in Missis-
sippi. I remember visiting that area and
seeing the devastation. And wherever
there was devastation, and wherever there
was suffering, the Red Cross was there
helping, helping in a very personal way
that the Government of the United States
would not be able to match.
I know of an earthquake in California.
I was not there at the time. I was there at
the time of the '33 quake, however. I
recall what the Red Cross did then, in
1933. I know what you did in this case in
this year, 1971.
I know, too, of what you have done
abroad. I know, for example, of an earth-
quake that occurred in Peru. I got a first-
hand report on that earthquake from Mrs.
Nixon, who went down to Peru in order
to express the interest of our Government,
but more important, the interest of the
American people in the people of Peru.
This allows me to make a very impor-
tant point about volunteerism, which the
Red Cross, of course, represents in the
eyes of most Americans and people
throughout the world, perhaps better than
any organization, more uniformly than
any organization that we have.
When Mrs. Nixon went to Peru, it was
recognized that the Government of the
United States and the Government of
Peru had very wide differences. You have
read of those differences: the expropria-
tion, for example, of some of our busi-
nesses in that country. But also, it was
recognized that at least 60,000 people had
been killed in that earthquake, had lost
their lives. The suffering was simply
indescribable.
So when she went, she went down in a
plane, an American plane, the Air Force
One. It was filled not with people, but
with various items that were needed for
those who were suffering-medical sup-
plies, blankets, et cetera. That was, of
course, symbolic.
She took a check with her, a check
from the American Government. I think
it was $10 million. That is a lot of money.
But she also took several other checks, one
a very large one from the American Red
Cross, and others from other organiza-
tions-a labor union, other volunteer
organizations.
When she came back, she said that as
far as the people of Peru were concerned,
that she met, and the Government leaders
of Peru were concerned, they were far
more impressed by the checks they re-
ceived and the funds they received and the
help they received from the American
Red Cross and the other volunteer agen-
cies than they were with the funds they
received from the Government of the
United States.
They needed both. They wanted both,
and I am happy that this country is
wealthy enough that, whether it is an
earthquake in Peru or a flood in Romania,
whatever the differences we have with
644
