Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 21 [337]
with a director who is responsible directly
to the President. I again urge the House of
Representatives to act promptly on this
matter so that we can get on with this
important work.
As this project goes forward, we will be
working to get the best scientific minds in
this country involved in charting its
course. In that connection, we are pleased
to announce that 40 distinguished mem-
bers of the biomedical scientific com-
munity have agreed to participate in the
initial phase of this work. This group will
hold its first meeting in Washington from
October 25 through October 29, 1971.
NOTE: The statement was released at Fort
Detrick, Md.
336 Veterans Day Message to the Armed Forces.
October 21, 1971
ON THIS day our nation proudly honors
the millions of Americans who have served
in our Armed Forces both in times of war
and peace.
Without the sacrifices which these
brave Veterans so freely and generously
made to protect our freedom, we would
not be the great nation we are today. It is
fitting that all Americans pause to reflect
on their splendid service.
No nation has been more committed to
peace than America, and no Americans
have done more to achieve a lasting peace
than the members of our Armed Forces,
past and present. They represent the spirit
that has made and preserved us as a
nation.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On September 23, 1971, the President
signed Proclamation 4083 designating Octo-
ber 25 as Veterans Day, 1971.
337 Address to the Nation Announcing Intention To Nominate
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., and William H. Rehnquist To Be
Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the
United States. October 21, 1971
Good evening:
During a 4-year term, the President of
the United States, sitting at this desk, in
this historic room, makes over 3,000
major appointments to various Govern-
ment positions. By far the most important
appointments he makes are those to the
Supreme Court of the United States.
Presidents come and go, but the Su-
preme Court, through its decisions, goes
on forever. Because they will make deci-
sions which will affect your lives and the
lives of your children for generations to
come, I should like to share with you
tonight my reasons for selecting the two
individuals whose names I will send to the
Senate tomorrow for confirmation as
Justices of the Supreme Court of the
United States.
Over the past month, I have received
thousands of letters from all over the
country recommending scores of able men
and women for appointment to the two
vacancies on the Court.
71-234-72-70
1053
