[182] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ually, and I think we can if we can get
the right leadership from the opinion-
makers like yourselves in this room.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:28 p.m. in the
Parliament House hotel.
Participants included press, television, and
radio representatives from Alabama, Arkan-
sas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.
183 Remarks at the Annual Conference of the Associated
Councils of the Arts. May 26, 1971
Mr. Anderson and ladies and gentlemen:
As you can imagine, I have the respon-
sibility and the very great honor and privi-
lege of welcoming many groups to Wash-
ington. And of those groups, there are
very few that I could greet with as much
pleasure as this Conference of the Asso-
ciated Councils of the Arts.
One reason, of course, is here on the
platform with me. I feel a special debt
of gratitude to you because you gave us
Nancy Hanks, not only because she adds
beauty to the White House Staff in many
ways but because she was the president of
this organization when I appointed her
Chairman of the National Endowment of
the Arts. And I hardly need tell you how
vigorously and effectively, not only in
Washington with the Congress and all
over the Nation that Nancy Hanks has
worked, together with many of you here,
to make the Endowment's programs a
success.
Another reason is quite simply this: It
is a lesson from history. We, this Nation
of ours, could be the richest nation in the
world. We could be the most powerful
nation in the world. We could be the freest
nation in the world-but only if the arts
are alive and flourishing can we experi-
ence the true meaning of our freedom and
know the full glory of the human spirit.
We all, no doubt, remember the debates
that went on in this Nation over many
years, over government involvement of
the arts, the feeling of some that it was a
frivolous waste of the taxpayers' money,
the concern of others that government
support might lead to government control
or a drying up of the private funds on
which ultimately the arts, of course,
depend.
The important thing now is that gov-
ernment has accepted support of the arts
as one of its responsibilities, not only on
the Federal level but on the State and
local levels as well.
And increasingly, governments at all
levels see this not only as a responsibility
but also as an opportunity, for there is a
growing recognition that few investments
in the quality of life in America pay off so
handsomely as the money spent to stimu-
late the arts.
We can spend billions on new scientific
miracles as we do, on education, on hous-
ing, on medical care, on highways and
airports, and all of the other goods and
services, those material things that gov-
ernment is expected to provide. And in
doing so, we can meet very genuine
needs for people and discharge very real
responsibilities. But all of this, all of this
together, alone would be like designing a
violin without the strings.
As we look ahead, 10, 20, 30 years, we
can chart the prospect of many great
achievements. We have seen technological
676
