Richard Nixon, 1971
II
July V [226]
in my January budget for these programs,
the distribution of funds differs from my
proposals in several areas. The result of
these differences will be an increase in
Federal expenditures in fiscal year 1972
of $375 million over the amounts esti-
mated in my January budget. This in-
crease will require offsetting reductions
elsewhere in the budget to maintain fiscal
stability.
With the completion of action on this
bill, I also urge the Congress to turn its
attention now to other important pro-
posals which the Administration has made
in the field of education. These proposals
would focus Federal resources on several
significant problem areas and would also
provide increased funds for education in
1972.
-The emergency school assistance act
would provide sorely needed aid to
school districts throughout the Na-
tion which are dealing with the com-
plex and difficult problems of
desegregation. I have asked that $1.5
billion be made available over a
2-year period for this purpose.
Prompt action on this proposal is
imperative so that the first install-
ment of these funds can be used by
our schools during the next school
year, which begins in 2 months.
-My proposal for education revenue
sharing would allow States and local-
ities to make their own decisions
about how to use $3 billion in Fed-
eral funds in ways that would best
serve the educational needs of their
own children. This proposal would
11 overcome the many problems of pres-
ent Federal aid to elementary and
secondary education, which provides
funds in too narrowly defined and
rigid categories. Enactment of this
proposal would better enable States
and local schools to meet their edu-
cation responsibilities.
-The Administration's proposed re-
form and expansion of higher educa-
tion student aid programs is based on
the principle that "no qualified stu-
dent who wants to go to college
should be barred by lack of money."
More than 22 million students
would benefit from these proposals.
-Two new educational agencies--the
National Institute of Education and
the National Foundation for Higher
Education-have been proposed by
this Administration to promote and
assist innovations and reform at all
levels of education. Our children will
learn most effectively if education is
a self-renewing enterprise; these new
organizations will contribute to that
end by supporting the development
and dissemination of new approaches
to learning.
These legislative proposals constitute an
unfinished educational agenda of major
importance to the country. Congress
should address itself to that agenda with
the same dispatch it demonstrated on the
education appropriations.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
As enacted, H.R. 7016, approved July 9,
1971, is Public Law 92-48 (85 Stat. 103).
815
