[203] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
prevention, education, treatment, rehabil-
itation, training, and research programs
in all Federal agencies. This authority
would be known as the Special Action Of-
fice of Drug Abuse Prevention. It would
be located within the Executive Office of
the President and would be headed by a
Director accountable to the President. Be-
cause this is an emergency response to a
national problem which we intend to
bring under control, the Office would be
established to operate only for a period of
three years from its date of enactment,
and the President would have the option
of extending its life for an additional two
years if desirable.
This Office would provide strengthened
Federal leadership in finding solutions to
drug abuse problems. It would establish
priorities and instill a sense of urgency in
Federal and federally-supported drug
abuse programs, and it would increase
coordination between Federal, State, and
local rehabilitation efforts.
More specifically, the Special Action
Office would develop overall Federal
strategy for drug abuse prevention pro-
grams, set program goals, objectives and
priorities, carry out programs through
other Federal agencies, develop guidance
and standards for operating agencies, and
evaluate performance of all programs to
determine where success is being achieved.
It would extend its efforts into research,
prevention, training, education, treat-
ment, rehabilitation, and the development
of necessary reports, statistics, and social
indicators for use by all public and private
groups. It would not be directly concerned
with the problems of reducing drug sup-
ply, or with the law enforcement aspects
of drug abuse control.
It would concentrate on the "demand"
side of the drug equation-the use and the
user of drugs.
The program authority of the Director
would be exercised through working
agreements with other Federal agencies.
In this fashion, full advantage would be
taken of the skills and resources these
agencies can bring to bear on solving drug
abuse problems by linking them with a
highly goal-oriented authority capable of
functioning across departmental lines. By
eliminating bureaucratic red tape, and
jurisdictional disputes between agencies,
the Special Action Office would do what
cannot be done presently: it would mount
a wholly coordinated national attack on
a national problem. It would use all avail-
able resources of the Federal Government
to identify the problems precisely, and it
would allocate resources to attack those
problems. In practice, implementing de-
partments and agencies would be bound to
meet specific terms and standards for per-
formance. These terms and standards
would be set forth under inter-agency
agreement through a Program Plan de-
fining objectives, costs, schedule, perform-
ance requirements, technical limits, and
other factors essential to program success.
With the authority of the Program
Plan, the Director of the Special Action
Office could demand performance instead
of hoping for it. Agencies would receive
money based on performance and their
retention of funding and program author-
ity would depend upon periodic appraisal
of their performance.
In order to meet the need for realistic
central program appraisal, the Office
would develop special program monitor-
ing and evaluation capabilities so that it
could realistically determine which activi-
ties and techniques were producing re-
742
