[38] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
presided at the 19th annual breakfast spon-
sored by the United States Senate and House
Prayer Breakfast Groups.
More than 3,000 guests, including represent-
atives from government, the diplomatic corps,
industry, labor, and the academic community,
attended the breakfast.
39 Special Message to the Congress Proposing the
Establishment of a Federal Executive Service.
February 2, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In my State of the Union message, one
of the six great goals that I proposed to
the Congress was a renewal of the Federal
Government itself through a sweeping re-
organization of the executive branch. The
structural changes I outlined would en-
able us to bring greater coherence to the
management of Federal programs, and to
raise them to a new level of effectiveness.
But even the best of structures requires the
effective utilization of highly qualified
people. The need for the best people and
for making the best use of their talents, be-
comes more vital as we improve the struc-
ture and organization of the Federal
Government.
It is on our Federal executives-both
career and non-career-that the task of
translating broad public policy into opera-
tional reality rests most heavily. These
men and women are among the most
valuable resources that we have as a gov-
ernment. We must not use them waste-
fully. We must not let their talents and
their dedication be squandered. And we
must constantly seek better ways of at-
tracting into the executive ranks of the
Federal service new people with the capa-
city and the drive to help us meet our na-
tional needs.
The time has come, therefore, to take a
critical look at the existing Federal sys-
tem for selecting, training, assigning and
rewarding executive manpower, and to
see whether it cannot be improved. We
have carried out such an examination, and
have concluded that it can be significantly
improved by incorporating principles of
modern personnel management.
For some time now, the Government's
executive manpower systems have shown
increasing evidence of weakness. The pres-
ent arrangements have grown up over
the years without any comprehensive
plan. Disparate systems for the authori-
zation, appointment and assignment of
Government executives have prevented
adequate planning and provision for con-
stantly changing requirements. The re-
sulting complexities and rigidities have
reached a point at which it is now futile
to try to patch the present structure fur-
ther. Too often, the present system serves
only to frustrate the conscientious agency
head and the dedicated career executive
alike.
At my request, the Civil Service Com-
mission has completed a painstaking and
systematic analysis of the existing man-
power management programs for execu-
tives. The Commission has informed me
that reforms are essential, reforms that
cannot be made within existing law. I
agree. Accordingly, I recommend legis-
lative action to establish an entirely new
personnel system for upper-level officials
of the executive branch, to be called the
Federal Executive Service.
This Service would apply to those
per-
104
