Appendix B
July
2 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
luncheon in honor of Mrs. Juan Velasco,
wife of the President of Peru.
6 The White House released the "Report
to the President on the Economic Position
of the Steel Industry from the Cabinet
Committee on Economic Policy" (54 pages
and appendixes).
6 During his visit to Kansas City, Mo., the
President telephoned former President
Harry S. Truman in Independence.
10 The President announced that he will de-
clare excess two parcels of land in San
Diego, Calif. One parcel, totaling 14.24
acres, will be transferred to the city of
San Diego for use as a park area. The other
parcel, totaling 21 acres, will be conveyed
to the San Diego Unified Port District.
19 The President met separately with the
Cabinet and with the bipartisan leaders of
the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives to discuss his planned visit to the
People's Republic of China.
22 Ambassadors Rene Chalmers of Haiti,
Semesa Koroikilai Sikivou of Fiji, Prince
Khammao of Laos, and Jacob Arthur
Christian Davies of Sierra Leone presented
their credentials to the President in cere-
monies in the Blue Room at the White
House.
23 The President began a series of meetings at
the White House on the fiscal 1973 budget.
Among those in attendance were: John B.
Connally, Secretary of the Treasury;
George P. Shultz, Director, and Caspar W.
Weinberger, Deputy Director, Office of
Management and Budget; Paul W. Mc-
Cracken, Chairman of the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers; and John D. Ehrlichman,
Assistant to the President for Domestic
Affairs.
24 The President conducted further discussions
on the fiscal 1973 budget in a meeting at
the White House with Administration
officials.
July
27 Ambassador Soedjatmoko of Indonesia paid
a farewell call on the President at the White
House.
27 The President presented the first strike of
the Eisenhower silver dollar to Mrs. Mamie
Eisenhower in a ceremony at the White
House.
27 Alfred P. Chamie, national commander of
the American Legion, called on the Presi-
dent to report on his recent visits to the
Middle East, Europe, and Vietnam.
27 The President hosted a reception at the
White House for representatives of the
American Society of Association Executives.
28 The President greeted participants in Boys
Nation, sponsored by the American Legion,
following their tour of the White House.
28 The President greeted Vice President Spiro
T. Agnew on the Vice President's return
from his trip to the Far East, Middle East,
Africa, and Europe and met with him to
receive a report on the trip. The Vice Presi-
dent headed the United States Delegation
at the inauguration of Park Chung Hee,
President of the Republic of Korea on
July 1.
The Vice President then visited Singa-
pore, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia,
Kenya, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Spain, Morocco, and Portugal to
demonstrate the President's continuing
personal interest in those countries and to
develop a firsthand knowledge of their
problems and progress.
28 Ambassador Joseph S. Farland, United
States Ambassador to Pakistan, met with
the President at the White House.
28 The President has directed Secretary of
Labor James D. Hodgson to send Assistant
Secretary of Labor W. J. Usery, Jr., to
Cleveland to meet with Charles Luna, presi-
dent of the United Transportation Union,
to discuss resumption of negotiations in the
rail strike.
1260
