Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 29 [119]
119
Statement About Stabilization of Wages and Prices in
the Construction Industry.
I HAVE today signed an Executive order
establishing a cooperative mechanism for
the stabilization of wages and prices in
the construction industry.
The operation and success of the order
will rest largely on the determined effort,
the practical wisdom, and the mutual un-
derstanding of labor and management in
an industry whose future is now being un-
dermined by its own excesses.
Wage increases negotiated last year in
the construction industry were more than
twice those of factory wage increases in
the same period. These increases, along
with other distortions in the economy of
the industry, were reflected in the rising
costs of construction, including the costs
of homebuilding to hard-pressed families
and the costs of defense and other Govern-
ment construction projects to the hard-
pressed taxpayer. But at the same time
that wages and prices in the construction
industry were soaring, unemployment in
the industry rose to a level which is nearly
double the national average.
The leaders of the construction in-
dustry-from both labor and manage-
ment-are aware that unless this trend
is countered disaster lies ahead. There is
a limit to what those who pay for con-
struction can afford. Continued excesses
can lead only to less building, to continued
unemployment, and to further distortions
in the practices of the industry and in
the economy of the Nation.
I am confident, however, that if sensible
restraint is practiced the construction in-
dustry can look forward to a bright and
prosperous future. Accordingly, the Fed-
eral Government has taken the initiative
March 29, 1971
in what is essentially a corrective enter-
prise. Contractors and labor leaders have
indicated their willingness to cooperate
with the Government in fair measures to
achieve greater wage and price stability.
I am therefore today reinstating the
Davis-Bacon Act, which I suspended on
February 23, 1971, and I am substituting
a system of constraints to which I expect
all parties will subscribe.
The Executive order delegates to the
Secretary of Labor the responsibility to
appoint a tripartite industry committee of
12 members, which-with the assistance
of joint craft dispute boards established
by contractor associations and interna-
tional unions-will review all collective
bargaining agreements negotiated in the
construction industry after the date of this
order.
The boards and the committee will de-
termine whether future negotiated wage
agreements fall within certain criteria
established in the Executive order. Agree-
ments that violate the criteria shall be dis-
regarded in making wage determinations
under the Davis-Bacon Act for Federal
and federally assisted construction. In
addition, all Federal departments and
agencies shall review their construction
plans in this light.
The Executive order also establishes a
committee on construction to develop
criteria for determining the acceptable
level for prices in construction contracts
as well as the acceptable level for compen-
sations, including bonuses and stock op-
tions that are not subject to the terms of
a collective bargaining agreement. The
members of this committee shall be ap-
491
