[60] Feb. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
of improving the quality of life of their
citizens. By creating a community of na-
tions working together to solve the prob-
lems of humanity rather than adding to
them, through war and civil strife, it
clearly serves a major national interest.
Our new program will be designed to
meet the new needs of a new decade and
thereby permit us to pursue that interest
more effectively, in a way which insures
our being increasingly responsive to the
needs of the peoples of the developing
world. It will, I believe, be recognized by
our people as a proud American invest-
ment in the future of all mankind, and
therefore in a better world for future gen-
erations of Americans.
The White House
February 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "The Foreign
Assistance Program, Annual Report to the
Congress, Fiscal Year 1970" (Government
Printing Office, 82 pp.).
61 The President's News Conference of
February 17, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. We will make this on
the record today.
The mike is for the purpose of a tran-
scription which will be available, I think,
rather soon after we complete the con-
ference because it will be run simultane-
ously by the stenographers.
Any questions which you want to ask?
QUESTIONS
U.S. POLICY IN SOUTHEAST ASIA
[1.] Q. Mr. President, the next logical
step in Southeast Asia would seem to be
South Vietnamese forces moving into the
southern part of North Vietnam for the
same reasons that they moved into the
Laotian panhandle.
Would our policy rule out support for
this type of move, air support for it?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't speculate on
what South Vietnam may decide to do
with regard to a possible incursion into
North Vietnam in order to defend their
national security. However, I will restate
our policy. I stated that policy on Novem-
ber 3 [1969] and have restated it at least
nine different times publicly since that
time.
I stated then that at a time we are with-
drawing our forces, that if I found that
the enemy was stepping up its activity
through infiltration in a way that would
threaten our remaining forces that I
would take strong action to deal with the
new situation.
On December 10 [1970], as you recall,
I reiterated that statement and said that
this action would include the use of air-
power against the infiltration routes, mili-
tary complex supply depots.
That is our policy, the policy of the
President taking action if he finds that
the North Vietnamese are undertaking
actions which threaten our remaining
forces in South Vietnam.
Q. Mr. President, under that guide, is
there any limit to what we might do to
protect our forces in South Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. We have indicated
several limits. For example, we are not
158
