Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 29 [33]
-appropriations of $100 million for
Federal acquisition to preserve na-
tionally significant natural and his-
toric areas.
I
that the urban open space
propose
program be more than doubled, to $200
million, to provide more recreational areas
in and near our cities.
CULTURAL ACTIVITIES.-I have again
recommended that we double the appro-
priation for the National Foundation on
the Arts and the Humanities, so that we
can bring the benefits of these great cul-
tural efforts to an increasing number of
people throughout the country.
HOUSING.--The housing industry has
already begun to lead our economic ex-
pansion. Fiscal and monetary actions
taken in the past year have resulted in a
significant easing of mortgage interest
rates. Federal policy must help this in-
dustry meet the pent-up demand for
housing.
The effectiveness of our housing pro-
grams will not be improved by merely
continuing to increase Federal subsidies.
The programs must be simplified and
fitted into a rational framework. Incon-
sistencies must be removed, along with the
obsolete rigidities in statutes that at times
prevent programs from operating at all.
The administration will again propose
legislation to carry out these badly needed
reforms, which I urge the Congress to
enact.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.-I will
also propose reform of the community
development programs of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, and
of certain economic development pro-
grams of the Departments of Agriculture
and Commerce. Narrowly defined cate-
gorical grant programs in this field have
frequently conflicted with local priorities
and unnecessarily generated red tape.
With special urban and rural revenue
sharing programs, we will permit localities
to plan and carry out community develop-
ment in accordance with their own needs.
Initial funding of the new urban pro-
gram will begin at a level of $1 billion for
the second half of 1972, upon enactment
of the necessary legislation. An additional
$2 billion appropriation is anticipated for
1973, when the program will be in effect
for a full year. Rural development reve-
nue sharing will be $1 billion in the first
full year.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY.-Science
and technology can make major contribu-
tions to the public by developing creative
solutions to a wide range of national prob-
lems that will help us all enjoy a better
life. I am proposing in this budget a sub-
stantial expansion in outlays for federally
supported research and development.
While a large portion of this increase is
needed to strengthen our defense capa-
bilities I am also recommending substan-
tial increases in civilian areas to:
-make greater use of our scientific and
engineering capabilities and resources
to cope with major national problems
such as pollution, crime, health,
transportation, and other environ-
mental and social problems;
-strengthen research essential to the
advancement of our technology and
economic productivity; and
---increase our investment in funda-
mental science which leads to the
long-term progress of our society.
As an example of the concern of this
administration for the use of science and
technology in the public service, I am
recommending that the budget for the
71-234-72-10
93
