Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [65]
64 Statement About a National Health Strategy Proposal.
February 18, 1971
I AM PROPOSING today a new na-
tional health strategy. It helps more
people to pay for care-but it also ex-
pands the supply of health services and
makes them more efficient. It emphasizes
keeping people well-and not just mak-
ing people well.
The purpose of this program is simply
this: I want America to have the finest
health care in the world-and I want
every American to be able to get that
care when he needs it.
NOTE: The President read the statement for
sound and film recording in the Family Theater
at the White House.
65 Remarks at the Dedication of the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars.
Senator Humphrey, Dean Sayre, Dr. Rip-
ley, and all of the distinguished guests
present here today:
I, first, express my deep appreciation
to Senator Humphrey for his gracious in-
troduction and also my commendation
for his eloquent remarks.
And I would like to point out that in
my opinion, had it not been for him, for
his devotion, his dedication, and his tenac-
ity, we would not be meeting here today
with this project now reaching its cul-
mination. And to him and all the others
who worked with him, certainly the
thanks of the Nation and the thanks of
people around the world go for seeing
to it that the living memorial to one of
America's greatest men is now coming
into being.
And it, of course, is an historic occasion
for all of us. For me, too, it is the first
time that I have heard the voice of Wood-
row Wilson,ยน although I have read, as
most of you have, most of what he has
written.
1
And it brings a special meaning to this
ยน A recording of President Wilsons voice was
played at the ceremonies.
February 18, 1971
occasion that one of the distinguished
religious leaders of this city and of this
Nation is here today, and that he is the
grandson of Woodrow Wilson.2
I am honored to celebrate this occa-
sion and the dedication of this new inter-
national study to the memory of one of
America's greatest Presidents.
Along with most Presidents of the past
half century, I have long been a student
of Woodrow Wilson. He was a man born
ahead of his time. We have reason to
hope that he was not born ahead of our
time.
Ironically, this man, who used the Eng-
lish language to uplift and inspire and
who so enriched the lexicon of democracy,
is remembered most for one phrase he did
not coin, a phrase that was twisted into
a slogan of cynicism. He took that phrase
from H. G. Wells' book, "The War That
Will End War." Using that phrase as
their centerpiece, there are some who
class Woodrow Wilson as a colossal
failure.
He won reelection in 1916 on the slo-
2 Very Rev. Francis B. Sayre, Jr., dean of the
Washington Cathedral.
187
