[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Appalachian Regional Commis-
sion has been a very useful experimental
development program which can be im-
proved upon and can serve in many re-
spects as a model for a national program.
This is essentially what I have done in
proposing to the Congress Rural and
Urban Community Development Reve-
nue Sharing. The record of the Appa-
lachian Regional Commission goes a long
way in proving that State and local
gov-
ernments do have the capacity to make
revenue sharing work.
The revenue sharing proposals will in-
sure that States and localities will get their
fair share of the funds automatically with-
out having to play grantsmanship games.
Furthermore, those proposals would elimi-
nate Federal red tape and local share re-
quirements. State and local officials could
more quickly provide public projects
which are most responsive to local needs.
The gap between Federal resources and
local needs would be bridged in a way
that would strengthen State and local re-
sponsibilities and decision-making. These
proposals deal with problems which sim-
ply will not yield to the old approaches, no
matter how they are reworked or ex-
panded. I again urge upon the Congress
the early enactment of my revenue sharing
programs.
Meanwhile, as a means of providing
additional jobs now, the public service
jobs approach as it has emerged in the
Emergency Employment Act of 1971 is
clearly a better answer than the Acceler-
ated Public Works program.
Public sector jobs are labor-intensive:
a high proportion of Federal appropria-
tions under that bill would flow into direct
wages and salaries for new employees. In
community service activities such as envi-
ronmental protection, health and sanita-
tion, unemployed persons can be put to
work rapidly. No long lead time is re-
quired for complicated engineering
studies.
On the other hand our experience dur-
ing the early 1960s clearly shows that ac-
celerated public works is a costly and
time-consuming method of putting unem-
ployed persons to work. Even the bill's
strongest proponents recognize that public
works programs are not people-intensive,
but money-intensive.
The job of the administration, indeed
of any administration, is to search out the
best ways to deal with the problems and
needs of the Nation. We need more jobs.
A bill to do this directly and now, when
the jobs are needed, is clearly the best
answer.
The White House
June 29, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On July 14, 1971, the Senate sustained
the President's veto.
215 Remarks Announcing Decision by the Turkish
Government To Ban Cultivation of Opium
Poppies. June 30, 1971
Mr. Secretary, Mr. Ambassador, ladies
and gentlemen:
made at this time in Washington and
Ankara represents, by far, the most sig-
The joint announcement that is being
nificant breakthrough that has been
788
