[132] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
benefits of the original American Revolu-
tion, in which they still do not fully share.
The fundamental rights for which George
Washington's armies fought-men's rights
to be represented in the legislature that
taxes them and to hold consent over the
government that rules them-can no
longer be denied to the city that bears
Washington's name.
Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1967,
which broke almost a century of stagna-
tion in the progress of District government
and set up a new system with a Mayor-
Commissioner and a City Council, rep-
resented an important first step toward
making Washingtonians full citizens of
their own city. I am in full support of the
letter and the spirit of that reorganization,
and my administration will continue to
work to strengthen the city government's
hand in managing its own affairs more
effectively.
One of my most pressing goals for this
Nation is to place local functions under
local control, and to equip local govern-
ments with the authority and the re-
sources they need in order to serve their
communities well. To this end I solicit
the cooperation of the Congress in trans-
ferring many of the routine municipal
functions it now must exercise itself, into
the hands of the District government. Sev-
eral such functions whose transfer is re-
quested in the District's 1971 legislative
program include the setting of liquor li-
cense fees, the execution of long term
lease agreements, and the issuance of no-
cost driver's permits for use by District
police officers on duty. It is clearly time
to stop tying the city's hands, and squan-
dering the Congress' valuable time, by
holding on Capitol Hill minor powers that
belong in the District Building.
Further managerial reforms will be rec-
ommended by the Commission on the Or-
ganization of the Government of the
District of Columbia (Nelsen ¹ Commis-
sion) created last year and charged (in
legislation now pending) to report its find-
ings to the Congress in March 1972. Such
recommendations are needed--but there
is another dimension of need as well. Dis-
trict government must become not only
more efficient but also more democratic.
Therefore, we will shortly submit legis-
lation adding six months to the life of the
Nelsen Commission and authorizing it to
prepare a second report stating its views
on the subject of expanded self-govern-
ment for the District of Columbia. This
would be a logical use of the expertise as-
sembled on the Commission, and a natural
extension of its area of study. From the
first report on improving government for
the people, it would move to a second re-
port on shaping government by the
people.
Evolving hand in hand with the move-
ment toward full popular participation in
District government is the steady progress
toward giving the people of Washington
full participation in the Federal Govern-
ment. They have now voted in two Presi-
dential elections, and now they have
elected their first Congressional delegate
in a century. I was proud to personally
congratulate the Reverend Walter Faunt-
roy immediately after his election to this
important post two weeks ago. Establish-
ment of the nonvoting House delegate
position—by legislation which my admin-
istration introduced and advocated-
gives Washington a voice in the Congress.
But it is only an interim step, for the city
should be entitled to a vote there as well.
¹ Representative Ancher Nelsen of Minne-
sota was Chairman of the Commission.
512
