[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
was only natural that the nations of the
New World should see their destinies as
intertwined and continue to pay special
attention to their ties with each other.
Geography and history have bound us
together and nurtured a sense of com-
munity, now formalized in the treaties and
institutions of the inter-American system.
The purposes and practices of our asso-
ciation have changed over time, but its
benefits have endured. It has helped to
maintain the independence of the hemis-
phere from outside domination, to facili-
tate political and economic progress, and
to enhance the region's influence in the
world community.
FORCES OF CHANGE
It is nevertheless understandable that
tensions should develop. There is great
ferment in Latin America and the Carib-
bean. Modernization brings extensive and
frequently unsettling change, accom-
panied by growing nationalism. Some in
the region view the United States-with
its disproportionate size and wealth-
more as a hindrance and threat than as
a source of support.
Thus, when this Administration came
into office, we had to reassess our ap-
proach. If the inter-American system was
to realize the aspirations of its peoples, we
would have to shape our role by the reali-
ties of the 1970's and tune our view to the
perceptions of others.
One of my first decisions as President
was to ask Governor Nelson Rockefeller
to undertake a mission to twenty Western
Hemisphere countries and to assess the
needs of the region. His report identified
the underlying forces of change: rapid
population growth and urbanization, a
revolution in communications and a rising
tide of aspirations.
The response to these forces has been
varied. In some countries, such as Mexico
and Brazil, the rate of economic growth
has been impressive; in many parts of the
hemisphere there
there is swelling self-
confidence and a determination to mod-
ernize. But many sectors chafe at the in-
ability of domestic structures to achieve
swift solutions to pressing problems.
In their quest for change, the nations
of the region have increasingly turned to
new methods. They are creating institu-
tions that they consider more national in
character and more responsive to in-
digenous needs. Efforts to reconcile the
often conflicting demands of social reform
and economic growth and to meet the
need for popular support, have spawned
statist, sometimes radical, approaches. In
virtually all cases, nationalism seeks
greater independence from our predomi-
nant influence; in some, a populist brand
of nationalism has taken anti-U.S. turns.
ADJUSTING OUR RELATIONSHIP
Our neighbors face a fundamental issue
in their relations with us: to reconcile
their interest in close ties with their de-
termination to mold their own destinies.
The United States will continue for some
time to be the principal source of external
resources: public and private capital, ex-
port markets, and technology. But the tra-
ditional expectation that we should bear
principal responsibility for accelerating
development clashes with national pride
and self-reliance.
This ambivalence has led them to seek
adjustments in our relationships, particu-
larly in the economic sphere, and to look
242
