Richard Nixon, 1971
July 28 [240]
are concerned. They submit that legisla-
tion to the Congress. They get it passed.
And then the question is: Should the
money be appropriated for the purpose of
carrying out those spending programs that
the legislative committees have approved?
It is here that the unpopularity comes in.
I was studying recently a poll that was
taken by a group of business executives
with regard to national attitudes in this
country on spending. The business execu-
tives were terribly disappointed by the re-
sults of the poll because they thought it
would come out strongly against govern-
ment spending. But I was not surprised,
and anyone who is a sophisticated ob-
server of government would not be sur-
prised to find that a great majority of
the American people, when asked about
spending for almost any program in the
domestic area, are for it-whether it is for
billions more for education or health or
housing or in the field of agriculture or
any other area.
If an individual is asked, “Do you favor
more Federal money spent for this pro-
gram?" the answer is, "Yes." So you can
see, therefore, if an individual really is
seeking popularity, the thing to do is to
get on a committee where he can vote yes
for that program and go back and
say to
his constituents, "I was for what you
wanted."
But there was another interesting result
at the bottom of this poll, and here is
where the Appropriations Committee
came in. The great majority of the people
who voted for every one of the spending
proposals listed on the domestic front,
when they were asked, "Do you favor
higher taxes?” said, “No”; “Do
you favor
higher prices?" said, "No."
That is where the Appropriations Com-
mittee comes in, because the members of
this committee must take these tremen-
dously popular programs, they must ex-
amine them, they must cut out all the
waste to be sure that that is taken out.
And then they must see whether or not all
of them put together-no matter how de-
sirable they are individually—whether all
of them put together will be so much that
they will raise taxes, and then they must
say no; or whether, when they are put
together, they will have the effect of caus-
ing inflation and raised prices, and then
they must say no.
That is why men and women who serve
on this very important and powerful com-
mittee are not necessarily always the most
popular men or Congressmen or Con-
gresswomen in the country.
But on the other hand, they are abso-
lutely essential to responsible government,
because there must be at some point along
the line those people in government who
will look at the whole picture and, rather
than representing this interest or that in-
terest or the other interest, will represent
the interest of all the American people.
Every American is interested in how high
his taxes are. Every American is interested
in how high his prices are. That is why
the Appropriations Committee, more than
other committee in the House of Rep-
resentatives, speaks for all of the Ameri-
can people.
any
That is where these two men come in.
That is where, also, the men who are
seated on this platform-the chairman of
this committee, George Mahon from
Texas, a Democrat; the ranking Repub-
lican, Frank Bow from Ohio-where they
come in.
I have been trying to think of an ap-
propriate way to describe what they are.
We often hear-when we hear of politi-
cians, in either the House or the Senate,
71-234-72————56
829
