Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 28 [152]
conclude in thinking of the perspective of
history, where we are, where we have
been. And we all recognize that America
today, not because we sought it and not
because we want it-because I think most
Americans would prefer not to play this
kind of role in the world-that America
is now not only the richest but the strong-
est nation in the free world. Also, even
though we would like to turn away from
that responsibility, we know deep down
that what we do in this country, either
by example or by our leadership in the
world, will determine not only the future
of America but the future of peace and
freedom in the last quarter of this century.
So, the question comes to each of us
that we must answer: Is America going
to be able to meet this challenge; are we
going to be the great country, the great
people, that we must be if we are to meet
this challenge that is presented to us, if we
are to accept this burden that history has
placed upon us?
These are my thoughts on that subject:
A people become great and a nation re-
mains great when it seeks to do great
things. When we think of America, when
we think of all the criticisms of our sys-
tem, of our foreign policy, let's look at
what America does in terms of seeking
great things.
To build a generation of peace—that
is our goal and we are working on it not
only in the way that we are ending the war
in Vietnam but in our other foreign pol-
152
icy initiatives. To build a generation of
peace that is a great thing.
To lift the yoke of poverty and drudgery
from human beings is a great thing, and
we are doing that in America.
To preserve freedom, including the
economic freedom that we tend to take
for granted that is a great thing.
And to explore the unknown no matter
where it may lead, that, too, is a great
thing, because, remember, whenever a
people turn away from the challenge of
exploring the unknown, that people will
soon cease to be great.
We do not do these great things because
we want to remain a great nation. We
remain a great nation because we want
to do these great things. We will succeed
only if we cherish our right to be confident
in our ability to shape the future.
And that is where each of you comes in.
Greatness is not a size; it is a quality. The
greatness of a nation can only reflect the
quality of conscience and the quality of
confidence in the people of that nation.
Let us never lose the quality of great-
ness that has made us today better than
we were yesterday, and let us always hold
fast to the quality of confidence that will
help us to make tomorrow better than
today.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in
Constitution Hall.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
Statement on Transmitting to the Congress Proposals
To Establish New National Wilderness
Areas. April 28, 1971
THE FIRST man created on earth, ac-
cording to the ancient Scriptures, was
placed by his Creator in a huge natural
garden and charged "to dress it and to
keep it." In the ages since, men have
worked energetically at dressing and im-
587
