Richard Nixon, 1971
May 26 [184]
The citation on that medal incorpo-
rated a great truth about the arts. Let me
read it to you: "He has reminded audi-
ences here in his adopted country and all
over the world that the heart of music is
a human heart and that the glory of
music reflects and sustains the true glory
of the human spirit."
The heart of music is a human heart,
and this is true not only of music but of
all the arts, and their glory does reflect and
sustain the true glory of the human spirit.
By working as you are to bring the arts to
a new pride of place in American life, you
and the organizations you represent here
today are making this Nation a gift, a gift
of spirit-and our lives, and those of our
children, will be made immeasurably
richer because of your gift.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:47 a.m. in
the Mayflower Hotel.
Robert O. Anderson, chairman, Business
Committee for the Arts, Inc., was chairman of
the conference.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
184 Memorandum About the Federal Government and the
Arts. May 26, 1971
Memorandum to the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies:
Americans in all walks of life are be-
coming increasingly aware of the im-
portance of the arts as a key factor in the
quality of the Nation's life, and of their
individual lives-whether in terms of the
availability of great cultural resources, the
accessibility of exhibits and performances,
or simply the aesthetic enjoyment of good
design.
As you know, direct Federal assistance
to the arts is being sharply increased, and
I have asked the Congress for full fund-
ing of the budget authorizations for the
National Endowments for the Arts and the
Humanities for fiscal 1972-which would
roughly double their present funding
levels, and raise them to more than three
times what they were just two years ago.
But the Endowment programs are by no
means the only Federal programs that
affect, employ or contribute to the arts.
In architecture, graphics, school pro-
grams, and many other activities, Federal
agencies are daily involved deeply with
the arts in one form or another.
It is my urgent desire that the growing
partnership between Government and the
arts continue to be developed to the bene-
fit of both, and more particularly to the
benefit of the people of America.
To contribute to this development, I ask
each of you to direct your attention to two
questions: first, how, as a part of its vari-
ous programs, your agency can most vigor-
ously assist the arts and artists; second,
and perhaps more important, how the
arts and artists can be of help to your
agency and to its programs.
By focusing consciously, creatively and
in a concerted way on these two ques-
tions, I believe that we all can find that
the arts have a great deal more to con-
tribute to what we in government are
seeking to accomplish-and that this will
be good for the arts and good for the
country.
I am asking Nancy Hanks, Chairman of
the National Endowment for the Arts,
681
