[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
weapons systems from this Hemisphere.
That would have been contrary to the
understanding between us. Only after a
period of discussion did we reaffirm our
understanding and amplify it to make
clear that the agreement included activi-
ties related to sea-based systems.
In our relations with the USSR there
should be no misconceptions of the role
we will play in international affairs. This
country is not withdrawing into isolation.
With the Soviet Union, we want a rela-
tionship in which the interests of both are
respected. When interests conflict, we
prefer negotiation and restraint as the
methods to adjust differences. But, when
challenged, the United States will defend
its interests and those of its allies. And,
together with our allies, we will maintain
the power to do so effectively.
A NEW AMERICAN-SOVIET
RELATIONSHIP
Mutual restraint, accommodation of
interests, and the changed strategic situa-
tion open
broad opportunities to the
Soviet Union and the United States. It is
our hope that the Soviet Union will rec-
ognize, as we do, that our futures are best
served by serious negotiation of the issues
which divide us. We have taken the initia-
tive in establishing an agenda on which
agreement could profoundly alter the sub-
stance of our relationship:
-SALT. Given the available resources,
neither of us will concede a signifi-
cant strategic advantage to the other.
Yet the temptation to attempt to
achieve such advantage is ever pres-
ent, and modern technology makes
such an attempt feasible. With our
current strategic capabilities, we have
a unique opportunity to design a
stable and mutually acceptable stra-
tegic relationship.
We did not expect agreements to
emerge quickly, for the most vital of
interests are engaged. A resolution
will not be achieved by agreement on
generalities. We have put forward
precise and serious proposals that
would create no unilateral advan-
tages and would cope with the major
concerns of both sides.
We do not yet know what conclu-
sions the Soviet Union will draw
from the facts of the situation. If its
leaders share our assessment, we can
unquestionably bring competition in
strategic weapons under control.
-Europe. With our allies, we have en-
tered into negotiations with the
USSR to improve the Berlin situa-
tion. Arrangements which in fact
bring an end to the twenty-four years
of tension over Berlin would enable
us to move beyond the vestiges of the
postwar period that have dominated
our relationship for so long. A
broader era of negotiations in Europe
then becomes possible.
Progress toward this goal also could
be obtained through a successful
agreement on mutual reduction of
military forces, especially in Central
Europe where confrontation could
be most dangerous.
-The Middle East is heavy with the
danger that local and regional con-
flict may engulf the Great Powers in
confrontation.
We recognize that the USSR has ac-
quired important interests and influ-
306
