Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 9 [136]
the chance for America to have what it
has not had in this century—a full gen-
eration of peace.
We have come a long way in the last
2 years toward that goal. With your con-
tinued support, I believe we will achieve
that goal. And generations in the future
will look back at this difficult, trying time
in America's history and they will be
proud that we demonstrated that we had
the courage and the character of a great
people.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
Before delivering his televised report on
Southeast Asia, the President met with the
bipartisan leadership of the Senate and the
House of Representatives to discuss the address.
136 Statement Announcing Plans for Summer Programs for
Disadvantaged Youth.
FOR YOUNG people, and especially for
the disadvantaged, summer can be a time
of frustration and despair. But it does not
have to be. It can also be a time of great
opportunity:
-It can be a time of opportunity for
the youth to learn new skills, and to
test his skills in the world of work;
-It can provide him an opportunity
to contribute to the well-being of
others, thus both improving their
lives and enriching his own;
-It can open opportunities to take part
in physical fitness, health, and or-
ganized recreational activities.
I am pleased today to announce plans
for 1971 summer programs for disad-
vantaged youth which will help convert
these opportunities into realities.
I will transmit to the Congress, as soon
as it returns from its current recess, a sup-
plemental request for $64.3 million to
provide an additional 100,000 Neighbor-
hood Youth Corps summer employment
opportunities for high school students and
to finance the Recreation Support Pro-
gram in the largest cities across the
Nation.
Combined with currently available re-
sources, these supplemental funds would
April 9, 1971
raise the number of summer jobs for dis-
advantaged youth to 576,000.
Of this total, 514,000 would participate
in the Neighborhood Youth Corps in all
50 States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
and the Trust Territories, with special
emphasis on the Nation's 50 largest cities.
This program has been modified in im-
portant directions which will yield long
range educational and career benefits to
enrollees in addition to serving America.
One major new activity, for example,
operating with assistance from the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency and the Of-
fice of Education, will involve enrollees
in the work of preserving our environ-
ment while introducing them to the pos-
sibilities of careers in this crucial area of
public interest.
In addition, 62,000 young people will
be employed in Federal offices, where they
will have a chance to become acquainted
with people in Government, the functions
Government performs, and the problems
it faces.
All of these summer jobs will offer work
opportunities while encouraging the
young employees to complete their educa-
tion. Wages will be increased from $1.45
per hour to $1.60, an indication that this
527
