[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
a broad network of international relation-
ships. This began with research coopera-
tion between governments and now in-
cludes exchanges of information, fuel
supply contracts and support of the In-
ternational Atomic Energy Agency as well
as sales of United States products and
services.
As the demand for nuclear energy has
increased, so has the demand for the
enriched uranium to fuel power reactors.
The United States supplies the fuel for
many foreign programs, under safeguards
and with adequate compensation. How-
ever, with the increased utilization of
nuclear power, other countries with ad-
vanced programs understandably are re-
luctant to be totally dependent upon us,
or upon anyone else, for enriched uranium
to meet their power requirements.
This critical issue and its significance
for our policy on non-proliferation have
been under careful review. In our con-
cern for safeguarding nuclear technology,
we cannot ignore the legitimate desires of
our allies for a certain independence in
their energy supplies, and our own intrin-
sic interest in multinational cooperation
in this field.
Having carefully weighed the national
security and other factors involved, we
have undertaken consultations with the
Joint Committee on Atomic Energy of
the Congress concerning ways in which
the United States might assist our allies
to construct a multination uranium en-
richment plant to help meet future world
demands.
An International Center for Systems
Analysis. Our National Academy of
Sciences is also actively working with the
Soviet Union and other countries to
establish a Center for the application of
systems analysis techniques to the complex
problems of advanced societies. This
international, non-governmental institu-
tion, would initially bring together
scholars from some eight nations of East
and West to apply the most sophisticated
analytical tools available to the major
problems of contemporary civilization.
Better Use of Technology in Foreign
Assistance Activities. No more severe task
faces the developed world than facilitat-
ing the economic and social progress of
the less developed nations. The role of
science and technology can be crucial to
success, and we need to organize our effort
in this field more effectively.
My proposals to the Congress to reor-
ganize our foreign assistance programs
will, therefore, reflect the higher priority
we intend to give to cooperation with the
developing countries in the transfer and
application of technology. It will include
legislation to permit the establishment of
machinery specifically designed to work
with recipient countries on their own
needs for research, and technological
training and development.
The problems—and the opportuni-
ties-created by science and technology
dominate an increasing share of our inter-
national activity. The problems we can
no longer ignore, and can solve only
through international cooperation. The
opportunities we are determined not to
miss, and can realize only through inter-
national cooperation. Taken together,
these challenges constitute the new dimen-
sion of our foreign policy and of inter-
national life. The greatest importance
340
