Richard Nixon, 1971
[75]
Feb. 25
necessity. This is more true in our time
than it has ever been before.
The dream is important. Mankind as-
pires to lasting peace, and since its found-
ing twenty-five years ago, the United
Nations has symbolized this profound
wish. But while the realization of the
dream remains elusive, the necessity of
international cooperation for other pur-
poses has become imperative. For the
march of technology has pressed upon the
world an increasing number of exigent
problems which can only be solved by col-
laboration among governments. As a
result, the United Nations' role in facil-
itating international cooperation has taken
on a new importance.
THE PRESERVATION OF PEACE
The major task for the world com-
munity is, of course, the preservation of
peace. The need for an instrument which
could further this purpose was the prime
motivation behind the founding of the
United Nations. The UN's ability to fill
this role, however, is dependent to a con-
siderable extent on cooperation among
the major powers; and a somber fact of
recent history is the failure of the vic-
torious allies of World War II to main-
tain their cooperation. This being true, a
crucial development would be joint rec-
ognition by the United States and the
Soviet Union of a common interest in
strengthening the UN's peacekeeping
capacities. On October 23, before many of
the world's Chiefs of State and Heads of
Government assembled at the UN, I
called on the USSR to put our relations
"on a basis consistent with the aspirations
of mankind" and to join with us in devel-
oping "practical means that will enable
the United Nations to move decisively to
keep the peace."
Even if UN peacekeeping efforts can-
not be perfected in the world as it is, they
can certainly be improved. Peacemaking
in the past has depended essentially on
improvisation. There were, and are, no
general understandings on how these op-
erations are to be directed or financed.
One result has been that the UN has
developed a large financial deficit as some
countries have refused to pay their share.
We believe that a major effort should
be made to reach an agreement on reliable
ground rules for peacekeeping operations.
Discussions are going forward directly
with the Soviet Union and in a special UN
Committee on this subject. One major
issue is the degree of latitude which the
Secretary General would have in conduct-
ing day-to-day operations, once the
Security Council has authorized an under-
taking. We believe he needs adequate
authority to manage peacekeeping opera-
tions under the broad political supervi-
sion of the Council. While these problems
have been difficult, discussions
continuing.
THE NEED FOR RESTRAINT
are
Because the stresses of the Cold War
have limited the ability of the Security
Council to play an energetic role in allevi-
ating political crises and preserving the
peace, much of the political agenda at the
UN has flowed toward the General As-
sembly. But the operations of the Assem-
bly have shortcomings related to the
strains of a rapid growth in membership
and demands for actions beyond the
capacities of the United Nations.
States have traditionally addressed
327
