[375] Nov. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
designed to continue and expand the re-
cently developed Government role of fi-
nancing care for the helpless and needy,
while leaving largely to the private sector
the task and responsibility of providing
such care.
We proposed the National Health In-
surance Partnership which would provide
financing of health care for all American
families.
We have proposed improvements in the
Medicare program, which would offer
significant advantages to the aged who
would no longer have to pay premiums
out of their reduced incomes after
retirement.
Last August, I announced an eight-
point program designed to improve the
quality of life for the elderly who must rely
on the care provided in the nursing homes.
of our country. Both Houses of Congress
have held hearings on my appropriation
request for this program and we are mak-
ing rapid strides in its implementation.
Last week, I signed into law the com-
prehensive health manpower training act
of 1971 and the Nurse Training Act of
1971. These acts follow substantially the
recommendations I made to the Congress
last February--and they constitute the
most comprehensive health manpower
legislation to train doctors, dentists,
nurses, and others in the Nation's history.
But legislation is only a first step. These
new programs must now be adequately
funded and effectively carried out. We
have asked the Congress for a new supple-
mental appropriation for health man-
power programs which would bring
overall spending for training health work-
ers in the current fiscal year to $530 mil-
lion, a level which is $100 million higher
than in fiscal year 1971.
In a major new initiative to combat the
scourge of cancer, I requested, and the
Congress has appropriated, an additional
$100 million for cancer research. Along
with this we have proposed a new organi-
zational arrangement that will vastly im-
prove the effectiveness of the cancer
abatement effort.
Last week, I asked all Americans to join
with me in a commitment to two national
goals:
-to reduce by half the occurrence of
mental retardation in the United
States before the end of this century,
and
-to enable one-third of the more than
200,000 retarded persons in public
institutions to return to useful lives in
the community.
These two goals are realistic and
achievable. We already have most of the
knowledge and many of the techniques
they will require, and the rest are within
reach of research.
We have also made proposals to in-
crease funding for family planning activi-
ties by over $60 million; to further
research and development studies into the
treatment, rehabilitation, and prevention
of alcoholism and drug abuse; and to in-
crease the effectiveness of occupational
health and safety programs.
We have a very strong system of provid-
ing medical service in America, but it can
be stronger, and it has to be.
The proposals we have submitted speak
to the weaknesses of the present system.
They assure that no American can be
denied health care because of financial
need, and that the promise of good health
care and the expectation that the system
can provide good health care will be met.
The Eisenhower Medical Center will be
1142
