Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [256]
tions, such as Japan and Mexico, we
have also developed bilateral environ-
mental initiatives. Within NATO's Com-
mittee on the Challenges of Modern
Society we have reached agreement on
the control of oil discharged by ships on
the high seas. And in other international
bodies-including the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development,
the Intergovernmental Maritime Con-
sultative Organization and the Economic
Commission for Europe—we are actively
engaged in similar efforts.
The United States is playing an active
role in the preparation for the 1972
United Nations Conference on the Hu-
man Environment. This Conference will
bring the nations of the world together
for the first time to develop global pro-
grams for environmental protection. It is
our hope that this gathering will produce
an important agreement on marine pollu-
tion, as well as the beginning of an
effective international environmental
monitoring effort. The Conference will
provide an important opportunity for
bringing all nations into the attack on the
environmental problems of modern society
and it will offer an especially important
opportunity for helping developing na-
tions cope
with the environmental prob-
lems associated with industrialization and
urban growth.
4. THE CONGRESS AND THE EXECU-
TIVE-A PARTNERSHIP FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT
It is vitally important that the Congress
and the administration work together to
develop better environmental legislation,
repairing old laws and creating new ones.
I am pleased and gratified that many of
the environmental programs which I have
proposed to the Congress have been ap-
proved and are now being implemented.
The Congress presently has before it a
number of separate bills and treaty ac-
tions which I discussed in my environ-
mental message of February 8, 1971. In
my judgment, these proposals represent
the most wide-ranging and comprehen-
sive legislative program for the environ-
ment in our entire history.
They include:
Measures to strengthen pollution con-
trol programs
-Charges on sulfur oxides and a tax on
lead in gasoline to supplement regu-
latory controls on air pollution.
-More effective control of water pol-
lution through a $12 billion national
program and strengthened standard-
setting and enforcement authorities.
-Comprehensive improvement in
ticide control authority.
Measures to control emerging problems
-Regulation of toxic substances.
-Regulation of noise pollution.
Controls on ocean dumping.
Measures to promote environmental
quality in land
pes-
-A national land use policy.
-A new and greatly expanded open
and recreation program, bring-
ing parks to the people in urban
space
areas.
-Preservation of historic buildings
through tax policy and other incen-
tives.
-Substantial expansion of the wilder-
ness areas preservation system.
-Advance public agency approval of
power plant sites and transmission
line routes.
-Regulation of environmental effects
of surface and underground mining.
871
