[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
to encourage and sustain Asian region-
alism, Asian self-reliance, and Asian ini-
tiatives. For those characteristics are
essential to the construction of a stable
international order in the region.
THE APPLICATION OF THE NIXON
DOCTRINE
Thus it was that the Nixon Doctrine
was first announced in the Pacific region,
and has most actively been manifested in
Asia. It serves the domestic imperative of
restraint in our international role, without
sacrificing our interests in Asia or de-
faulting on our obligations. It brings our
own deep interest in the future of Asia
into better and more permanent balance
with the growing indigenous strength of
nationalism in the area.
To clarify the Nixon Doctrine, I have
twice sent Vice President Agnew to Asia.
He has listened to the views of Asian lead-
ers. He has reassured them that our pur-
pose is not to withdraw from world
affairs, but to establish the conditions
which ensure our continued participation
in them.
It is perhaps inevitable, but it is none-
theless an error, to judge the success of the
Doctrine's application too narrowly by the
reductions effected in the number of
American military installations and per-
sonnel. Such reductions, to be sure, have
been effected. They are described in de-
tail elsewhere in this report. They include
substantial cuts in the military and civilian
American presence in Korea, Japan,
Okinawa, Thailand, and the Philippines,
as well as the more publicized reductions
of our forces in Vietnam.
But these reductions cannot, by them-
selves, establish a more sound interna-
tional structure in Asia, based more upon
Asian efforts and self-reliance, dependent
less upon American initiatives and re-
sources. Such a structure is, by definition,
a process involving the actions of many
nations. It cannot be created by American
actions alone.
In applying the Nixon Doctrine, we
cannot move too fast without sapping the
Asian sense of confidence and security
which it is our purpose to sustain and
nurture. And we cannot cut our own
contributions to Asian security without
providing for their assumption by our
Asian friends. Thus, there is built into the
decision to reduce our own presence the
obligation to help our allies create the
capacity to carry the responsibilities we
are transferring. To do otherwise is to
undercut our fundamental goal of creat-
ing a stable structure in Asia.
Korea is an excellent case in point. The
maintenance of the level of U.S. forces in
Korea had come to be viewed as a symbol
of our commitment to the defense of that
country. To a considerable extent, the
symbol had become more important than
the substance, for it inhibited critical ex-
amination of the threat, and of the capac-
ity of local forces to deal with it. Yet it was
clear that the situation in Korea had
greatly changed since the decision was
made in 1954 to maintain the U.S. mili-
tary presence there at two combat
divisions.
Today, the military strength of the Re-
public of Korea has greatly increased, and
includes an impressive pool of skilled man-
power. The economic picture has also
changed. In 1953 the South Korean econ-
omy had been devastated by war. Today
it is vigorous, and for the past four years
has grown at a remarkable average rate of
more than 10%.
This strength enables us and our Korean
270
