[200] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
In fulfilling this important charge, I
ask that you include the following actions
among those which you get under way
immediately:
1. Draw upon the resources of the Na-
tional Alliance of Businessmen. The Jobs
for Veterans Program already has done
much to attract the attention and support
of communities throughout the Nation.
In collaboration with Chairman Oates,
you should develop, with Mr. John Har-
per, chairman of the board of the National
Alliance of Businessmen, a specific pro-
gram to increase the participation of
American business in providing additional
employment opportunities for Vietnam-
era veterans. The National Alliance of
Businessmen, through its promotion of the
Job Opportunities in the Business Sector
(JOBS) Program, has displayed a re-
markable capability to mobilize the Amer-
ican business community in response to a
national problem. I am therefore con-
fident that the Alliance has much to con-
tribute in this important area.
2. Work with the Secretary of Defense
to expand substantially the Transition
Program for separating servicemen in
order to increase the opportunities for
improving job counselling, job training,
and placement. This should provide in-
creasing numbers of those separating from
military service, including those returning
from overseas, with a counselling and test-
ing service, and for those in need, a chance
to receive any necessary job skill training,
and job or school placement. For this
purpose, U.S. employment offices and des-
ignated Defense Training Centers will be
used, with Labor, VA, and HEW support.
3. Immediately augment the number of
training opportunities for returning vet-
erans and encourage veteran and em-
ployer participation. This will include
such measures as increasing veteran par-
ticipation in special manpower assistance
programs, on-the-job training, additional
public service careers opportunities, and
veterans job earmarking in new appren-
ticeship program approvals. Veteran
training participation and completion
should be encouraged through maximiz-
ing the opportunities for veterans to draw
dual GI Bill and MDTA [Manpower De-
velopment and Training Act] benefits, as
recently authorized by the Congress. Any
necessary priority modifications to assure
adequate enrollment of returning veterans
in MDTA programs should be made with-
out delay.
4. Require listing of all job openings
with the U.S. Employment Service by all
agencies and contractors funded by the
Federal Government. This will be accom-
plished soon through issuance of an Exec-
utive order [11598]. While the order will
stipulate that there is no requirement to
hire through the public employment serv-
ices, existing policies on veterans prefer-
ence will greatly expand the number of
job openings available to veterans.
5. Greatly increase the effectiveness of
the U.S. Training and Employment Serv-
ice in finding and opening jobs and job-
training opportunities for returning
veterans. This effort should seek prompt
results and cover the full range of USES
services including personal contact and
registration of veterans, counselling, job
development and registration with em-
ployers, and job placement. I expect
definite goals of reducing veteran
unemployment by specified target dates,
together with regular reports of accom-
plishment. Each returning veteran must
be reached and served by this effort. You
should take full advantage of other fed-
erally financed field staffs which could be
736
