[29] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
try affords them. Higher education pro-
posals will be resubmitted later to the new
Congress.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
A National Institute of Education-to
bring to education the intensity and qual-
ity of research now developed in the
fields of space and health-is truly a
national need. Year by year, the Ameri-
can people grow more disenchanted with
the returns on their education tax dollars.
The schools of the nation are in growing
need of new counsel and new ideas. Here
is the opportunity to find the answers, by
bringing to bear on the problems the wis-
dom, the knowledge and the experience of
the most able men and women in the field.
This Institute was a key part of my edu-
cation proposals of last year. Today I
again urge the Congress to act favorably
upon this request.
EMERGENCY SCHOOL AID
Last year, both to encourage and to
expedite desegregation of the public
schools in the United States, I asked the
Congress for a two-year Emergency
School Aid Act. Although great progress
has been made, the need for such aid
remains. Therefore, today I reissue this
request. The changes needed to desegre-
gate our schools-either under court order
or through voluntary action-place a
heavy strain upon local school systems,
and the Federal Government should assist
the school systems in this effort. The meas-
ure I propose today is similar to the one
which passed the House of Representa-
tives in the closing days of the Ninety-first
Congress. I urge the Congress to complete
action at an early date.
VIETNAM VETERANS EDUCATION
ALLOWANCE
It is this administration's hope that
more veterans coming home from Viet-
nam will take advantage of the educa-
tional opportunities the nation affords
them. The bill I now again recommend
will help achieve that objective.
Under the GI Bill, the monthly allow-
ances received by veterans begin only after
they have enrolled and completed at least
a month of their education or training.
This deferral of payment often deters
veterans from taking training or addi-
tional schooling because they lack the
initial funds to meet tuition and living
expenses.
This legislation would enable the
Veterans Administration to make ad-
vance payments to veterans as soon as they
submit evidence they have registered. This
will provide them with funds when their
need for funds is most pressing.
THE FEDERAL CITY
Two proposals being resubmitted deal
with the nation's capital. The first en-
visions a corporation to carry out the
revitalization of the heart of Washington.
The second would give the District Gov-
ernment a new measure of freedom and
control over its own capital outlay pro-
grams, reducing District dependency on
the Federal Government.
FEDERAL CITY BICENTENNIAL
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
The American Bicentennial-midway
through the present decade-presents a
powerful incentive and a realistic dead-
line for realization of Pierre L'Enfant's
66
