[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
cies. Each agency has its own forms and
regulations and timetables-and its own
brand of red tape. Each has its own field
organizations, often with independent and
overlapping boundaries for regions and
districts. Sometimes a local community
must consult with Federal offices in three
or four different States.
The result is that local leaders often
find it virtually impossible to relate Fed-
eral assistance programs to their own lo-
cal development strategies. The mayor
of
one small town has observed that by the
time he finishes dealing with eight Fed-
eral planning agencies, he has little time
to do anything else.
Occasionally, it must be admitted, a
community can reap unexpected benefits
from this diffusion of Federal responsi-
bility. The story is told of one small city
that applied to six different agencies for
help in building a sewage treatment plant
and received affirmative responses from
all six. If all the grants had been com-
pleted, the community would have cleared
a handsome profit-but at the Federal
taxpayer's expense.
To help correct such problems, I
propose that the major community devel-
opment functions of the Federal Govern-
ment be pulled together into a new
Department of Community Development.
It would be the overriding purpose of this
Department to help build a wholesome
and safe community environment for
every American. This process would re-
quire a comprehensive series of programs
which are equal to the demands of grow-
ing population and which provide for
balanced growth in urban and rural areas.
The new Department would operate
through three major administrations: a
Housing Administration, a Community
Transportation Administration and an
Urban and Rural Development Adminis-
tration. A fourth unit, the Federal Insur-
ance Administration, would be set up
administratively by the Secretary.
The new Department of Community
Development would absorb the present
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment. Other components would in-
clude certain elements of the Economic
Development Administration and the
Regional Commission programs from the
Department of Commerce, the independ-
ent Appalachian Regional Commission,
various Department of Agriculture pro-
grams including water and waste disposal
grants and loans, the Rural Electrification
Administration, and rural housing pro-
grams. The Community Action and Spe-
cial Impact Programs of the Office of
Economic Opportunity would be in-
cluded, as would the Public Library
construction grant program from the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare and certain disaster assistance
functions now handled by the Office of
Emergency Preparedness and the Small
Business Administration. Most Federal
highway programs and the Urban Mass
Transportation Administration would be
transferred from the present Department
of Transportation.
I would note that while the Depart-
ment of Transportation is a relatively new
entity, it, too, is now organized around
methods and not around purposes. A large
part of the Department of Transporta-
tion would be moved into the new De-
partment of Economic Affairs-but those
functions which particularly support
community development would be placed
in the Department which is designed to
meet that goal.
482
