[69] Feb. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
69 Special Message to the Congress on Higher Education.
February 22, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Nearly a year ago, in my first special
message on higher education, I asked the
Congress to join me in expanding higher
education opportunities across the nation.
First, I proposed to reform and increase
aid to students. Second, I proposed a Na-
tional Foundation for Higher Education
designed to reform and strengthen post
secondary education.
Neither house of Congress acted on
these proposals. Now the time for action
is growing short. Existing legislative au-
thority for the basic Federal higher educa-
tion programs expires at the end of the
current fiscal year.
1971 can be a year of national debate
on the goals and potentials of our system
of higher education. It can be a time of
opportunity to discover new concepts of
mission and purpose, which are responsive
to the diverse needs of the people of our
country. I therefore again urge the Con-
gress to join with me in expanding oppor-
tunities in two major ways:
To help equalize individual opportuni-
ties for higher education, I am proposing
the Higher Education Opportunity Act of
1971.
To broaden opportunities through re-
newal, reform and innovation in higher
education, I am proposing a separate act
establishing the National Foundation for
Higher Education.
EQUALIZING INDIVIDUAL OPPORTUNITIES
FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
At the present time, a young person
whose family earns more than $15,000 a
year is almost five times more likely to
attend college than a young person whose
family earns less than $3,000.
At the present time, Federal student
assistance programs do not always reach
those who need them most.
At the present time, there are just not
enough funds to go around to all deserving
students. Needy students often do not have
access to grants. Higher-income students
are frequently unable to borrow for their
education, even when loans are guaran-
teed by the Federal Government.
I repeat the commitment which I made
in my message of last year: that no quali-
fied student who wants to go to college
should be barred by lack of money. The
program which I am again submitting
this year would benefit approximately one
million more students than are currently
receiving aid. It would assure that Federal
funds go first, and in the largest amounts,
to the neediest students, in order to place
them on an equal footing with students
from higher-income families. Abundant
resources for loans would also be available
to students from higher-income families.
The budget I submitted in January pro-
vides funds for these reforms and stands
behind the commitments of this adminis-
tration. Failure to pass this program
would not only deny these benefits to
many students, but also would limit their
opportunity to make major choices about
their lives.
A major element of my higher educa-
tion proposal to the last Congress is the
creation of a National Student Loan As-
sociation. For too long, the volume of
funds available to students for federally
insured loans has been arbitrarily re-
stricted by the lack of a secondary market
196
