Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 17 [268]
this Nation from the beginning opened its
doors wide. America became the refuge of
the world. Catholics came after the revo-
lution in England in 1688. The French
Revolution, the terrible Irish famine of
1846 put immigrants on our shores by the
hundreds of thousands---millions. Jews
from Poland and Russia, refugees from
both World Wars, Hungarians, Cubans—
all sought opportunity and freedom in
America and helped this Nation gain its
sense of destiny by constantly rekindling
the sense of destiny.
Today we live in a time when it is
pos-
sible for men and nations to break out of
the tyranny of the present, to shape our
future in the image of our hopes. We live
in a time when it is possible for us to pass
on to our children something Americans
have not had in this century: a full gen-
eration of peace. And we live in a time
when the free economic system of the
United States can produce what we have
not had in America for 15 years: a new
prosperity with full employment and
without war.
Now, these are the highest ideals of
America, the highest ideals of any nation.
The way to achieve these goals cannot be
to throw away our power to defend free-
dom. We cannot let the apostles of de-
featism and self-doubt chip away at the
moral strength of America.
We are the number one nation in the
world economically. We should stay num-
ber one. We cannot ease up and lose the
economic leadership of the world. We
cannot turn inward and fall prey to a new
isolationism, great as the temptations may
be to do that. Nor can the American
people pass the responsibility of leader-
ship solely to government.
Let's look at our history for a moment.
That small nation, 195 years ago, 3
million people, 13 States, poor, weak, but
with a sense of destiny, grown into the
most powerful nation in the world mili-
tarily, the richest economically. How did
it happen?
Well, America has become great not
because of what government has done for
people, but because of what people have
done for themselves and for this country.
That is the secret of America's strength.
And now we have some challenges for
America in this time when we are very
rich and very strong. It is not easy for a
workingman to forgo for a while a wage
increase that he deserves, and it is not
easy for a businessman to hold the line on
prices when his costs are high and profits
are slim, and it is not easy for a Federal
employee to cover the same amount of
work with less personnel because of a cut
in Federal spending. It is not easy for
investors in stocks-and there are more
than 20 million of them in America-to
forgo an increase in dividends.
All of these we have asked the Ameri-
can people to do.
But I say that if the temporary sacrifice
of each of these groups of America will
result in stopping the rise in the cost of
living for all Americans, this is a great
goal, and this is worth sacrificing for.
America became a strong nation and a
great nation and a rich nation because we
have always had a competitive spirit.
Twenty-five years ago, at the end of
World War II, we were unchallenged in
the world, militarily and economically. As
far as competition was concerned, there
was no one who could possibly challenge
us.
But now that has changed. We helped
the nations that we defeated in World
War II, and those that were our friends
to get back on their feet, and now they are
895
