[155] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE
PRESIDENTIAL UNIT CITATION (NAVY)
FOR EXTRAORDINARY HEROISM TO
FIRST MARINE DIVISION (REINFORCED)
FLEET MARINE FORCE
For extraordinary heroism and outstanding
performance of duty in action against enemy
forces in the Republic of Vietnam from 16
September 1967 to 31 October 1968. Operating
primarily in Quang Nam Province, the First
Marine Division (Reinforced) superbly exe-
cuted its threefold mission of searching for and
destroying the enemy, defending key airfields
and lines of communication, and conducting a
pacification and revolutionary development
program unparalleled in the annals of warfare.
With the Division responsible for over 1,000
square miles of territory, it extended protec-
tion and pacification to more than one million
Vietnamese. The countless examples of cour-
age, resourcefulness, and dedication demon-
strated by the officers and men of the First
Marine Division attest to their professionalism
and esprit de corps. Their combat activities
were skillfully carried out in the face of ad-
verse weather and difficult terrain such as
canopied jungles, rugged mountains, swampy
lowlands, and hot, sandy beaches. During the
enemy Tet-offensive in late January of 1968, the
First Marine Division dealt a devastating blow
to enemy forces attempting to attack Danang.
Again, in May 1968, the Division totally
crushed an enemy drive directed against the
Danang area through the Go Noi Island region
southwest of Danang. The Division achieved
this resounding victory through the skillful co-
ordination of ground forces, supporting arms,
and aircraft support. Most action in the I Corps
Tactical Zone during August of 1968 was cen-
tered in the First Marine Division's tactical
area of responsibility. The enemy, now looking
for a victory which would achieve some meas-
ure of psychological or propaganda value, again
mounted an attack of major proportions against
Danang but were thoroughly repulsed, sustain-
ing heavy casualties. The valiant fighting spirit,
perseverance, and teamwork displayed by First
Marine Division personnel throughout this
period reflected great credit upon themselves
and the Marine Corps, and were in keeping
with the highest traditions of the United States
Naval Service.
156 The President's News Conference of
May 1, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, ladies
and gentlemen.
I thought this morning that it would be
well to give those who particularly are
members of the White House press corps,
and others, of course, who are here, who
have joined us in California, an opportu-
nity to follow up on the press conference
we had Thursday.
After that conference I noted that there
were only one or two questions out of all
the questions that were asked, of the 18
or 19, that were in the field of domestic
policy. So consequently, so that you can
have a chance to follow up in the domestic
field, we will limit this conference to
RICHARD NIXON
domestic policy questions, any area that
you would like to explore in that par-
ticular case.
I note that you are all standing. I un-
derstand that for the purposes of this
conference, that to get recognition if you
will simply hold your hand up, or speak
up, either one, and I will recognize you.
QUESTIONS
THE ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
[1] I think Mr. Cormier [Frank
Cormier, Associated Press] has the first
question.
604
