Richard Nixon, 1971
June 4 [195]
derway to develop the fuel resources of
the lower 48 States and Alaska, I am an-
nouncing today the following new
programs:
a. Leasing on the Outer Continental
Shelf-An Accelerated Program
The Outer Continental Shelf has
proved to be a prolific source of oil and
gas, but it has also been the source of
troublesome oil spills in recent years. Our
ability to tap the great potential of off-
shore areas has been seriously hampered
by these environmental problems.
The Department of the Interior has sig-
nificantly strengthened the environmental
protection requirements controlling off-
shore drilling and we will continue to en-
force these requirements very strictly. As
a prerequisite to Federal lease sales, en-
vironmental assessments will be made in
accordance with Section 102 of the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
Within these clear limits, we will ac-
celerate our efforts to utilize this rich
source of fuel. In order to expand produc-
tive possibilities as rapidly as possible, the
accelerated program should include the
sale of new leases not only in the highly
productive Gulf of Mexico, but also some
other promising areas. I am therefore
directing the Secretary of the Interior to
increase the offerings of oil and gas leases
and to publish a schedule for lease offer-
ings on the Outer Continental Shelf dur-
ing the next five years, beginning with a
general lease sale and a drainage sale this
year.
b. Oil Shale-A Program for Orderly
Development
At a time when we are facing possible
energy shortages, it is reassuring to know
that there exists in the United States an
untapped shale oil resource containing
some 600 billion barrels in high grade
deposits. At current consumption rates,
this resource represents 150 years supply.
About 80 billion barrels of this shale oil
are particularly rich and well situated for
early development. This huge resource of
very low sulfur oil is located in the Rocky
Mountain area, primarily on Federal land.
At present there is no commercial pro-
duction of shale oil. A mixture of prob-
lems-environmental, technical and
economic-have combined to thwart past
efforts at development.
I believe the time has come to begin
the orderly formulation of a shale oil
policy-not by any head-long rush to-
ward development but rather by a well
considered program in which both en-
vironmental protection and the recovery
of a fair return to the Government are
cardinal principles under which any leas-
ing takes place. I am therefore requesting
the Secretary of the Interior to expedite
the development of an oil shale leasing
program including the preparation of an
environmental impact statement. If after
reviewing this statement and comments
he finds that environmental concerns can
be satisfied, he shall then proceed with the
detailed planning. This work would also
involve the States of Wyoming, Colorado
and Utah and the first test lease would
be scheduled for next year.
c. Geothermal Energy
There is a vast quantity of heat stored
in the earth itself. Where this energy
source is close to the surface, as it is in the
Western States, it can readily be tapped
to generate electricity, to heat homes, and
to meet other energy requirements.
Again, this resource is located primarily
on Federal lands.
709
