[56] Feb. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
point out that as a member of the Cabinet
we would want you to report to the Cabi-
net, too, on your trips abroad.
With our new office we have set up in
the field of international economic policy,
it will be very important to have that con-
sultation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:20 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
57 Remarks at the Swearing In of John B. Connally
as Secretary of the Treasury.
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are all gathered here today for the
purpose of swearing in John Connally
as the 61st Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States.
This is an occasion which has a great
deal of meaning, of course, to the Treas-
ury Department, to the Administration,
and to the American people.
I have already expressed, at the time
that he was designated as the nominee for
Secretary of the Treasury, my own con-
fidence in the new Secretary. He is a man
who is qualified because of his years of
experience in State government, in Na-
tional Government, and also in private
enterprise.
Another significant point to note is that
in a Republican administration, he is a
Democrat. I think that has significance,
not simply because there should be a
Democrat in a Republican administra-
tion, or a Republican in a Democrat ad-
ministration. It has significance at this
time for this post because we have pre-
sented to the Nation proposals in the
field of government reorganization and
revenue sharing which will make greater
changes in the structure of American
Government than have been made since
this Government was founded 190 years
ago, and proposals that will have the ef-
fect of making government more effec-
February 11, 1971
tive; of making government, we trust, less
costly; of giving the people of the United
States of America, all of the people, a
bigger voice in determining how much
government they want, what kind of gov-
ernment they want, in determining how
their tax dollars will be spent. Proposals
of this magnitude and of this scope should
not be approached as Republican pro-
posals or Democratic proposals. They are
proposals that involve the whole Nation
and should be approached in a bipartisan
way.
The new Secretary of the Treasury, in
addition to all of his other responsibilities
in that office, will have a major responsi-
bility in presenting those proposals to the
Congress and to the Nation in the spirit
in which I have attempted to present
them to Democrats and Republicans alike
in this room, on television, and in other
forums.
So, with that introduction, we will now
go forward with the swearing-in cere-
mony. And Mr. Justice Blackmun, from
Minnesota, will swear in Governor John
Connally from Texas.
Incidentally, I found that while Texas
has had representation in high levels of
government in the long history of this
country, Governor Connally is the first
Texan ever to be named Secretary of the
Treasury.
152
