Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 26 [304]
of us, all of you, share the sympathy for
the fine young boy who, in an accident,
lost his life. I know, too, that as you
think of that tragedy to that young boy,
we think of young Americans in the
future. What does the future hold for
them?
I would like to tell you a little about
what I think the future holds for young
Americans. Sometimes you may be rather
discouraged about the future. We have
been passing through a difficult time in
this country, the longest and most difficult
war in any nation's history, a war that,
however, is being brought to an end in a
way that we can win a lasting peace.
you
in
Finally, you also are looking to the
future, wonder what it holds for
terms of jobs and opportunity and prog-
ress and all the rest.
First, on the peace side, let me say that
this journey that we are making to
Alaska has very great significance. There,
for the first time in the whole history of
either country, the President of the United
States will meet with the Emperor of
Japan. This is significant not only sym-
bolically; it is particularly significant be-
cause, as you know, our two nations, just
25 years ago, concluded a long and very
difficult war for both nations. And inci-
dentally, over half the people in the world
living today have been born since that
war was over. That shows us the oppor-
tunity. It shows us also the challenge of
peace.
One of the purposes of this visit, and the
other meetings I have been having with
Japanese leaders, is to develop the kind of
2 The President was referring to Chuck
Anderson, a senior at Walla Walla High School,
who died on Wednesday, September 22, 1971,
of head injuries sustained in a high school
football game the preceding weekend.
a foreign policy in which Japan and the
United States, while we will always be
competitors, and friendly competitors
economically-let us never be enemies
again. Let us never have war again be-
tween these two great nations.
Then, at a later time, as you probably
have noted, I will be making a trip to
Mainland China. There I will meet with
the leaders of the People's Republic of
China. Eight hundred million people live
there, 800 million people who presently
are isolated from the rest of the world, in
the world community. I would not want
any of you to think that this meeting
means that the differences between our
two nations will end, because they will not.
There will be great differences in the years
to come.
But it does mean this: It means that
now we begin a dialogue. We take the
steps in which we have a chance to talk
about our differences, rather than to fight
about our differences. And as we look
ahead to the future, to the future of these
young men, and even the younger ones
in the grade school here, 15, 20 years from
now, I hope and I pray--and I know that
all of you on this Sunday join in that
prayer--that when they grow up, that
they can grow up in a world that will be
an open world in which they can travel
to all parts of the world; and that they can
grow up in a world where the 800 million
people of China are not isolated from the
rest of the world, where the danger of war
that would exist if they were isolated is
reduced, because then, whereas we may
have differences, we will talk about them
and not fight about them. That is some-
thing we all want for America and for the
future.
Now, having spoken of the promise of
peace, we also have some challenges. The
997
