[189] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
from the rest of the people of the world.
This we think is a goal well worth
pursuing.
DRAFTEES AND VIETNAM
[16.] Q. Mr. President, when do you
plan to stop sending draftees to Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. The question of
whether we could stop sending draftees
has been considered, and I find that we
are unable to do so at this point. I think,
however, the question is going to be a
moot one in due time, since as you know,
as we stand here at this time, over half of
those who were in Vietnam when I came
into office have now come home.
By December 1, two-thirds of those who
were there when I came into office will
have come home. November 15 I will
make another announcement with regard
to a further withdrawal.
Under those circumstances, it would
seem that the number of draftees that will
be called into service for Vietnam would
be very, very small if not minimal.
PUBLIC OPINION AND THE WAR
[17.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the
fact that you are continually reducing the
number of troops in Vietnam, bringing
more American troops home all the time,
how do you account for the fact that two
major public opinion polls now show that
about two-thirds of the American public
don't believe they are being told the truth
about what is happening in the war?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not surprised by
the polls. I think of the people--and the
war has been going on a long time-they
are tired of the war. We are an impatient
people. We like to get results.
On the other hand, if all the problems
that I have in this Government could be
as easily solved as this one, I would be
very happy. Because the answer to
whether or not the American people be-
lieve that I am ending the American in-
volvement in war is in the fact we have
already brought home half. We will have
brought home two-thirds, and we are go-
ing to bring all home, and bring them
home-and this is what is vitally impor-
tant-in a way that will not be inconsist-
ent with two other objectives: in a way
that will secure the release of our prison-
ers of war; and, also, in a way that will
give the South Vietnamese a chance to
avoid a Communist takeover, and thereby
contribute to a more lasting peace.
That fact, the very fact that we accomp-
lish that goal, will end the credibility gap
on that issue once and for all.
INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION
[18.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask a
question on another subject? As you
know, there is a considerable uncertainty
about the position of the American Gov-
ernment with respect to its affiliation with
the International Labor Organization,
the ILO. Now, to remove this uncer-
tainty, could you tell us whether the
United States seriously intends to con-
tinue its membership in the ILO; and
second, if it does, will the Administration
leadership apply its energies on Capitol
Hill to get the appropriations necessary
to pay our dues to the ILO?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Meany talked to
me about the ILO, and as you may know,
he has very strong feelings and reserva-
tions about our membership in the ILO.
However, we have decided to continue
696
