[356] Nov. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. No reason for en-
couragement that I can talk about pub-
licly. I can say, however, that we are
pursuing this subject, as I have indicated
on several occasions, in a number of chan-
nels, and we have not given up. We will
never give up with regard to our prisoners
of war. That is one of the reasons why
this announcement is being made for a
shorter period rather than a longer period,
because the moment that we make an an-
nouncement that is too long, it means that
whatever negotiating stroke we might
have is substantially reduced.
ENEMY INFILTRATION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, what has been
the most recent trend toward the infiltra-
tion by the enemy, and do you have figures
for that? And also, what rate would have
to be maintained for you to carry out
your optimum plan?
THE PRESIDENT. We would have to
examine that situation at the time. The
infiltration rate has come up some as it
always does at this time of year. How-
ever, it is not as high now, just as the
casualties are not as high now, and the
level of enemy activity, as it was last year.
We want to see, however, what the situa-
tion is in December and January, which,
as you all know, are the key months when
infiltration comes along, because that will
determine what the activity will be in
April, May, June, and July on the
battlefield.
TROOP CEILING
[5.] Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Mr. Bailey
[Charles W. Bailey 2d, Minneapolis
Tribune and Minneapolis Star].
Q. To be clear, what is your new Feb-
ruary 1 troop ceiling, or are you doing it
the
way you have done it before by setting
a new troop ceiling for the end of the
withdrawal period?
THE PRESIDENT. It will be a new troop
ceiling for the end of the withdrawal pe-
riod. I think we would have to cover that
later. The 45,000 should be taken off of
the present ceiling. We are reducing the
ceiling by 45,000.
Now, incidentally, I should say, too,
that in terms of the withdrawal-I think
it would be proper to inform the press on
this matter-we are going to withdraw
25,000 in December and 20,000 in Jan-
uary. Obviously we would like to get a
few more out before Christmas, and we
were able to do this after Secretary Laird
made his report.
TROOP WITHDRAWALS AND THE U.S.
COMBAT ROLE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, in this present
situation you are announcing a 2 or 3
months-
THE PRESIDENT. Two months.
Q. Two months withdrawal, whereas
the last time it was 7 or 8 months, I be-
lieve. How does this situation, in terms of
the negotiating need that you spoke of,
differ from the other one, and can you
tell us if you now, as a result of this 2
month withdrawal, foresee an end to the
United States combat role in Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, the situa-
tion is very different because, as we get
down in numbers, each withdrawal has
a much more dramatic effect on the per-
centage that we have there: 45,000 as
against, for example, 184,000, which is
the present troop ceiling, is a lot different
from 25,000 as against 539,000 or 540,000,
which was our first withdrawal program.
I 102
