Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
soul-searing hatred the lives of the
Palestinian refugees, who include not
only those who originally fled their
homes upon
the establishment of
Israel, but a whole generation born
and reared in the hopelessness and
frustration of the refugee camps.
They are the material from which
history creates the tragedies of the
future.
That is the outline of the situation
which prevails. It is, and was when my
Administration began, of deep concern to
the American people.
We faced a choice. We could have
elected to stand aloof from the problem,
on the theory that our diplomatic inter-
vention would serve only to complicate
further an already excessively complex
problem.
We rejected that course. We did so for
three reasons. First, the stakes involved
are too high for us to accept a passive role.
Second, we could see nothing resulting
from our restraint but the steady deterio-
ration of the situation into open war.
Third, it would have been intolerable to
subordinate our own hopes for global
peace and a more stable relationship with
the Soviet Union to the local-if severe--
animosities of the Middle East.
Therefore-with no illusions about the
difficulty or the risks-this Administration
embarked upon a major and prolonged
effort to achieve a peaceful settlement of
the Middle East crisis. In that effort, we
have encountered in full measure the dif-
ficulties we expected. We have had disap-
pointments as well as a limited degree of
success. Because this problem is so im-
portant, and because our role is central
to the chances for settlement, I wish to
discuss in detail our assessment of the
problem, and our efforts to resolve it.
The interests of all concerned require a
settlement. The purpose of the United
States has been to help the parties work
out among themselves a peace agreement
that each would have a stake in main-
taining. We have proceeded with a sense
of compassion for their concerns.
The Israelis seek recognition as a nation
by their neighbors in secure circumstances.
In any settlement they will seek more than
simple declarations of peace and of
Israel's legitimacy. They also seek physical
security. For Israel, peace must be some-
thing more than a paper peace.
The Arab governments seek the recov-
ery of territories lost during the June war,
justice for those who have lost lands and
homes through more than twenty years of
conflict, and a sense of dignity and se-
curity that will permit them to feel no
longer vulnerable to attack. Peace for
them must also be real.
If these concerns are to be reconciled,
three conditions must be met:
-Judgment on each side that the other
is willing to make and live up to com-
mitments that could produce a just
and lasting peace.
-Judgment on each side that the other
will be able to keep its commitments.
-Judgment on each side that the world
community can provide realistic sup-
plementary guarantees of whatever
agreements may be reached.
The United States Initiative. Through-
out 1969, the United States sought a
framework for an agreed settlement
through bilateral talks with the Soviet
Union and in the multilateral channel of
the Four Powers talks, as well as through
continuing consultation with Israel, Jor-
dan, and the UAR. We sought to work out
common guidelines which Ambassador
Gunnar Jarring, the UN Secretary Gen-
287
