[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
its own long-range plans as to how it
would use these monies. It would mean
that we could eventually phase out our
emergency assistance programs.
By rewarding output-rather than sub-
sidizing input-this new aid system would
encourage schools to educate more stu-
dents and to educate them more effi-
ciently. Unlike formulas which are geared
to the annual number of enrollees, capita-
tion grants would provide a strong in-
centive for schools to shorten their
curriculum from four years to three-in
line with another sound recommendation
of the Carnegie Commission on Higher
Education. For then, the same sized school
would qualify for as much as one-third
more money each year, since each of its
graduating classes would be one-third
larger.
This capitation grant program should
be supplemented by a program of special
project grants to help achieve special
goals. These grants would support efforts
such as improving planning and manage-
ment, shortening curriculums, expanding
enrollments, team training of physicians
and allied health personnel, and starting
HMO's for local populations.
In addition, I believe that Federal
sup-
port dollars for the construction of medi-
cal education facilities can be used more
effectively. I recommend that the five
current programs in this area be consoli-
dated into a single, more flexible grant
authority and that a new program of guar-
anteed loans and other financial aids be
made available to generate over $500
million in private construction loans in
the coming Fiscal Year-five times the
level of our current construction grant
program.
Altogether, these efforts to encourage
and facilitate the expansion of our medi-
cal schools should produce a 50 percent
increase in medical school graduates by
1975. We must set that as our goal and we
must see that it is accomplished.
2. The Federal Government should also
establish special support programs to help
low income students enter medical and
dental schools. I propose that our scholar-
ship grant program for these students be
almost doubled--from $15 to $29 million.
At the same time, this administration
would modify its proposed student loan
programs to meet better the needs of medi-
cal students. To help alleviate the concern
of low income students that such a loan
might become an impossible burden if
they fail to graduate from medical school,
we will request authority to forgive loans
where such action is appropriate.
3. One of the most promising ways to
expand the supply of medical care and to
reduce its costs is through a greater use of
allied health personnel, especially those
who work as physicians' and dentists' as-
sistants, nurse pediatric practitioners, and
nurse midwives. Such persons are trained
to perform tasks which must otherwise be
performed by doctors themselves, even
though they do not require the skills of a
doctor. Such assistance frees a physician
to focus his skills where they are most
needed and often allows him to treat many
additional patients.
I recommend that our allied health per-
sonnel training programs be expanded by
50% over 1971 levels, to $29 million, and
that $15 million of this amount be devoted
to training physicians' assistants. We will
also encourage medical schools to train
future doctors in the proper use of such
assistants and we will take the steps I
described earlier to eliminate barriers to
their use in the laws of certain States.
In addition, this administration will ex-
178
