Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 29 [33]
enough to protect our national security,
higher standards of income and care for
the poor and the sick, a reorganized and
responsive Federal structure, and the basis
for a sound prosperity in a full generation
of peace.
TOWARD A GROWING NONINFLATIONARY
ECONOMY
ECONOMIC SETTING.-When I took
office 2 years ago, rampant inflation was
the Nation's principal economic problem.
This inflation was a direct result of the
economic policies of the period 1966 to
1968, when we were mired in war in
Vietnam, and when Federal spending rose
sharply. Federal outlays were allowed to
exceed full-employment revenues by $6
billion in 1966, $10 billion in 1967, and
$25 billion in 1968. Expansive monetary
policy in the summer of 1968 helped upset
the hoped-for stabilizing impact of an
income tax surcharge. The effect of these
actions was to turn the thermostat up in
an economy that was already hot enough.
My administration acted promptly to
move us out of that war and cool the
superheated economy.
We controlled Federal spending in
1969 and achieved a budget surplus.
Spending was restrained again in 1970.
Independently, the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem maintained a monetary policy of
restraint which increased in severity
throughout calendar year 1969 and con-
tinued into early 1970.
The forces of inflation have been dur-
able and persistent-and they remain
strong. But their momentum was slowed.
in calendar year 1969 and early 1970.
Excessive demand was eliminated as a
source of inflationary pressure during this
period. The turnaround of this inflation-
ary trend permitted us to enter the second
phase of our plan: to follow more expan-
sive economic policies without losing
ground in the battle against inflation.
BUDGET POLICY.-Last July, I set forth
the budget policy of this administration:
"At times the economic situation per-
mits-even calls for a budget deficit.
There is one basic guideline for the
budget, however, which we should never
violate: except in emergency conditions,
expenditures must never be allowed to
outrun the revenues that the tax system
would produce at reasonably full employ-
ment. When the Federal government's
spending actions over an extended period
push outlays sharply higher, increased tax
rates or inflation inevitably follow."
The principle of holding outlays to
revenues at full employment serves three
necessary purposes:
It imposes the discipline of an upper
limit on spending, a discipline that is
essential because the upward pres-
sures on outlays are relentless.
• It permits Federal tax and spending
programs to be planned and con-
ducted in an orderly manner con-
sistent with steady growth in the
economy's productive capacity.
• It helps achieve economic stability
by automatically imposing restraint
during periods of boom and provid-
ing stimulus during periods of slack.
The budget policy of this administra-
tion is to keep firm control over Federal
spending. The outlay total of $229.2
billion in 1972 is the sum of spending for
programs that were scrutinized carefully
to make certain that they would be man-
aged effectively and efficiently and that
they are essential to carry out present laws
or to achieve desirable changes in our
national priorities.
81
