[31] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
overriding considerations of national se-
curity-and as long as we need the draft,
to make it as fair and equitable as we can.
Over the past nine months the Sec-
retary of Defense and the Director of
Selective Service have initiated a com-
prehensive series of steps designed to help
us achieve that goal. Average draft calls
are now substantially lower than they
were when this administration assumed
office, and we have significantly improved
the consistency and fairness of the draft
system. We shall continue these actions at
an accelerated pace.
However, to continue the progress that
now is possible toward both goals-toward
ending the draft, and in the meantime
making it more nearly fair-legislative as
well as Executive action will be needed.
ENDING THE DRAFT
Since my April 1970 message, a 7.9 per-
cent across-the-board increase in the rate
of basic pay has been enacted that will
raise the pay of members of the Armed
Forces by almost $1.2 billion a year.
Building on this base, I am submitting
a number of legislative proposals (some
of which were previously submitted to the
91st Congress) which, together with Exec-
utive actions I shall take, would move us
substantially closer to the goal of an all-
volunteer force.
I propose that we invest an additional
$1.5 billion in making military service
more attractive to present and poten-
tial members, with most of this to
be used to provide a pay raise for
enlisted men with less than two years
of service, effective May 1, 1971. If
approved by the Congress, this ac-
tion would result in a total additional
investment of $2.7 billion for military
manpower, and would substantially
reduce the present inequity in the
pay of men and women serving in the
Armed Forces. The proposed pay
raise would increase rates of basic pay
at the entry level by 50 percent over
present levels. Also, I am proposing
increases in the quarters allowance
for personnel in the lower enlisted
grades.
-I am proposing a test program of
special pay incentives designed to at-
tract more volunteers into training
for Army combat skills.
-Existing law provides that as general
adjustments are made in civilian pay,
corresponding increases will be made
in military pay. In addition, I am di-
recting the Secretary of Defense to
recommend for the 1973 fiscal year
such further additions to military
compensation as may be necessary to
make the financial rewards of mili-
tary life fully competitive with those
in the civilian sector.
-The Department of Defense, through
Project Volunteer, has been actively
engaged in expanding programs de-
signed to increase enlistments and re-
tentions in the services. A fair level
of pay, while necessary, is only one
factor in increasing the relative at-
tractiveness of a military career. I
will propose that approximately one-
fifth of the additional $1.5 billion be
devoted to expanding our efforts in
the areas of recruiting, medical
scholarships, ROTC, improvement
of housing, and other programs to
enhance the quality of military life.
-During the past year, the Department
of Defense has reviewed the policies
and practices of the military services
and has taken actions to emphasize
76
