Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 1 [37]
of our economic system; we should not
stop them from working even to cure an
inflationary fever. I do not intend to im-
pose wage and price controls which would
substitute new, growing and more vexa-
tious problems for the problems of infla-
tion. Neither do I intend to rely upon an
elaborate facade that seems to be wage
and price control but is not. Instead, I
intend to use all the effective and legiti-
mate powers of Government to unleash
and strengthen those forces of the free
market that hold prices down. This is a
policy of action, but not a policy of action
for action's sake.
The process of reducing inflation is a
process of learning. Business and labor
must learn a pattern of behavior different
from the one they have learned and
prac-
ticed during the inflationary boom. Labor
contracts and price lists cannot embody
the expectation that prices will continue
rising at the peak rates of recent years.
Businesses cannot expect to pass all cost
increases along in higher prices. The
ritual of periodic increases in prices has
no place in an economy moving toward
greater stability.
These lessons are being learned. Most
of all they are being taught by the facts
of economic life today. Consumers are al-
ready imposing stern discipline in markets
where sellers have not begun to adapt
their pricing to the new, less-inflationary
conditions of the economy.
But there are cases where these lessons
are not being learned and actions have
been taken or are under review. In those
cases the Government will act to correct
the conditions which give rise to excessive
price and wage increases.
Actions were taken to augment the sup-
ply of lumber, and to deal with domestic
copper prices that were out of line with
world markets. To restrain increases in
the price of crude oil, this Administration
took steps to permit greater production
on Federal offshore leases and to increase
oil imports. Faced with inflationary price
increases for some steel products, I have
ordered a review of the conditions which
permit or cause such increases, and
threaten jobs in steel-using industries.
We have been particularly concerned
with increases in the costs of construction.
It is now more critical than ever to check
inflationary wage and price increases in
an industry where unemployment is high.
The 1972 Budget provides for a large in-
crease in construction expenditures. This
should support increased employment in
construction, but will do so only if the
larger appropriations are not eaten up by
higher wages and other costs. I have asked
the leaders of labor unions and contrac-
tors in the industry to propose a plan for
bringing the behavior of construction
wages, costs, and prices into line with the
requirements of national economic policy.
A workable voluntary plan will avert the
need for Government action.
Those of us who value the free market
system most cannot disregard the cases
where it is being kept from working well.
In some of these cases it is Government
which limits the free market's effective-
ness and Government has the means to
make it work better. We must constantly
review our economic institutions to see
where the competitive market mechanism
that has served us so well can replace re-
strictive arrangements originally intro-
duced in response to conditions that no
longer exist. We must also devise efficient
solutions to problems that have become
more urgent recently, such as those of
ΙΟΙ
