Richard Nixon, 1971
June 11 [199]
to meet these housings needs-an effort
which is both private and governmental—
federally assisted housing is being built at
a rate approaching 3/4 of a million units
a year. These units are needed. They are
being built. And they must be built some-
place. The question is where.
If all the federally assisted units are
packed together in one type of community
or one kind of location, we will only ex-
acerbate the social and, in all probability,
the racial isolation of our people from
each other.
If we build federally assisted instant
ghettos, we fail both our communities and
the people we are trying to help.
If we impact or tip the balance of an
established community with a flood of
low-income families, we do a disservice
to all concerned.
The answers to these practical consid-
erations are not simple-but they are of
great importance.
Based on a careful review of the legisla-
tive history of the 1964 and 1968 Civil
Rights Acts, and also of the program con-
text within which the law has developed,
I interpret the "affirmative action" man-
date of the 1968 act to mean that the ad-
ministrator of a housing program should
include, among the various criteria by
which applications for assistance are
judged, the extent to which a proposed
project, or the overall development plan
of which it is a part, will in fact open up
new, nonsegregated housing opportuni-
ties that will contribute to decreasing the
effects of past housing discrimination.
This does not mean that no federally as-
sisted low- and moderate-income housing
may be built within areas of minority con-
centration. It does not mean that housing
officials in Federal agencies should dictate
local land use policies. It does mean that
in choosing among the various applica-
tions for Federal aid, consideration
should be given to their impact on pat-
terns of racial concentration.
In furtherance of this policy, not only
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development but also the other depart-
ments and agencies administering hous-
ing programs-the Veterans Administra-
tion, the Farmers Home Administration,
and the Department of Defense-will ad-
minister their programs in a way which
will advance equal housing opportunity
for people of all income levels on a metro-
politan areawide basis.
This Administration will not attempt
to impose federally assisted housing upon
any community.
We will encourage communities to dis-
charge their responsibility for helping to
provide decent housing opportunities to
the Americans of low- and moderate-
income who live or work within their
boundaries.
We will encourage communities to seek
and accept well-conceived, well-designed,
well-managed housing developments—
always within the community's capacity
to assimilate the families who will live in
them.
We will carry out our programs in a
way that will be as helpful as possible to
communities which are receptive to the
expansion of housing opportunities for
all of our people.
In these efforts we will be aided by a
change that already is taking place in the
way subsidized low- and moderate-income
housing is planned, built, and managed:
In terms of new construction, the old-
style, massively concentrated high-rise
public housing project is largely a thing
of the past; the trend now is strongly
toward low-rise dwellings, many of them
731
