[206] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let's bring it down to matters that all of
us can better understand. It would drive
the health share of the Federal budget to
nearly 25 percent. In other words, 25 per-
cent of the total Federal budget would be
going for health care. And that would
mean that we would limit our ability for
handling other social problems.
Our present Federal health programs,
if continued, would cost the average fam-
ily in America an estimated $405 per year
by 1974. My plan would increase that
cost, but increase it only to $466 per year.
Under the nationalized compulsory health
insurance program, the average house-
hold's, the average family's, American
Federal tax bill for health programs alone
would be tripled to $1,271 a year.
Nationalized health insurance would
exact a very high price from our people
in terms of dollars and cents. These fig-
ures demonstrate that point. But, in my
opinion, it would exact an even higher
price, a price in terms of the quality of
American medicine. On that score, let me
just speak as a layman. When I am sick,
I want to be able to get a doctor. But
above everything else, I want a doctor
who is a good doctor. I am interested in
quality as well as the ability to provide
for a doctor.
When the Government pays all the bills
for health care, then the Government be-
comes the only party with a strong inter-
est in restraining costs. This inevitably
means that Government officials would
have to approve hospital budgets. They
would have to set fee schedules. They
would have to take other steps that would
eventually lead to the complete Federal
domination of our medical system. Now
that is the road that some advocate. I
think it is the wrong road.
Rather than freeing the doctor so that
he can do more to help his patients, na-
tionalized health insurance would burden
him with the dead weight of more bu-
reaucracy, more forms, more redtape. I
know what kind of forms and redtape that
many of you have to fill out now.
Just let me again speak as a layman.
When I go to a doctor, when I am sick,
I want him to worry about me and not
to be worrying about some form he has
to fill out for the Government.
Rather than expanding the range of
choice and we all believe that that is
certainly something we want in our so-
ciety for doctors and patients, it would
severely narrow that range. Rather than
encouraging more responsibility at the
local level, it would concentrate more
responsibility in Washington. Rather than
stimulating competition and diversity, it
would dull the incentive to experiment
and innovate.
The Administration's Health Insurance
Partnership would build on the strengths
of the present health care system. Na-
tionalized health insurance would tear
that system apart.
America's health care system needs re-
form. You have recognized that. But we
can never improve our country's medical
system by working against our country's
medical profession. Other nations that
have gone
down this road have found this
out. No system of health care will ever
work unless the doctors of the Nation
make it work. We need your help to make
it work and in developing a system. So
let us work together for a system—a sys-
tem that will continue to provide for
choice, that will continue to provide for
quality, and one that at the same time
will deal with the pressing problems of
764
