Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 17 [61]
worked out. I hope it is, because I will be
glad to talk to them, of course.
THE SUPREME COURT
[7] Q. Mr. President, are you hap-
pier with the performance of the Supreme
Court this
year than you were in '68 while
you were campaigning and do you antici-
pate any appointments this term?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the second part
of the question, of course, would be pre-
sumptuous for me to comment upon, be-
cause there are no-
Q. There are no resignations on your
desk obviously.
THE PRESIDENT. No. No, I think I
would know about it if there were. But I
have no indication of any intention to
resign.
With regard to the Supreme Court's
decisions, I don't believe that I should
comment upon the wisdom of their de-
cisions. I have great confidence in those
that I have appointed to the Court and I
have great respect for others who are on
the Court, with whom I happen to dis-
agree. But I won't comment on that.
SOVIET SUBMARINE IN CUBAN WATERS
[8.] Q. How concerned are you about
the presence of a Soviet nuclear subma-
rine in Cuban waters?
THE PRESIDENT. On December 10,2
you may recall, I said that if a nuclear
submarine were serviced from Cuba or
in Cuba, that this would be a violation
of our understanding with regard to the
Soviet Union's activities in putting of-
The President was referring to remarks
he made during a television interview on Jan-
uary 4, 1971. See Item 6 [16.].
fensive weapons or a base in Cuba.
Now, as far as this submarine is con-
cerned, the question is a rather technical
one, whether it is there for a port call
or whether it is there for servicing. We
are watching it very closely. The Soviet
Union is aware of the fact that we con-
sider that there is an understanding and
we will, of course, bring the matter to
their attention if we find that the under-
standing is violated.
SUBURBAN INTEGRATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask you
about racial integration in suburban hous-
ing, a subject that you have treated twice
this year and you have expressed your
opposition to forced integration and you
have said you will do what the law
requires.
In the meantime, the Third Circuit
has handed down a decision which would
seem to put an increased burden on HUD
to move public housing into the suburbs
and a major case has been instituted in
Black Jack, Missouri.
The Federal Government has yet to
announce its intention in regard to either
of those cases. Will you appeal, will you
enter the Black Jack case, and what do
you see as the overall role of the national
Administration in this area?
THE PRESIDENT. To try to answer all of
the questions, let me come first to the
attitude of the Administration with regard
to the Black Jack case.
The Attorney General and HUD
jointly are considering the Black Jack
case, and I understand within approxi-
mately 30 days will have a recommenda-
tion to me as to what action should be
taken with regard to compliance with
that case.
163
