[33] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
National Science Foundation be increased
from $506 million in 1971 to $622 million
in 1972. A significant portion of these
added funds will be directed to research
on pressing national problems.
THE LONGER VIEW
Federal budget decisions must be made
with an awareness of their influence on
the economy and on resource allocation in
the future as well as the present.
Too often in the past, consideration of
objectives and priorities focused only on
Federal spending. Only immediate issues,
rather than longer term goals, were con-
sidered. And this fact was ignored: when
we increase the priority of some pro-
grams, the relative priority assigned to
others must be reduced. In short, the sum
of the resources allocated to the various
functions—such as health, education, de-
fense cannot exceed the total resources
that we command.
Looking to the future, we find that re-
sources likely to be available to the Nation
grow more rapidly than the expenditures
required by existing commitments. But
our freedom to use these resources will
shrink as we approach each future year
and make financial or program commit-
ments in the interim. Thus, the allocation
of each year's resources is largely a reflec-
tion of our past priorities.
As we make choices this year, we will be
determining the use of our available re-
sources and expenditures in future years.
The resource allocation questions that
the Nation will answer-either explicitly
or by default-are:
•
Shall we increase the available
margin by ending some existing
commitments?
•
Who should use the margin-the
Federal Government, State and local
governments, or private citizens?
• To what objectives should the avail-
able margin be applied?
In answering these questions, the
Nation will be setting its priorities for the
future.
My preferences are clear. One great
objective of my administration is to in-
crease the role of private citizens and
State and local governments in allocating
our national resources in accordance with
individual and local needs. Another great
objective is to set minimum standards to
make certain that every American family
in every locality is treated with a fairness
that reflects the national conscience.
Ours is not a regimented economy, nor
will it be. Yet, we cannot ignore the in-
fluence of the budget on the economy and
on the use of our national resources in the
present and in the future. To do so is to
take the chance that government spend-
ing will preempt resources that should be
left to be used by private citizens or State
and local governments.
In the last few decades, the Federal
Government, disturbingly, has taken over
the determination of how too many of the
Nation's resources will be allocated. In
spite of the Federal Government's domi-
nation, resources have not been appropri-
ately allocated to overall national needs.
Instead, they have been allocated by a
process in which small additions were usu-
ally made in existing programs, and a few
new categorical grant programs were
created each year. These new grants were
generally aimed at alleviating some nar-
row problem-without reference to the
Nation's real need in that general problem
area.
94
