[325]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Oct. 7
open up new markets for our goods abroad
and new careers and job opportunities for
our workingmen at home. It can be a
year in which we and our international
trading partners build upon the most
significant initiative in monetary affairs
in 25 years; a year in which we replace
the crisis-prone system of the past with a
new system attuned to the future.
It can be a year in which historic events
will take place on the international scene,
events that could affect the peace of the
world in the next generation-even in the
next century.
We often hear people say, "These are
troubled times." I say these are great and
exciting times. We are at the threshold of
a great new era-an age of movement
and challenge and change. We have an
unparalleled opportunity to create a better
world for ourselves and for our children.
Let us dedicate ourselves tonight to
make the most of that opportunity-to
join in a great common effort to stop in-
flation-and to create a new prosperity in
a world of peace.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
On October 15, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11627 further providing for
the stabilization of the economy and establish-
ing the Price Commission, the Pay Board, and
the Committee on Interest and Dividends. On
the same day, the White House released a fact
sheet and the transcript of a news briefing on
the Executive order by Donald Rumsfeld, Coun-
sellor to the President and Director, Cost of
Living Council, and Frank C. Carlucci, Associ-
ate Director, Office of Management and
Budget.
On October 19, the White House released a
fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on proposed legislation to extend the Economic
Stabilization Act of 1970 by Mr. Rumsfeld,
Charls E. Walker, Under Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, and Stanley Rose, Deputy
General Counsel to the Cost of Living Council.
A White House announcement of appoint-
ment of the membership of the Price Commis-
sion and the Pay Board was released on October
22 and is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 7, p. 1438).
The White House also released the transcript
of a news conference on the appointments by
Mr. Rumsfeld, C. Jackson Grayson, Jr., Chair-
man, Price Commission, and George H. Boldt,
Chairman, Pay Board.
326 Remarks at the Mountain
Elkins, West Virginia.
Your Majesty Queen Sylvia, Your Royal
Highnesses of the Mountain Festival
Court, all of the distinguished guests who
have participated in this program, and all
of you who are gathered here on the cam-
pus of this great college:
I want you to know that I am privileged
to be here, and since, in the introduction,
mention has been made of the historical
significance of a visit of the President of
the United States anyplace on the earth,
State Forest Festival in
October 8, 1971
let me tell you that this has a special mean-
ing to me today for some very personal
reasons.
Since I have assumed this office, I have
traveled further in that space of time than
anyone who has held it. That is not be-
cause particularly of what I was able to
do, but because transportation speeds up
and we have faster planes; we can go fur-
ther and faster than ever before. But as I
stand here today, this is a moment when,
1026
