[82] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
supported the program.
We thought tonight that in addition to
those people and other astronauts who
have been on previous flights who are
here-and we look back to the ones, all
of the Apollo flights and the ones earlier
than that, and many of the great names
are on the guest list tonight, and I won't
name one for fear that I might leave out
one-it seemed that tonight would be an
occasion when we should honor particu-
larly those on the ground, thousands, as
Frank Borman used to tell me, and all the
others—Neil Armstrong-who have gone
to the moon and come back or have tray-
eled around it or gone on these flights;
they say without those thousands on the
ground we couldn't have done it.
Now, it is very hard to pick out the one
man on the ground or the one woman on
the ground that should be honored to-
night. But there is something very special
tonight that I would like to share with
you.
I understand, and I noted this when
they came through the receiving line, that
a young man, Tony Calio ¹-now he has
a very highfalutin title in the space pro-
gram that I won't go into, but he has
something to do with moon rocks, collect-
ing them or observing them or whatever
the case may be. But he was scheduled to
be married on Sunday, March 7. He re-
ceived the invitation to come to this as-
tronaut dinner. So he got married
yesterday so he could bring his wife to
this dinner.
And so, will the newlyweds, the Calios,
1 Anthony J. Calio, Director of Science and
Applications, Manned Spacecraft Center, Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration,
Houston, Tex.
please stand and be honored in the East
Room?
Just think what he gave up: three days
of freedom.
Now, before we make the awards, which
are traditional on this occasion, the NASA
Distinguished Service awards, I would like
to speak very briefly with regard to the
space program before this audience-an
audience which has devoted so much of
its life, so much of its energy and of its
support to this program.
I think we all recognize that once we
achieve something in this country, we tend
to say, "Well, we have done that. What's
next?" So we have reached the moon. And
then there comes another moon flight.
And each time, while there is enormous
excitement and we watch on television,
the amount of interest tends to recede a
bit. And, also, the amount of support-
and I speak now to my good colleagues in
the House and the Senate-the amount of
support for the space program tends to go
down. That cannot be the case if this
Nation is to continue to be a great nation,
in my opinion.
Let me tell you an experience that I had
in the very early days of this program be-
fore I met Alan Shepard-and he was one
of the seven who came into the office
when I was Vice President in 1959, one
of the seven originals. I can't believe he
is that old today.
But, in any event, I think back to be-
fore that when Sputnik happened. And
then when we were all looking around to
see what we could do about giving a
greater boost to science in this country and
get on our own space program and catch
up with the Russians, or maybe pass them,
as the case might be.
368
