[154] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
that in this country men who are con-
victed of multiple murders get out on bail.
Is that actually the case, and, if so, would
you recommend that someone like Man-
son be out on bail as you seem to imply
that Lieutenant Calley should be?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I am not going
to go into the specific laws of each State,
and they do vary, of course—and you,
even not being a lawyer, would know that
they vary according to every State. And
some States are much more strict than
others. Where capital crimes are con-
cerned, there are many States that do not
allow any bail at all if they feel that the
individual is one who is a danger to
society.
What I am simply saying is this: that
the real test for granting a bail in any case
is whether or not the individual concerned
is considered by the judge to be one who
will be a danger to society.
Now, Captain [Lieutenant] Calley, let
me point out he is not getting out on bail
in the usual sense. He is confined to quar-
ters on the base. He is, therefore, not free
in the sense somebody getting out on
bail is.
I am simply saying that I feel that a
man who has a long process of appeal
ahead of him, and who is going to be
confined to quarters in any event, that this
was the right thing to do under these
circumstances.
CHINA NEGOTIATIONS AND THE SOVIET
UNION
[14.] Q. Mr. President, the State De-
partment has said that the legal question
of the future of Taiwan and Formosa is
an unsettled question. Would you favor
direct negotiations between the Nation-
alist and the Communist governments to
settle their dispute?
THE PRESIDENT. I noted speculation to
the effect from various departments and
various sources that the way for these two
entities to settle their differences was to
negotiate directly. I think that is a nice
legalistic way to approach it, but I think
it is completely unrealistic. I am only say-
ing at this point that the United States is
seeking to, in a very measured way, while
maintaining our treaty commitments to
Taiwan-we are seeking a more normal
relationship with the People's Republic of
China.
There is one other point I think it is
very important to make.
There has been speculation to the effect
that the purpose of our-or one purpose of
our normalizing our relations or attempt-
ing to normalize our relations with Main-
land China is to some way irritate the
Soviet Union. Nothing could be further
from the truth.
We are seeking good relations with the
Soviet Union, and I am not discouraged
by the SALT talk progress. I can only say
that we believe that the interests of both
countries would be served by an agree-
ment there. We seek good relations with
the Soviet Union; we are seeking good
relations with Communist China. And the
interests of world peace require good rela-
tions between the Soviet Union and Com-
munist China. It would make no sense for
the United States, in the interest of world
peace, to try to get the two to get at each
other's throats, because we would be em-
broiled in the controversy ourselves.
600
