Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 19 [363]
Meany, the other presidents up here, who
have been there at meetings where I have
asked for their support, can give them to
you also. I have known that whenever we
had an issue of the defense of America,
when some would be for unilateral dis-
armament, organized labor stood firm
behind the Commander in Chief and for
strong national defense. The President
can always count on labor for a strong
national defense.
I know, for example, that when the
question arises as to hard decisions to pro-
tect America's fighting men, the President
of the United States, whoever he is, what-
ever his party, can count on the support
of organized labor, and I have had that
support over the past 3 years.
I know, too, that when hard decisions
have to be made to bring to an end, on an
honorable basis that will discourage ag-
gression in the future, a very difficult war,
that the President of the United States can
always count on organized labor. I ap-
preciate that support, and in appreciating
that support, I would like to give you one
example, a very dramatic example which
was brought home to all of the American
people.
I am sure most of you remember just a
little over a year ago, in May, when I
made a very difficult decision, some be-
lieve the most difficult decision I have
made since I have been President. It was
a decision to go into Cambodian bases
from which American men were being
killed, and to destroy those sanctuaries.
When that decision was announced, a
great majority of the members of the press
and TV, a majority of America's business-
men, a majority of America's intellectual
leaders, a majority of America's editorial
writers, opposed that decision, and some
of them opposed it very violently. I re-
spect them for their opposition; that was
their honest opinion. It fact, after that
decision was made, tens of thousands of
those who were protesting that action by
the President of the United States to de-
fend the lives of American men marched
on the White House to indicate their
opposition.
Some wrote in those days that the Presi-
dent stood alone. But I was not alone.
One hundred and fifty thousand Ameri-
can workers walked down Wall Street
supporting the Armed Forces abroad and
supporting the Commander in Chief at
home, and I appreciated that support.
That showed where American labor stood
when the key issue of defending Ameri-
can lives was involved.
I want all of you to know that in that
critical decision you have been proved to
be right. I said at the time that I ordered
those strikes that it would reduce Amer-
ican casualties. Before we went into Cam-
bodia, the number of Americans being
killed each week in Vietnam sometimes
reached 300, was averaging 200. This
week, the figures announced just yester-
day: five. And over the past 5 to 6 weeks,
less than 10. So we did what was right.
You supported it, and I am most grateful
for that support.
Now, having spoken of the support that
you have given in times of war, I am here
today to ask for your support for another
cause. It is the cause of building a lasting
peace, and it is the cause of a new
prosperity.
Now, when I mention new prosperity,
I can imagine that many say, "What was
wrong with the old prosperity?" I will tell
you what was wrong with it. Two things:
war and inflation.
You have to go clear back to 1955 and
'56 when President Eisenhower was Presi-
1119
