Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 12 [330]
330 Remarks at the Unveiling of a Portrait of
Representative F. Edward Hébert, Chairman,
Committee on Armed Services. October 12, 1971
Mr. Speaker, Speaker McCormack, Mr.
Chairman, Archbishop Hannan, Con-
gressman Hébert, all of the members of
the committee, the delegation from Lou-
isiana, the distinguished guests from the
armed services, from the Senate, Secretary
Laird:
It is a very great privilege for me to be
here, to be back in the House again where
I began my political career 24 years ago.
And after listening to this program today,
I realized how much I miss the House. I
do not want to make invidious compari-
sons between the Senate and the House--
Members of the House will do that
[laughter]-but I do want to say that
there is a certain feeling of friendship and
comradeship among House Members that
cannot be duplicated anyplace.
I was told when I first came to the
House that where one really gets to know
another Member is serving with him on
a committee. And I did serve with Eddie
Hébert on the Committee on Un-
American Activities. We were involved in
some very difficult and challenging as-
signments of investigation.
He has spoken very generously of my
role on that occasion. I have written of his
role, and I would remind all of you now
that his courage, his eloquence, but also
his brilliance and I can only describe it
with that-in questioning a witness, was
as responsible as anything I did for the
success of our investigations. I add that
to the Hébert legend which, of course, has
been certainly embellished by the many
things that have been said about him by
his colleagues for his service on the Armed
Services Committee.
I thought that when I assumed my
present office I would have the opportu-
nity to do many things that I had never
done before, and this is one of them.
Reference has been made to the fact
that I am somewhat of a sports fan. And
I must say that if anybody had told me I
would ever give up a World Series game
for a hanging, I wouldn't believe it. I
will let you in on a little secret, though.
I had a radio in the car on the way down.
The score was 5 to 2 in the bottom of the
eighth-Pirates, in case anybody missed it.
I would like at this point to bring this
ceremony to a conclusion, as far as my
own participation is concerned, by re-
ferring to the work of Congressman
Hébert, to his life, and to relate that work
to the Members of the Armed Services
Committee of both the House and the
Senate, and to those Members of the
House and the Senate who have supported
a strong national defense, and that is, of
course, a substantial majority in both par-
ties, Democrat and Republican.
Reference was made earlier to the fact
that I had made an announcement today
with regard to a meeting that will take
place next spring at the highest level be-
tween the leaders of the United States
and the leaders of the Soviet Union. And,
of course, all of you are aware of the fact
that at an earlier date a meeting will
take place between leaders of the United
States, including the President, and
leaders of Mainland China.
There could be a tendency to interpret
such meetings at the highest levels, un-
1039
