Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
Middle East, and Jordan. In each
case, it laid the groundwork for rea-
soned decisions to prevent crises from
expanding and threatening our in-
terests and the peace.
The success of any policy depends
largely on effective implementation by the
responsible departments and agencies.
The Under Secretaries Committee,
chaired by the Under Secretary of State,
links the process of policy formulation
to the operations of the government.
Through interagency review and coordin-
ation, it helps to ensure that decisions are
carried out consistently with policy and
uniformly throughout the foreign affairs
community. It also recommends to me
alternative operational steps to implement
broad policy decisions; it develops the
details, for example, of our positions in
certain important negotiations within the
guidelines laid down by the National
Security Council.
ILLUSTRATIONS
1970 saw many examples of our new
analytical process at work:
The Indochina Ceasefire Proposal. My
October 1970 proposal for a ceasefire in
Indochina was the result of months of
study. The Vietnam Special Studies
Working Group first made detailed
analyses of the military situation in each
of the military regions of South Vietnam.
It examined the pattern of control in the
countryside under present and foreseeable
conditions. With this background the
group studied possible formulas for estab-
lishing and verifying a ceasefire, and the
likely impact of various forms of ceasefire
on the military situation, the control of
the countryside, and Vietnamization. At
the same time, the Interdepartmental
Group for East Asia analyzed the impli-
cations for negotiations of the various
ceasefire proposals and sought to deter-
mine the likely position of the other side.
These separate studies were then in-
tegrated and reviewed by the Senior Re-
view Group. After discussion in the Na-
tional Security Council, I chose a formula
which offered more hope as a basis for
negotiation over a formula which offered
the greatest apparent advantage to our
side. The detailed studies which were
made will provide the necessary back-up
if the other side indicates a willingness to
talk seriously about a ceasefire.
NATO Strategy and Forces. As de-
scribed in the Europe chapter of this
report, a thorough review of NATO's
strategic alternatives was essential. We
and our allies needed a realistic Alliance
defense strategy, and we had to know the
nature and numbers of U.S. and allied
forces required to support the strategy.
This was the only way to develop the basis
for deciding on force levels and the allo-
cation of the defense burden within the
Alliance.
The Defense Program Review Com-
mittee examined the comparative
strengths, mobilization capabilities, logis-
tic support, and dispositions of Warsaw
Pact and NATO forces. These analyses
were used to develop alternative strate-
gies. The Committee also examined ap-
proaches to Mutual and Balanced Force
Reductions in Europe, in terms of their
possible effects on alternative NATO de-
fense postures. Meanwhile, the Interde-
partmental Group for Europe studied the
political implications of alternative de-
fense decisions for our relations with
Western Europe and for East-West
relations.
These two study efforts, integrated
343
