Richard Nixon, 1971
[75]
Feb. 25
tween the Soviet Union and Communist
China. We do not seek any. We will do
nothing to sharpen that conflict-nor to
encourage it. It is absurd to believe that
we could collude with one of the parties
against the other. We have taken great
pains to make it clear that we are not
attempting to do so.
At the same time, we cannot permit
either Communist China or the USSR to
dictate our policies and conduct toward
the other. We recognize that one effect of
the Sino-Soviet conflict could be to propel
both countries into poses of militancy
toward the non-Communist world in
order to validate their credentials as revo-
lutionary centers. It is also possible that
these two major powers, engaged in such
a dangerous confrontation, might have an
incentive to avoid further complications
in other areas of policy. In this respect, we
will have to judge China, as well as the
USSR, not by its rhetoric but by its
actions.
We are prepared to establish a dialogue
with Peking. We cannot accept its ideo-
logical precepts, or the notion that Com-
munist China must exercise hegemony
over Asia. But neither do we wish to im-
pose on China an international position
that denies its legitimate national
interests.
The evolution of our dialogue with
Peking cannot be at the expense of inter-
national order or our own commitments.
Our attitude is public and clear. We will
continue to honor our treaty commit-
ments to the security of our Asian allies.
An honorable relationship with Peking
cannot be constructed at their expense.
Among these allies is the Republic of
China. We have been associated with that
government since its inception in 1911,
and with particular intimacy when we
were World War II allies. These were
among the considerations behind the
American decision to assist the Govern-
ment of the Republic of China on Taiwan
with its defense and economic needs.
Our present commitment to the secu-
rity of the Republic of China on Taiwan
stems from our 1954 treaty. The purpose
of the treaty is exclusively defensive, and
it controls the entire range of our military
relationship with the Republic of China.
Our economic assistance to the Repub-
lic of China has had gratifying results.
Beginning in 1951, the U.S. provided $1.5
billion in economic assistance. Its effective
and imaginative use by the Government
of the Republic of China and the people
of Taiwan made it possible for us to ter-
minate the program in 1965.
I am recalling the record of friendship,
assistance, and alliance between the United
States and the Government of the Repub-
lic of China in order to make clear both
the vitality of this relationship and the
nature of our defense relationship. I do
not believe that this honorable and peace-
ful association need constitute an obstacle
to the movement toward normal rela-
tions between the United States and the
People's Republic of China. As I have
tried to make clear since the beginning of
my Administration, while I cannot fore-
tell the ultimate resolution of the differ-
ences between Taipei and Peking, we
believe these differences must be resolved
by peaceful means.
In that connection, I wish to make it
clear that the United States is prepared
to see the People's Republic of China play
a constructive role in the family of na-
tions. The question of its place in the
United Nations is not, however, merely a
question of whether it should participate.
It is also a question of whether Peking
71-234-72-21
277
