Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 16 [292]
People's Republic and that, of course,
would mean the removal of the Republic
of China from the Security Council seat.
The statement that was made yesterday
simply reflected the realities of the situa-
tion in the United Nations.
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
[3] Q. Mr. President, now that you
have a new economic policy, I am won-
dering if you would care to make a pre-
diction as to what kind of a year this will
be and what kind of a year next year will
be.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I stick to my
previous prediction that 1971 will be a
good year from the standpoint of the
economy and that 1972 will be a very good
year. As a result of the new policy, I be-
lieve that the last quarter of 1971 will be
better than I had originally thought it
might be; rather than being good, it will
be considerably better than good. And I
think 1972 will be a very strong year.
I base these predictions, however, on
the assumption that we will get the coop-
eration of the Congress on the tax front.
It is essential for continued economic ex-
pansion that the Congress support the tax
initiatives that we have placed before the
Congress. And I hope that when the
Ways and Means Committee finally votes
out a bill that it will pass the House and
then go to the Senate and will get here
for signature within as short as possible
time as is needed for reasonable debate.
TAX PROPOSALS
[4] Q. Mr. President, in that same
area would you accept a 7 percent invest-
ment tax credit rather than a 10 percent
and 5 percent, and also would you accept
an increase of $200 or $250 in the mini-
mum standard deduction?
THE PRESIDENT. The problem of what
the President accepts, of course, is some-
what controlled by what he can get. Now,
in this instance I have read Secretary
Connally's testimony very carefully, before
the Ways and Means Committee. As you
know, he faced these realities in answering
questions.
We believe that the 10 percent-5 per-
cent approach is much the better one be-
cause it will give the charge to the econ-
omy in the year that we need it, which is
now. On the other hand, 7 percent would
be better than nothing.
When we look also at the situation with
regard to raising the standard deduction
or the minimum exemption, there are a
number of proposals, as you know, in this
area that have been suggested in both the
House and the Senate. We believe that our
package is a balanced one. It is the right
one, and we are going to fight for it.
On the other hand, if the Congress,
after due deliberation, moves in another
direction which is essentially aimed at our
goal, then I will have to consider the
measure when it comes here, and I would
tend to consider it affirmatively unless it
completely blew the top off of our budget.
The main problem on the second thing
that you mentioned is the degree that we
go in terms of providing additional relief
for individuals. If that degree is too high
without a corresponding cut in spending,
the budget implications are enormous and
that would mean an additional fire under
the boiler as far as inflation is concerned.
NUCLEAR TESTS IN ALASKA
[5] Q. Mr. President, have you
reached a decision on the advisability of
951
