Richard Nixon, 1971
May 1 [156]
Q. Mr. President, on the basis of the
first quarter GNP figures which were up
sharply, Director Shultz saw the basis for
a broad expansion; some others in your
Administration said, "Well, it is too early."
"One swallow doesn't make a spring,"
and what have you.
What is your view on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Cormier, I
think it is well to put all of these economic
indicators into some perspective. I don't
do it as an expert in economics, but I have
heard a lot of experts and this is the way
I would evaluate it at this time: First, it
is true that the first quarter figures are
up. I think we can say that at this time
we are in the midst of a strong economic
upturn. Housing starts are up; retail sales
are up; productivity is up; and, just as
important, inflation is down.
Now, having said that, however, as we
look to the future, I think it is well to bear
in mind that every month is not going to
reflect the same trends. We will have zigs
and zags in a free economy. That is the
only thing certain about a free economy,
that it does not move on a certain path.
All that I am sure of is what I stated at a
press conference perhaps 2 or 3 months
ago when I said that I believed that this
would be a good year economically, 1971,
and 1972 would be a very good year.
We have projected high goals for the
economy, and we are adopting policies for
the purpose of achieving those goals. We
have two dangers, I should point out.
One, inflation. While inflation was down,
the rate of inflation, it is still a danger,
and we must fight it on particularly two
fronts: the wage-price front, where we
must have decisions made that are re-
sponsible and do not create inflationary
pressures, and second, on the governmen-
tal front, where it is very important that
we not exceed the full employment reve-
nues. And that will make it necessary for
me on occasion, perhaps, to veto those
irresponsible spending proposals by the
Congress where they go beyond the full
employment revenues which are, as you
know, a very, very high number, and
which provide for
for an expansionary
budget.
The other area in which we still have
problems ahead is unemployment. Un-
employment always hangs high in any
kind of recovery or upturn. It is the last
number-unemployment is the last num-
ber-in a downturn to be reflected in
going up, and it is the last number in
an upturn to be reflected in going down.
We, however, believe that the long-term
effect of our policies will be to bring un-
employment down. I would particularly
refer, while we are in California, to the
fact that unemployment is at this time
highly regional in its impact. California is
considerably above the national average;
so is the State of Washington. One of the
major reasons for that is that California
and the State of Washington, and Oregon
to an extent also, the whole west coast,
has been highly dependent upon defense
contracts and also on aerospace industry.
Since we have approximately now 2
million men, since this Administration has
come into office, who have been let out
of the armed services and also have left
defense jobs, this has had its greatest im-
pact in California. That is why decisions
that I will make in the future, and deci-
sions of this Administration insofar as fu-
ture government contracts, as they deal
with our turn from a wartime to a peace-
time economy, California and the Pacific
Northwest will get special consideration.
That is the way, of course, that the law
is properly adjusted. It doesn't mean that
71-234-72– -42
605
