[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion effectively as a total program within
the context of U.S. foreign policy. And I
have also proposed the creation of two
new institutions, to go along with the two
created by the last Congress, to carry for-
ward our development assistance program
in the 1970s.
There is thus a need for new mecha-
nisms to assure effective coordination of
our new foreign assistance program.
First, there must be effective coordina-
tion among the several components of the
new development assistance program.
This would be done through my appoint-
ing a single Coordinator of Development
Assistance, responsible directly to the
President, as Chairman of the Boards of
the IDC, IDI, and OPIC.
The Coordinator would also chair an
executive coordinating committee com-
posed of the chief executive officers of
each of these institutions and ISDI. He
would be available for congressional testi-
mony on our overall bilateral develop-
ment assistance policy and the operations
of the several institutions. Both the Con-
gress and I could look to him as the
administration's chief spokesman on bilat-
eral development assistance policy and
programs.
Second, the Secretary of State will pro-
vide foreign policy guidance for all com-
ponents of our new foreign assistance pro-
gram. His representatives would be mem-
bers of the boards of each of the develop-
ment institutions, and he would have
direct responsibility for both security and
humanitarian assistance. In each country
our Ambassador, as my personal repre-
sentative, will of course be responsible for
coordination of all of our assistance
programs.
Third, foreign assistance issues which
raise broader questions of foreign eco-
nomic policy will be handled through my
new Council on International Economic
Policy.
Finally, coordination among the three
major components of our assistance pro-
gram, and between them and our overall
national security policy, would be handled
through the National Security Council.
We will thus establish strong manage-
ment, coordination, and policy guidance
over all of our foreign assistance
programs.
CONCLUSION
This Nation can no more ignore pov-
erty, hunger and disease in other nations
of the world than a man can ignore the
suffering of his neighbors. The great chal-
lenge to Americans of this decade, be they
private citizens or national leaders, is to
work to improve the quality of life of our
fellow men at home and abroad.
We have a unique and unprecedented
opportunity. We do not have all the
answers to the questions of poverty, nor
adequate resources to meet the needs of
all mankind. We do possess the greatest
scientific and technological capacity, and
the most prosperous and dynamic econ-
omy, of any nation in history. More im-
portantly, we have, as a vital element of
the American character, a humanitarian
zeal to help improve the lives of our fellow
men.
We are therefore a nation uniquely
capable of assisting other peoples in pre-
serving their security and promoting their
development. By doing so, we accomplish
three major objectives:
-We strengthen international cooper-
ation for a peaceful world.
-We help to relieve the poverty and
misery of others less fortunate than
ourselves.
576
