Richard Nixon, 1971
May 5 [159]
Thus I propose that legal services
lawyers be prohibited from criminal
representation.
For this same reason, legal services at-
torneys who are given full-time grants or
contracts should devote their entire pro-
fessional efforts to representation of eligi-
ble clients, and should not be permitted to
engage in the outside practice of law.
Certain lobbying activities, as well as
partisan political action, should also be
proscribed. The latter two activities would
be another dilution of resources, and
would have the further disadvantage of
placing the Legal Services Corporation
itself squarely in the political arena,
where it does not belong-and thus invit-
ing those political pressures from which
its independence is designed to insulate it.
On the other hand, these limitations
should not impair the right of the legal
services attorney to prepare model legis-
lation or to respond to the inquiries of
legislators. Such actions are traditionally
within the scope of the attorney's right to
represent a client and must be preserved.
STRENGTH FOR THE FUTURE
In discussing the broad contours of this
program, we must not overlook the chal-
lenges ahead. The Nation can be proud
that we have come so far already.
Under this administration alone, the legal
services caseload has increased some
97%-from approximately 610,000 cases
in fiscal year 1969 to an estimated
1,200,000 cases in fiscal year 1971-and
the budget allocations have increased dur-
ing this period by approximately one-
third. Yet today, perhaps four out of every
five legal problems of the poor still go
unattended. The challenge to us is thus
a significant one, and if we are to suc-
ceed in so delicate an undertaking we
must devise a program which will have
the full support not only of the Congress
and the executive branch, but of the
ple as well.
peo-
The full financial support of the govern-
ment is clearly needed in this endeavor.
I propose that upon the date of incor-
poration, all of the funds then appropri-
ated for legal services activities in the
Office of Economic Opportunity, includ-
ing those for research and training,
be transferred to the Legal Services Cor-
poration, so that it can undertake exist-
ing Office of Economic Opportunity
obligations.
To help us broaden the attack on our
unmet needs, I am also proposing two new
initiatives:
-First, I propose that specific authori-
zation be given for grants to indi-
vidual lawyers. This will increase the
opportunity for the private bar to
participate in legal services and will
enable the corporation to channel
greater resources into rural areas.
-Second, I propose that the Legal
Services Corporation be authorized
to identify the principal legal prob-
lems of the poor involving the Fed-
eral Government and then work with
appropriate governmental agencies
in trying to solve them. Hopefully,
this effort might in many cases elimi-
nate the need for poor persons to
seek redress in our overcrowded
courts. It would also conserve the
resources of the corporation with-
out denying to any lawyer the right
to bring a suit which he deems
necessary.
The Federal program of providing legal
pay for them is a dramatic symbol of this
services to Americans otherwise unable to
621
