[225] July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
225 Message About the Death of Dorothy Elston
Kabis. July 9, 1971
THE UNTIMELY death of Dorothy
Elston Kabis is a blow not only to her
friends and associates, but to the country
in whose service she lived and died.
Her dedication to good government
was unwavering, her organizational tal-
ents unsurpassed, her sense of humor un-
failing. The eloquence, perseverance and
tireless devotion of "Dottie" Kabis to the
important causes she espoused gave her
immeasurable influence in countless areas
of national endeavor.
She provided the modern American
woman a stirring example around which
to build her life, and proved to all of us
the unlimited potential for achievement
by women in our society.
The Republican Party is proud to
claim her. But we are even prouder that
she shared her talents with the nation. As
we who worked with her and knew her
best now memorialize the enduring good
she did, we also set the tone for what will
be a nation's lasting tribute. In our hearts,
as in the hearts of her friends across the
country, there will always be a special
place for Dorothy Elston Kabis.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Mrs. Kabis, 54, died of a heart attack
while visiting her father's gravesite in Massa-
chusetts on July 3, 1971. She had served as
Treasurer of the United States since May 8,
1969.
Senator William V. Roth, Jr., of Delaware,
read the message at memorial services for Mrs.
Kabis at the National Presbyterian Church in
Washington, D.C. The President was repre-
sented at the services by Virginia H. Knauer,
Special Assistant to the President for Consumer
Affairs, and Patricia Reilly Hitt, Assistant Sec-
retary for Community and Field Services, De-
partment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
The text of the message was posted for the
press at San Clemente, Calif.
226 Statement on Signing the Office of Education
and Related Agencies Appropriation Act, 1972.
July 11, 1971
I AM SIGNING today H.R. 7016, which
appropriates funds for fiscal 1972 for the
Office of Education and several related
Federal programs.
This will make Federal funds available
to schools and colleges earlier than at any
other time in recent years, thus permitting
careful planning for the fall term by our
educational institutions. In the past, such
planning has too frequently been made
impossible as a result of late enactment
of education appropriations. The early
passage and signing of this year's measure
is an accomplishment of which both the
Congress and the executive branch can
be proud.
H.R. 7016 provides spending authority
of $5.1 billion, and is the largest appro-
priation in the history of the Office of
Education. These appropriations will per-
mit the continuation of Federal programs
in thousands of classrooms to improve the
educational achievement and personal de-
velopment of our Nation's children.
While H.R. 7016 contains the same
level of spending authority as I requested
814
