[268] Aug. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
our strong competitors. And there are
new nations that have taken their first
faltering steps toward being competitors.
We welcomed this competition, but we
find that as this competition has come
along from the other nations of the world,
as they have done better-and we wel-
come their success-that America at
times during this period, because we did
not have to do so, have curbed our own
competitive spirit.
Well, now the time has come to renew
it. The time has come to be ourselves
again-still compassionate, pouring out
our wealth to all of those in need around
the world when we can, still with a sense
of responsibility toward others in the
world, still fair, still ready to help those
who need help but also let us be de-
termined to show what we can do, and let
us compete with other nations without
having one hand tied behind our back.
The turmoil and uncertainty of the
years just past have strained America's
spirit the turmoil and uncertainty of
war. They have led many to question the
Nation's purposes and destinies, even its
goodness.
We hear this "system," the American
system, that has made it possible for this
great and good country to come where it
has; we hear that it has produced our
abundance, protected our freedom, and
yet it is denounced as oppressive and
materialist. We hear our defense estab-
lishment in America, which has saved
other nations as well as our own from
tyranny and conquest, denounced as mili-
tarist and evil.
The right to criticize is a right we rec-
ognize in this country because it helps us
to renew ourselves; it makes us strong;
it makes us free. But I say to you tonight,
when so many voices are running down
America, the time has come for us to
speak up for America.
It is very easy to sit back and criticize;
it is hard to make the sacrifices, do the
work, make the extra effort that makes
the difference between a nation on the
way down and a nation on the way up.
But right at this time, let no one expect
to make his fortune-or his reputation-
by selling America short.
Tonight I can feel in this audience, and
I can feel in this land of ours, a new con-
fidence in America, a new birth of faith in
ourselves. I see a willingness to face
reality, a revival of moral courage, a fresh
determination to succeed.
The challenge of peace, the road to
the new prosperity will require all the
character we have. You and I know that
the American people have what it takes,
have what it takes to compete.
But when we talk about character of a
nation we must never forget that that
character depends upon the individual
character of 200 million Americans.
Where does that come from? It comes
from the home; it comes from the
churches; it comes from the schools of
this Nation. There is where the character
of the next generation, the coming gener-
ation, is being forged.
We must see to it that our children are
provided with the moral and spiritual and
religious values so necessary to a great
people in great times. And, as Cardinal
Cooke has pointed out, at a time we see
those private and parochial schools which
lay such stress on these religious values,
as we see them closing at the rate of one
a day, we must reslove to stop that trend
and turn it around, and you can count
on my support to do that.
Every man, even one who serves as
President of the United States, relates an
896
