[12] Jan. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
whatever they may be, and all the people
of this State. And I am, therefore, hon-
ored to be here to participate in your pride
in that team.
Now having said that, I want you to
know that I have gotten into a little trou-
ble over the past couple of years in picking
number one teams. In 1969-or '70, I
should recall, the 100th anniversary of
college football, you will remember that
before the bowl games I said that Texas
was number one, and since then I have
never been able to go to Pennsylvania
without a passport.
This year I didn't make that mistake
because I sought and got very good advice.
I was in Omaha in the last weeks of Octo-
ber. At that time Nebraska was number
three in the Associated Press poll. And I
had already been to Columbus, Ohio,
where everybody said Ohio State was
number one. I was in Indiana where
everybody told me that Notre Dame was
number one. I was in Texas where every-
body told me that Texas was number one,
and I was going to be in California where,
of course, all Californians thought that
Stanford was number one. And in Arizona,
Barry Goldwater said Arizona State was
number one.
So with Roman Hruska and Carl Curtis,
I said, "What should I do?" They thought
a bit and finally Carl spoke up and he
said, "You know, Mr. President, I would
wait until after the bowl games." That was
vision, real vision.
So in this year of football, a year of
many great teams, a year
in which many
can perhaps rightfully claim to be num-
ber one, to come to Nebraska, a great uni-
versity clearly apart from its great records
in the field of athletics, to come here to
the only major college team that was un-
defeated, and to make an award is some-
thing that I am very proud to do, proud to
recognize this university, to recognize its
coach, to recognize its co-captains, to
recognize its fine members of the team,
and in so doing to present the plaque from
the President of the United States.
Consequently, at this time, for the offi-
cial presentation, I would like to have the
coach, Bob Devaney, to step forward.
[Applause] You ought to run for some-
thing in this State.
And now the co-captains, Jerry Mur-
taugh and Dan Schneiss, if they would
step forward to represent the team.
I shall now read the plaque which I
understand will be put in one of the lock-
ers. But in any event [laughter-the
plaque's wording is as follows:
"The University of Nebraska 1970 foot-
ball team, Champions of the Big Eight
Conference. Victor in the 1971 Orange
Bowl, and picked by the Associated Press
Number One Team of the Nation."
[At this point, the President presented the
plaque to the coach of the University of
Nebraska football team, Bob Devaney, who
spoke briefly. The President then resumed
speaking.]
I
And now if I could come to the other
part of my assignment, as was pointed
out by your president a moment ago,
wanted to use this opportunity to address
the great student body of this university
and your guests about some of the prob-
lems we have in this Nation, common
problems, for younger people and older
people as well.
In beginning my remarks, it is quite
clear from the feeling in this audience that
this is a very exciting time for this univer-
sity. You are beginning the second hun-
dred
years of a very great tradition, and
you are beginning it as champions.
You can all take pride in your great
30
