Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 4 [250]
belts and be responsible in wage-price
decisions so that we can continue to be
competitive in the world.
That speaks to the problem of an in-
comes policy, this meeting that we will
have. The only question of difference
between Arthur Burns-and some Sena-
tors have raised this question-is: What
is the degree to which, in tackling these
individual wage settlements, we have
compulsion, we have criminal penalties. I
don't think they want compulsion or
criminal penalties.
Then the question is: How far will
per-
suasion go? Our record shows that in most
countries abroad that have tried it, except
for very small countries that are tightly
controlled, persuasion alone will work for
only 3 or 4 months.
So as far as we are concerned, I am
glad to consider recommendations for
tackling the problem. I will tackle them,
and I am serving notice now that we are
going to take up the problem with the
Productivity Commission. We are going
to look at each individual settlement in
major industries where there is going to
be wage-price negotiations and use the
influence we can to keep them in line,
and, in addition to that, we will consider a
recommendation on wage-price boards.
But I will reject it if I find—and I have
yet to find any recommendation that did
not have this ingredient in it-if I find
that it would impose a new bureaucracy
with enormous criminal powers, to fasten
itself on the American economy. That, I
think, would do far more harm than good.
which was recently announced is not good
for the country and not good for labor
and management, why do you not call in
the leaders of the steel industry and use
your influence to get them to change the
increase in prices and then, if necessary,
other parts of the settlement which are so
inimicable to the country?
THE PRESIDENT. Calling in the steel
industry and getting them to change
would not be effective. As you may recall,
in one instance earlier this year, we were
able to get a steel rollback. That had a
temporary beneficial effect. But at a time
that the steel industry has negotiated a
settlement of this nature, at a time when
its profits at 22 percent are the lowest
of any major industry, to tell the steel
industry that after they have negotiated a
settlement they must roll back their price
and run at a loss is simply unrealistic.
They are not going to do it.
The longer term answer here is for the
steel industry-and this is what we have
addressed ourselves to-and the labor to
recognize that now that they have had
their settlement, now that labor has gotten
a good increase, an increase consistent
with aluminum and cans and others, now
that steel found it necessary to raise prices,
that this may be good temporarily for both
but in the long run it will simply mean less
steel sold and less jobs. And that is why
we are zeroing in on the productivity side
because increases in productivity can be
the only answer where a wage increase of
this magnitude takes place.
THE STEEL INDUSTRY
up
[10.] Q. In the same line, to follow
that question, if the settlement in the steel
industry and particularly the raise in prices
WAGES FOR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, a minute ago
you mentioned something about doing
something about wages for Government
employees.
857
