Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 29 [415]
decades, we have learned, at inestimable
social cost, the truth of Franklin Roose-
velt's words:
Continued dependence upon relief in-
duces a spiritual and moral disintegra-
tion fundamentally destructive to the
national fibre. To dole out relief in this
way is to administer a narcotic, a subtle
destroyer of the human spirit.
With passage of these amendments, a
number of the workfare ideas outlined in
my welfare reform recommendations of
1969 and beyond have now become law.
The principle of work requirements is in
place. The Federal Government is com-
mitted to 90 percent of the cost of day
care and supplemental services. Tax de-
ductions have been provided for working
mothers, for day care costs, in the tax law
I recently signed.
But the welfare system is yet in need of
reform. Further economic incentives must
be provided to keep families together,
rather than break them apart-to en-
courage welfare recipients to take jobs,
rather than to discourage them from work-
ing. With its return in January, this Con-
gress should then complete the work of
welfare reform.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key Bis-
cayne, Fla.
As enacted, H.R. 10604 is Public Law
92-223 (85 Stat. 802).
415 Joint Statement Following Meetings With Chancellor
Willy Brandt of the Federal Republic of Germany
in Key Biscayne, Florida.
THE PRESIDENT of the United States
and the Chancellor of the Federal Re-
public of Germany, meeting in Key Bis-
cayne, Florida, on December 28 and 29,
reviewed the international developments
that have occurred since their last meet-
ing. They agreed that the close partner-
ship between America and Europe has
successfully withstood difficult tests and
has demonstrated its importance for their
common future.
Cooperation on monetary and trade
policy, one of the most important condi-
tions and guarantees for close American-
European relations, has been successfully
adapted to new conditions and now holds
out favorable prospects for further
development.
The future shape of economic relations
between America and Western Europe
will be based on close cooperation to be
December 29, 1971
arranged between the United States and
the enlarged European community.
Common defense through NATO is an
essential component of both U.S. and
German policy. In this spirit the progress
of joint efforts on the part of the Euro-
pean allies plays a major role.
The President and the Chancellor were
in agreement that all members of the al-
liance must adequately share the defense
burden in order to ensure their common
security.
The President reaffirmed that no deci-
sions affecting the Alliance will be taken
without full consultation with its allies.
The President reiterated that the Amer-
ican commitments in Europe will remain
unchanged and that, in particular, no re-
ductions in the American troops stationed
in Europe will be made.
Preparations for early East-West talks
71-234-72-80
1213
