Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
Confronted with the pressures of pop-
ulation and development, and with the
world's tremendously increased capacity
for environmental modification, we must
act together now to save for future gener-
ations the most outstanding natural areas
as well as places of unique historical,
archeological, architectural, and cultural
value to mankind.
V. FURTHER INSTITUTIONAL
IMPROVEMENT
The solutions to environmental and
ecological problems are often complex and
costly. If we are to develop sound policies
and programs in the future and receive
early warning on problems, we need to
refine our analytical techniques and use
the best intellectual talent that is avail-
able.
After thorough discussions with a num-
ber of private foundations, the Federal
Government through the National Science
Foundation and the Council on Environ-
mental Quality will support the estab-
lishment of an Environmental Institute.
I hope that this nonprofit institute will
be supported not only by the Federal
Government but also by private founda-
tions. The Institute would conduct policy
studies and analyses drawing upon the
capabilities of our universities and experts
in other sectors. It would provide new and
alternative strategies for dealing with
the whole spectrum of environmental
problems.
VI. TOWARD A BETTER LIFE
Adoption of the proposals in this mes-
sage will help us to clean up the problems
of the past, to reduce the amount of waste
which is disposed, and to deal creatively
with problems of the future before they
become critical. But action by govern-
ment alone can never achieve the high
quality environment we are seeking.
We must better understand how eco-
nomic forces induce some forms of envi-
ronmental degradation, and how we can
create and change economic incentives
to improve rather than degrade environ-
mental quality. Economic incentives, such
as the sulfur oxides charge and the lead
tax, can create a strong impetus to reduce
pollution levels. We must experiment
with other economic incentives as a sup-
plement to our regulatory efforts. Our
goal must be to harness the powerful
mechanisms of the marketplace, with its
automatic incentives and restraints, to
encourage improvement in the quality
of life.
We must also recognize that the tech-
nological, regulatory, and economic meas-
ures we adopt to solve our environmental
problems cannot succeed unless we enlist
the active participation of the American
people. Far beyond any legislative or ad-
ministrative programs that may be sug-
gested, the direct involvement of our
citizens will be the critical test of whether
we can indeed have the kind of environ-
ment we want for ourselves and for our
children.
All across the country, our people are
concerned about the environment-the
quality of the air, of the water, of the
open spaces that their children need. The
question I hear everywhere is "What can
I do?"
Fortunately, there is a great deal that
each of us can do. The businessman in
his every day decisions can take into ac-
count the effects on the environment of
his alternatives and act in an environ-
mentally responsible way. The housewife
141
