[199] June 1I
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion in any program or activity to which
HUD gives financial assistance. Title VIII
of the 1968 Civil Rights Act requires HUD
to investigate complaints of housing dis-
crimination and, where appropriate, to
attempt to resolve such complaints
through persuasion or conciliation. In cal-
endar year 1970, HUD completed proc-
essing of 169 complaints; in 89 of these
cases conciliation was successful. In the
same year, HUD referred 19 of these cases
where conciliation failed to the Depart-
ment of Justice.
Under the terms of Title VIII of the
1968 Civil Rights Act, the Attorney Gen-
eral is empowered to bring suits in Federal
court where he finds that racial discrimi-
nation in housing constitutes a "pattern or
practice," or where housing discrimina-
tion cases raise issues of general public
importance. Since January 1969, the At-
torney General has brought or partici-
pated in 85 such suits against more than
250 defendants in 22 States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia. In addition, the Justice
Department has negotiated out of court
with several hundred other persons and
companies and brought them into volun-
tary compliance.
These cases have involved not only out-
right racial discrimination in the sale or
rental of homes but also such practices as
discriminatory real estate advertising and
exclusion of minorities from multiple list-
ing services. Several of the suits have been
against municipal authorities. Several
others have been against major compa-
nies controlling tens of thousands of dwell-
ing units, and have resulted in orders that
they take dramatic remedial efforts to at-
tract minority families into buildings from
which they have previously been barred or
discouraged.
Not only have these suits directly
opened to nonwhites a great deal of hous-
ing previously available only to whites;
they also have had a significant, wider im-
pact in stimulating others to come into
voluntary compliance with the antidis-
crimination laws. This vigorous enforce-
ment as required by law will continue.
Unlawful racial discrimination in hous-
ing extends beyond the barring of indi-
viduals from particular buildings or
neighborhoods because of race. The courts
have also held that, when its reasons for
doing so are racial, a community may not
rezone in order to exclude a federally
assisted housing development. In such
cases, where changes in land use regu-
lations are made for what turns out to be
a racially discriminatory purpose, the
Attorney General, in appropriate circum-
stances, will also bring legal proceedings.
HOW FEDERAL PROGRAMS OPERATE
In order to understand the way in
which the broad "fair housing" mandates.
translate into specific actions, it is im-
portant to understand what some of the
Federal housing programs are and how
they operate.
HUD provides direct financial assist-
ance in three broad areas:
-Housing for low- and moderate-
income families. This includes the
Home Ownership and Rental Hous-
ing Assistance subsidy programs
("Section 235" and "Section 236”
housing, respectively), the rent sup-
plement program enacted in 1965,
and assistance to low-rent public
housing.
-Grants for State, areawide, and local
planning.
-Aid for community development ac-
tivities, such as urban renewal and
water and sewer grants.
726
