[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
capital in recent years have drawn at-
tention to a third dimension of interna-
tional monetary relations. It has become
clear that very large amounts of money
can be attracted to any major country
whose money and credit markets are
tighter than the comparable markets in
the rest of the world. We need an inten-
sive examination to determine whether
there is a need to reinforce the present
techniques and procedures of interna-
tional monetary cooperation to enable us
better to cope with such movements.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
When this nation first undertook for-
eign assistance on a peacetime basis, in
the Truman Doctrine and Marshall Plan
of 1947, the rationale of our effort was
clear. We were promoting economic re-
covery in Europe to help support the res-
toration of democratic institutions. Eco-
nomic and military aid went hand in hand
as
means of strengthening our allies
against the threat of Communist aggres-
sion. The weakness of our allies and
friends after the Second World War left
the major responsibility to the United
States.
In the two decades since then, we
moved from reconstruction to the support
of development, as the geographic focus
of our aid programs moved from Europe
to the Middle East and then to Asia,
Africa, and Latin America. The objec-
tives of our programs also evolved as
economic and social development became
intertwined with security objectives, and
as we provided aid to a wide variety of
countries. For more than two decades our
aid programs have therefore been justified
with a wide variety of reasons. Americans
who have debated the issue of foreign aid
have been unable to find a clear answer
to questions about its fundamental pur-
pose: Was it to win us friends? Was it out
of altruistic motives? Was it to stimulate
political democracy? Was it to maintain
a forward defense? Aid appropriations
declined steadily and steeply in the
1960's-principally, I am convinced, be-
cause of our confusion of purposes, and
because programs tailored to the postwar
period no longer suited the changed
environment.
When this Administration came into
office, the United States needed a new
approach. We needed a new conceptual
foundation that made sense in the 1970's
just as the rationale of aid in the immedi-
ate postwar period made sense then.
Therefore, in 1969-after developing
the principles of our overall foreign
policy-I appointed a distinguished task
force of experts from the business and
academic communities, chaired by Mr.
Rudolph Peterson, to make comprehen-
sive and detailed recommendations on our
foreign assistance programs. On the basis
of their work and our subsequent analysis
in the National Security Council system,
I proposed a sweeping change in our for-
eign assistance policy in a message to Con-
gress on September 15, 1970.
Purposes. As the Peterson Task Force
pointed out, "there is not one U.S. for-
eign assistance program but several. They
serve different purposes and should be
weighed on their individual merits." We
divided them into three categories:
-security assistance, the purpose of
which is to promote our national
security by supporting the security of
other nations.
-humanitarian assistance, which em-
bodies the traditional compassionate
concern of the American people for
296
