Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 5 [89]
they are treated as children who are given
a meager allowance, told precisely how to
spend it, and then scolded for not being
self-reliant enough to handle more respon-
sibility. If we want State and local gov-
ernment to survive, then we must break
into this vicious cycle.
The best way to develop greater respon-
sibility at the State and local level is to
give greater responsibility to State and
local leaders. Only then can we reward
and strengthen the many leaders who are
effective and help the public to identify
and to replace the few who are not. If
we want to get more good people into
government, then we must give them more
opportunity to do good things. To do
otherwise, to continue with programs that
assign to appointed Federal bureaucrats
decisions that should be made by elected
local leaders, will only serve to compound
the danger of governmental atrophy at the
State and local level.
A NEW PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
PROGRAM
To strengthen State and local capaci-
ties even further, I am presenting a sec-
ond proposal today, one that would do
a great deal to help all of our revenue
sharing proposals work even better. I am
asking the Congress to authorize a new
program of Planning and Management
Assistance to States, to areawide agencies
and to localities. Under this program,
$100 million would be available for these
purposes.
The new program would involve more
money, and would provide recipient gov-
ernments with broader and more flexible
support for building up their capacity to
govern effectively. It would be focused
primarily on the chief executives of State
and local general purpose governments—
on governors, mayors and county execu-
tives to enhance their ability to make
well informed policy decisions, to lay
intelligent long range plans, to allocate
their budgetary resources wisely, and to
coordinate complex development activi-
ties in many fields. It will place new em-
phasis on the creation of a comprehensive
management process, one that ties to-
gether planning and action, not just in
the community development field, but in
fields such as transportation, education,
law enforcement and all other fields of
local and areawide governmental en-
deavor. Local officials would have a great
deal of discretion in determining just how
this planning and management assistance
would be utilized.
Special Revenue Sharing itself can do
a great deal to liberate local governments
so that their planning and their programs
can become more imaginative and more
effective. A new program of planning and
management assistance would help States
and local officials take full advantage of
this opportunity. It is a significant com-
panion proposal to all of our revenue shar-
ing initiatives.
CONCLUSION
For a variety of reasons, then, we can
be confident that the States and localities
will prove equal to their revenue sharing
responsibilities. But as we consider these
programs, we should also remember one
more thing. To choose the revenue shar-
ing mechanism is not to choose any one
level of government over another level
71-234-72- -29
405
