Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 19 [363]
ago you celebrated the founding of this
organization by Samuel Gompers. Samuel
Gompers-I read a little about him before
coming down-was a pacifist. But in
World War I, as you pointed out to me
one time in the Cabinet Room, Samuel
Gompers joined in supporting the war ef-
fort in World War I and supported Presi-
dent Wilson's efforts right to the hilt.
Samuel Gompers, a pacifist, and Wood-
row Wilson, who in his heart was also a
pacifist, thought that World War I was
the war to end wars. Their dreams proved
to be wrong. We have had World War II,
we have had Korea, and we have had
Vietnam, since ending World War I.
So our goal today is not simply a war to
end wars. We are ending the war in Viet-
nam. Our goal today is not simply that.
Our goal is to win a peace that will end
wars and that goes beyond the immediate
objective of ending the war that we are in.
Now I come to another area where we
have a little disagreement. I know that
some of you have read about my trips to
Peking and to Moscow, and there have
been some rather striking statements made
about those trips from this platform. I re-
spect a difference of opinion. I know that
it has been suggested that I am taking
those trips halfway around the world.
really as political junkets in an election
year.
Let me be very blunt on that point.
These trips are not about the next elec-
tion. They are about the next generation,
and we all have an obligation to that next
generation. No one in this room knows
better than I do the great differences be-
tween the Communist societies and ours.
No one in this room would go to such a
conference with his eyes more open than
mine will be open. They know me. I know
them. Those differences are not going to
be solved by these trips.
Then why do we go? I will tell you
why: It is a practical consideration. There
are 250 million people in the Soviet
Union. Their nuclear power, as far as
land-based missiles is concerned, is pres-
ently about equal to ours, and possibly
even a bit ahead. There are 750 million
people in China. Within 15 years, if they
want to do it, their nuclear power will be a
very, very significant threat to the peace
of the world if they want to be a threat to
the
peace of the world.
So we then come to this question: What
do we do about it? Do we wait 10, 15, 20
years from now and continue to stand in
confrontation with those that we do dis-
agree with; or, in other words, putting it
more directly, do we talk about our differ-
ences or do we fight about our differences?
My friends, with the advent of nuclear
warfare, a President of the United States,
with an obligation to future generations,
has no choice but to talk about those dif-
ferences, talk about them with this goal
in mind: not of giving in on our system,
not of making concessions at the expense
of our friends, but talking about them
with the great goal of seeing that the
peo-
ples of this world can have different sys-
tems but will not be engaged in nuclear
destruction. That is why I am going. We
are going to try. We may not succeed, but
I think future generations would hold us
responsible if we failed to try.
I mentioned the differences. I want to
tell you now an area where we agree, and
I am most grateful for that agreement.
That is in the field that I mentioned
tangentially a moment ago: national de-
fense. President Meany knows, because
many times, both at the executive council
II21
