Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 29 [315]
315 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Reports
on Highway, Traffic, and Motor Vehicle Safety
Programs. September 29, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Safety on the Nation's roads and high-
ways is a subject which affects virtually
our entire population. Everyone who
drives or who rides in a motor vehicle,
everyone who walks on and crosses the
roadways has a very high stake in the
promotion of traffic safety. But safety
measures and remedial programs can suc-
ceed only if they have the active support
of governments at every level, of business
and industry, and of the general public.
In previous years, two reports have been
submitted to the Congress which sepa-
rately described the administration of the
two principal laws in this important area:
the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1966 and the Highway
Safety Act of 1966. This year a single
general summary report has been pre-
pared concerning the operation of these
laws. Two separate, supplementary
volumes-one for each of the laws-con-
tain additional and more detailed
information.
It is my hope that the Highway Safety
and the Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety
Annual Reports for 1970 will do much to
increase public understanding of this per-
vasive menace to life, limb, and property.
The summary report in particular tells a
great deal about what must be done to
fight this danger. It discusses the enormous
toll of highway accidents in both human
and financial terms, and indicates some
favorable effects of remedies instituted
since the 1966 legislation was passed. In
addition, it describes the lifesaving nature
of programs which are now receiving
priority attention, tells about the major
efforts in 1970 to develop and enforce
motor vehicle safety standards, and re-
ports on efforts to expand and improve
State highway safety programs in accord-
ance with Federal standards. The report
also touches on some of the basic research
projects which are advancing the tech-
nology of automotive and highway safety.
As I transmit these Reports to the Con-
gress, I emphasize again the commitment
of this Administration to advance the
cause of highway safety. With the cooper-
ation of the Congress, we can continue to
make great strides in this critical field.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
September 29, 1971
NOTE: The reports are entitled:
"Highway and Traffic Safety 1970, U.S.
Department of Transportation, National High-
way Traffic Safety Administration" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 54 pp.).
"1970 Report on Activities Under the High-
way Safety Act" (Government Printing Office,
50 pp. and appendixes).
"1970 Report on Activities Under the
National Traffic & Motor Vehicle Safety Act"
(Government Printing Office, 60 pp. and
appendixes).
71-234-72-67
1013
