Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 19 [274]
works of peace. All of us want to do that.
We shall take vigorous steps to correct
the occasional abuses which are bound
to occur in the military, as in any other
human organization, and we are doing
that.
But on one point let no American, and
particularly let no member of the VFW,
ever yield an inch, and that point is our
deep pride in the Armed Forces of the
United States and our enduring tribute of
gratitude to the men who comprise them,
professionals and citizen-soldiers alike.
It won't be easy to follow through on
the measures that I announced Sunday
night, and in what seems to be unrelated
but is closely related to the field that I
have just talked about, to generate 20
million new jobs over the next 10 years-
that is how many we are going to need
for the younger generation coming along;
to stop the rise in the cost of living; to
protect our dollar against attacks of in-
ternational speculation.
This hits very close to home. I know
what it means for some of you to forgo a
pay raise that you deserve, for a time, for
others to wait a little longer for dividends
that your invested dollar has earned. Yet
the willingness to make short term sacri-
fices in the drive toward a long term goal
is the very essence of a disciplined fight-
ing force and is second nature to veterans
like yourselves.
In other words, if delaying a pay raise,
if not getting a rise in dividends which
you expected for some of the people is
going to result in stopping the rise in the
cost of living for all the people, then that
is good. Let's do it. Let's make that kind
of sacrifice. Consequently, I ask for your
support, above party, crossing all eco-
nomic lines, for this program of revitaliz-
ing America's economy, rekindling her
competitive spirit.
It is essential that these two goals be
mentioned together, for they are insepa-
rable. The new prosperity we seek is in no
sense a cushion of a self-indulgent old age
in this Republic; rather, it will serve as
a launching pad for new greatness in
America's third century which will be
arriving in 5 years.
The steps we have taken with regard
to import charges and protection of the
dollar do not amount to the building of
a permanent protective wall around this
country in which we can relax and afford
to be inefficient and noncompetitive. They
are aimed at simply preparing us to par-
ticipate and compete more vigorously
than ever in world affairs and with any
other economy on the globe. It was our
competitive spirit that made us a great
nation, a strong nation, a rich nation in
the first place. We need a rebirth of that
spirit today.
This is the challenge of peace. Nearly
70 years ago when the organization that
later became the VFW was a brand new
group of young Spanish-American War
veterans, an American philosopher
wrestled with the meaning of war and
the problems of peace. The great need,
William James wrote, was to find what
he called "the moral equivalent of war:
something heroic that will speak to men
as universally as war does, and yet will
be as compatible with their spiritual selves
as war (is) incompatible."
Four times since he wrote those words
Americans have gone to war, but to our
great credit, never for conquest, never to
gain territory, but because other leaders
in the world were attempting to gain
territory, were embarked on conquest. It
911
