Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
ply lines in the Mu Gia Pass and in the
passes from North Vietnam into Laos.
Now, I am confused because of all the
talk about the understandings with North
Vietnam, with the new criteria on the
bombing you seem to have put on, and the
fact that what many people got out of
this one series of raids was that we have
quite enlarged the reasons for our going
north to bomb.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Chancellor,
I have no desire to resume the bombing
of North Vietnam. We do not want to go
back to the bombing of the strategic tar-
gets in North Vietnam, and we do not
want even to bomb military targets unless
it becomes necessary to do so-and this
is the key point-to protect American
forces.
Now, with regard to the understanding,
let us see what it is.
First, there was an understanding.
President Johnson said so, Dean Rusk said
so, Clark Clifford said so, Mr. Harriman *
said so. There was an understanding that
after the bombing halt, that unarmed re-
connaissance planes could fly over North
Vietnam with impunity. We had to insist
on that, because otherwise we would have
no intelligence with regard to what they
were planning on an attack.
So, when they fire on those planes I
have given instructions that we will take
out the SAM [surface-to-air missile] site
or whatever it is that has fired upon them.
We will continue to do so; and if they
say there is no understanding in that re-
spect, then there are no restraints what-
* Dean Rusk, Secretary of State 1961-69;
Clark M. Clifford, Secretary of Defense 1968-
69; and W. Averell Harriman, head of the
U.S. delegation to the Paris peace talks with
North Vietnam 1968–69.
ever on us, and so we must have that in
mind.
Now, the other understanding is one
that I have laid down. It is a new one. It
is a new one which goes along with our
Vietnamization program and our with-
drawal program. I pointed out a moment
ago what has happened in Vietnam, the
fact that our casualties are a third of what
they were 2 years ago, the fact that we
have 265,000 out of Vietnam now, and
that we now can see the end of the Ameri-
can combat role in Vietnam. We can see
that coming.
We must realize, however, as Secretary
Rogers pointed out in his news conference
at the State Department a few days ago,
that in May of this year most American
combat forces, ground combat forces, will
have been withdrawn from Vietnam. But
there will still be 280,000 there left to
withdraw.
Now, the President of the United
States, as Commander in Chief, owes a
responsibility to those men to see that they
are not subjected to an overwhelming
attack from the North. That is why we
must continue reconnaissance, and that is
why also, if the enemy at a time we are
trying to deescalate, at a time we are
withdrawing, starts to build up its infil-
tration, starts moving troops and supplies
through the Mu Gia Pass and the other
passes, then I, as Commander in Chief,
will have to order bombing strikes on
those key areas.
That was one of the reasons for this
strike, and it will be done again if they
continue to threaten our remaining forces
in Vietnam. But only on those military
targets, and only if necessary.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Does it bother you,
sir, that this was not made as clear then as
you have made it now?
13
