Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
created on January 1 of this year, and a
like amount will also be created in Janu-
ary 1972.
Even in their first year of existence,
SDRs have won widespread acceptance as
an integral part of the monetary system.
They have been used extensively by some
countries to help finance their payments
imbalances. The United States both ac-
cepted and paid out SDRs to finance its
payments position in 1970, and will con-
tinue to do so in the future as our pay-
ments situation requires. We look forward
to further growth in SDRs, and to their
further use by all countries. We look for-
ward to the day when this product of
remarkable international cooperation will
become the primary reserve asset in the
international monetary system.
We also welcome the sizable increase
in IMF quotas decided upon in 1970.
They will provide an increased pool of
temporary financing for international pay-
ments imbalances. Most importantly, the
quota increases-together with the
SDRs-further enhance the position of
the IMF at the center of the interna-
tional monetary system, demonstrating the
successful role which can be played by an
international institution in a field where
worldwide cooperation is a prerequisite
for progress.
There was also some progress last year
toward the second objective of interna-
tional monetary cooperation-to improve
the means by which widely diverse na-
tional economies can adjust to each other.
Payments imbalances can be financed only
temporarily; we need a constructive and
orderly means of making more lasting
rectifications--without forcing countries
to resort to restrictions on international
transactions, or to excessive inflation or
unemployment at home.
An effective international adjustment
process begins with effective economic
policies in each country. Sound economies
must then be soundly related to one an-
other. Improved procedures by which
orderly exchange-rate adjustments can
contribute to this process would promote
stability in the monetary system and help
prevent the kind of crises that punctuated
the 1960's. Canada's temporary freeing
of its exchange rate in May 1970 demon-
strated the potential utility of such a
mechanism but also emphasized the ques-
tion of whether there is a need for new
international rules to govern its usage.
The international financial community
wisely took advantage of the relative calm
of 1970 to make an important advance to-
ward an international consensus on such
an improved mechanism. The Executive
Directors of the IMF issued a report on
the role of exchange rates which recog-
nized that, within the broad context of
stability in exchange rate relationships,
more flexible techniques and practices
could help improve the adjustment
process and thus the international
monetary system as a whole. Three pos-
sible improvements were singled out: a
widening of the margins within which ex-
change rates could fluctuate around their
par values; more frequent and already
smaller changes in parities themselves; and
temporary use of floating exchange rates,
with appropriate safeguards, to effect
transitions from one par value to another.
We welcome continued work in this area
by the IMF and other bodies, with par-
ticular attention to the possible need for
amendments to the IMF Articles of
Agreement to achieve the needed evolu-
tionary improvements in the present
system.
Finally, the massive shifts of short-term
295
