Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 23 [297]
Now, to answer your question as to
what happens when the freeze is over,
however, would not be appropriate. It is
a matter we are considering as we look at
Phase 2.
It is a matter which we, of course, will
address ourselves to. One of the reasons
that we have to move from a freeze which
allows for no flexibility to a Phase 2 op-
eration is to take care of such inequities
as you have described.
Now we will go back to the right again.
I don't mean you are on the left, under-
stand. [Laughter]
THE STOCK MARKET
[13] Q. Mr. President, you were cor-
rect a little over a year ago in saying it
was a good time to buy stocks, and ap-
parently a number of people are looking
for a winning formula, because we have
had a number of questions precisely as
follows:
Would you put your money into the
stock market at this time?
THE PRESIDENT. When I made that
statement that we ought to buy stocks—
and if anybody took that advice you
wouldn't be here, you'd be out spending
it right now, the money you would have
made-but, in any event, when I made
that statement, I got a lot of criticism
from around the country because they said
after all, people rely on what the Pres-
ident says, and then if stocks go down, it
is going to be very detrimental to their
interests and, of course, to the interests of
the President as well.
Let me put it this way: An individual
should buy stocks if he has confidence in
the future of the American economy and
confidence in the future of America. So
I will answer your question by saying I
am confident about the future of the
American economy, and I am confident
about the future of America. And you
can judge from that that I would buy
stocks for that reason, because of that
confidence.
Let me tell you what I base it on. I
base it on, first, what has happened to
this economy since the first of the year:
The leading indicators are up 15 percent
since the first of the year; retail sales, as
you know, Mr. Gerstacker, are up 15 per-
cent since the first of the year, and run-
ning 8 to 9 percent above a year ago at
the present time.
Automobiles-and, of course, I would
have to admit that part of this may be
due to the fact that some people are buy-
ing automobiles while the freeze is in ef-
fect-but on the other hand, it must not
go without noting that automobiles are 25
percent higher in the month ending the
20th of September than they were a year
ago.
We find also that as far as the economy
generally is concerned, it moved up at
the rate of 8 percent in real growth in
the first quarter, at 5 percent in real
growth in the second quarter; $33 billion
in the first quarter, $22 billion in the
second quarter.
I said at the first of this year that 1971
would be a good year and that 1972 would
be a very good year. I will modify that
to this extent: The last quarter of 1971
will be very good, and 1972 will also be,
as I have indicated, a very good year.
Now, based on that, I would say that
anybody that bets-and that is what you
do when you buy stocks-long term, don't
sell, don't go for those short-term gains,
keep it for 6 months-but anybody who
975
