[333]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Oct. 15
religious faith, that morality, that strength
of character that America had when it was
young, that we still have today, but that
it is most difficult to keep as a nation
becomes wealthy, particularly at a time
that it has great responsibilities, as we
have today.
I want all of you to know that as I
stand here today, after the wonderful
welcome that Billy received as we drove
through the streets of Charlotte, that I
have great faith about the future of
America.
I have faith in it not because we are the
strongest nation in the world, which we
are, and not because we are the richest
nation in the world, which we are, but
because there is still, in the heartland of
this country-and the heartland of
America is in every State of America-
there is still a strong religious faith, a
morality, a spiritual quality which makes
the American people not just a rich
people or a strong people, but makes the
American people a people with that faith
which enables them to meet the challenge
of greatness.
I thank Billy Graham's hometown and
the people of his community for what you
have done in producing this fine man.
You have contributed to America and the
world one of the great leaders of our
time.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:25 p.m. in the
Charlotte Coliseum.
"Billy Graham Day" was sponsored and
organized by the citizens of Charlotte where
the evangelist was born.
334 Remarks Announcing the Conversion of Fort
Detrick, Maryland, to a Center for Cancer
Research. October 18, 1971
Senator Beall, Senator Mathias, Congress-
man Byron, ladies and gentlemen:
I am glad to see that, despite what hap-
pened to the Orioles yesterday, everybody
is happy here today in Maryland.
I have come here today for the pur-
pose of making an announcement with
regard to this facility, which has, of
course,
an effect on all of the people who live in
this area; but it also has an enormous ef-
fect in terms of the future of the people
of the United States, and probably the
future of the people of the world.
As I flew over this facility-and I have
flown over it many times on my way to
Camp David-I was impressed by its size.
As I looked down upon it today, I realized
that up until 2 years ago this facility was
one of the most highly classified top secret
facilities in the whole United States. As
all of you who live in this part of Mary-
land know, there was no way you could
get into this area without a top secret
clearance. The reason was that this facil-
ity was being used for the purpose of
research in biological warfare weapons.
In November of 1969, I made a decision
that the United States would take the
leadership in discontinuing research in the
development of weapons for biological
warfare. As a result of that decision, this
facility, therefore, no longer could be used
in that way. But it was one of the finest
facilities in the world, and consequently,
we found that, in January of this year
when I made an announcement with re-
1050
