[360] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
360 Statement on Signing the Military Appropriations
Authorization Bill. November 17, 1971
I HAVE today signed H.R. 8687, the mil-
itary procurement authorization act of
1971.
To avoid any possible misconceptions,
I wish to emphasize that section 601 of
this act-the so-called Mansfield Amend-
ment-does not represent the policies of
this Administration. Section 601 urges
that the President establish a "final date"
for the withdrawal of all U.S. forces from
Indochina, subject only to the release of
U.S. prisoners of war and an accounting
for the missing in action.
Section 601 exp.esses a judgment about
the manner in which the American in-
volvement in the war should be ended.
However, it is without binding force or
effect, and it does not reflect my judgment
about the way in which the war should
be brought to a conclusion. My signing of
the bill that contains this section, there-
fore, will not change the policies I have
pursued and that I shall continue to pur-
sue toward this end.
Let me reiterate what has been and
remains United States policy regarding
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Indochina.
Our goal-and my hope-is a nego-
tiated settlement providing for the total
withdrawal of all foreign forces, including
our own, for the release of all prisoners,
and for a cease-fire throughout Indo-
china. In the absence of such a settlement,
or until such a settlement is reached, the
rate of withdrawal of U.S. forces will be
determined by three factors: by the level
of enemy activity, by the progress of our
program of Vietnamization, and by prog-
ress toward obtaining the release of all
of our prisoners wherever they are in
Southeast Asia and toward obtaining a
cease-fire for all of Southeast Asia.
It is because section 601 of this bill will
not in fact alter this policy that I have
signed it into law. I would add, regret-
fully, that legislative actions such as this
hinder rather than assist in the search for
a negotiated settlement.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8687 is Public Law
92-156 (85 Stat. 423).
361 Statement on Signing the Health Manpower and
November 18, 1971
Nurse Training Bills.
IT IS with special pleasure that I am
signing into law today H.R. 8629 and
H.R. 8630, the Comprehensive Health
Manpower Training Act of 1971 and the
Nurse Training Act of 1971. These acts
follow substantially the recommendations
I made to the Congress last February-
and they constitute the most comprehen-
sive health manpower legislation in the
Nation's history.
But legislation is only a first step. These
new programs must now be adequately
funded and effectively carried out. I am,
therefore, asking the Congress for a new
supplemental appropriation for health
manpower programs. This new appro-
priation would bring our overall spend-
ing for health manpower programs in the
current fiscal year to $530 million, a level
which is $100 million higher than in fiscal
year 1971.
Expanded manpower programs are an
1114
