Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
very great differences with regard to their
vital interests, and the negotiation process
will sometimes be very, very extended. It
doesn't mean that we are going to have—
negotiation does not necessarily mean
agreement.
Now, let's be quite specific. Mr. Kosygin
in his statement just a couple of days ago
to the Japanese newspaperman, as you
know, complained about our policy in
Vietnam as he has previously; he com-
plained about our policy in the Mideast.
We, of course, have been concerned
about their movements in the Caribbean.
We have been concerned by what you
mentioned, their own activities in the Mid-
east; and, of course, we have been con-
cerned about their continuing harassment
from time to time of the Berlin access
routes.
Nevertheless, on the plus side, let's see
what has happened. Over the past 2 years
the United States and the Soviet Union
have been negotiating. We have been
negotiating, for example, on arms con-
trol. Those negotiations will begin again
in Helsinki* in March. I am optimistic
that we will reach an agreement eventu-
ally. I do not suggest now that we are go-
ing to have a comprehensive agreement,
because there is a basic disagreement with
regard to what strategic weapons-what
that definition is.
But we are now willing to move to a
noncomprehensive agreement. We are go-
ing to be able to discuss that with the
Soviets in the next round at Helsinki.*
I am not predicting that we are going
to have an agreement next month or 2
months from now or 3 months from now.
But in terms of arms control, we have
*The strategic arms limitation talks resumed
in Vienna on March 19, 1971.
some overwhelming forces that are going
to bring about an agreement eventually,
and it is simply this: The Soviet Union
and the United States have a common in-
terest in avoiding the escalating burden of
arms-you know that they have even cut
down on their SS-9 and big missile de-
ployment lately, and development—and,
second, the Soviet Union and the United
States have an overwhelming common
interest in avoiding nuclear competition
which could lead to nuclear destruction.
So, in this field, I think we are going
to make some progress. In the Mideast it
is true we are far apart, but we are having
discussions. On Berlin we are far apart,
but we are negotiating. And finally, with
regard to the rhetoric-and the rhetoric
in international affairs does make a dif-
ference-the rhetoric, while it has been
firm, has generally been non-inflammatory
on our part and on theirs.
So, I am not without the confidence
that I had at the beginning. I always
realized that our differences were very
great, that it was going to take time. But
the United States and the Soviet Union
owe it to their own people and the people
of the world, as the super powers, to nego-
tiate rather than to confront.
POSSIBILITY OF SUMMIT TALKS
[14.] MRS. DICKERSON. Mr. President,
you always have put a certain value on
personal diplomacy. Do you think this
would be a good time for you personally
to talk with some of the Russian leaders?
Do you think it is a good time to have a
summit, of sorts?
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Dickerson, as
you know, I have had conversations with
the Russian leaders through the years and,
of course, with Ambassador Dobrynin, a
15
