Richard Nixon, 1971
[99]
Mar. 13
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. to
the graduating class which included his son-in-
law, Dwight David Eisenhower II.
In his opening words, the President referred
to Vice Adm. Richard G. Colbert, President,
Naval War College, and Capt. Eugene H.
Farrell, Commander, Officer Candidate School,
99
Newport, R.I.; Gov. Frank Licht of Rhode
Island; and Herbert F. DeSimone, Assistant
Secretary for Environment and Urban Systems,
Department of Transportation.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
Statement About United States Prisoners of War and
Missing in Action in Southeast Asia.
March 13, 1971
IT IS appropriate that, as the one solemn
note on this evening's program, the Grid-
iron Club has chosen a matter of deep
humanitarian concern to all Americans-
the plight of more than 1,600 U.S. mili-
tary men captured or missing in Southeast
Asia. Some of our men have been in pris-
oner-of-war camps for more than 6 years,
many with no word ever to their families.
Many of the families endure the anguish
of not knowing whether their man is dead
or alive.
There are many kinds of heroism in
wartime: the raw courage of the soldier
or marine in the field; the skill under pres-
sure of the air crew in combat; the dedica-
tion of the corpsman going after the
wounded under fire. Another kind of hero-
ism is that imposed in meeting the ordeal
of prolonged captivity.
1
The three men ยน standing before you
have survived that test-but they know,
and we all know, that there are hundreds
of others who continue to endure pro-
longed confinement. We salute these three
men tonight, and in doing so we honor
their comrades who remain in enemy
hands, and the many who are missing.
And also we honor their comrades who
1
ยน Col. Norris M. Overly, USAF, Lt. Robert F.
Frishman, USN, and M. Sgt. Daniel L. Pitzer,
USA, former prisoners of war in Southeast Asia.
have given their lives to the service of
our Nation.
I know all of us are concerned about
the problem of those who are prisoners of
war or missing in action. As journalists
many of you have reported on this hu-
manitarian problem. Growing public in-
terest and concern about our POW's stems
to a large extent from what the news
media have done. Your reporting has
brought information to citizens around the
world and comfort to the families by let-
ting them know these are not forgotten
men, far from it. We believe that some of
the progress that has been made in ob-
taining information about those captured
in Southeast Asia results from the awaken-
ing of public opinion as a result of your
news reports.
All of us are concerned also about your
American journalist colleagues who are
missing or captured in Southeast Asia, as
well as the dozen other journalists of other
nations who may be in Communist hands.
I fervently hope that all Americans will
continue to support efforts to obtain the
release of all our prisoners as soon as pos-
sible, as I proposed on October 7, 1970. So
let us join our prayers to this purpose.
And let us give it our continued dedication
and continued public understanding, for
the sake of the prisoners, for the sake of
431
