[412] Dec. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. As a matter of
fact, I thought of that, particularly after
signing the cancer bill yesterday. I thought
of the people who might be here with ter-
minal diseases. And last night, too, it was
brought home to me. I don't get to see
television very often, but David [Eisen-
hower] told me that I had to see an ABC
show, "Brian's Song," about Brian Piccolo
and Gale Sayers.ยน Believe me, it was really
one of the great motion pictures that I
have seen. Some will say it was corny, and
the rest. I think it was a beautiful produc-
tion, and one that every American ought
to see. I was glad I got a chance to see it.
But after seeing that picture, of course,
I naturally thought of people who were in
hospitals and what they were going
through. I only wish I had time to go
through and visit all the wards and wish
them a Merry Christmas, but I must get
back to sign some papers. I am going to
have a little trouble. I got that eye dilation
test today and I can't see a thing for 4
hours.
Q. Mr. President, as the chief physician
for the Nation's health, at this particular
time of the year, how do you feel about
things? How do you feel the country is
going?
THE PRESIDENT. The country is in bet-
ter health this year than it was last year.
Health is always a relative matter. We all
like to think we are in perfect health, but
no one is really in perfect health. But the
Nation is moving forward, it is healthier,
the economy is healthier, the chance for
peace in the world is better, our people are
1 "Brian's Song" was the story of the careers
and friendship of Brian Piccolo and Gale
Sayers, teammates with the Chicago Bears pro-
fessional football team, until Mr. Piccolo's death
from cancer in 1970.
coming home from wars abroad, and in
terms of the relations of the nations gen-
erally, the people of this country, between
each other, I think the Nation is in a
better frame of mind than it was a year
ago, not perfect, it never will be, but I
think we are making progress. I felt it
when I was in New York. I felt the
Christmas spirit this year was better than
it was last year when I was there. I hope
this is not simply a superficial view, but I
sense it from talking to people, the letters
I receive, from the reports that I get from
around the country.
Q. Mr. President, what can you tell us
about Bob Hope's efforts in behalf of our
POW's?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only say that the
efforts that he makes and that anybody
makes are deeply appreciated. This is per-
haps the most discouraging aspect of our
foreign policy at the moment, our in-
ability to get a nation which basically is
governed by international outlaws to
abide by the very basic rules of interna-
tional conduct in any way. But we are
continuing to work on it, and I think ef-
forts by people like Bob Hope may tend
to emphasize to the North Vietnamese the
fact that world opinion-if they pay any
attention to world opinion-overwhelm-
ingly believes that they should treat this
as a humanitarian issue.
We are going to continue to treat that,
of course, as the very highest priority in
the weeks ahead as we complete our own
withdrawal from Vietnam. We must, of
course, do everything we can, and we
will do everything we can, to see that our
POW's are returned.
Q. Are you a Christmas morning early
riser?
THE PRESIDENT. It is very hard to
1210
