[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
against the long-range causes of illnesses
and accidents.
1. To begin with, we must reaffirm-
and expand-the Federal commitment to
biomedical research. Our approach to re-
search support should be balanced-with
strong efforts in a variety of fields. Two
critical areas, however, deserve special
attention.
The first of these is cancer. In the next
year alone, 650,000 new cases of cancer
will be diagnosed in this country and
340,000 of our people will die of this
disease. Incredible as it may seem, one
out of every four Americans who are now
alive will someday develop cancer unless
we can reduce the present rates of
incidence.
In the last seven years we spent more
than 30 billion dollars on space research
and technology and about one-twenty-
fifth of that amount to find a cure for can-
cer. The time has now come to put more
of our resources into cancer research
and-learning an important lesson from
our space program-to organize those re-
sources as effectively as possible.
When we began our space program we
were fairly confident that our goals could
be reached if only we made a great
enough effort. The challenge was tech-
nological; it did not require new theoret-
ical breakthroughs. Unfortunately, this is
not the case in most biomedical research
at the present time; scientific break-
throughs are still required and they often
cannot be forced-no matter how much
money and energy is expended.
We should not forget this caution. At
the same time, we should recognize that
of all our research endeavors, cancer re-
search may now be in the best position
to benefit from a great infusion of re-
sources. For there are moments in bio-
medical research when problems begin to
break open and results begin to pour in,
opening many new lines of inquiry and
many new opportunities for break-
through.
We believe that cancer research has
reached such a point. This administration
is therefore requesting an additional $100
million for cancer research in its new
budget. And as I said in my State of the
Union Message "I will ask later for
whatever additional funds can effectively
be used" in this effort.
Because this project will require the
coordination of scientists in many fields-
drawing on many projects now in exist-
ence but cutting across established orga-
nizational lines-I am directing the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to establish a new Cancer Conquest
Program in the Office of the Director of
the National Institutes of Health. This
program will operate under its own Direc-
tor who will be appointed by the Secre-
tary and supported by a new management
group. To advise that group in estab-
lishing priorities and allocating funds-
and to advise other officials, including
me, concerning this effort-I will also
establish a new Advisory Committee on
the Conquest of Cancer.
A second targeted disease for concen-
trated research should be sickle cell ane-
mia-a most serious childhood disease
which almost always occurs in the
black population. It is estimated that
one out of every 500 black babies actu-
ally develops sickle cell disease.
It is a sad and shameful fact that the
causes of this disease have been largely
neglected throughout our history. We
cannot rewrite this record of neglect, but
we can reverse it. To this end, this ad-
ministration is increasing its budget for
180
