[385] Dec. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be widely remembered for many years
to come.
For the credit he brought to our Nation
and for the service he gave to all mankind,
let each of us pause in tribute to this great
man.
NOTE: Dr. Bunche, 67, died following a series
of illnesses in New York Hospital, New York
City.
386 Message to the Congress Transmitting Reports on the
Military Incentive Awards Program. December 9, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of 10
U.S.C. 1124, I am pleased to forward the
reports of the Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of Transportation on awards
made during fiscal year 1971 to members
of the Armed Forces for suggestions, in-
ventions and scientific achievements.
Participation by military personnel in
the cash awards program was authorized
by the Congress in September 1965.
There could be no better demonstration
of the program's success than the fact that
tangible first-year benefits in excess of
$555 million have been realized from the
suggestions of military personnel since the
program began.
The tangible first-year benefits result-
ing from adopted suggestions submitted
by Department of Defense and Coast
Guard military personnel during fiscal
year 1971 totaled $117,676,188, the sec-
ond highest annual amount in the history
of the program. Cash awards presented to
military personnel for their adopted sug-
gestions during fiscal year 1971 totaled
$1,919,121.
The White House
December 9, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
387 Veto of the Economic Opportunity Amendments of 1971.
December 10, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
I return herewith without my approval
S. 2007, the Economic Opportunity
Amendments of 1971.
This legislation undertakes three major
Federal commitments in the field of social
welfare: extension of the Economic Op-
portunity Act of 1964, creation of a Na-
tional Legal Services Corporation, and
establishment of a comprehensive child
development program.
As currently drafted, all three proposals
contain provisions that would ill serve the
stated objectives of this legislation, pro-
visions altogether unacceptable to this
administration.
Upon taking office, this administration
sought to redesign, to redirect—indeed, to
rehabilitate—the Office of Economic
Opportunity, which had lost much public
acceptance in the five years since its in-
ception. Our objective has been to pro-
vide this agency with a new purpose and a
new role. Our goal has been to make the
Office of Economic Opportunity the pri-
mary research and development arm of
the Nation's and the Government's on-
going effort to diminish and eventually
1174
