[297] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
water pollution or air pollution or any
other area, that more attention must be
given to the cost factor as well as to the
factor that we are all interested in-of
cleaning up our air and cleaning up our
water.
I believe that as far as this Administra-
tion is concerned, as a result of the direc-
tion I have given to the Environmental
Protection Agency, that we are bringing
more balance into that program. Let's just
understand one thing: We all want clean
air and clean water. Sometimes I have
heard people say, "Wouldn't it be great
if we could go back to the way America
was in the beginning? Wouldn't it be great
if we didn't have all of this great indus-
trialization that pollutes our air and pol-
lutes our water?" The answer is: Not at
all.
I have been in countries that have no
industrialization; I have been in countries
that have very few automobiles. And let
me say, I would rather live in the United
States of America.
I think what we have to realize is that
when the Congress, or an administration
carrying out the will of the Congress, sets
certain standards to clean up the air or
clean up the water, we must weigh against
that: How many jobs is it going to cost?
And, if it is going to cost a disproportion-
ate number of jobs; well, what good it is
going to be able to accomplish-then we
have to reevaluate the decision.
I have talked generally to your ques-
tions because it seems to me that it is im-
portant not to be more precise than that,
since some of these matters, as you know,
will be the subject of directives in the
future.
I simply want you to know, however,
that weighing these matters, balancing
these things is very much in my mind
and in the minds of those carrying out the
policy of this Administration.
We are committed to cleaning up the
air and cleaning up the water. But we
are also committed to a strong economy,
and we are not going to allow the en-
vironmental issue to be used sometimes
falsely and sometimes in a demagogic way
basically to destroy the system-—the in-
dustrial system that made this the great
country that it is.
THE ROLE OF PROFITS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, would it not be
desirable for your Administration to
launch a comprehensive campaign to edu-
cate the entire American public, includ-
ing some politicians and perhaps some
labor leaders, that the most effective
creator of jobs is growth and corporation
profits?
THE PRESIDENT. Incidentally, so that
the members of our television audience
and radio audience will know, we do have
a labor leader here tonight and so we have
both represented. And I realize that as I
talk out there to the television audience in
the Detroit area and to the radio audience
across the country that there will be many
who represent the areas from labor as well
as those from management.
Now, to say anything for profits before
this audience is like the preacher talking
to the choir. And to be very candid with
you, there are a lot more votes in being
against profits, in being for controlling
profits than there are in being for it.
But let me talk, if I may, not just to this
panel and not just to this group of busi-
ness leaders and some labor leaders and
educational leaders here, but let me talk
to those people in the Detroit area and
across this country who are thinking about
968
