Richard Nixon, 1971
June 17 [201]
used for these purposes. Special measures
will be adopted to assure that black vet-
erans and other minority veterans get
help in proportion to their great need.
6. Provide special Labor/VA services
for Vietnam-era veterans who have been
drawing unemployment compensation for
three months or longer. These men should
be referred immediately to the U.S. Em-
ployment Service, to the Veterans Admin-
istration, and, where serious employment
handicaps are indicated, to State voca-
tional rehabilitation agencies for special
counselling and placement in jobs or
training.
Because of the importance of this entire
effort, I ask that you make bi-weekly prog-
ress reports to me. The arrangements for
these reports and any other necessary as-
sistance should be made with the Office
of Management and Budget. I know that
I can count on your full energies and the
support of all Government agencies in this
201
vital national effort to provide the return-
ing veteran what he has earned-a smooth
transition to civilian life and meaningful
work.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable James D. Hodgson, Secretary of
Labor, Washington, D.C. 20210]
NOTE: The letter was dated June 11, 1971,
and released June 13.
On June 13, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing, held June 11, on
proposals to increase employment opportu-
nities for Vietnam-era veterans by Secretary
Hodgson, Malcolm R. Lovell, Jr., Assistant
Secretary of Labor for Manpower, and Roger
T. Kelley, Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
On June 23, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing on further actions
implementing the proposals by Secretary Hodg-
son, John D. Harper, Chairman, National Al-
liance of Businessmen, and James F. Oates, Jr.,
Chairman, Jobs for Veterans Program.
Statement on Occasion of Signing of Agreement
Between the United States and Japan About the
Reversion of Okinawa to Japan. June 17, 1971
WHEN Prime Minister Sato visited
Washington in November 1969, he and I
agreed that our Governments would con-
sult together on arrangements leading to
the reversion of Okinawa to Japan in
1972. The Agreement signed today marks
the conclusion of those negotiations. Be-
cause of the importance of this Agree-
ment, it will be submitted to the Senate
for its advice and consent. I will urge the
Senate to give its advice and consent.
The friendship and mutual respect
which enabled our negotiators to resolve
the many difficult issues will, I am sure,
enable us to work together in peace for
the continued progress of our own two
countries, and for that of the entire
world.
My best wishes to the people of Japan,
and to their leaders. We both have much
to be proud of this day.
NOTE: Secretary of State William P. Rogers
read the statement at the signing ceremony in
the Thomas Jefferson Room at the Department
of State.
737
