Richard Nixon, 1971
May 12 [165]
advice and assistance for the President
and for others who lead the cancer cure
program, particularly as they work to set
intelligent priorities for the Nation's
efforts in this area.
I am pleased to report that the detailed
management and administrative mecha-
nisms for carrying out these plans have
been discussed in considerable detail with-
in the National Institutes of Health, with
experts in the field outside of government,
and in the Office of the Secretary of the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare. As these plans are translated into
action, I hope that the Congress will com-
ment on them and suggest additional ways
in which we can work toward these signifi-
cant goals.
I would not want to discuss the subject
of cancer research, however, without of-
fering a word of caution. Many of the
experts that we consulted with told us
that biomedical research is a notoriously
unpredictable enterprise. Instant break-
throughs are few, and the path of progress
is strewn with unexpected obstacles. As
we undertake this crusade, we must put
on the armor of patience, ready to persist
in our efforts through a waiting period of
unknown and possibly anguishing dura-
tion.
Yet I feel confident that with such
funding as I have proposed, with such or-
ganizations as we are developing, with the
dedicated efforts of thousands of men and
women from many disciplines, and with
the cooperation of the Congress and the
people of the United States, we can make
great strides against this terrible enemy,
bringing new hope for all Americans—
and indeed new hope for all the world.
165 Statement About House Approval of Funds
for the Supersonic Transport Program.
May 12, 1971
I CONGRATULATE the House of Rep-
resentatives for having very wisely re-
versed their earlier position on the SST,
and I strongly urge the Senate to recon-
sider promptly its earlier vote.
The Congress has today taken an im-
portant first step on behalf of thousands
of workers across the country who have
been engaged in the SST program-and
whose vital skills and experience might
otherwise be lost to the Nation.
It has been a mark of America's great-
ness through the years that this Nation
has been willing to explore the unknown,
to maintain technological leadership, and,
in so doing, to contribute enormously to
the progress of civilization.
I reaffirm a pledge made earlier: that
the SST will not be committed to produc-
tion until all environmental concerns have
been thoroughly satisfied. I hope the
Members of the Senate will find persua-
sive the same considerations that moved
the House, and that when it comes before
them they also will give it their approval.
633
