Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 7 [325]
promptly as the House so that we can
move forward to our goal of full employ-
ment in peacetime.
Secretary Connally and I will be meet-
ing tomorrow morning at breakfast with
Chairman Long of Louisiana, of the Sen-
ate Finance Committee, to work toward
this goal.
On the inflation front, I can report to
you tonight that the wage-price freeze has
been remarkably successful. As you heard
on your evening news, the figures bear out
that statement. Wholesale prices in Sep-
tember posted the biggest decline in 5
years. And the price of industrial commod-
ities has gone down for the first time in 7
years.
The primary credit for the success of
this first step in the fight against rising
prices belongs to you; it belongs to the
American people. It is you who have
shown a willingness to cooperate in the
campaign against inflation. It is you who
have answered the call to put the public
interest ahead of the special interest.
Thousands of letters have come to this
desk since I made the announcement of
the wage-price freeze 7 weeks ago. Listen
to what people all across America, from all
walks of life, have written to me, the Presi-
dent, about this program.
Here is a letter from a schoolteacher in
New Jersey:
"I am a widow raising two sons on my
teacher's salary. I will lose about $300 be-
cause of that freeze, yet I sincerely feel
that we must all support your efforts to
bring the economy into balance."
Here is a letter from a wage earner in
Wantagh, New York:
"As one who was expecting an increase
in income this December, let me say that I
will gladly go without it if that will curtail
inflation."
The wife of a Government employee in
Pampa, Texas, writes:
"We are willing, as a family, to forego
our pay raises in order to see stability in
prices. Let us all hope that Americans will
once again realize that we must be willing
to sacrifice for a long-term goal, and once
again have pride in our country."
Then from a man in Klamath Falls,
Oregon:
"Your Administration's recent freeze
on wages and prices means that I will not
receive the four percent raise that was
written into my contract this year. Never-
theless, I support your efforts to halt infla-
tion, including the wage freeze. The fight
against inflation is everybody's fight."
I want to express my appreciation to
the thousands of others of you who have
written me letters like this. And I want
you to know how much it has meant to me
to hear that most Americans will put
their country's interest above their per-
sonal interest in fighting this battle.
Now, let's look at the future. Because of
our strong beginning, because of the de-
termination Americans have shown to pull
together during the freeze, I am confi-
dent that our further action in stopping
inflation will succeed as well.
Over the past 7 weeks, I have consulted
with scores of representatives of labor and
business, of farmers and consumers, of the
Congress, and State and local govern-
ment. They have been virtually unani-
mous in their belief that the battle against
inflation must be fought here and now.
They are together in their determination
to win that battle.
And consequently, I am announcing
tonight that when the 90-day freeze is
over on November 13, we shall continue
our program of wage and price restraint.
We began this battle against inflation
1023
