Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 4 [43]
GENERAL REVENUE SHARING: HOW IT
WORKS
The General Revenue Sharing program
I offer is similar in many respects to the
program I sent to the Congress almost
eighteen months ago. But there are also
some major differences.
For one thing, this year's program is
much bigger. Expenditures during the
first full year of operation would be ten
times larger than under the old plan. Sec-
ondly, a greater proportion-roughly
half-of the shared funds would go to lo-
cal governments under the new proposal.
In addition, the 1971 legislation contains
a new feature designed to encourage
States and localities to work out their
own tailor-made formulas for distributing
revenues at the State and local level.
The specific details of this program
have been worked out in close consulta-
tion with city, county and State officials
from all parts of the country and in dis-
cussions with members of the Congress.
Its major provisions are as follows:
1. Determining the Size of the Over-
all Program.
The Congress would provide a perma-
nent appropriation for General Revenue
Sharing. The size of this appropriation
each year would be a designated percent-
age of the nation's taxable personal in-
come-the base on which individual Fed-
eral income taxes are levied. This arrange-
ment would relieve the States and locali-
ties of the uncertainty which comes when
a new level of support must be debated
every year.
Since the fund would grow in a steady
and predictable manner with our growing
tax base, this arrangement would make
it easier for State and local governments
to plan intelligently for the future.
The specific appropriation level I am
recommending is 1.3 percent of taxable
personal income; this would mean a Gen-
eral Revenue Sharing program of approx-
imately $5 billion during the first full
year of operation, a sum which would
rise automatically to almost $10 billion by
1980. All of this would be "new" money—
taken from the increases in our revenues
which result from a growing economy. It
would not require new taxes nor would
it be transferred from existing programs.
2. Dividing Total Revenues Among the
States.
Two factors would be used in determin-
ing how much money should go to each
State: the size of its population and the
degree to which it has already mobilized
its own tax resources. By using a distribu-
tion formula which takes their tax effort
into account, this program would encour-
age the States to bear a fair share of re-
sponsibility. A State which makes a
stronger effort to meet its own needs
would receive more help from the Fed-
eral Government.
One other incentive has also been built
into the new legislation: those States
which negotiate with their local govern-
ments a mutually acceptable formula for
passing money on to the local level, would
receive more money than those States
that rely on the Federal formula. This
provision would encourage a State and
its localities to work out a distribution
plan which fits their particular require-
ments. States which develop such plans
would receive a full 100 percent of the
money allocated to them under the for-
mula described above. Other States would
receive only 90 percent of their alloca-
tion, with the remaining ten percent being
carried over and added to the following
year's overall allocation.
71-234-72-11
117
