[333] Oct. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
other may get to know each other, that
our children may have what we do not
have: an open world in which millions of
people living in other lands can have com-
munication with the millions who will live
in the United States.
These are ideals; they are not easy to
come by. The announcement of trips, and
even the negotiations that take place be-
tween nations that have very great differ-
ences in philosophy, do not solve or end
those differences. But at least we can take
some comfort in the fact that we start a
process, putting it one way, of negotiation
rather than confrontation; putting it
another way, we have differences, but
maybe we are starting a process in which
we will talk about our differences in the
future and not fight about them, and then
our people, our young people, can grow
up in a world of peace.
This is a great goal for America and a
great goal for the world. And America's
leadership-whether we, as the leader of
the free world, can have the wisdom, the
strength, in every way, to provide that
leadership will determine perhaps whether
we are going to have peace in the world
and in America in the next generation or
maybe for the next period after that into
the next century.
So we look at America. Can America
meet this test? Are we strong enough,
strong enough to provide the leadership
that is required of us in the next 5, 10, 15,
20 years, so that we can build a world of
peace?
As we look at America, we see many
assets. We are the richest nation in the
world. Anyone who has traveled abroad
comes back knowing that we are very
fortunate to live in America. There is
more freedom, there is more opportunity,
there is more wealth here than in any
other nation. We have many, many prob-
lems, but we all must recognize that the
greatness of America is that we have a
process through which we can correct
what is wrong, and as we try to correct
what is wrong, let us never forget what
is right about America, because there is
very much which is right about America.
It would be rather easy to look at Amer-
ica's wealth, to look at America's strength
militarily, and to sit back and say, "Of
course we will meet the challenge.”
But then we read the pages of history
and we find, as Billy Graham has
already inferred in his own message, that
the wealth of a nation or the military
might of a nation may not be enough
in determining whether that nation will
survive.
I know many of you have visited Wash-
ington. I hope everybody here who is lis-
tening to me in this hall or on television
or radio will visit our beautiful Nation's
Capital and particularly drive through the
Capital at night, see the statue of Lincoln
at the Lincoln Memorial, go down to the
Jefferson Memorial, the White House, all
now lighted; go, too, by the Archives. Of
all the buildings in Washington, to me,
it is the most impressive-impressive, first,
because that Declaration of Independence
that was signed here, as Billy pointed out,
2 months before it was signed in Phila-
delphia, is there. The Constitution is
there. The Bill of Rights is there.
But at night as you see the Archives,
that gray, massive building with its col-
umns, one gets the impression that they
will last forever, that building will last.
It may. It is a strong building; they are
powerfully built columns in marble. But
as I see those columns at night—and I
have many times driven by at night—I
think of times that I have been in Rome
1048
