[172] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Director of OMB, prepared at my request
a summary report on this Administra-
tion's major programs and activities in
the field of civil rights and related social
and economic programs. Having reviewed
and concurred in this report and the sixty
responses, I am pleased to transmit them
to you
and your colleagues herewith.
These documents constitute a progress
report on our efforts to achieve equality,
justice, and full opportunity for all Amer-
icans. We have tried to make them
candid and factual. They measure both
successes and shortcomings. In those in-
stances in which we have found ourselves
in disagreement with your recommenda-
tions, we have acknowledged the dis-
agreement but also spelled out our alter-
native approaches. In many cases, we
have found a basic accord between your
recommendations and our policies.
I am encouraged to note that there is
such accord in three especially critical
areas: We share a determination to re-
form the welfare system so that it will
help solve, rather than aggravate, the
problems of those who lack a minimum
income. You attach high priority, as I do,
to a program of revenue sharing that will
enable our cities and States to serve the
people better. And you are committed, as
am, to a concerted drive for expanded
economic opportunities for minorities and
all other Americans—a drive to validate
with jobs, income, and tangible benefits
the pledges this society has made to the
disadvantaged in the
past decade.
This is the building work of the Seven-
ties, and it is bound to be more difficult
than the legislative efforts of the Sixties.
Equality of opportunity has been affirmed
in American law; conscience and public
resolve brought that much to pass. But
now we have entered a new and much
harder phase. The steady gains of the
years ahead will inevitably be less dra-
matic than the bright hopes raised a few
years ago. We continue to honor those
hopes. At issue now is whether all of us
have the realism and stamina to persist
in the long, hard task of realizing them in
American life, of translating rhetorical
promise into concrete results.
We are already making significant
progress as noted in the attached report
and the detailed responses. Much more
remains to be done to realize our shared
goals. I am determined to press forward
vigorously—believing as I do that full op-
portunity and equal justice for all are
basic to the American ideal.
I have directed that the process of mon-
itoring and evaluation reflected by the
report and responses be continued, and
my Administration will remain receptive
to your views and those of your Congres-
sional colleagues as we continue to search
for the best ways of achieving progress on
matters of common concern.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Charles C. Diggs, Jr., House of
Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
NOTE: The letter, dated May 18, 1971, was
made available to the press on May 19, to-
gether with a document detailing the recom-
mendations of the Caucus and Administration
response to them and a memorandum to the
President from George P. Shultz, Director, Of-
fice of Management and Budget, summarizing
Administration progress in civil rights and re-
lated social programs.
On May 19, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing on the Admin-
istration's response to the recommendations by
Director Shultz and Arnold R. Weber, Asso-
ciate Director, Office of Management and
Budget.
642
