Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 9 [287]
the economic relationships between the
United States and the other great trading
nations of the world. As a result, we today
are challenged to protect the value of the
dollar and to learn once again to be com-
petitive in the world.
Twenty-five days ago I took action to
attack these problems, to advance the goal
of a new prosperity without war and with-
out inflation.
I ordered a 90-day freeze on prices and
wages.
I ordered a $4.7 billion cut in Federal
spending to allow for tax cuts to create
new jobs.
On the international front, I ordered a
temporary 10 percent surcharge on prod-
ucts imported from abroad, and I ordered
the convertibility of the dollar into gold
suspended.
Now, in taking these actions, I knew
there were great risks. There were dire
predictions of massive resentment, non-
cooperation at home, and of turmoil and
retaliation abroad. But that did not
happen.
Here at home, we can be proud of the
fact that millions of Americans have
shown that they are willing to give up
wage increases and price increases that
would benefit some of the people, in order
to stop the rise in the cost of living for all
of the people.
And then, as we look abroad, we find
that adjustments are being made and ac-
tions are being taken to set up a new mon-
etary system within which America can
compete fairly once again. Instead of
continued talk about the weakness of the
American dollar, we now find in the world
a new understanding of the strength of
the American economy.
The reaction of the American people
to the new economic policy has been un-
selfish and courageous. The reaction of
our trading partners abroad has been
measured and constructive. I ask the
Congress to respond in a similar spirit, as
the Congress has to so many other great
challenges in the past. This is a time to
set aside partisanship. Let us join together
in placing the national interest above
special interests in America.
I ask the Congress to consider as its first
priority-before all other business-the
enactment of three tax proposals that are
essential to the new prosperity. These
three measures will create 500,000 new
jobs in the coming year.
First, I urge the Congress to remove the
7 percent excise tax on automobiles so
that the more than 8 million people in
this country who will buy new, American-
built cars in the next year will save an
average of $200 each. This is a sales tax,
paid by the consumer. Its removal will
stimulate sales, and every 100,000 addi-
tional automobiles sold will mean 25,000
additional jobs for America's workers.
Second, I urge the Congress to adopt a
job development credit to encourage in-
vestment in machinery and equipment
that will generate new jobs. This credit
was advocated by a Democratic President
and enacted by a Democratic Congress in
the 1960's. It was enormously effective
then in creating new jobs. It will be just
as effective in creating new jobs now,
today. First, it will be an incentive to
business to hire more workers. It will en-
able wage earners to work more produc-
tively, and it will make American products
more competitive in the world's markets.
And third, I urge the Congress to create
more consumer purchasing power by per-
mitting the planned $50 increase in the
personal income tax exemption scheduled
for 1973 to take effect next January 1, one
939
