[159] May 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Nation's commitment to the concept of
equal justice. It is a program both new
and unparalleled by any other system of
justice in the world. I urge the Congress
to join with me in adopting this proposal
to give it new strength for the future.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
NOTE: The proposed Legal Services Corpora-
tion bill was introduced as S. 1769 and H.R.
8163.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet summarizing the major features
of the proposed bill and the transcript of a
news briefing on the Corporation by Frank C.
Carlucci, Director, Office of Economic
Opportunity.
May 5, 1971
160 Statement About Agreements With Panama and
Colombia To Complete the Pan American Highway.
May 6, 1971
THE AGREEMENTS signed today by
Secretary of Transportation Volpe,
Panamanian Minister of Public Works
Fabrega, and Colombian Minister of Pub-
lic Works Duran will enable our govern-
ments to begin construction of the last
major section--the Darien Gap-needed
to link together existing sections of the
Pan American Highway System.
I welcome this development with the
greatest enthusiasm-I believe that the
completion of the Darien Gap portion
over the next several years will constitute
an historic milestone along the road to
understanding and unity within our
hemisphere.
Upon completion, this link for the Pan
American Highway will allow the motorist
to drive the entire 14,000 mile journey
from Fairbanks, Alaska, to the southern-
most tip of South America.
For a long time experts thought that
this section could not be built: the "bot-
tomless" Atrato Swamp which it must
cross could not be conquered; the fact
that this project will now be undertaken
is a tribute not only to modern engineering
but also to the determination of our coun-
tries to forge this final link in a great,
unifying international project.
This effort is possible only because of
the strong support it has received from
the United States Congress, the Pan
American Highway Congresses, and the
Governments of the Republics of Panama
and Colombia. I firmly believe that the
completion of this highway joining the
Americas will serve as an invaluable sym-
bol of New World unity as well as an
avenue of commerce and culture.
The Darien Gap Highway project calls
for only 250 miles of new roadway, but
these are a very significant 250 miles. I
believe that when they are completed, the
Pan American Highway will become a
pulsing artery of trade, travel, and under-
standing. It will further the inter-Ameri-
can spirit of solidarity and will accelerate
the pace of economic growth and social
progress in the hemisphere. It will fulfill
a dream which dates back, in the United
States at least, to a proposal made in the
Congress in 1884 to build a railroad con-
necting the countries of North and South
America.
Building this final link in the highways
of the Americas does not represent the
end of our common undertaking. On the
622
