[221] July 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
but we do have refreshments. And I
checked it out and I find that the punch
is very good, and it is made from Florida
and California products. But as far as
the home cooking is concerned, I found
that the cookies were made by a Swiss
chef, but they also will be very good.
I want you to know, though, in a very
serious sense, that this house is one that
all Presidents have lived in since John
Adams was President, but it really be-
longs to the whole country.
There is a wonderful Spanish phrase,
whenever you go into a Spanish country
and somebody welcomes you at an air-
plane, or as you go into a house, even a
very humble house, they will say "Estan
ustedes en su casa," which means, of
course, "You are in your own house."
I want everyone here, all 500 of you,
to feel that for the few moments that you
are here enjoying the home cooking and
222
Remarks to Midwestern
Attending a Briefing on
Kansas City, Missouri.
Ladies and gentlemen:
From reading the agenda, I think you
have had a pretty full plate on the domes-
tic issues. I gather from looking at the
people here at the head table that you
have been briefed.
I heard the answer to the last question
on the economy. I understand there were
other questions on that, and on our health
program, also on our environment, on our
revenue sharing, reorganization programs,
on our crime programs, particularly with
regard to the control of dangerous drugs,
and also programs that may be in related
also the White House tour, this is your
house, this is your home; you are in your
own house. We are very proud of you.
We hope you have a wonderful trip, and
we hope you come back to Washington
many times and come back to this house
many times.
Thank you.
By the way, in checking at the ware-
house, we find we do have enough pens
for all 500 of you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:32 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
The "Young Americans in Concert" pro-
gram was sponsored by the Universal Academy
for Music, Princeton, N.J. The young musi-
cians, numbering approximately 500, were se-
lected from every State in the Nation.
The 26th Amendment to the Constitution is
printed in the United States Statutes at Large
(85 Stat. 829). The document certifying the
Amendment is printed in the Federal Register
of July 7, 1971 (36 F.R. 12725).
News Media Executives
Domestic Policy in
July 6, 1971
fields that Mr. MacGregor¹ may have
covered.
I think perhaps for this kind of meet-
ing, what I could best do is to put all of
these domestic programs into a broader
context, to indicate the relationship be-
tween these programs and the problems
that America has in the world.
Sometimes that seems very, very hard
to do. I realize that it is quite the ap-
proach these days to suggest that we
¹ Clark MacGregor, Counsel to the President
for Congressional Relations.
802
