Richard Nixon, 1971
July 6 [222]
World War II, partly as a result of our
help in getting them on their feet. But it
has happened since that time as a result of
their own energy and their own ability.
So now we have three power centers—
the United States, Western Europe,
Japan, noting that both Western Europe
and Japan are very potent competitors
of the United States-friends, yes; allies,
yes--but competing and competing very
hard with us throughout the world for
economic leadership.
Now we turn to the other two super
powers, economic super powers I will say
for the moment. The Soviet Union, of
course, first comes to mind. Looking at
the Soviet Union, we are entering a period
which only time will tell may be success-
ful in terms of creating a very new rela-
tionship or a very different relationship
than we have had previously.
I referred to the need for an era of
negotiation rather than confrontation
when I made my inaugural speech. We
have been negotiating; we have made
some progress in negotiating. The im-
portant thing is that we are negotiating
rather than confronting in many areas
of the world where confrontation could
lead to explosion. Whether it is on the
limitation of nuclear arms, whether it is
on the central issue of Europe, or whether
it is on the Mideast, negotiations are
going on.
I am not suggesting that these negotia-
tions are going to lead to instant peace
and instant relationships with the Soviet
Union such as we presently have with our
friends in Western Europe and with our
friends in Asia who may be allied with
us, or who may have systems of govern-
ment that are more closely aligned to ours.
What we have to recognize is that even
as we limit arms, if we do reach an agree-
ment in that field, and even if we find
ways to avoid confrontation in other areas,
and perhaps work out negotiated settle-
ments for mutual force reductions in Eu-
rope, the problem of Berlin, all the others
that come to mind, we must recognize that
the Soviet Union will continue to be a
very potent, powerful, and aggressive
competitor of the United States of Amer-
ica. And, ironically-and this is also true
of Mainland China, as I will point out
in a moment-as we have more and more
success on the negotiation front, as for
example the Soviet Union, like the United
States, may be able if we have a limitation
in nuclear arms, if we are able to turn
our eyes more toward our economic de-
velopment and our economic problems,
it simply means that the competition
changes and becomes much more chal-
lenging in the economic area than it has
been previously.
So what we find, in other words, is that
the success, and we do want success, of a
policy of negotiation rather than con-
frontation will lead to infinitely more eco-
nomic competition from the Soviet Union.
Mainland China is, of course, a very
different situation. First in terms of its
economic capacity at the present time, a
pretty good indication of where it is is
that Japan, with 100 million people, pro-
duces more than Mainland China, with
800 million people. But that should not
mislead us, and it gives us, and should
give none of the potential competitors in
world markets of Mainland China, any
sense of satisfaction that it will always be
that way. Because when we see the Chi-
nese as people—and I have seen them all
over the world, and some of you have, too,
whether in Hong Kong, or whether in
Taiwan, or whether they are in Singapore
or Bangkok, any of the great cities, Manila,
805
