[316] Sept. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
to one that has broken down from time to
time. The measures we have taken are
temporary. How long "temporary" is de-
pends upon what we want to come up
with. If we want to go to another tempo-
rary system, it would be very, very short;
but if we want to build permanently for
the future and build well, then we must
have that kind of discussion in which all
sides bargain hard in their own interest--
we expect you to, we expect to—and then
have an understanding which is in all of
our mutual interest. It can be done, and it
will be done.
One final thought: I just concluded a
meeting with the Foreign Secretary of the
Soviet Union. And it was a very construc-
tive meeting-however, a meeting which
as we both recognize, still discussed many
differences that we have and will continue
to have. But as I thought of that meeting,
I thought back to the time when so many
in this world immediately after World
War II talked about one world politically.
That is something that is not going to
happen, not in our time, and probably it
should not happen because of the differ-
ences that people have and will inevitably
have in their political systems, their eco-
nomic systems, what they want, what kind
of government they want.
But while that may not happen, cer-
tainly, as we look at the free world today,
as we look at Europe, as we look at Latin
America, we look at Africa, we look at the
rim of nations around Asia, the mainland
of Asia, we can think of the possibility of
one world economically. And as we move
toward one world economically, one world
which is highly competitive, but with rules
of the game which are fair to all, this
means that those political differences that
otherwise would divide us can be substan-
tially reduced.
have
What has happened in Europe-free
Europe-over the past 25 years has elo-
quently demonstrated that. So, I say to
you: I greet you today as bankers, as great
experts in this field. I know that you will
build well for the next 25 years as you
built well for the past 25. I can assure you,
as you help to develop this new monetary
system, you are not only doing something
which is good for international finance but
you are making an immeasurable contri-
bution to world peace.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:29 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House during a
reception for finance ministers and central bank
governors who were attending the annual
meetings of the Boards of Governors of the
International Monetary Fund and the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment in Washington, D.C.
Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally
was present at the reception.
317 Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol to the
Convention on International Civil Aviation.
September 30, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a certified copy of a
protocol dated at New York, March 12,
1971, relating to an amendment to the
Convention on International Civil
Aviation.
1016
