[240] July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
240 Remarks at the Unveiling of Portraits of
Two Former Chairmen of the House Committee
on Appropriations. July 28, 1971
Mr. Speaker, Speaker McCormack, Mr.
Chairman, Congressman Ford, Congress-
man Bow, and all of the distinguished
guests on this occasion:
In a room like this, at a time like this,
we think of the history of this country and
of the men who helped to make it and the
women who helped to make it. We think
of this room, up until the year, about
1850, being the room in which the House
of Representatives met.
We think, for example, of Henry Clay
and Abraham Lincoln speaking in this
room. Then we move on into this century
and we go back 25 years, or 20 years, as
the case might be, to think of two of the
giants of the Congress. We do not see the
giants of our own time. No one knows at
the time who really is a giant.
But as the years pass, we look back and
we realize who the great men were. Two
of them we honor today-Clarence Can-
non, John Taber. Everything has been
said about them, by those who served with
them, so eloquently that I will not try to
add, except to say that I was privileged to
be a Member of the House of Representa-
tives and to have known both of them as a
Member of the House, then as a Member
of the Senate, and as Vice President of
the United States. I can certainly endorse
everything that has been said so gener-
ously about them and so well by others
who have appeared in this program.
I do know, too, that the Appropriations
Committee of the House of Representa-
tives is an enormously important commit-
tee, and that whoever is the chairman of
that committee is a very important and
powerful individual.
Now, I have to be very careful at this
point, because I realize that represented
in this room are chairmen of other com-
mittees, and men who serve on other
committees as well, so I will choose my
words very carefully.
As I looked over the record of those
who have been chairmen of the Appro-
priations Committee, going back to the
year 1865 when it was first set up, I found
that some went on to be Speaker of the
House—a few, very few. Some went on to
be Governors. Only one became Presi-
dent-James Garfield.
Yet I can stand here, looking back over
my own public service, and also looking
back over the history of this country, and
say, as has already been implied by other
speakers, that the hardest working com-
mittee in the House of Representatives is
probably the Appropriations Committee,
because of its workload; that the most
powerful committee in the House of Rep-
resentatives, because of its control of the
money that is spent, is the Appropriations
Committee. And then third, that poten-
tially the most unpopular committee in
the House of Representatives is the Ap-
propriations Committee, because the
Appropriations Committee members and
its chairman and its ranking minority
member have responsibilities that go be-
yond the committee's, the very important
ones on the legislative side.
They meet. They determine what is in
the public interest as far as their views
828
