[287] Sept. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
full year
ahead of schedule. For a family
of four, this could mean an additional
$200 increase in tax-exempt income be-
ginning less than 4 months from now.
Taken together, these tax proposals that
I ask the Congress to enact would reduce
taxes now paid by individuals by $3.2
billion, and would provide $2.7 billion in
incentives to companies to invest in job-
producing equipment.
There is another vital area in which I
ask the cooperation of the Congress, and
that is the area of budget restraint. Tax
cuts to stimulate employment must be ac-
companied by spending cuts to restrain
inflation.
Among the spending cuts that I have
ordered are the following:
I have ordered a postponement of
scheduled pay raises for Federal
employees.
I have ordered a 5 percent reduction in
Government employment.
And I have ordered a 10 percent cut
in foreign economic aid.
Because the Congress has not yet en-
acted two of my principal legislative pro-
posals-welfare reform and revenue
sharing-I have recommended that their
effective dates be postponed, 3 months for
revenue sharing, I year for welfare reform.
This adjustment recognizes that there is
no longer sufficient time to get the ad-
ministrative machinery in place by the
previously scheduled dates.
Now, in the coming year this Congress
will face many temptations to raise spend-
ing and to cut taxes in addition to the
recommendations I have made. I under-
stand those temptations. In the short run,
they will be very popular proposals. But
as we look at the realities of our budget
at this time, we must face up to this hard
fact: Any additional spending increases
not accompanied by tax increases-and
any additional tax cuts not accompanied
by spending cuts-will be certain to start
us again on a spiral of higher prices.
To spend more than we can afford, or to
tax less than we can afford, is the sure
route to prices higher than we can afford.
I ask, therefore, that the Congress be re-
sponsible in recognizing these realities.
There are two other matters in which I
seek the cooperation of the Congress. The
first concerns the immediate future, and
the second the long-range future of
America in the world.
The 90-day freeze on wages and prices
that I announced on August 15 was a
temporary measure, to hold the line while
the next phase of stabilization was dis-
cussed. I am announcing today that the
freeze will not be extended beyond 90
days.
But I assure the Congress and the
American people that when this tempo-
rary and necessarily drastic action is over,
we shall take all the steps needed to see
that America is not again afflicted by the
virus of runaway inflation.
The system of wage and price stabiliza-
tion that follows the freeze will require the
fullest possible cooperation not only be-
tween the executive and legislative
branches but also by all Americans. I am
announcing today that I have invited rep-
resentatives of the Congress, of business,
of labor, and of agriculture to meet with
me within the next few days for the pur-
pose of helping plan the next phase. They
have all accepted the invitation. In addi-
tion, I have directed the members of the
Cost of Living Council to continue meet-
ing with representatives of all other
interested groups.
As we consider what follows the freeze,
let us bear in mind that prosperity is a
940
