[189] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
But when we consider the consequences
of not acting, I think we can see why we
have done what we have. To allow a take-
over of South Vietnam by the Communist
aggressors would not only result in the
loss of freedom for 17 million people in
South Vietnam, it would greatly increase
the danger of that kind of aggression and
also the danger of a larger war in the
Pacific and in the world. That I believe.
That is why I have strongly supported
ending this war, ending our involvement
as we are, withdrawing Americans, but
ending in a way that we do not turn the
country over to the Communists, ending
it in a way that we give the South Viet-
namese a reasonable chance to defend
themselves against Communist aggression.
And that is why I believe that kind of
ending will contribute to the peace that
we all want.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
[5] Q. Mr. President, if there should
be agreements on both defensive and of-
fensive weapons with the Soviet Union, do
you plan to submit both of those agree-
ments to the Senate in a treaty form, or
only the agreement on defensive weapons,
leaving the other to an understanding?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lisagor [Peter
Lisagor, Chicago Daily News], this is a
matter which you have raised, along with
other reporters that cover the White
House, in some of the background brief-
ings, and I am sure that all of you know
that it is not possible for me, and it would
not be appropriate for me, to discuss this
matter in any way that would jeopardize
the agreement itself.
We cannot tell at this time what form
the agreement will take. With regard to
defensive weapons, the ABM, it is a sim-
pler matter, because we are talking about
only one weapons system. Therefore, it
might be subject to a treaty.
With regard to the offensive limitations
that we are talking about, it is not as sim-
ple a matter, because here we have several
weapons systems. We have missiles. We
have bombers. We have nuclear subma-
rines. And the understanding, the com-
mitment that has been made at the
highest level, deals with only some of
those systems. Consequently, what would
come out with regard to offensive weap-
ons may or may not be at the treaty level.
It might be at an understanding level at
this point, and be at a treaty level at a
later point.
I would like to be more precise than
that, but that is an accurate statement of
what we expect.
WOMEN IN GOVERNMENT JOBS
[6.] Miss Means [Marianne Means,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Mr. President, women make up
more than 50 percent of the population,
but it seems that men have a lock on the
top Government jobs. Out of the top
10,000 Federal supervisory posts, only 150
are filled by women, and in 22 years you
have appointed only 200 women to Fed-
eral jobs, 62 of them to one single arts
commission.
What are your goals for bringing more
qualified women into Government and
promoting them, and how do you per-
sonally feel about women's liberation?
THE PRESIDENT. After that question, I
am not going to comment upon women's
liberation! But I will comment about the
problem about women in Government
jobs.
690
