[210] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
and penal institutions not only makes a
tremendous contribution to the lives of
others but also gives a new pride and
pur-
pose to their own existence. You know
what your own slogan is: "To serve and
not be served." It expresses that same
principle.
I am happy to say that Federal efforts
to promote such activities are expanding.
This week marks the inauguration of the
first 10 projects in the Retired Senior
Volunteer Program, known as RSVP. If
the Congress approves my budget, this
program will be greatly expanded this
year.
That program and the Foster Grand-
parents programs have recently been
transferred to the new ACTION agency.
And incidentally, I have noted that some
have been fearful that this program would
be deemphasized as a result of that trans-
fer. I assure you just the opposite is going
to be the case. We are going to put more
emphasis on those particular programs.
Now, these are some of the things we
are doing. Other steps are going to follow.
In this connection, I am particularly look-
ing forward to the White House Confer-
ence on Aging later this year. You have
heard from Mr. Martin,² you have heard
from others who will be working on that
Conference. This Conference promises to
provide the most valuable of all resources
for policymaking: new ideas, fresh ideas.
We want your ideas, the ideas of this or-
ganization. That is why I have met with
the leaders of your organizations in
preliminary sessions. But we want you
in
this convention and in other conventions
to give us the ideas so that those who
* John B. Martin, Commissioner, Administra-
tion on Aging, Social and Rehabilitation Serv-
ice, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare.
meet in the White House will represent
the whole country, not just their own
view.
All who take part in this Conference
and in the State conferences, which, as
you know, are going to go forward before-
hand, can be sure that we will welcome
recommendations. We are going to give
them our closest consideration.
Now, I would like to speak with regard
to that Conference on one issue that I
have directed be given special attention,
perhaps more attention than any other, if
one issue has to have priority. I refer to
the need to reform the regulations with
regard to nursing homes in this country.
Let's look at the figures. Nine hundred
thousand, at the present time, people over
65 live in nursing homes. Some of them
are very fine homes. I saw one yesterday
just by accident. I was driving back from
my mother's home in southern Indiana to
Indianapolis. As we went along, I saw
some older people on the side of the road
waving. So, I stopped the car and right
back of where they were waving was a
Presbyterian home for the aging.
I said, "How do you like it?" They said,
"It is a wonderful place." I could see why,
because the Presbyterian minister who
was in charge, a young man who obviously
loved the people he was working with, was
there. Some of the nurses and others were
there. You could see they were all proud
of being there. A new building was being
built, and I could see that this was one of
the nursing homes where people who went
to them could be sure they would get the
proper care, not only in terms of food but
in terms of having people who were really
concerned about them.
However, if there is any single institu-
tion in this country that symbolizes the
tragic isolation and shameful neglect of
780
