[140] Apr. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
heritage is being enriched and extended
should be a source of great pride to this
Nation and its people. And the extent to
which its enjoyment is becoming more
broadly available should be a source of
great satisfaction.
Throughout the United States, poets,
painters and sculptors are now at work
in our schools; symphony orchestras are
reaching new and larger audiences; tour-
ing companies are bringing theatre, opera
and dance to communities which, until
now, have not experienced these art forms
at first hand. All this is being accom-
plished through programs funded by the
141
Congress, and carried out by the National
Endowment for the Arts and the fifty-five
councils that are now at work in every
State and Territorial Jurisdiction.
I therefore take particular pleasure in
transmitting to the Congress the Fifth An-
nual Report of the National Endowment
for the Arts.
The White House
April 14, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 112-page report is entitled "Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts and National
Council on the Arts; Annual Report, Fiscal
Year 1970."
Statement About a Proposal for Internment of
Prisoners of War in a Neutral Country.
April 14, 1971
I WELCOME the Republic of Vietnam's
proposal, made on April 8 in the Paris
negotiations, for internment of prisoners
of war in a neutral country. Although
short of the release of prisoners of war
which is our goal, this would be a reason-
able and responsible way of alleviating
the plight of prisoners of war on both
sides. I hope the other side will respond
positively to this initiative.
Third country internment of prisoners
of war is specifically envisaged by the
Geneva Prisoner of War Convention of
1949, by which both sides in the Indo-
china conflict are bound. There can be
no constructive purpose in the continued
long detention of prisoners of war. They
and their families have suffered too much
already. Agreement to intern prisoners of
war in a third country would mean that
the prisoners would no longer serve as
hostages for political or military purposes.
NOTE: On May 3, 1971, during a news briefing
at the Western White House, San Clemente,
Calif., White House Press Secretary Ronald L.
Ziegler read the following statement on the
Swedish Government's offer of assistance in
the prisoner of war matter:
President Nixon today noted with great satis-
faction that according to press reports the
Government of Sweden has offered the use of
its vessels and its territory to provide intern-
ment of prisoners of war from the conflict in
Vietnam. The President would hope that Hanoi
will move promptly to negotiate an agreement
on this issue to take advantage of this humani-
tarian offer on the part of the Swedish
Government.
532
