Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
approved a series of steps to improve
the capacity of the UN development
system to handle larger resources ef-
fectively. These reforms should en-
sure much tighter coordination
within each recipient country of the
activities of the various UN agencies.
These recommended reforms are most
encouraging. We look forward to their
rapid and effective implementation,
which we view as a concrete test of the
ability of the UN family of organizations
to mold itself into a more effective in-
strument. Precisely because we attach
great importance to the UN's role in de-
velopment, we intend to apply high stand-
ards in judging its performance. The work
of the United Nations and its specialized
agencies is too vital to permit good inten-
tions to substitute for accomplishment.
THE NATURE OF OUR PARTICIPATION
We intend to view the UN realistically,
to face clearly what it can and cannot do,
and to encourage its fullest employment
on those problems of the world to which
it can effectively contribute. It would be
unrealistic to ignore the fact that the
United Nations is not functioning as ef-
fectively as it might. But it would be
equally unrealistic to view that situation
as acceptable. For the United States has
a transcendent interest in a more effective
United Nations.
Success breeds success. If international
cooperation succeeds in producing crea-
tive solutions to some of the world's
press-
ing needs, the fabric of that cooperation
will itself be greatly strengthened. This
could have long-term effects beyond the
solution of individual problems. For it
could bring closer that lasting and general
which has so far eluded our grasp.
peace
We recognize that the nature of our
own participation in the United Nations
and its family of organizations is a cen-
tral element in their health and effective-
ness. In the past, particularly in the
specialized agencies, our financial contri-
butions have been too large a part of our
total contribution. We intend to partici-
pate more fully in the future. We will urge
that the utility of international activities
be judged by the good that comes out of
them rather than the good intentions that
go into them.
We look forward to the report of the
President's Commission for the Observ-
ance of the Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of
the UN. This group of distinguished
American citizens has, since last July, been
studying means to enhance the effective-
ness of the United Nations, and to im-
prove U.S. participation therein. The
fruit of their deliberations will receive the
most serious study by my Administration.
GLOBAL CHALLENGES
The United Nations was, and is, a
child of the mid-Twentieth Century. It
stemmed from the perception that mod-
ern problems required a new pattern of
interchange to supplement the older proc-
esses of diplomacy. Human institutions
evolve in response to felt needs, and some
of our most serious international needs
have only recently become evident. For
mankind now shares a number of new and
urgent problems, which stem from the
contrast between man's progress in the
technological arts and his shortcomings
in achieving a stable organization for in-
ternational cooperation. The world has
grown small, and we live increasingly in
what has been described as a "global
village".
329
