Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 10 [92]
count would be taken of the human factor
and of the continuity of on-going devel-
opment efforts as the program transition
is effected. Counties that have launched
projects under the Appalachian Regional
Commission, for example, would continue
to receive adequate funding to make good
on the money already obligated for such
projects.
With revenue sharing, therefore, as
with all change, there would be adjust-
ments to make but great benefits to be
gained. Every single activity now carried
on under the Commissions and categori-
cal programs could be continued in any
State whose own people decide it is worth
continuing. The farm, forest, and con-
servation programs that have succeeded
in the past could go right on doing so--
and freed of Federal restrictions, they
could probably reach out farther and keep
better pace with changing needs and tech-
nologies. In each instance the people of
the State would make the decision.
STREAMLINING THE RURAL ASSISTANCE
EFFORT
What Special Revenue Sharing for
Rural Community Development would
do is to remove many of the negative and
inhibiting side effects which now plague
rural assistance as a result of categorical
narrowness, lack of coordination, and ex-
cessive Federal involvement. By combin-
ing these programs we could produce a
new whole significantly greater than the
sum of the present parts. It is worthwhile
here to discuss some of the problems that
would be eliminated-principally inflex-
ibility, priority distortion and flawed
accountability.
Inflexibility: As well-intentioned as past
rural development efforts have been, strict
Federal eligibility rules have often stood
in the way of fair sharing of all the Fed-
eral resources for rural development, or
have made it difficult for States and locali-
ties to do what they must to attract in-
dustry and services. For instance, many
parts of the Midwest, which experienced
some of the heaviest rural outmigration
in the Nation during the 1960s, still do
not qualify for Economic Development
Administration grants.
In other cases Federal standards have
acted to bar aid from those communities
in a region where it could do the most
good. Experts in rural development feel
that the most leverage is achieved by re-
inforcing healthy development trends,
rather than fighting them—that is, by
concentrating aid in these smaller and
medium sized cities of a rural area which
have shown strength and effort in at-
tracting industry. Every area of rural
America has such centers of potential
growth. Using government assistance to
strengthen their development trends could
make the difference in attracting new
job-producing industry and expanding
employment opportunities for rural peo-
ple living in the surrounding counties. It
could also help these communities attract
doctors, teachers and others whose serv-
ices are so needed in or near rural areas.
Yet current Federal program restrictions,
by and large, do not permit aid to be used
this way, because of a "worst-first" cri-
terion which often puts funds into areas
that lack the development potential to
help either themselves or others near
them rather than using funds to open
up new opportunities regionally so that
benefits flow out to low-potential areas
nearby.
Distortion of State Budgets: Narrow
Federal project definitions can force
71-234-72-30
413
