Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 9 [263]
not grow up in a period of war, but in a
period of peace for a whole generation.
That is what we want.
Incidentally, I think Senator Muskie
and Margaret Smith could have made
that very same speech and got the same
reaction from you here.
So, with all of that, thank you again for
your wonderful welcome. I know that
Mrs. Nixon and I and David and Julie
would like to meet some of you, so if we
can, before we go to the helicopter, we
would like to move down this line and
greet a few of
you.
Incidentally, is the water warm enough
to swim in? Okay.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:42 p.m. at
Bangor International Airport.
262 Statement Following Splashdown of
Apollo 15. August 7, 1971
APOLLO 15 has returned safely to earth.
It brings with it new proof of man's
invincible will to master the moment of
his own destiny. It brings new tribute to
man's unquenchable thirst for under-
standing. It brings the seeds of scientific
understanding which may open a new
chapter in the history of our planet.
We salute Astronauts Scott, Irwin, and
Worden, who have stood poised on behalf
of mankind on the brink of man's new
world. To each we say well done, and
welcome home.
NOTE: The statement was released at Bangor,
Maine.
On the same day, the President telephoned
Col. David R. Scott, Lt. Col. James B. Irwin,
and Maj. Alfred M. Worden aboard the U.S.S.
Okinawa in the Pacific to express his personal
congratulations on the successful completion of
their mission.
263 Statement on Signing Appropriation Bill for
the Emergency Employment Act of 1971.
August 9, 1971
TODAY I have signed the appropriation
for the Emergency Employment Act of
1971. I am pleased that the Congress has
approved my request for the full $1 bil-
lion authorized by the act for this fiscal
year and that its swift action has enabled
me to sign this appropriation today.
I have instructed the Secretary of
Labor to move with the greatest possible
speed in distributing this money to States
and localities, so that unemployed people
may begin work at the earliest possible
moment. In this regard, the Secretary has
already announced the distribution of
$600 million which the act requires to be
apportioned for expenditure within each
State.
Next week, major units of city and
county government, along with the State
governments, will be notified as to how
much of this money will be made avail-
able within their jurisdictions. They will
also be supplied information on how to
request initial funding. This initial fund-
ing will be made available within 3 weeks
so that hiring may begin at once. By Labor
71-234-72-59
885
