Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 21 [296]
Washington on November 19, 1969, I ob-
served that "whether peace survives in the
last third of the century will depend more
on what happens in the Pacific than in
any other area of the world." I took that
particular occasion to emphasize this fact
to the American people and to the world
because of my strong feeling then, as now,
that Japan, as one of the major powers in
the Pacific area, will play a central role
in determining what happens in that vital
region.
Japan's phenomenal economic growth
represents a most significant development
for us and for the other nations of the
Pacific. Japan is now the third largest
producer in the world and has developed
with us the greatest transoceanic com-
merce in the history of mankind. The po-
tential for cooperation between our two
economies, the world's most productive
and the world's most dynamic, is clearly
immense. For this among other reasons,
Japan and the United States have a strong
mutual interest in the peace and security
of the Pacific area. This interest is rec-
ognized in our Treaty of Mutual Coopera-
tion and Security, which both our
countries recognize as a keystone of our
security relationships in that part of the
world. I think all Americans also realize
that a close and friendly relationship be-
tween Japan and the United States is
vital to building the peaceful and progres-
sive world both of us want for all mankind.
The problems involved in strengthening
the fabric of peace in Asia and the Pa-
cific will undoubtedly be challenging.
But if Japan and the United States go
separate ways, then this task would be
incomparably more difficult. Whatever
differences may arise between our nations
on specific policy questions, it is essential
that the basic nature of our relationship
remain close and cordial.
When Prime Minister Sato came to
Washington in 1969, there was still one
great unsettled issue between the United
States and Japan arising out of World
War II: the Okinawan question. Almost
one million Japanese on Okinawa were
still living under foreign administration
nearly 25 years after the end of the Sec-
ond World War. This situation subjected
the entire relationship with our major
Asian ally to strain. It was clear that our
continued administration of Okinawa was
incompatible with the mature relation-
ship which both we and Japan recognized
as the only possible basis for lasting coop-
eration between nations, especially be-
tween two great world powers such as the
United States and Japan.
The Prime Minister and I therefore
agreed that our two Governments would
immediately enter into consultations con-
cerning specific arrangements for accom-
plishing the early reversion of Okinawa
to Japan. We determined that it was es-
sential for this to be done without detri-
ment to the security of the Far East,
including Japan. We further agreed that
the consultations should be concluded as
quickly as possible with a view to accom-
plishing the reversion during 1972, pro-
vided that agreement could be reached
on the terms and conditions of the rever-
sion and that the necessary legislative sup-
port in both countries could be secured.
In undertaking these negotiations, the
United States recognized, as a matter of
basic principle, that it was consistent with
neither our national character nor our na-
tional interest to continue to administer a
territory which has been historically con-
nected with Japan and whose people de-
963
