[127] Apr. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
127 Statement About Policy on Abortions at Military Base
Hospitals in the United States. April 3, 1971
HISTORICALLY, laws regulating abor-
tion in the United States have been the
province of States, not the Federal Gov-
ernment. That remains the situation
today, as one State after another takes
up this question, debates it, and decides
it. That is where the decisions should be
made.
Partly for that reason, I have directed
that the policy on abortions at American
military bases in the United States be
made to correspond with the laws of the
States where those bases are located. If
the laws in a particular State restrict
abortions, the rules at the military base
hospitals are to correspond to that law.
The effect of this directive is to reverse
service regulations issued last summer,
which had liberalized the rules on abor-
tions at military hospitals. The new ruling
supersedes this-and has been put into
effect by the Secretary of Defense.
But while this matter is being debated
in State capitals and weighed by various
courts, the country has a right to know
my personal views.
From personal and religious beliefs I
consider abortion an unacceptable form
of population control. Further, un-
restricted abortion policies, or abortion
on demand, I cannot square with my per-
sonal belief in the sanctity of human
life—including the life of the yet unborn.
For, surely, the unborn have rights also,
recognized in law, recognized even in
principles expounded by the United
Nations.
Ours is a nation with a Judeo-Christian
heritage. It is also a nation with serious
social problems-problems of malnutri-
tion, of broken homes, of poverty, and
of delinquency. But none of these prob-
lems justifies such a solution.
A good and generous people will not
opt, in my view, for this kind of alterna-
tive to its social dilemmas. Rather, it will
open its hearts and homes to the unwanted
children of its own, as it has done for the
unwanted millions of other lands.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
128 Message on the Opening of the 1971 Baseball Season.
April 5, 1971
BY TRADITION the President of the
United States or his representative signals
the beginning of the major league base-
ball season by throwing out the first ball.
Although I regret that I cannot be at
Kennedy Stadium in Washington for this
opening game, I am very proud that my
representative is Master Sergeant Daniel
L. Pitzer of the United States Army. No
President has ever been better represented
than I am today.
For four long years, Sergeant Pitzer
was a prisoner of the Viet Cong in South
Vietnam. As he performs this American
ritual of throwing out the first ball, he
does so as a reminder that there are still
500
