[43] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
rising frustration in America, and a
mounting fear that our institutions will
never again be equal to our needs.
We must fight that fear by attacking its
causes. We must restore the confidence of
the people in the capacities of their gov-
ernment. I believe the way to begin this
work is by taking bold measures to
strengthen State and local governments—
by providing them with new sources of
revenue and a new sense of responsibility.
THE POTENTIAL OF STATE AND LOCAL
GOVERNMENT
Part of the genius of our American sys-
tem is that we have not just one unit of
government but many, not just one Chief
Executive and Congress in Washington,
but many chief executives and legislators
in statehouses and courthouses and city
halls across our land. I know these men
and women well. I know that they enter
office with high hopes and with sweeping
aspirations. I know they have the poten-
tial to be full and effective partners in our
quest for public progress.
But once they have taken office, lead-
ers at the State and local level often en-
counter bitter disappointment. For then
they discover that while the need for lead-
ership is pressing, and their potential for
leadership is great, the power to provide
effective leadership is often inadequate to
their responsibilities. Their dollars are not
sufficient to fulfill either their dreams or
their most immediate and pressing needs.
And the situation is getting worse.
A GROWING FISCAL CRISIS
Consider how State and local expendi-
tures have been growing. In the last quar-
ter century, State and local expenses have
increased twelvefold, from a mere $11
billion in 1946 to an estimated $132 bil-
lion in 1970. In that same time, our Gross
National Product, our personal spending,
and even spending by the Federal govern-
ment have not climbed at even one third
that rate.
How have the States and localities met
these growing demands? They have not
met them. State and local revenues have
not kept pace with rising expenditures,
and today they are falling even further
behind. Some authorities estimate that
normal revenue growth will fall $10 bil-
lion short of outlays in the next year alone.
THE HEAVY BURDEN OF STATE AND
LOCAL TAXES
The failure of State and local revenues
to keep pace with demands is the inherent
result of the way in which our tax system
has developed. Ever since the 16th
Amendment in 1913 made it possible for
the Federal government to tax personal
income, this source of revenue has been
largely pre-empted and monopolized by
Washington. Nine out of every ten per-
sonal income tax dollars are collected at
the Federal level.
Income tax revenues are quick to re-
flect economic growth. Often, in fact, they
grow much faster than the economy. As a
result, budget increases at the Federal
level can more readily be financed out of
the "natural growth" in revenues, without
raising tax rates and without levying new
taxes.
State and local governments are not so
fortunate. Nearly three-fourths of their
tax revenues come from property and
sales taxes, which are slow to reflect eco-
nomic expansion. It is estimated, in fact,
that the natural growth in revenues from
114
