[144] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
under a cloud, maligned unfairly by many
critics.
Now, I don't mean that some criticism
of him, of me, of anybody, is not justified.
But he is taking a "bad rap" on a lot of
things, and he doesn't deserve it.
AMERICAN YOUTH
[15.] MR. CHANDLER. Mr. President, I
would like to change the subject, if we
could for a moment, to the youth of
America and ask you to give us your read-
ing on the attitude and temperature of
America's youth on our campuses.
They apparently have turned away, at
least in recent months, from violence and
seem to be going about their education,
and yet I wonder if there is even deeper
despair on their minds than there was
when they were practicing violence. Do
you have any views on that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Chandler,
it always does my heart good when I look
down on that beach that you and I
share [laughter]——————
MR. CHANDLER. We do? I can't surf
there any more, sir.
THE PRESIDENT.
-and see young
Americans surfing and enjoying it.
Seriously, the problem of American
youth concerns us all, and I suppose that
we concerned our parents. But youth
today is a more difficult problem. There
is more alienation.
Let's spend a moment on it, if I could,
analyzing it.
One, all the old values aren't there any
more-the faith and religion, family ties.
What they hear in the colleges and uni-
versities generally is against the system:
the system is bad, it pollutes the air, it is
wrong to minorities, it is repressive, and,
of course, it wages war.
All of this concerns youth because youth
basically, young people basically, by
nature, by definition-we all remember
how we were-we tend to be idealistic,
hopeful, and we want the world to be
better. So, I think that young people, par-
ticularly in the sixties, the late sixties, fell
into a period of great disillusionment.
That disillusionment, of course, was cer-
tainly increased by what they heard in
school, what they heard sometimes in their
churches, maybe sometimes what they
heard at home.
Now, let's look to the future. We are
removing some of the problems. As we
end the involvement in the war, as the
draft calls come to an end, which they will,
as we have programs to deal with the
problems of pollution of air and water—
we are not going to solve them immedi-
ately, we have programs to deal with it—
as we make progress in the problems of
minorities—and we are making progress,
not enough, not as much as we would like,
but we are making a lot of progress-
and as we see in perspective, and, if I may
say so, what I really believe, what a really
great and good country this is, I think
we are going to find great numbers of
American youth reestablishing their faith
in America.
You asked a moment ago, Mr. Dickin-
son, the question: "What do you think of
when you wake up at 3 o'clock in the
morning and what do you really want for
this country?"
What I want first and above all, of
course, is to end the war that we are in,
and to build a lasting peace, through what
we are doing in China, the Soviet Union,
the SALT talks, the Mideast-there are
problems all over the world.
546
