[149] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing in which the Governments of the
United States and Mexico conduct their
relations and the constructive spirit with
which they approach common border
problems. I strongly recommend that the
Senate of the United States advise and
consent to the ratification of the treaty as
promptly as appropriate procedures
permit.
The White House
April 21, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the treaty and the report of
the Secretary of State are printed in Senate.
Executive B (92d Cong., 1st sess.).
150 Memorandum About Women in Government.
April 21, 1971
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
As you know, it has been my desire to
attract the ablest and most talented peo-
ple in the country to join this Administra-
tion and assist in the achievement of our
far-reaching goals. The Nation's many
highly qualified women represent an im-
portant reservoir of ability and talent that
we must draw on to a greater degree. In
this Administration we have firmly
espoused the rights of women, and we
must now clearly demonstrate our recog-
nition of the equality of women by mak-
ing greater use of their skills in high level
positions.
Our efforts to date in appointing
women have offered some encourage-
ment. I have appointed a number of
women to top posts and have named more
than 200 to Presidential Advisory Boards
and Commissions. However, I am con-
vinced that we can and must do better.
To this end, I am now directing that
you take the following actions:
-Develop and put into action a plan
for attracting more qualified women
to top appointive positions (GS-16
and up through Presidential ap-
pointees) in your Department or
Agency by the end of this calendar
year. This plan should be submitted
to me by May 15.
-Develop and put into action by
May 15 a plan for significantly in-
creasing the number of women,
career and appointive, in mid-level
positions (GS-13 to 15). This plan
should directly involve your top per-
sonnel official.
-Ensure that substantial numbers of
the vacancies on your Advisory
Boards and Committees are filled
with well-qualified women.
-Designate an overall coordinator
who will be held responsible for the
success of this project. Please provide
this name to me by May 15.
I have asked my Special Assistant, Fred
Malek, to meet with each of you individ-
ually to review further the requirements
of this project and to offer his assistance
in locating highly qualified women candi-
dates for top positions.
I intend to follow personally the results
of this project; I look forward to your
giving it the fullest degree of cooperation.
It is important not only in terms of open-
ing new opportunities for women, but also
as a means of making the fullest possible
580
