[387] Dec. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Fourth, for more than two years this
administration has been working for the
enactment of welfare reform, one of the
objectives of which is to bring the family
together. This child development program
appears to move in precisely the opposite
direction. There is a respectable school of
opinion that this legislation would lead
toward altering the family relationship.
Before even a tentative step is made in
this direction by their government, the
American people should be fully
consulted.
Fifth, all other factors being equal,
good public policy requires that we en-
hance rather than diminish both parental
authority and parental involvement with
children particularly in those decisive
early years when social attitudes and a
conscience are formed, and religious and
moral principles are first inculcated.
Sixth, there has yet to be an adequate
answer provided to the crucial question
of who the qualified people are, and
where they would come from, to staff the
child development centers.
Seventh, as currently written, the legis-
lation would create, ex nihilo, a new army
of bureaucrats. By making any commu-
nity over 5,000 population eligible as a
direct grantee for HEW child develop-
ment funds, the proposal actively invites
the participation of as many as 7,000
prime sponsors each with its own plan,
its own council, its own version of all the
other machinery that has made Head
Start, with fewer than 1,200 grantees, so
difficult a management problem.
Eighth, the States would be relegated
to an insignificant role. This new program
would not only arrogate the initiative for
preschool education to the Federal Gov-
ernment from the States-only 8 of which
even require kindergarten at present. It
would also retain an excessive measure of
operational control for such education at
the Federal level, in the form of the stand-
ards and program guidelines to be set
down by the Secretary of HEW.
Ninth, for the Federal Government to
plunge headlong financially into support-
ing child development would commit the
vast moral authority of the National Gov-
ernment to the side of communal ap-
proaches to child rearing over against the
family-centered approach.
This President, this Government, is un-
willing to take that step. With this mes-
sage, I urge the Congress to act now to
pass the OEO extension and to create the
legal services corporation along the lines
proposed in our original legislation.
The White House
December 9, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The veto message, dated December 9,
1971, was transmitted to the Senate
December 10.
On December 9, the White House released.
the transcript of a news briefing on the veto
message by Frank C. Carlucci III, Associate
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
and Stephen Kurzman, Assistant Secretary for
Legislation, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
The Senate sustained the President's veto on
December 10.
1178
