Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 18 [362]
362 Statement Urging Action on Highways and the
METRO System in the Washington, D.C., Metropolitan
Area. November 18, 1971
LATE in its second century of life as the
Nation's Capital, the Washington metro-
politan area is suffering severely from
hardening of vital transportation arteries.
The nearly 3 million people in the District
of Columbia and its Maryland and Vir-
ginia suburbs are acutely aware of this
worsening problem as they struggle to
move about the area pursuing business or
pleasure or the work of government. So
are the 18 million visitors who come here
each year from across the country and
around the world, expecting magnifi-
cence—and finding it, but finding also, in
the simple matter of getting about the city,
more frustrations than they deserve in the
capital of a nation that has sent men to
the moon.
In recent months, though, Washingto-
nians have also become increasingly aware
that something is being done about the
transportation tangle. METRO—our
superb areawide rapid rail transit system
of the future--is already a fact of life for
all who use the downtown streets, as con-
struction pushes ahead on the first 8 miles
of the project. Streets are dug up, ventila-
tion shafts have been dropped, tunnels
are being bored. Over $863 million has al-
ready been committed by the eight par-
ticipating local jurisdictions and the
Federal Government. At the same time, a
coordinated interstate highway system for
the region is progressing toward comple-
tion, as many thousands of detouring com-
muters know.
We need these freeways, and we need
the METRO-badly. I have always be-
lieved, and today reaffirm my belief, that
the Capital area must have the balanced,
modern transportation system which they
will comprise. Yet now, almost incredibly,
in light of the manifest need for both of
them, the future of both is jeopardized by
a complex legal and legislative snarl.
To save them, here is what has to
happen:
1. The local highway actions man-
dated by the Federal-Aid Highway Acts of
1968 and 1970 must go forward
immediately.
The question whether the District of
Columbia and the Federal Government, in
their efforts to carry out this mandate, are
presently in compliance with statutory re-
quirements has been the subject of lengthy
litigation. The U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia has recently ruled
that they are not yet in compliance in the
case involving the Three Sisters Bridge.
But I am convinced that they are. Ac-
cordingly, I have ordered the Attorney
General to proceed with the filing of a
motion for rehearing en banc before the
Court of Appeals. I have also instructed
him, if that fails, to file a petition for cer-
tiorari with the Supreme Court.
2. The METRO system must move
toward completion and operation as
rapidly as possible.
Not only do delays in METRO work
cost taxpayers heavily; they might even
erode confidence and cooperation seri-
ously enough to consign the entire project
to an early grave, with all the sad con-
sequences that could have for metropoli-
71-234-72-74
1117
