[76] Feb. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the Ways and Means Committee,
Chairman Wilbur Mills, with whom I
have just had breakfast, along with the
ranking member, John Byrnes, which I
think is very appropriate in view of the
fact that former Congressman Bush, now
to be the Ambassador to the United Na-
tions, was a member of that very dis-
tinguished committee.
Chairman Mills pointed out that Wil-
liam McKinley at one time had been de-
feated for office in Ohio running for the
Congress on the issue of the tariff. He had
been a member of the Ways and Means
Committee and had gotten on the wrong
side of that issue, on the liberal side, inci-
dentally, as a matter of fact liberal trade
policies, and had been defeated.
Two years later, however, William Mc-
Kinley went on to be elected as Governor
of Ohio, and then went on to be elected
as President of the United States.
Now, I don't know whether Chairman
Mills was suggesting that defeat, there-
fore, was good for George Bush and that
his future may be somewhat like William
McKinley's.
I do, however, think it is appropriate
to say that George Bush, a man who has
served with such distinction in the House
of Representatives, who ran for the Sen-
ate of the United States and was not suc-
cessful, is still now available for public
service at the very highest level, as Am-
bassador to the United Nations, a post
that has been held with such distinction
by Ambassador Yost during this Admin-
istration and by predecessors in the past.
The fact that one door has been closed
for him opens another door, a door of
service for him and also for the United
States of America, a representative of
whom we can all be proud, representing
the United States and working in the
cause of peace in the United Nations in
the years ahead.
For that reason, at this time I am very
proud to present him for the purpose of
having him sworn in in this position, to
wish him well, and to say on this occasion
that the United Nations, the organization
to which he will be accredited, has the
support of the United States.
There are those who look at the United
Nations record over the last 25 years and
appropriately point out that the world
still has a lot of problems and a lot of
crises. Cabot Lodge ยน used to say, "Let us
suppose that we had not had the United
Nations. How many more problems and
how many more crises would we have
had?" And, of course, he is exactly right.
We do not expect our new Ambassador
and all of his colleagues at the United
Nations to solve all the world's problems
in its next 25 years at the United Nations
any more than it did in the past 25 years.
But the world will be safer; the world will
be a better place in which to live because
of what dedicated men like George Bush
do at the United Nations.
Now, Mr. Justice Stewart, an old friend
of the Bushes, will swear in the new
Ambassador.
[At this point, Associate Justice Potter Stewart
of the Supreme Court administered the oath of
office. The President then resumed speaking.]
Incidentally, I just want to be sure that
I see that the record is clear with regard
to the now Ambassador Bush. When I
told the little story about Wilbur Mills, I
am not suggesting what office you should
seek and at what time. [Laughter]
AMBASSADOR BUSH. Mr. President, Mr.
Vice President, distinguished members of
Henry Cabot Lodge, United States Repre-
sentative to the United Nations 1953-60.
346
