Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 28 [342]
the great task of revitalizing America's
economy so that together we can achieve
that great goal of full prosperity in a
world of peace.
I wish you every success in today's NAM
teleconference.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded
on audiotape for closed-circuit television re-
play to regional meetings of the National Asso-
ciation of Manufacturers in 26 cities. Some
20,000 business and civic leaders attended the
sessions.
W. P. Gullander was president of the
Association.
342 Toasts of the President and President Tito of
Yugoslavia. October 28,
Mr. President, Madam Broz, our dis-
tinguished guests from Yugoslavia, and
all of our distinguished guests from the
United States:
As I was talking to President Tito to-
night, my memory went back to other
occasions in this State Dining Room of
the White House when other world
leaders have occupied the chair which he
now sits in. The great leaders of the world
have been here.
I recall the evening when Winston
Churchill was in this chair, Charles de
Gaulle, Adenauer, Nehru, Sukarno. I
think of those leaders and many others,
and then I think of President Tito of
Yugoslavia, our distinguished guest
tonight.
The men that I have mentioned all
headed countries that were bigger than
Yugoslavia, both in territory and in num-
bers. But I think that I can say without
fear of contradiction that no world leader
who has been honored in this room has
personally met and known more world
leaders in his capacity as head of state
and government than President Tito of
Yugoslavia.
This means that one who is so fortunate
to have the opportunity to talk to him
is able to talk to one who is as well in-
formed, if not better informed, than any
1971
world leader in all the world today. This
tells us something about both the man
and his country.
Yugoslavia is a country about the size
of Wyoming. It has 20 million people, a
diverse country in terms of its people, just
like the people of the United States are
diverse. Yugoslavia has followed, under
the leadership of President Tito, a policy
of what is sometimes called nonalignment,
but which I would say simply would be
one of trying to have good relations with
all nations, whatever their philosophies,
whatever their geography, whatever their
background.
For this reason, our distinguished guest
tonight has traveled throughout the world,
has been received, honored, and re-
spected in nations throughout the world;
and, consequently, he has demonstrated
that it is possible to have good relations
with nations who may not have good
relations with each other. This makes him
rather unique on the world scene today.
For that reason, the talks that I had
with him a year ago, and again on this
occasion, have been most helpful and con-
structive. His contribution not only as a
leader in war but even more as a leader
in peace, to the cause of peace, to which
he is dedicated and we all are dedicated,
will be one which history will record is
1067
