Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 19 [274]
about what your support has meant to me,
not as an individual, but as President of
the United States, and as one who has the
responsibility of Commander in Chief of
our Armed Forces.
Over the past 22 years there have been
a number of very difficult problems for
this Nation in the field of national secu-
rity. I want to say, incidentally, that with
regard to those problems, the Members
of the United States Senate and the Mem-
bers of the United States House who have
addressed you and who are here on this
platform have, in instance after instance,
not thought of party, but thought of coun-
try when they have voted on the proposi-
tions that have involved the national
security of this country.
But as I look back over that period of
time, as I think of the various crises
through which we have passed with re-
gard to our Vietnamization program
in
Vietnam; the problems of Cambodia and
then of Laos; the necessity to mobilize
public opinion on behalf of our prisoners
of war and others who are missing in ac-
tion throughout Southeast Asia; the need
to maintain a strong national defense; the
need, for example, not to give away before
negotiations a program for the defense of
the United States, which we need if we
are going to get any success in negotia-
tions-when I think of all those issues and
I think of the close votes we had, particu-
larly in the United States Senate, when I
think of the division in the country on
those particular matters, I remember back
on occasion after occasion the support
that I have had from the Veterans of
Foreign Wars.
I couldn't get it individually from the
great numbers that are represented here,
and from the millions across the country
that are members of your posts, including
my own in Whittier, California, but your
Commanders, each one of them through
the years, and this year Chief Rainwater,
have come in to see me. Every time I have
called upon the Commander in Chief of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars he has been
there, he has spoken out for the United
States.
I simply want to say that as I stand
here in this great coliseum in Dallas, a
magnificent place for a meeting, as I look
out across here and realize that 50 States
are represented, I kind of get the feeling
that this is like a convention. Then some-
body is going to say "Which party?" Well,
let me tell you what the answer is: I know
from experience, as far as the Veterans of
Foreign Wars are concerned, you have
one party, the American party.
But you wonder, I am sure, that when
you pass resolutions in your local posts or
in your State organizations or in a great
national encampment like this, whether
it means anything. You wonder whether
it means anything when the Commander
[of the Veterans] of Foreign Wars comes
into the office of the President of the
United States and sits down and tells him,
"Look, I am for you." Let me tell you, it
means a very great deal. Also, it means
something else.
I am sure that you can well understand
that on many occasions I have distin-
guished visitors who come in and say,
"Look, I am for you, Mr. President, but,
you know, if you don't mind, I don't want
to say anything publicly because I can-
not be sure that my organization might
not be divided on this issue."
One thing about Chief Rainwater: He
not only tells me in the office, he tells it
on television, too, and I like that. I
know that your new Commander is going
to do exactly the same thing.
gog
