Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 29 [154]
time with the preface that this was an
area that the Supreme Court had not yet
spoken on and that it was my responsi-
bility, therefore, to speak on it and to
give guidance to our executive agencies.
Now that the Supreme Court has
spoken on that issue, whatever I have said
that is inconsistent with the Supreme
Court's decision is now moot and irrele-
vant, because everybody in this country,
including the President of the United
States, is under the law; or, putting it
another way, nobody, including the Presi-
dent of the United States, is above the
law as it is finally determined by the
Supreme Court of the United States.
Now, what is the law in this instance?
The law is that where we have segrega-
tion in schools as a result of governmental
action-in other words, de jure that
then busing can be used under certain
circumstances to deal with that problem.
And so we will comply with that situation,
and we will work with the Southern
school districts, not in a spirit of coercion,
but one of cooperation as we have during
the past year in which so much progress
has been made in getting rid of that kind
of a system that we have had previously.
Second, however, the Court explicitly
by dictums did not deal with the problem
of de facto segregation as it exists in the
North and perhaps as it may eventually
exist in the South. That matter the Court
still has not decided on explicitly. It will
probably have that opportunity, because
I noted a California case a couple of
days ago from San Francisco which said
that busing would be required to deal
with segregation which was a result, not
of what a governmental body did, but as
a result of housing patterns coming from
individual decisions.
Now, until the Court does move in that
field, I still will hold to my original posi-
tions of March: That I do not believe
that busing to achieve racial balance is
in the interests of better education.
Where it is de jure, we comply with the
Court; where it is de facto, until the
Court speaks, that still remains my view.
FURTHER INVOLVEMENT OF U.S. FORCES
[8.] Q. Mr. President, in terms of
scope, is it possible that U.S. forces might
again be involved in Laotian- or Cam-
bodian-type operations and, if So, under
what conditions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is quite ob-
vious, and you put your finger on it with
the assumption of your question that with
the number of forces that we now have in
Vietnam, the possibility of any further
actions like Cambodia of last year, or even
actions like Laos in this year, is quite
remote. When we get down to 184,000
by the end of the year, it will be com-
pletely remote, I would say.
At this time, we see no need for any
further actions. I should point out as one
indication of some effectiveness of pre-
vious actions, that the casualties which our
television viewers heard on their television
programs tonight, and they will see in
their morning newspapers, were half of
what they were this same week last year,
a fourth of what they were this same week
2 years ago, and a seventh of what they
were in this same week of 1968. So, prog-
ress is being made.
As a result of Laos, as a result of Cam-
bodia, the war is winding down. The
Americans are coming home and we will
achieve our goal of a total withdrawal. But
that goal will be achieved only when we
also get our prisoners of war back, and
when the South Vietnamese develop the
71-234-72-41
597
