Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
I want to also say one other thing, and I
want to give credit to the men—you, of
course, were generally not on the cam-
paign tour, but representatives-Herb
Kaplow was on from NBC and others
from your networks, Jarriel, and so forth.
But they very properly reported that in
the 22 States that I visited, I never at-
tacked any of the men, the Senators, that
were the incumbents.
I simply went in on the basis of saying
that we had a choice between two men,
one of whom was pledged to support the
President on some basic issue and one of
whom honestly felt otherwise, and I asked
the people for support. I think that was
my responsibility. I would do that again.
MR. SEVAREID. One very specific tacti-
cal matter.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
MR. SEVAREID. Do you regret the re-
broadcast of the Phoenix speech about the
San Jose incident? 7
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think that was
a mistake. As a matter of fact, we ap-
parently felt at that time, that the speech
said some things that needed to be said,
but having it rebroadcast the night be-
fore election is not something that I would
have perhaps planned had I been, shall
we say, running the campaign. Inciden-
tally, when I am the candidate, I run the
campaign.
MR. SMITH. It was a technically bad
tape, too. You could hardly hear you on
it.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it was technically
bad, and I do not think it was the right
speech to make the night before election.
I would have preferred to go on, as you
know I usually do, in a quiet studio type
* Tom Jarriel, ABC News.
'See 1970 volume, Item 415.
of program, talking quietly to the Ameri-
can people about the choice and then let-
ting them make the choice, and if I am in
another campaign, that is the way it will
be the night before election. We won't
run that kind of tape again.
THE PRESIDENT'S HOPES FOR AMERICA
[22.] MRS. DICKERSON. Speaking of
your campaigns, when you made the kick-
off address in New Hampshire in '68, your
first speech I remember-
THE PRESIDENT. You couldn't be that
old.
MRS. DICKERSON. Oh, yes I am. I was
even there when you were running for
Vice President. But anyway, you made a
speech about how the next President had
to give this country "the lift of a driving
dream."
Well, as yet, many people have failed
to perceive the lift of a driving dream.
And I wondered if you could articulate
that dream for us briefly and tell us how
you plan to specifically get it across to the
people in the next 2 years.
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Dickerson, be-
fore we can really get the lift of a driving
dream, we have to get rid of some of the
nightmares we inherited. One of the night-
mares is a war without end. We are end-
ing that war. And one of the good things
incidentally about the campaign of 1970
was that the war was not an issue. That
is good. The American people finally
realized that we are ending the war.
When I appeared on this program, you
may recall, in July with you, at that time a
poll had just been taken of college stu-
dents, and indicated that 4 million college
students, because of their disenchantment
about the war in Cambodia and the rest,
71-234-72-5
21
