[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
borne by the U.S. and its partners in
providing the forces and other re-
sources required by our common
strategy?
-Are all NATO's capabilities in Eu-
rope sufficient to meet the needs of
our strategy?
To answer these questions, I proposed
that the Alliance conduct a thorough re-
view of its strategy and defense posture in
Europe for the coming decade.
sys-
The United States launched such a re-
view in the National Security Council
tem, covering all the issues of European
security: NATO strategy and forces,
mutual force reductions, and our broader
effort to enhance security through nego-
tiation. In response to my proposal in last
year's report, and at the initiative of Sec-
retary General Brosio, our NATO allies
then joined us in a major collective study
of the full range of Allied defense prob-
lems in the 1970's.
The basic problem was not technical or
esoteric. It was an absolute necessity to
devise a sensible posture of defense we
can plausibly ask our peoples to support.
Many voters, legislators, and officials in
Western countries have raised questions
about the continuing burden of defense
budgets-not because they did not see the
need for security, but because they did
not see a clear rationale for the forces pro-
posed. Our armies are not ends in them-
selves, or merely tokens of a commitment.
They have a function to perform: to aid
in deterrence and to defend if deterrence
fails. Therefore, the Alliance needed to
work through the analysis of what realistic
deterrence and defense required in Eu-
rope over the longer term. We needed to
give substance to our strategy, to make it
credible to ourselves as well as to our
adversaries.
The result of our studies in the National
Security Council and in NATO was a
major achievement. The North Atlantic
Council ministerial meeting in December
1970, which completed the Alliance study,
was indeed, as Secretary Rogers called it,
"one of the most important in the his-
tory of the Alliance." We now have the
blueprint and substance of a rational de-
fense posture, which provides the frame-
work for resolving the policy questions I
raised last year.
The Threat and NATO Strategy. We
and our NATO allies do not believe that
war is imminent in Europe, but we must
face the possibility that it could occur. The
military power of the Warsaw Pact has
grown over the decade and continues to
increase. Postwar Europe has seen more
than its share of crises, and new crises are
possible. As the annex to the December
communique pointed out: "In addition
to a capability to deter and counter major
deliberate aggression, Allied forces should
be so structured and organized as to be
capable of dealing also with aggressions
and incursions with more limited objec-
tives associated with intimidation or the
creation of faits accomplis, or with those
aggressions which might be the result of
accident or miscalculation."
Our review examined three alternative
strategies for dealing with these
contingencies:
--reliance on conventional forces alone.
-early response with nuclear weapons.
-a flexible strategy that does not pre-
clude or force either kind of response.
America's will to employ nuclear re-
taliation in defense of NATO, our analysis
indicated, remains central and necessary
to Allied security. But in the conditions of
today's new strategic equation, it can no
longer be the sole basis for Allied deter-
234
