[204] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
into a confrontation that neither of them
wants, although our interests are very
diametrically opposed in that part of the
world-except our common interests in
not becoming involved in a war.
I do suggest that in Europe, for ex-
ample, that whether we talk about the
Berlin Settlement or the MBFR [mutual
and balanced force reductions] settlement,
whatever the case might be, there is a
long, hard road of negotiation ahead. But
what is important to note is that both
nations, looking to their own interests as
we have in the SALT talks to date, and
as we both should, recognizing that our
interests are different, recognizing that we
are not going necessarily to like each other
in terms of our foreign policy interests,
both nations, because they know the dan-
ger of not agreeing, are moving at least
through an era of negotiation.
Turning briefly to China, we should not
overestimate what has happened. I do not
refer, of course, to the visit of the table
tennis team, but I am referring to the
more significant fact: What has happened
is that we have opened the door as far as
trade and travel are concerned to Main-
land China. That door now being open,
we shall see what comes through the door.
The question, of course, which we must
consider is: Why, what does it mean?
Let me put it in perspective this way:
As far as Mainland China is concerned, it
is at present not a major nuclear power. It
at present is not a major economic power.
Japan, with one-fifth of the population of
Mainland China, has one and a half times
as much GNP as Mainland China.
But looking down to the end of this
century, to the kind of a world that we
leave for our children, we will have a
billion Chinese who, because they are
Chinese-not because they have a Com-
munist government—are among the most
creative and dynamic people in the world,
a billion Chinese.
If we have those billion Chinese peo-
ple outside the world community, living
in isolation-isolated, of course, by the
Soviet Union, as is the present case, and
isolated from the other major power, the
United States, with Japan in the middle-
you can see what the prospects for peace
in the Pacific might be, how dim they
might be. And you can also see what the
dangers might be, regardless of what
agreements the Soviet Union and the
United States might make out to reduce
tensions that we have, regardless of what
might happen in other parts of the world.
Therefore, anyone in a position of respon-
sibility at this time in the United States
must look to that future and in a care-
ful, measured way, as we are, move toward
a normalization of relations--and it will
not come quickly-and toward a time
when Mainland China will not be isolated
from the world community.
We are making progress. I think that
the prospects are that more will be made,
and I would suggest that it might well
be--I do not know how history ever judges
an administration; no man knows while
he is in the job—but it might well be
that the most significant thing that hap-
pened during this Administration has been
that we took the first step of a journey
that takes a thousand miles.
Now finally, if I could say a word about
our foreign policy as it relates to our
domestic policy and express a conviction
which may not be widely supported
among many of you who are, to your
credit, honest critics of our foreign policy.
Let me simply summarize in this way: The
United States, needless to say, has done
many things in the field of foreign policy
758
