[65] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
gan, “He kept us out of war." But
America went to war. That election, in-
terestingly enough, was the background
for my own interest in Woodrow Wilson
and the inspiration he has provided for
me, as he did for Senator Humphrey, the
former Vice President of the United
States.
My mother and father were both Re-
publicans. California was the State, as
you recall, that decided the election of
1916. The reason was that a number of
Republicans voted for Wilson. My mother
was one of them. She was a devout
Quaker, a deeply dedicated pacifist.
I was only 3 years old in 1916, but for
years afterwards, in a friendly way, my
mother and father sometimes spoke of
that election of 1916 in which my father
had voted for Hughes.
But my mother, despite the fact that
America did get into war after 1916, al-
ways had her faith in Woodrow Wilson.
She used to say to me, "He was a good
man. He was a man who deeply believed
in peace." And she believed that the
United States made an error in not fol-
lowing his advice after World War I.
He inspired her with his idealism, and
she in turn passed on that inspiration to
me.
We all recall how Woodrow Wilson
rallied the hopes of mankind that World
War I would be a war that could end
wars. We all remember, too, that wars
followed, tragically.
He tried to lead the United States in
the community of nations, but he failed
to stem the tide of postwar isolationism.
He died a broken man.
But now, with a half century's perspec-
tive, we can see the success of Woodrow
Wilson begin to emerge. He identified the
United States of America with the prin-
ciple of the self-determination of all na-
tions, weak and strong.
He lit a spark that merged this Nation
with the cause of generosity and idealism.
Every wartime President since Wood-
row Wilson has been tempted to describe
the current war as the war to end wars.
But they have not done so because of the
derision that the phrase evoked, a re-
minder of lost dreams, of lights that failed,
of hopes that were raised and dashed.
What I am striving for above all else,
what this Nation is striving for in all that
we do, is something that America has
never experienced in this century: a full
generation of peace.
I believe that right now is the time
for us to learn to walk in peace. The first
step, of course, is to still the sound of war
around the world.
We are moving in that direction. We
have taken the first steps toward walking
in peace. But we must first break the
terrible world habit of war and only then
can we learn the wondrous habit of peace.
That is why today I do not speak of the
war to end wars. Instead, I hope to focus
on something that men alive today can
achieve for themselves and their children,
on a dream that we can realize here and
now, a genuine beginning toward our
ultimate goal.
That is why I have set our sights on a
span of time that men in positions of
power today can cope with, just one gen-
eration, but one long step on the path
away from perennial war.
That, too, is why it is more important
now than ever before to summon up the
spirit of Woodrow Wilson. For we can
only establish the habit of peace by an-
swering the call for human brotherhood,
his inspiration for an understanding be-
tween men and nations.
188
