[157] May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
157 Radio Address: "A Salute to Agriculture."
May 2, 1971
Good afternoon, my fellow Americans:
Next Friday, May 7, I ask the people
of the United States to join with me in
celebrating the Salute to Agriculture Day.
As a part of that celebration, I am honor-
ing representatives of agriculture at a
series of events in Washington, D.C.-in-
cluding a special dinner at the White
House. I officially designate this day, how-
ever, in the hope that our celebrations will
extend far beyond Washington, and that
it will give our people, in every walk of
life, an opportunity to learn more about
both the accomplishments of the Ameri-
can farmer and the problems he confronts.
During the last quarter century, I have
had the opportunity to visit some 75 coun-
tries around the globe. I have spent a good
deal of time in studying their agricultural
systems, their techniques of farming. I
have talked with peasants in Poland, with
cultivators in India, with shepherds in
Africa, with South American gauchos.
And I have often been very impressed with
what I have learned.
But nothing I have seen anywhere on
earth can even begin to compare with the
success story written by the men and
women of agriculture in our own coun-
try. The surging vitality of our agriculture
has made our country the best fed, the
best clothed nation on earth, and it has
contributed immensely to our strength
abroad and to our strength at home. I
have been involved in international di-
plomacy and international economics
since my first visit to Europe as a Member
of Congress in 1947. Again and again, I
have seen the problems which result for
a country when its leaders must deal from
a position of agricultural weakness rather
than agricultural strength. Some even
have had to cope with the inability of their
farmers to feed their own people.
For America's leaders, on the other
hand, the situation has been just the re-
verse: Our farmers have not only pro-
vided a solid base for the United States
economy, they have also helped to feed
the people of other lands. Our strong in-
ternational position has grown even
stronger in the last few years. As recently
as the 1968 fiscal year, farm exports ac-
tually dropped by half a billion dollars, a
condition which I promised in 1968 to
remedy during my Presidential term. I am
happy to say today that we have delivered
on that promise. Our agricultural exports
this year will be at an alltime high. Their
volume will be some 6 percent higher than
it was a year ago, and their value is ex-
pected to reach at least $7.4 billion.
To
Today we are exporting the production
from approximately one acre out of every
four we harvest in America. Two-thirds of
our rice crop, more than half of our wheat
and our soybean crop, and one-third of
our cotton crop are now going to foreign
markets. This is a very good record. And
yet we want to do even better. We would
like to be exporting some $10 billion worth
of American farm products each year.
help achieve this goal, I am announcing
today an increase of $1 million in the fiscal
year 1972 budget for the Foreign Agri-
cultural Service-the Federal agency
which helps our farmers expand their sales
abroad. And I also pledge that we will
continue our efforts to lower trading bar-
riers to our farm exports around the
world.
From Rotterdam to Singapore, from
614
