Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 20 [275]
Teton National Park in Wyoming, Dallas
for the national convention of the Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars, and finally, today,
Loma Linda, California.
I can only say that after seeing this
great country of ours, and hundreds of
thousands of people, it is really good to
be home in California, here at Loma
Linda.
I know that represented in this audi-
ence are a number of Californians, and a
number from all parts of the country, be-
cause one of the greatnesses of California
is that we come from all the States of the
Nation and from most of the nations of
the world.
On this occasion, I would like to direct
my remarks to the double purpose of the
announcement that we are making today.
The first is with regard to the hospital
that Governor Reagan referred to that
was destroyed in the earthquake of Feb-
ruary 9. That was a hospital located in
one of the most beautiful areas of south-
ern California, on the tip of the San
Fernando Valley. It no longer, of course,
can be used, and it should not be rebuilt.
Consequently, we are replacing it here,
but not only replacing it, but making a
bigger hospital and a better hospital than
we had before, right here in Loma Linda.
Now, the question comes: What do we
do with the land that we had? Here we
have a policy which, in our Administra-
tion, we are implementing on a broad
scale across the country.
The Federal Government, for example,
owns 45 percent of all the land in the
State of California. We own land all over
this country that the Federal Government
doesn't need, land that could be better
used by the States, by the counties, by the
people of this country. So, under these
circumstances, with regard to the 94 acres
in the San Fernando Valley, we are de-
claring it surplus through the cooperation
of the Veterans Administration, so that
it can be made into a park, a park which
will be available to the people in that area
and all the people of southern California.
Let me tell you why that kind of park
is important. When I was out there-and
this was my first visit to Jackson Hole, the
Grand Teton National Park-and saw
the magnificence of that park, I talked
to hundreds of people from all over the
country. Oh, there were some people from
Bergen County, New Jersey, and others
from Minnesota. There was a Scout
group from Wisconsin. There were a
number of people from California.
I found from the Director of the Parks
that hundreds of thousands, and some-
times even millions, go to those parks
through a year. But I also know, and you
know, that while millions of Americans
are fortunate enough to be able to afford
the time and the money to go to one of
those great parks located mostly in the
western part of the United States, the
great majority of Americans, and par-
ticularly of American young people, never
see one. They live in the cities. This is
their home, and what we must do is to
bring the parks to the people. That is
what we are doing through this program.
Governor, we know that whether it is
the beach at San Clemente, which we
declared surplus so that we can have a
wonderful surfing beach down there that
now can be used, or whether it is this 94
acres, that you, in cooperation with the
city and county, will make good use of
this land for the people of the State of
California as they want it to be used.
Now, let me turn to this great hospital,
and to say something about it and those
who administer it that I think needs to be
915
