Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 15 [13]
hands. He would ask the old man to
guess
what he was holding. If the old man
guessed it was
it was a bird, then the boy
would make him say whether the bird
was alive or whether it was dead. And if
the teacher guessed that the bird was dead,
the boy would open his hands and let the
bird go, free and alive. But if the wise
man guessed that the bird was alive, then
the boy would crush out its life and open
his hands to reveal a dead bird.
And so it progressed, just as the boy
had planned, until he asked the wise man,
"Is the bird alive or is it dead?" And the
old man said, "My son, the answer to that
question is in your hands."
In your hands now rests the question
of the future of this Nation, of its promise
of progress and prosperity, of the dream of
democracy and the future of freedom, of
whether men can continue to be governed
by human wisdom.
And I believe that these things rest in
good hands, and that as we put our hands
together, your generation and mine, in the
alliance we forge we can discover a new
understanding, a community of wisdom,
a capacity for action, with which we can
truly renew both the spirit and the prom-
ise of this great and good land we share
together.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:36 p.m. at the
university's Coliseum in Lincoln, Nebr.
Joseph Soshnik was president and Durward
B. Varner was chancellor of the University of
Nebraska at Lincoln.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
13 Remarks at the Dedication of the Dwight D. Eisenhower
National Republican Center.
Chairman Morton, Mrs. Eisenhower,
Members of the Congress, members of the
National Committee, and our very special
guests this morning:
I feel that it is a very great honor to
have the opportunity to participate in this
ceremony that I understand has been go-
ing on for some time before I arrived.
I don't know whether there was any
significance in the fact that they gave the
dollar away before I got here.¹
But, in any event, the remarks that I
will make will be brief and quite personal,
¹Mary T. Brooks, Director, Bureau of the
Mint, had presented a bronze model of the
designs on both sides of the Eisenhower dollar
to Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower. Representative
Rogers C. B. Morton of Maryland, chairman,
Republican National Committee, then accepted
the model from Mrs. Eisenhower for display at
the Center.
January 15, 1971
as I think General Eisenhower would have
wanted them to be on such an occasion.
We have here a building and we think
of how it came into being. And we know
that it came into being because men helped
to build it, men who knew things about
bricks and mortar and superstructure and
architecture and all that. And we are very
proud that they built such a good building.
It also came into being because one
man in particular had a dream. I know
that his name has been referred to previ-
ously, but let me refer to him in the terms
that General Eisenhower, I think, would
have referred to him.
I well recall a conversation I had with
General Eisenhower right after he became
President and I became Vice President in
1953. We were riding back from Quantico
after a meeting there of various members
35
