Richard Nixon, 1971
[116]
Mar. 25
mittee on Administrative Management
(the Brownlow1 Committee) in 1937,
down through the findings of the Com-
mission on Organization of the Executive
Branch of the Government (the Hoover 2
Commission) in 1949, the President's
Task Force on Government Organization
in 1964, and my own Advisory Council on
Executive Organization during the last
two years, the principles which I am ad-
vancing today have been endorsed by a
great number of distinguished students of
government and management from many
backgrounds and from both political
parties.
I hope the Congress will now join me
in concluding, with these authorities, that
we should travel the course of compre-
hensive reform. For only if we travel that
course, and travel it successfully, will we
be able to answer affirmatively in our time
the fundamental question posed by Alex-
ander Hamilton as the Constitution was
being debated in 1788: "whether societies
of men are really capable or not of es-
tablishing good government from reflec-
tion and choice. . . ."
THE FRAGMENTATION OF FEDERAL
RESPONSIBILITY
As we reflect on organizational prob-
lems in the Federal Government today,
1 ¹ The late Louis Brownlow, journalist, public
official, and director and trustee, Public Ad-
ministration Clearinghouse 1931-56, was
Chairman of the Committee.
Former President Herbert Hoover was
Chairman of the Commission.
The President's Advisory Council on Execu-
tive Organization completed its work and re-
signed on May 7, 1971. A White House an-
nouncement of the Council's resignation is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 7, p. 734).
one seems to stand out above all others:
the fact that the capacity to do things—
the power to achieve goals and to solve
problems-is exceedingly fragmented and
broadly scattered throughout the Federal
establishment. In addressing almost any
of the great challenges of our time, the
Federal Government finds itself speaking
through a wide variety of offices and bu-
reaus, departments and agencies. Often
these units trip over one another as they
move to meet a common problem. Some-
times they step on one another's toes. Fre-
quently, they behave like a series of frag-
mented fiefdoms-unable to focus Federal
resources or energies in a way which pro-
duces
any concentrated impact.
Consider these facts:
Nine different Federal departments and
twenty independent agencies are now in-
volved in education matters. Seven de-
partments and eight independent agen-
cies are involved in health. In many ma-
jor cities, there are at least twenty or
thirty separate manpower programs,
funded by a variety of Federal offices.
Three departments help develop our
water resources and four agencies in two
departments are involved in the man-
agement of public lands. Federal recrea-
tion areas are administered by six differ-
ent agencies in three departments of the
government. Seven agencies provide as-
sistance for water and sewer systems. Six
departments of the government collect
similar economic information-often
from the same sources-and at least seven
departments are concerned with inter-
national trade. While we cannot elimi-
nate all of this diffusion, we can do a
great deal to bring similar functions under
common commands.
It is important that we move boldly to
475
